Oh no, I'm here. I I might have a couple of things. Yeah, I'm not sure. And work here within a minute or so to convene this meeting. We have limited physical copies of the budget up here and there are uh hymn sheets that you'll need to close our meeting today in Victory in Jesus. And so you're going to want to grab that up here. Okay. There is Okay, so I'd like to call this meeting to order for the stated purpose of the annual congregational meeting. It is a called meeting and so The agenda is not to be approved because we've called the meeting for these purposes. You can't modify it. We need to check our quorum. We need one-sixth of resident community members, and so we're going to need to have 17 folks here who are members. So if you are a member of Seven Run Cube, please raise your right hand. That was your left hand, Carol. But I'll looks like we have quorum. Everyone in agreement with me on that one? Okay. Thank you. And our first order of business is to elect a clerk and I would entertain a motion to nominate Bradley Swastik as a clerk for the Congregational Movement. Is there a second? Okay. Is there any discussion? So moved. Congratulations, Bradley. You have been placed in this position of honor once again. We entrust ourselves To your minutes. And I'd ask if we could please have uh Elder Chase Vaughn stand and please open the meeting in prayer. Mighty everlasting God. We approach you humbly with your features simple. We convince our sins to you. We ask for that. We would even now enjoy the comfort of your forgiveness. We pray for our time together that it would be all to your glory. Amen. Okay, we have on our agenda a series of reports. And the first report is from Carol Spirgis. We know that she just had operation. And so she has uh sent our report to us, and so I'm going to read that. uh to you. This is uh from Carol Speargis as uh women's ministry report. Last year brought a multitude of unexpected hardships to everyone. It was also a year in which our hearts were laid bare before the Lord and before one another. After the initial shock of the COVID quarantine, the women of Severn Run gathered on Zoom to share their fears, losses, sorrows, joys, and hope in Christ. Not long after, many women joined Carol in a Zoom Bible study of Philippians. We encouraged one another to stand firm in our faith, grateful for the bonds of affection in Christ being formed and strengthened In the fall, we safely resumed our Monday night in-person gathering around a study of the Psalms, remembering God's goodness, faithfulness, comfort, and mercy. We also read through Ed Welch's book, Caring for One Another, and shared our lives in the context of our faith. Likewise, the Tuesday night women's group at Elaine Nolan's home resumed its weekly in-person gatherings Sharing fellowship and prayer around a meal. Beyond these organized studies, many women of Severn Run reached out to one another regularly and creatively to offer spiritual, emotional and physical care, all the while giving thanks for visible evidences of a loving and gracious Savior. Now that we are entering into 2021, May we continue to gather in gracious community around the Word and in prayer, especially welcoming women of all stages and ages of life who are new to our Severn Run Church family. And may we be willing to open our hearts and our lives to women from the surrounding communities who may be longing for something more than what the world offers. To God be the glory. Amen. Thank you, Carol. And um to close this report, I'd ask if Jeremiah could please stand and pray for the women. And for Carol. Thank you. for how bless our church with the particular women we have you been among us. Thank you for the unique callings beyond the whole work you set aside for them how they're explaining it out. Lord God, we especially ask that you wash over Carol. Bring her back to us quickly. Amen. Thank you, Jeremiah. We now have a report from Marilyn Dorfell on the report from the Severn Run Classical Christian Homeschooling Academy. And you can uh right there with that mic, you can Situate yourself to where you're comfortable. Thank you. Can you open with prayer, please? Could you open with prayer, please? Can you hear me? Okay. Our Father in Heaven, what a joy it is to get together with your people, with these folks who sponsor our Academy as a Ministry of this Church. That I might report to them how you have been so good and gracious in holding us up and enabling us to continue to meet to your glory. I just ask that you would continue to provide a fruitful ministry in the Academy to the children and the families around us that make use of it. And that's You would continue to guide us for the future in Jesus' name. Thank you. Good morning. Almost 50 years ago In the Rocky Mountains west of Colorado Springs, a boy and a girl sang these words with their wedding guests. Father, I know that all my life is portioned out for me. The changes that are sure to come, I do not fear to see. I ask thee for a present mind intent on pleasing thee. Little did we know. What changes were sure to come in 2020, and how valuable it would be to seek a present mind. When I stood before you giving this report last year, one of the most exciting things on my mind was Search's 20th anniversary celebration banquet coming up in a month What a joy to participate in a ministry that has known God's continuous support and favor for over 20 years. However, the week before our banquet, schools were shut down by the COVID virus and under the provision of our God and Father. I'd like to share with you ways in which looking back we saw his hands providing, then walk with me through the changes brought to our summer planning. And finally, join with me in praising him for his daily provision during this current school year. Shortly after the shutdown was announced, we marveled at the Lord's timing. Our last day of our third quarter classes ended at 2. 15 p. m. on Thursday, March 12th This seemed like a natural breaking point in the year. The previous Friday, our entire Searcha community had gathered for our annual science fair. the culmination of many months of work on the part of tutors, students, and families. We thank God we were able to witness this high point of our students' work Together as a rejoicing body before the specter of shutdown was on anybody's radar. In addition, the National Latin exam was taken by our Latin students that Thursday morning We thank God that they were able to reach another milestone in completing that exam. Our spring break began on Friday, March 13th, the day the schools were shut down due to the uncertainty of a global pandemic. We thanked God for that timing, which gave us a week in which to examine our options and come up with a plan for the remainder of the school year under shutdown, the fourth quarter. At that time we had no idea how long the shutdown would last. It was initially only supposed to be for a few weeks. Our board began meeting almost every week to look at various virtual options and platforms and to reevaluate the situation as every new update and mandate from the CDC and governor was handed down. Little did we know how long it would last. We thanked God that our families were already homeschooling families. They did not have to go through an adjustment period in order for their students to start learning from home. As the period of nationwide home education lengthened, We were able to establish a virtual teaching schedule for the entire school day, taking into consideration each of our families, the grade spread of their children, and the number of electronic devices available in their households We were thrown into the deep end of virtual education, but not so deep as parallel public or even private schools. As it became clear that the virus would be with us into the 2021 school year, we thanked God that we were gradually collecting tools which would serve us in good stead because of the changes that were sure to come Our board and our session had a deep desire that our students be able to meet in person this fall. But last fall now. As the session began outdoor worship services and setting up guidelines for group meetings in the building, it became clear that we would not be able to meet safely in person in this building. So we began to investigate other possible options. One of our parents took our dilemma to her home church, Saverna Park, Evangelical Press. And because, again, God's providence, because one of the regular users of their building had recently suspended in-person meetings and was committed to keeping them closed. SPEP was open to our meeting at their building. We thank God for our brothers and sisters in this sister church who have graciously opened their hearts and their doors to our entire search community, 17 students, I'm sorry, 17 tutors and 73 students bishops. Other changes made in preparation for a fall opening, including the suspension of our art and music classes to reduce our daily schedule from six classes to four. A closely supervised policy of distant seating in classrooms and mask wearing in the building. A new system for streaming classes to students who must quarantine because of COVID. New procedures for student drop-off and pickup, including temperature checks, new forms for parents to sign, and new after-school sanitizing procedures. We held our first school-wide virtual event, our back to school night on Monday, August 26th. Having made these preparations, we opened on the day after Labor Day for in-person classes. We thank God that He has allowed us to meet every Tuesday and Thursday school day since. We have seen them provide for each situation that has arisen. Just the information and expertise we needed As with a present mind, we address the issues of each day in the context of available information, current guidelines, and prayer for discernment from the Holy Spirit. A few weeks ago we held our February open house virtually, at which we hosted 14 families who are interested in the academy for next year. Our second virtual open house is scheduled for tomorrow night Also coming up soon is our first virtual science fair, which will be aired on Friday, March 19th. If any of you would like to sit in on that virtual science fair, ask me for an invitation to that meeting. We are thankful that God has provided personnel with the necessary skills to put these events together, and we are thankful for all we have learned along the way. We have grown as educators and as shepherds of our children. All in all, underlying the confusion and uncertainty of the last twelve months, we have seen our Lord and Provider answer our prayer for a present mind intent on pleasing Him. If you would like to pray for Surcha, here are some prayer requests. Pray for wisdom for the session to guide this ministry of Severn Run. Pray for the search aboard and our COVID committee to make daily and weekly decisions and to plan for the future. Pray for our tutors and staff under the stress of ever-changing needs to modify already modified procedures. Pray that all the pieces will come together for the upcoming Virtual Science Fair. And finally, pray that by God's mercy we will be able to hold our history fair here in person the first Saturday of May. Thank you very much. You stay right there. Okay. Okay. Anybody. Let's keep her in our our prayers. And I also want to give thanks to you for the health that you bring, not only to this community, but cross-denominationally in all of the church communities that we affect by way of the Academy. Jeremiah works very closely with you as your um Session Liaison. Session liaison. That's very fancy. Did you tell them that? This is what happens when I leave you alone. Would you like to close her report so that you could give thanks to God for for h her work as well as the others in the academy? Please. Thanks. Lord God, thank you so much for being at me. Thank you for the care that the report to the tutors to the administrators. have for your little ones, not just Severn Run, but as a light shining in our community. They take seriously the charge that you have given to them. We rejoice for it. For God is a lot of a lot of people sacrifice way beyond. what they are able to do. Lord, we we see them working, we see you working alongside them. And we thank you if you are raising up a new general Amen. Please continue to pray for our ministry, the Academy. Uh not o sh uh Marilyn did not mention this, but one of the things we uh the Lord called us to Glorify him in was uh we have a number of minority families in the academy, and they were very concerned about the racial discussion that was going on across the nation. And those were very difficult conversations to have. And there was a lot of very difficult times for the leaders at the Academy for a while. So keep them in your prayers and make sure you give thanks to to Marilyn as she represents all of them here. So yeah. We next have a report from Deacon Stephen Van Devender. You roll together. Sounds good. That's right. Go ahead and open your report with prayer, Stephen. Thanks. Yes, sir. Our Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the way that your grace brought us safely thus far through twenty twenty and We pray that your grace would continue to lead us home. Thank you, Father, for just providing for this church immeasurably. Thank you for letting us be stewards over the gifts of this congregation and the things that they bring. That you would be glorified in our efforts. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. All right. Well, as many of you know, I'm actually an act inactive deacon as of last week. And so for some reason I'm still up here, though. So I've given a few of these reports by now Truth be told, they can be kind of boilerplate. We cover some improvements to the property, health of the budget. We talk about some internal ministries, things like that. So 2020 should have changed all that. We had the pandemic, supply shortages, loss of jobs, uh tumultuous election cycle on top of that. Judging by last year you'd think I'd have a report so exciting, I'd ask an usher to distribute 3D glasses right now. Pause for effect. No. But it at least on a basic level, our twenty twenty report is actually pretty similar to what we provide most years. Uh the church finances are overall healthy, as Nick and I will discuss later. The church grounds did receive a few improvements, such as the nice new shutters. Which we didn't get to see most of the year. It's nice to be able to look at them now. And uh we continue to use the Deacons Fund to minister to the needs of the congregation, and we ask that anyone who is in need please escalate your concerns to us if we're able to help you So, I offer this boring high-level overview to you as indisputable evidence that we serve a God who answers prayer When the pandemic first hit, the deacons were meeting weekly or more with the elders. We faced hard decisions about how to worship safely, how to help those in financial need, and how to minister to folks during a lockdown. The specifics varied, but our overarching prayer was that God would use the events of 2020 to bring glory to himself, that he would foster a real sense of community among our congregation as we were all forced to stay in our homes, and that we and our loved ones would re- of course remained safe. What we saw was in many ways a tremendous answer to those prayers. God provided mechanisms for the church to continue to function during the various levels of lockdown. Jesse and Bradley in particular, but many others put in countless hours putting together online uh Sunday meditations during the initial lockdown. Once we moved outdoors, the weather largely cooperated. It only rained once. Uh and as far as Maryland summers go, it really wasn't all that hot most Sundays that we met. There were mosquitoes though. That was annoying. Um, we successfully transitioned to two services a day, uh, and now we've come back to worshiping God as one family. Praise God. With regard to fostering a sense of community, we we deacons put together various mechanisms to get food and resources to those in need The result of these programs was unexpected. We ended up with many more volunteers and resources than actual needs. In a sense, you could say the workers were many, but the harvest was little. But that's not exactly true In reality, there was a great harvest. Severn Run came together and acted like a community, serving one another and diligently seeking other ways to serve. We were just constantly fielding causal on that front. Those pandemic-specific mercy ministries fizzled once they were no longer needed, but the spirit of the work continues with our pop-up pantry, which started as a grassroots ministry thanks to the admirable efforts of Carol Spiergis, Doug and Barbara Smith, and many others. We're very proud of that. So lastly, we praise God that while by no means unscathed, our church and community has remained healthy and viable with much reason for optimism in 2021. So here again is that high-level recap of 2020. The church finances are overall healthy, as Nick and I will discuss. The church grounds received a few improvements like the shutters, and we continue to use the deacon's fund to minister to the needs of the congregation and ask that anyone in need please reach out. Like I said in the beginning, the report is overall a bit boring. But in the midst of uncertainty, sometimes boring can be a wonderful thing. Let's never forget how God answered our prayers in 2020 and how he will always provide for his church in times of destruction. Amen. Thank you, Stephen. Thank you. Are there any questions for Stephen? He's representative of the Diachinate. Seeing none, uh I believe we moved do you want to are you staying up here are you guys staying together for the budget report also? Okay, we'll go ahead and move into your report then, Nick. Yeah, and then we'll give a round of applause to the DAC in it after the total report is done. Hey guys. If you guys have a copy of the budget. It's up to you. Just pretend my beard is on point today, okay? The mask really messes it up. That's right. So for those of you who love numbers, now is the time to pull out your handy. Sheet, either hard copy or digital. We are going to go through this thing. Uh but don't worry, my plan is not to go through and read every single line item. So hopefully it won't take too long. I did want to make it just a couple of comments on each page before asking for questions. But I did want to give you guys an overview of our thinking process when we were putting this together. Because of COVID last year We didn't think that it would be right to use numbers for this year. We didn't want to base our numbers for this year on last year's numbers because uh we didn't spend a lot of money last year. And so we didn't want to shortchange any of the ministries that we knew would be coming back with smaller budgets. So the majority of the budget is Unchanged from last year. And if you take a quick look through it, you'll notice that we have bolded any of the changes um so that you can see them more easily. So um on the first page, page one, I did wanna Go over some notable highlights. The first being that our our general giving in 2020 was up thirty-seven thousand dollars from what we budgeted. So in the middle of a pandemic Our budget, we not only met what we thought we were going to, but we greatly exceeded that. And uh what a testament to God's faithfulness. um and to you folks as well for being able to generously give. Because of that, we actually made a one time extra payment of thirty-five thousand dollars to our mortgage uh about a month and a half ago. Um This actually allows us to pay our mortgage off in August of 2026, whereas before it was November of 2028. Uh if you remember, we did the same thing last year. I think it was 22,000 last year, and this year it's um we did 35. A big goal for the DACNINIT is to pay the mortgage off. early and as fast as possible. Um it is one of the bigger line items that we always seem to have and as soon as we can pay that off um How amazing would that be? So um some notes about capital improvements, you guys can read that. Um yourselves and then of course right at the end there um you guys were so generous in giving to the Kenyan church in twenty twenty during our Christmas Eve service I believe and that money will be distributed to them throughout the this year. So uh moving on to page two, before I'd like before we actually go into this, at this point I'd like to go over the salary portions of the budget, so I need everyone who gets paid by the church to leave. I do yes. I do want to note that even though Marcy is not listed on page two, we haven't fired her. She still works for the church. She's leaving now. And then if the last person out could close the doors. Yeah. That's right. Did you hide like a secret microphone? And then with Jesse gone, Jeremiah is already making his way up to moderate the discussion. Welcome. I'll just make sure nothing immoderate happens. Fantastic. I believe so. Hey Nate, can you turn off the distributed sound? Well, is half the church stands up to leave. Goodbye, Donovan. All right. So if you look on page two under the salary portions. The Daconate this year recommended just a general small cost of living increase and the session agreed to 1. 75%. Marcy turned it down, which is why her name is not listed. So her salary can be found on the personnel section of the budget later on. But you can see there the new numbers for uh Peggy and Bradley. Uh also for Jesse, if you see that, anytime that we do anything to Jesse's salary or anything he gets paid, it constitutes constitutes a change in call. And you folks actually have to approve it, and then it goes to Presbytery to For them to approve it as well. So at this point, you want to go ahead and take over? Sure. There are two changes for m uh proposing that you'll need to approve or you may approve, um, to Jesse's salary or to his call. Uh the first would be a increase in salary. The second is we are proposing modifying the call form. Right now it lists things like housing as a percentage of the overall, which causes confusion whenever we're trying to give him more money. Because it breaks out into other areas, so we're changing that to be absolute values that can be modified rather than percentages. Uh so that is the proposal for you. Uh are there any questions? Yes, sir. Um when Marcy turned down the salary increase, did the I consider taking her percent increase and um was No. No. Her and Mark discussed, they decided to turn down the increase. We did not discuss taking that amount and putting it towards anybody else. Can you explain that how they came a little clear? Uh yes, so the current c uh the way the call was written. So when a pastor's called there's a call form, it lists several items as uh percentages of salary. I think housing was one, um social security, insurance or retirement. as well. Right. So this is just modifying the call form to put in the numbers that we're already giving him as numbers instead of as percentages and then increasing his salary. Okay. Without a per without also increasing calcity. So I guess the the question I had is looking at last year's thirty thousand, can you say that was the percentage of the salary? It's not so that one was not a percentage, but the other ones were. So I can see the X round numbers and X round numbers in general. Not nice. So someone who actually knows what's going on will speak. Um so 30,000 is actually a a flat number. That's the maximum he can uh use for his housing allowance and the housing allowance is a tax-free amount. And so when we wanted to give a 1. 75 percent raise, it makes it difficult to subtract the 30 from everything else and then somehow add you know 1. 75% to the total of everything when the remainder are broken out as percentages. For instance, the SSI deduction. So SSI is actually sorry it's not a deduction. It's an amount that we give him, which is just part of his whole salary But we give it to him that way so that he knows at the end of the year, unlike everyone else who's W-2, he has to pay an SSI tax because he's self-employed as a pastor. So the accounting of it was annoying, and so we're simplifying it. That's basically all that's going on here. Yeah, it substantively doesn't do anything except makes next job easier next year. Yeah. So if all the ways the salary is broken out, I managed to pick the only thing that was not a percentage to use as an example? Okay. Okay. Okay. Are there any questions on the change in Jesse's call? Are you ready to vote? All in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. We may proceed. Awesome. And then if somebody would like to let them know that they can come back in, that would be fantastic. Um these all these salaries we they could not take effect until this meeting, so uh they'll be retroactive to January one. Justin, you're still our pastor for another year. Okay. Are we where are we in the report? We're moving on to page two. Okay. Great. Sorry, you you didn't miss much. All right, so I've already mentioned that uh the rest of the budget, the numbers are in bowl. Um I've tried to note on page two any of the general changes that were made just so you can look at them, but we'll touch on them as we go through the individual sections of the budget. I did want to point out that the budget in total is only $6,416 more than what we budgeted last year. And uh that changes uh noted later. Um if we want to look at pages three and four. You'll see that constitutes a glossary of terms. Hopefully you guys are familiar with that now. What we did is uh we realized that Stephen and I look at the budget all year long and we're very familiar with different line items and what the terms mean. And some of you guys might not might not be as familiar with it as we are. So we kind of created this glossary of terms. We had it in there last year to hopefully explain some of the different line items and what they are. Just to educate you guys a little more and uh hopefully answer any questions that you may have If there is a term that you guys see on the budget and you don't understand it, please talk to us and let us know, and we'll actually end up adding it to the glossary of terms next year. Uh so the bottom of page four is our comparison numbers. This is sort of the uh Big picture of how the budget is broken down. And for those of you who like percentages, if you look under the expenses by category, you'll see that every budget section lists the percentage of the overall budget. So what we're going to do is actually take each of these expenses by category, and we're going to briefly look at them in more detail. I did want to point out you'll notice at the bottom of page four, right below capital improvement, you'll see a line for building fund That is new for 2021. You'll see that we haven't added any funds to it. We haven't announced any kind of building program. This is just one of these things we thought the church should have built into the budget in case people felt um called to give to a specific uh building fund program. So apparently our church used to have one way, way, way back in the day, which is how this building got built. And that fund is actually still around, right, Peggy? She's nodding yes. The line item is still there. So it's just now being reflected in the budget. Is there money in that fund? I don't think that there's money in that fund right now. Nope. I'd be curious. That's what I'm saying. Yep. Okay. So now if you go over and look at page five, we're going to look at missions and outreach and then physical plant. May I ask a question? You sure can. How do you want to proceed? Do you want to ask them if they have any questions about that category and then move on? Yes. Okay. That's exactly what I'm going to do. So like I said, I'm not going to read through every single line item here. You can see the boldest section denotes a change from last year. Does anyone have a uh question regarding the emissions and outreach section of the budget? I'll give you a minute. We've had a little while to look at this already. So I'll just give you a minute. Sure. Okay, I'm seeing none. Did I see a hand? I'm not seeing any discussion. Okay. You may move on. So now we'll move on to the right side of the page. Physical plant. Same question. Are there any questions regarding anything that you see there? I'm not seeing any hands go up or body language that communicates urgency. Go ahead. All right. So moving on to page six. You all see on the left hand side programs and ministries. And again, we kept these numbers the same. uh as we did from last year. Obviously we're about to enter into March. We could have looked at these budget numbers and divided them into quarters and taken some of that out. We didn't want to do that. We wanted to leave all of the money there. We believe not uh the budget should not only denote um how much we're we want to spend in a category, but also the importance overall of that category. Okay, I'm not seeing any of the breakdowns has a week. Is that an administrative agent listed? Uh that should be an elder that's generally over oversee. They should oversee the Random things that come up throughout the year that the church decides they might want to do and maybe a family can't afford to do something. Yeah. All right, well hold on one second. We have a point of um Privilege. And so if you're going to ask questions, if you could please stand and then raise your voice so that everyone can hear you, so they know what question is being asked on the floor. Go ahead, Marilyn. I was no, I was I was just wondering uh what family miscellaneous family So that was a brand new category that we broke out last year. A lot of times it included camping trip expenses. In the past it's been used for Counseling books if a family needs to come in and uh they're gonna meet with somebody and have some counseling, a lot of times the funds for that instead of them paying for those materials. will come out of those kinds of dot it'll come out of that fund. Yeah, this is a good example. Stuin, could you rise to speak? Yeah. So first of all I'd like to ask the session and also the speaker Forgiveness for not forwarding this question because it could have been easily asked ahead of time. Um so please forgive me for that. But I was just wondering, I understand not changing the budget to reflect um the actual versus comparisons to last year because of not wanting to deduct things that we didn't spend on. But I wasn't I I couldn't wrap my head around why we didn't include in the budget the actual increase is that because of how the income had uh shown that it's been rising from the year before to last year, and that it's at a minimum I would have thought we could have budgeted. based on what actuals were last year, given that it was a bad fiscal year for some families. Yet God continued to provide for us abundantly above anything we could have asked or thought So I just wasn't sure why we left that amount not budgeted, even if it wanted to be budgeted to give towards the building or the building fund, you know, the mortgage at least Sure. Nick, are you understanding the question? I am. Could you repeat it? Uh so the question is um Because uh the church was so generous in their giving last year, we obviously received more funds last year than we budgeted for. And why didn't we not take that into account this year and budget more funds? Is that your question? So we actually try not to do that because we don't want to rely on previous years um Income coming in, we would rather look at the individual line items and see how much do we plan on spending. And then at the end of the year, if there is a surplus, Sometimes there is, sometimes there isn't. Then we can decide what to do with that. So like for this year, because there was a surplus, we were able to pay off the mortgage a little faster But it does give us some wiggle room if there is plans for a particular line item that uh we would like to expand. We know that we might have the potential to do that. Does that answer your question, Dwayne? Okay Are there any uh uh Peggy? Um I I just want to point out Could you please stand as so we everybody can hear you? Um We never expected to do as well as we did last year. In fact, many churches have just done terrible uh financially. So you can't kind of project that that what's the word I'm looking for? Yeah, you too. I didn't think we'd do as well as we did. Yeah. And so we didn't I expected us to do scarefoot because and then God horizons about what we did, so it's kinda hard to project. what we might be getting in and how we can spend it. Okay. Mm-hmm. Yeah, thank you very much, Peggy. Yeah, I did want to make one more comment. We are usually uh very conservative in the budget. Um We would rather um budget low and have more money come in than needed than halfway through the year or three quarters of the year. year um be sending out emails and passionate pleas that we doesn't look like we're gonna be making the budget this year and please send us money. So All right. Programs and ministries. We've already discussed personnel. Are there any other questions about that? There can be. Okay. So now we're moving on to page seven, operations in office. That is the entire page, even though it's in two columns. And uh you'll notice the changes in bold. Okay, are there any questions under this category? All right, I'm not seeing any Oh. Oh. Yeah. Oh yes. Natalie, please. So you're discussing the under General Assembly, you're asking about the hotel and airfare? Uh so for last year for the hotel um the church uh rented a Airbnb And when GA was canceled, um those funds were held onto by Airbnb for us to use for this year. So in essence it went down because we have a credit. And then same with the airfare. There's a few guys that go to GA that the airline has the funds from last year that they're holding on to. Um as a credit. And there you go. All right. So that takes me to the final page, page eight, which you can see as the back is blank. So I know this is the highlight of your year. Oh, yes Sure. So I noticed uh in the email that we weren't gonna be doing Facebook anymore. We're gonna be using Sort of obviously not another interesting place to talk about this, but um I know the Facebook is, you know, doing some odd things, but are we not going to be your present on Facebook. Do you want me to answer that or do you want to it's up to you, buddy? I can say quickly that we are going to be a presence on Facebook. Our sermon audio package changed actually to where they included free streaming as part of the package that we already pay for. And so we wanted to go ahead and take advantage of that. Additionally, on Facebook, while you don't have to log into Facebook to stream our services, Facebook does not make that very clear because they want everybody to have a Facebook account. So if you try to watch our video on Facebook, it asks you a thousand times to log in and it makes you believe that you need an account out in order to uh watch our videos. So we've then run into problems. And so what now and so we've switched over for that reason as well as the quality. on sermon audio, but we can we plan on continuing to have a virtual presence beyond sermon audio. Yeah. Thank you for asking that Okay, I I don't think there's any questions on the blank page. Does that conclude the diaphragm report? It does, I think in record time. Oh yeah, it is record time. I'm gonna uh ask Mark Donovan to to pray. Let's give these guys a round of applause for all of their work this year. Also, um this is Stephen's year off. Um so everybody make sure to renominate him in the fall. It slipped right by. Alright Mark, go ahead buddy. That's right. Heavenly Father, you have uh you have by your grace and mercy Provided that which we need. Oversight. Lord, you have given gifts to some and not to others. We thank you, Lord. that you have blessed us with the agent that you have given us. We thank you for all of the diligent work that they have put into uh being good stewards of what it is that you have provided. We thank you that we have been able to bear witness to your faithfulness. We thank you for the generosity of your servants here at Severn Rhine, that we may not be in need or in want. at this time. We love you, Lord. We pray that your hand of mercy would continue to be upon us. Continue to be upon this the acting as they feverishly. Just work diligently to uh to provide that which uh we need here for Yes. And God bless your one year off. Only one. We now come to the elders' reports, and our first is Brad Swastik, ruling elder Brad Swastik. Yes I would. Let's pray. Gracious God in heaven, we thank you for the incredible privilege you have given us. In bringing us not only into the kingdom of light, your kingdom out of darkness, but you have given us a great privilege to bring us to this particular church. May we be faithful stewards not only of this place, this space, but also of all of the areas of influence you have put in our lives. We praise you and we thank you. In Christ's name. Amen. Show of hands, 2020 was a strange year. Yeah. Yeah. I I figured there'd be some agreement in there. That's the unity we're talking about. God is gracious. And he is good. And we know this, and he's reinforced this for us because as strange as 2020 was, it could have been a whole lot worse. It really could have. We could have really suffered quite a bit this year But instead, God has, in his long-suffering and his mercy, he's given us many wonderful things to rejoice over. He has answered our prayers faithfully. He's given us exactly what we needed. Exactly when we needed it. I really want to encourage all of you by letting you know that God is answering prayers all the time at this church. And though we can't always talk about what that is, because of the private and personal nature of what God's doing in each of our own lives, I can tell you with absolute surety The budget surplus is not the biggest prayer that God has answered for us. It's not the most significant nor the most important that He's given us extra resources. than what we needed. He is doing things in the individual lives of the people in this church and people's beliefs He is changing the way that we are looking at each other and especially how we are understanding him. God is doing amazing things. at Severn Run and I myself uh I count myself very honored and blessed to just even be here to witness it, to watch what God's doing. But I'm even more excited that he's asked me to be a part of it in the same way he's asked all of you to be part of what he's doing here. As the Elder of our Missions and Outreach, I want you to know that uh twenty twenty one is going to be a year of change. We have seen Very clear signs that what God really wants us to do is to be more focused on the immediate area around us. So we are going to be assessing our missions commitments to whom we're supporting, how much we're supporting them, so we can try to rearrange where our resources are going so that they're more local. So that we can make true change for the kingdom of God here in Anorma County We uh you've already heard about the biannual collections that we've been making for the Reformed Church in Kenya. I've got to give you some updates. Uh it's not just one church anymore that's being blessed through this. There's two churches now Your gifts, your generosity are feeding almost 90 people. The first church that we were in contact with, we sent funds and they were able to provide every single member with a Bible in the Kisi language. The money that we collected on Christmas Eve is going to be going for another church so that everyone can have God's word. So there are very vital needs that are being filled by the generosity that you have experienced and shown. Now since we're going to be looking for a way to reorient our missions directly to here to Enronal County so that Severn Run and each of you will shine for Christ here, where God has put you, you've already heard about the pantry. And the pantry is uh I'm very glad to say is being uh run by more capable hands and minds than mine. And they will speak to it better. You can talk to them about what's happening. But it's here to stay. This is not something that we were trying as an experiment. This is now part of Severn Run. And we are going to continue to ask God to show us other ways that we can be permanent fixtures in the community to show that Christ really does change people. He really does change our hearts and our minds and our direction in our life. Now, as uh the music director, I want to remind you guys of something from the Bible. Psalm 100, verse 1, in the King James Version it says, Make a joyful noise unto the Lord. And I think we all know that part. There's another part. Did you know? It says, All ye lands. Our singing praise to God is not just for us. It doesn't just make us feel good. It is one of the ways that we are part of the kingdom of God as He's expanding. to cover the whole world, as Jesse said, as the waters cover the sea. We continue to look for new songs? We continue to look for old songs. We continue to look for songs which may be familiar to some of you, perhaps not so familiar. We're always looking for songs which will help us give glory to God, specifically in our worship, but also in our minds. We strive to select songs which can be sung with understanding, with sincere emotion, and with joy, and which drive home the particular aspect of the worship service that we're experiencing at that time. We are not going to stop doing that. If anything, we are going to continue to try to add perhaps even more unfamiliar songs. Because we have found in the last year that the psalms just aren't as familiar to us as they should be. So we'd like to start adding more psalms to our singing. My personal goal is to resume the choir. We were able to do a small ensemble to help celebrate the joyful homecoming of our sister Judy. And that showed us that it can be done. So we're gonna have uh at least a small group for Easter, but if the weather's nice and we happen to be outside, maybe we just go for broke. We'll have that 110-person choir I've been talking about since I got here. Yeah. That's three more than our membership, just in case you want when the we uh when we are free from any restrictions, I hope to add uh instrumentalists as we've done in the past to help us worship. But ultimately, I'm looking forward to getting back to normal. Getting back into a normal habit of singing together on Wednesday nights with the choir rehearsal, a normal habit of singing without reservation at all or without hindrance over our voices. I'm looking forward to that and I'm confident that the God that we serve, the God who has done all these wonderful things that we've talked about so far, is going to do that for us. As the elder over the sound room and the audiovisual, there's uh one thing that really has to happen that I don't know if it's happened enough. Um we need to thank God for giving us Nick Clark. I don't know if you realize how invaluable he has been to our audiovisual ministry this year, but he has uh single-handedly allowed us to stream our services. He put in so much extra work so that we could be worshiping outside and stream services from outside. He has done so very much in service to his king, and we have been the ones to benefit from it. As I said, yeah, we can clap for a next. In trying to get back to normal this year, we are going to resume a regular rotation of uh soundroom workers and sound room servants and I'm looking right at those who already know who they are. And if you perhaps feel gifted to be part of that ministry, please speak to me or speak to Nick so we can get you trained and put you on the rotation and you can be serving uh Severn run in that way. It truly is an elite squad. So uh you you can feel really Really proud if you're selected to join that group. There's many buttons to push, it's really fun. Now, um as we've been talking about the paying off the mortgage to the building and adding some improvements to various things, one of the things we must do is we must praise our God. For what He's given us here and how long it's lasted, especially our sound system. It has been serving us well for a very long time. God has not allowed these sandals to wear out. But unfortunately, the particulars of the sandals we currently use are so out of date that we will not be able to replace certain parts of them. should they ultimately fail. So we're going to be spending 2021 to look at the lowest impact solution to update our sound system so that we have another 30 years of good use for this. If any of you have any ideas about that, that's always helpful. Because uh my knowledge of sound systems is limited to 2005. Which made me feel really old when I realized that. And I hope that doesn't make anyone feel even older because of how young I am and feeling old. Anyway, now to the men's ministry Uh this is probably one of the most exciting parts of my life here at Severn Run. In twenty twenty we were able to finish uh in our Bible study group, we finished the book of Eclipse Ecclesiastes, we finished Philippians. We have uh been in Ephesians for a while. We're currently in the second half of Ephesians, and I'm hoping in 2021 that we will finish that. And I'm really moving in the direction of engaging with Proverbs, the book of Proverbs, after we finish Ephesians. Of course, that's going to be conditional on whether or not the members of the Bible study are willing to spend another couple years in just one book. Proverbs is certainly not something we can do in a season. There is one thing I really want to point out, especially to all you men. The goal of the men's ministry here at Severn Run, it's not easy, but it's a very simple goal. We want all of you, men, to order all of your life unto the glory of Christ. We want you in private and in public to love the Lord your God with all your heart. With all your soul, with all your mind, and with all your strength, and to love your neighbors as yourself. And through the Bible study, we seek to show how God's word should be understood. I'm constantly trying to point out where our doctrines, the doctrines of the Reformed faith and our tradition, are derived directly from the scriptures. I'm also trying to show our brothers in the Bible study how these areas of Scripture that seem so confusing and so easily misunderstood really are not When we come together as the body of Christ, and all those gifts from Ephesians 4 that Christ talks about are then used for the church. We have a breakfast, a monthly men's breakfast, which most of you are aware of. Again, we have to thank Nick Clark for all of his leadership and organization with that. It has allowed many of us to get to know each other. There have been many testimonies given, many conversations shared, many lives connected. And this year, we hope to not only continue what we're currently doing, but even to expand that. Because it is such a wonderful time of fellowship. We don't see a reason why it should only be limited to the men of Severn Run. We would really like to see our uh what we call Catholicity, small c in which we are connected to all these other churches in this area. Why are we not engaging each other as men? Because uh As we have all seen, there's a there's a lot on the horizon. There's a lot of challenge that's going to be coming up against the church. And one of the things One of the main things God has given the church to combat these challenges is He has given us strong men. Men who love the Lord, men who seek the good of their neighbors through their love. And that's what we're trying to do with the men's ministry here. As with all ministries, I can't help but point out that it's better and more fruitful when one shows up. So we're always open to any suggestions which might allow us to alter our schedule or alter our curriculum such that it will allow for wider participation, not only from within the church, but also from other churches in this area. As your elder, uh I wanted to let you know that I'm representing you at our presbytery level. We have uh two commissioners, uh myself and Jeremiah. We're only allowed two ruling elder commissioners. So in uh until the Lord grows our church, then we can have some more or um there's other ways to add votes there. I also intend to serve you as uh representing you at the General Assembly Whenever that's going to happen, whether it's in June or September or next year. This past year, uh back in 2020, I served on the nominations committee for the General Assembly, which uh allows us to basically vet all of the candidates for different boards and things like that. So I I did a lot of work for this upcoming General Assembly already and Uh I'm willing to do uh to serve on any committees that that are available to me because I take very seriously this denomination and the way that God seeks to bless this country through it. It is uh it is It is good to see how blessed the PCA has been in its short life. 1973 wasn't that long ago. But there are also some very challenging and concerning trends which have arisen. So I want to reassure you that the elders here at Seven Run are committed to maintaining Orthodox doctrine. and to maintaining what we see the scriptures showing us as the most God-glorifying way of believing and living. Unfortunately for the session, I will be serving as the clerk of session this year, and I'll be serving there until I mess it up so bad that they. Fire me or until Jeremiah is re-elected, whichever comes first. In my personal life, I'll let you know my job is going very well. It's going far better than I ever hoped or deserved It takes the lion's share of my time, but I've been blessed to work from home since 2000 something, before 2020. And it's been uh really joyful to be able to just open my door and give hugs to the Bubas. Whenever they want it. And we I guess we can call it that's that guy. I have been really surprised by what God is doing in my job. It takes a lot of time. It really does. It's a 24-7 support kind of job. But He's blessed me with these incredible conversations. Conversations with people I never thought I'd be able to have. And through this job in my position, I've had the ability to really impact people's lives. even on the other side of the planet. And so I am I am beyond grateful that he has given that to me and he's given me uh the experiences through it. So I I'm just continuing to to thank God and and would covet your prayers that he would continue to support my family in that way. I'm still in seminary. I know I've been in it for so long it may seem like it should be done by now. I've got 13 courses remaining, which is about 32 credits. uh for my MDiv. I'm I'm very hopeful that the Lord will provide a way for me to finish that um before it becomes illegal. And uh I do not ever doubt his guiding hand in sending me to seminary and bringing us my family to Seven Run or in calling me to gospel ministry. That has been so solidified that I couldn't imagine life really any other way right now. And the last thing I want to do is I would like to close my portion with an encouragement to all of you. No matter what may be coming, no matter what your particular brand of news media is telling you, no matter how it might appear. Jesus Christ is already victorious. His church will not fail. This church will not fail as long as we are grounded in him His promises for you individually will not fail. This is the attitude we must have as we move into the next year Knowing without a doubt that what every child of God needs is provided by their Father in heaven. And I know without any doubt that what every human being on this planet needs is to be called into that family To be given eyes that can see and ears that can hear by the Holy Spirit, such that they will turn and embrace Jesus Christ as the only solution for all of their problems. I truly believe, truly, along with many, if not all of you, that the solution for all the problems that face us in this immediate area and in our country and in the world is Jesus Christ. The world will be a better place with everyone worshiping God. Brothers and sisters, God has each of you where He wants you. And he wants you here at Severn Run EP Church. Let us never fear to boldly proclaim the reason for the hope that's within us. And may God send more and more of our brothers and sisters into our fellowship that we can continue to expand the garden here in our Alder County. Thank you. Amen. Why don't we give Brad a round of applause and as thanks to him and his family? Thank you, Bradley, for all your hard work. Can you close your report in prayer? I can't believe we take a question. I was not going to take any questions. Yes. Let's pray. Our Father in heaven, holy is your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. You have given us all that we need. Keep our eyes open for the way you will provide our needs in the future. Make us a a group of people who confess our sins and are able to forgive by your grace those who sin against us. Father, as this year dawns, we pray that you would keep us far from the temptation. That is common to the church, to succumb to worldly pressures. Deliver us, our God, from the enemy and from the evil that remains within our own lives. We pray this because we know that this is all your kingdom. All for your glory. Accomplished through your power, and it will not end. Amen. Amen. Thank you, God. Mark Donovan Can you open in prayer? Mm-hmm. Thanks. Gracious Heavenly Father, we again bow our heads before you, recognizing that That Lord you are you are a good father. And Lord, we we pray that as uh as we continue to serve you As we continue to recognize our callings before you, that you would be gracious to reveal, to continue to reveal That which you have placed within our hearts, a love for you and a love for neighbor. We praise you in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Uh brothers and sisters, this is uh this is my seventh year, um running on my eighth year uh serving before you. Um It has uh it has been a real time of growth, uh not only in recognizing my own uh frailties and um challenges what distracts me um from being able to be the elder uh before you. Uh but also um servant of our Heavenly Father. Shepherding the flock here at Severn Run is something that um Really is a passion, a love, an adoration for in my own heart M many of you, um many of you, I have prayed for deeply. Um I can't say I've prayed for all of you equally. But I can assure you that it is something that me and and uh in even my family um have done And so because um because it is a privilege, I have been able to know your deepest needs. And I don't I don't take it lightly. Um there was a day when I first was called to be on session and I dove into um some A book that really taught me what it meant to be an overseer of the souls that God places before us. And uh it it's life-changing. Um as a father of a large family, as you know Um my time my time is divided very preciously. I have a full-time job. I work um roughly fifty hours a week. Fortunately now I I do that at home, which saves uh a long commute time. But But it is it is becoming and continues to become uh an ongoing uh battle to serve you as I should, as God has called me to. And it is a privilege to be able to do so. It really is. I have been able to, by God's grace, learn how what it means to be a better listener. To pause my own voice because I listened to it too much, and to listen to yours. It is uh it is not easy But I seek to do that better. Visiting visiting you in your homes. is a treasure. Being able to spend precious time even as you visit my home has been a real treasure. As a community, for us to be able to grow to love one another is meant to be done in community. That this pandemic has been um an example of how it is not supposed to be. It really isn't. And so it reveals a world that maybe in some senses is okay with what it means to be separate. what it means to be isolated, what it means to be comfortable. Hey now I got a green light, I can I can sit. in front of a television and melt away at absolute foolishness or gaming or whatever it is that distracts us from being able to be in community. To be accountable to one another. These things I have grown to learn more and more and appreciate more and more I have um by God's grace, like I said, continued to be able to work, and um He has provided abundantly. Um and for that I am very thankful. I have been able to witness The trials that you have been facing. I have been able to pray with you while you go through the trials that you are facing. And bear witness to that. Early on this year, it was not an easy one for me. I was responsible for overseeing the management of the safety of this church with regard to the ongoing guidelines that Nick and Marcy and others put so much time into. And I'll tell you, brothers and sisters, it was overwhelming and still is to a certain degree. Um it occupied so much of my time And uh where did that time go to certainly being able to, at least within the framework of protecting you, um it was It kept me from doing other things that I uh I sorely missed. It was a distraction. It was a distraction from being able to oversee your souls in the ways that I'm used to and I'm loving. I love to do. But uh but I tell you for about six months of this past year that's where my heart has been that's where I've been faced Uh that's where my calling has been to be able to do so and uh live within these guidelines that have been handed down to us. But by God's grace, it seems like we're moving beyond that. And it has been a blessing to be able to do that as well. My studies this year. Have been focused on doctrine, of being able to recognize the lies that are before us, the challenges that are before us. And to be able to be able to teach and guide and strengthen those whom The Lord has placed before me to trust in Him, the trust in His faithfulness. There are many wolves out there. And they all want to hear their voices. It is Our duty and our responsibility and our calling and our blessing to be able to silence them. Not with our own words, but with the very words of Christ. Patience and perseverance has been a hallmark that uh I have had to embrace over this last year And being able to oversee the ministries that are before me, the women's ministry, Carol has done such an amazing job at being able to spearhead that. Um Elaine Nolan has also participated in these Bible studies, and it is a treasure to know the women are being led by um by these folks. I can assure you that if you haven't participated in them, it is I am encouraging you to do so. The um The other aspect that has been a real blessing, and I know it's been mentioned several times, but I just hit on a couple of points is the uh the pantry. Whether you're aware it or not, aware of it or not, um the efforts of being able to uh convert that uh pavilion into a place to where we can serve our community with um over almost four hundred meals Um correct me if I'm wrong, but it's it's very very close to that. Um serve 400 meals to our community. And uh the ability for us to be able to convert that location uh back there by um insulating it and And uh air c uh conditioning it with both heat and AC is necessary to be able to uh to preserve that environment, uh to be able to maintain the food and the uh the things that need to be maintained. It is uh God has provided. He has provided abundantly for us to be able to do so. And so we expect to be able to have that ministry. um we work well within Severn Run. And I've also been able to witness the um The blessings that have flowed through you guys uh as um many of you have been willing to serve uh by feeding others, by serving others. And if you haven't, I would consider it. Um it doesn't take a whole lot of time or your energy to be able to come out here and I would uh I would really encourage you to be able to do that. The um what I ask of you is to pray for me. The duty the duty that God has given me is not one I take lightly. And um I ask you to pray for me. Um pray that my diligence study would be effective, would be efficient, and uh would be directed in the right ways. Um I uh I love you all, and uh I love my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and I pray he gives me many more years of service before you. Thank you. Amen. Thank you, Mark. Before you close the report in prayer, Marcy, can you come up front with Mark real quick, please? You don't like surprises, do you? This is how I feel in pastor appreciation day. I'm just kidding. Um wanted to take the opportunity, we don't have a report from Marcy, but Marcy is in the background. You've heard her name uh over and over again already in other people's reports. She's constantly working. and blessing you as a congregation. And so I'd like it if you could please give her a round of applause. Thanks. And if Mark in your closing prayer, if you could also pray for her, I'd appreciate it. I'd love to. I don't speak about her as much as I should. Our Lord and our God, we um we just love you. I thank you for for blessing me. Here at Severn Run. I thank you for giving me a home. I thank you for giving me what it is that I don't deserve. Even in mercy. I thank you for her. I thank you for the blessing that she has been to us at Severn Run. I pray that you would uphold and strengthen her. And do the same for me as I seek to support her. As we continue to serve you, our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ here. Amidst your bride, the church at Sever and Run. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Amen. Thank you both. Jeremiah Horner This is uh actually with the ordination of the Uh men today, uh Jeremiah is officially rolled off for sabbatical. So please make sure you give him thanks and his family also. I I cannot tell you the amount of sacrifices that these that they make. So I don't actually have to do this because fire me. So I I um Started jotting down the summary of last year, and since this is my mandatory year off, that quickly morphed into trying to summarize the past six years. And before I knew it, I was starting to look to some very special passages. and exegete them and it started to turn into a sermon, which is is fine. But it was like an hour per year, so a six six hour sermon, which has fallen out of favor, unfortunately. So so I tried to throw away all that and come up with what is just one thing that I want to say as I step away from the uh the metaphorical gate in which I been sitting. And the one thing I came up with that has been true and proved true over and over and over again And this is going to sound too simple, but it's what I keep coming back to, is that the gospel is true. The gospel is good news And it's not just for Sundays, it's not just for church, it's for every breath we take. Are you discouraged? Well then I've got some good news for you. Are you lonely? Well then I've got some good news for you. Are you tied up in knots with anger? Well then I've got some good news for you. Are you afraid? I've got some good news for you. Are you overwhelmed? Then I've got some good news for you. Are you haunted by guilt of a sin? I've got some good news for you. Are you crushed by depression? And I've got some good news for you. Are you afraid of death? Then I've got some good news for you. If you're bitter, frustrated, living a lie and hating yourself for it, have you been betrayed? Do you hate yourself? Then I've got some good news for you. We are under attack by bad news. The gospel is the good news, and it answers the bad news. My name is Jeremiah Horner. I am an elder called by the Lord Jesus Christ, ordained six years ago. To serve a seven run, and this testimony is true. Let us pray. Lord God, we believe your good news. Help our unbelief. Amen. Thank you, Jeremiah. And thank you, Nikki and family. Uh Joe Macus, didn't forget you again. Could you open a prayer? Yep, let's pray. Oh Lord God Almighty, Father. Your word is truth. Sanctify my words through your spirit. In Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Well, I will keep this brief because I know the hour is getting late, and you guys really want to hear Jesse. So, twenty twenty. I thought I would kinda bookend the year by talking a little bit about the two retreats that we went on. Uh but first off I wanted to say we just started a basement remodeling effort this past week and yesterday I was in the crawl space underneath my stairs I didn't find any snakes, but I found things I didn't know were there. So we've all been afflicted in twenty twenty. I know I have. So I'm reminded of Psalm 119, 67. Before I was afflicted I went astray, but now I keep your word. By the way, I I wanted to say it's an awesome call to be called to to shepherds God's people. I know I'm unqualified myself, but only through the Spirit I can I can do that So it's an awesome call and I'm I'm humbled by that call. It's uh it's a scary thing to know that that that souls are in our care and that we're to that we're to be examples for the flock. Anyway, back to my the bookends of the retreat for 2020. You've heard some of this come out through the year. Oh sorry I'll speak to the microphone. You've heard a lot of about talking about ordering our lives to God's reality. We live in a chaotic, sin infested world. Everything we do is sin infested. A question that Pastor Garcia gave us last year. Will we trust the Lord to live by faith? in accordance with the real world, which is the world of Scripture, and against the grain of this world. So that's what I'm talking about doing some remodeling I'm talking about ordering our lives in practical ways for the glory of God. I'm talking about living out Hebrews 12. 1. 2 We're surrounded by a great cloud of witnesses, and what are we to do? Cast aside the weights. I'll just focus on the sin. We know about the sin. I'm talking about the weights that hold us back. The things that the psalmist says in Psalm 119, turn my eyes from looking at worthless things that I may have life of your ways. So I've made some practical steps in my life in recent months. To turn my eyes away from looking at worthless things and to focus on what matters. What matters is love for each other, love for the Lord And and knowing that we are just pawns in his kingdom. We're not our own. We were bought with a price So part of this is, I would say in one sentence, the theme of last year's retreat was a Sabbath lifestyle. The Sabbath is the hinge pin for hinge pin for the law. A Sabbath like it's more than it's more than Sunday. This past year was easy. It was Acts 2. 42. Where to be a community A community of people that's devoted to the apostles' teaching, devoted to the fellowship, devoted to the breaking of bread, a sacramental life, and devoted to prayer. So again, practical, practical things. Get serious about prayer. Let's get serious about prayer. So Those are kind of the bookends for the year. So the Lord has tested us by this fire of of of twenty twenty. I don't know if the fire of twenty twenty one is going to be better or worse. But from from God's he's faithful. So there's two scriptures I really I've really been thinking about a lot lately. Isaiah forty one ten Fear not, for I am with you. Be not dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you. I will help you. I will uphold you by my righteous right hand. God is with us. The Lord Almighty is with us. Another one of my favorite scriptures you may not be familiar with, Hebrews 13, 5, 6. Keep your life free from the love of money and be content with what you have. For he because he said, I will never leave you or forsake you. Therefore we can confidently say, the Lord is my helper. I will not fear. What can man do to me? Those are powerful verses. I love those verses. Because I am one we're all we're all thinking the money will satisfy. It won't. Money will never satisfy. Anyway. I am I am excited. This is the fourth time I'm coming back as a as an elder. I thank you for the privilege. I'm excited. I see I see the Lord's work. I'm surrounded by a wonderful group of brothers. You've heard them speak It's exciting to be a part of reordering our lives in practical ways for God's glory. One of those ways I'm the elder of the Christian education. We know we canceled the Sunday school. The session is going to discuss that and how we're going to re-implement that, how we're going to structure that to God's glory once we get that started again. So I look forward to that. And with that, I will close and thank you for your confidence in me. And I I only have confidence in the Lord. I'm a tr we have this treasure. We're all jars of clay. I know I am. By God's Spirit, He has called us to be His people. Thank you. Thank you, Joe. And thank you, Elizabeth. If we ever want to know scripture, we can just ask Joe, because he has it all memorized. No, not horrible. It's it takes work. Can you close in prayer? Thank you. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, we thank you for your call. We thank you, Lord, that you have called us out of darkness into your wonderful light. Father, strengthen us, strengthen us for the road ahead, that we may be your hands and feet and share that treasure with those who need it for your glory. Amen. Amen. All right. Thank you, Joe. Uh uh ruling elder Chase Vaughan. Could you open your report with prayer? Father, we give you thanks for the many blessings that you have given us, the blessing of these men who are our shepherds. And we pray, Lord, that that we would have hearts of gratitude as we have heard from each of them. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. So I've been ordained for about three hours now. So not mu not much to report. So I'll keep this short. I've been thinking a lot about the call to uh serve as an elder and many verses that I could go to as I've thought through what's required of the office, what are the duties of the office. And one that's weighed on me is from the Book of Acts, where the deacons, the duties of a deacon and an elder are distinguished And in that passage, the apostles, who are also elders, say that they will devote themselves to prayer. and to the ministry of the word. And I'm challenged by a few things in that passage. First, the language of devotion. And I would ask myself, what am I devoted to? I'm married. I have four kids. I'm devoted to them. So my interests are divided between, to use the language of Paul, spiritual things. the Lord and and earthly things. I'm a teacher, a full-time teacher, and I would say I'm devoted to that to that calling and to ministering to students in that way. But as I think about other aspects of my life, I'm devoted to distractions, I'm devoted to comforts, conveniences. um trivial things, uh even hobbies that are lawful um and are not contrary to God's God's word, but they have consumed too much of my time. I'm not anywhere close to s to being able to say that I've devoted myself to the duty of prayer and to the ministry of the word. And so I ask for your prayers for me, that I can set aside personal interests. comfort, convenience, that I would most of all have love. I think the biggest obstac obstacle I have to being fully devoted to prayer and the ministry of the word is a lack of love. I know this because I wrestle with feeling like I have a right to certain things. uh I d I deserve an hour of of television or or something of that sort. So I would pray, I I covet your prayers. uh that I would grow in my love, that I would grow in hospitality, that I would grow in a knowledge of um of each of you. And what life is like on the ground for many of you. I'm often too content uh to know people at a surface level. And again, it goes back to putting my focus on myself and what what I'm doing in my life. So I would ask for your prayer that I would develop deeper relationships with those that I'm charged with overseeing and that I would be given wisdom wisdom to apply the word in ways that are encouraging and helpful to you. Thank you. Thank you, Chase. We applaud your your last three hours. Yes. Thanks. Father, we give you thanks for you have created us, you preserve us, you give us all that we need. for life. And above all, we thank you for the immeasurable love that you've shown us in your Son Jesus Christ. And for the hope of glory that we have in him, it's in his name we pray. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Chase. Where did Peggy go? Hey Peggy. Yeah, I hear her. Can you tell her to come here? She's probably sleeping in the office. I'm not gonna make you make your way all the way up here. You can stand right back there. Come on in the sanctuary. I wanted to give you thanks on behalf of the church for all of your hard work for us. Uh people don't get a chance to see how much you put into Severn Run and that you have been doing so for a very long time. I would say that I first knew you as the one who knew how to bark And it c and uh over time I realized that your bark is exactly what we need around here. You are a watchdog of our finances. and you are a watchdog of the health of this community, we have a number of young men serving in the diaconate and in the eldership. Uh even Joe Maccus is still considered young uh relative to Yeah, even. Yeah. See I'd never forget you, Jeff. Uh and you I just can't tell you how thankful I am that you keep us straight. You know what's right and you know what's wrong and you don't show favoritism. And that has been a great benefit to us. You keep us healthy. So God bless you, Peggy. Yeah. Thank you. I mean Joe, I meant that in a good way. I you know, the people around here. Um well uh this year and the years ahead Uh ever since I've taken the pastorate here, I've struggled with what this time is supposed to be devoted to. I want it to be worth your time. I'm at the end. I know you're ready. And I think the best way that we can do this this year and for every other year, Lord willing, is that this, I've noticed that other churches call this time the state of the church. And this therefore would be the state of the church address, bouncing off of the idea in a reference to the State of the Union address. Covering the same things. Sort of. You should expect a talk on important issues facing SREPC. I want to start with this State of the Church address by just expressing thankfulness for the past year. The bottom line is that God Himself has preserved every one of you. We cannot take for granted that we will be kept in the kingdom. Our Lord is faithful and he makes it so. That is the best way to look at that. He has preserved you in faithfulness and he has preserved you in patience, and I know that your patience has been tested. Speak of the devil. Do you need to ask theory something? The State of the Union address is given by the president each year. No, I'm just I'm just I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding, buddy. Are you good? You ready to turn it off? Whoever it was, I don't know. Okay. So uh th that was good. We've had l let me just say I'm thankful for your cell phones this past year. Somebody had the tweeting bird that made our deacons go into the attic. And uh we had another person who was telling me it wasn't their phone, but I see it lighting up in their pocket. And and now this. So thank God. He has preserved He has preserved us in faithfulness and in patience, and I know that your patience has been tested. God has given this church a good foundation. And when I say that, I mean I'm talking about a foundation that was laid a long time ago. SREPC has been devoted to the means of grace from the beginning. We had folks in their living rooms praying all the time that this church would take off. The first generation that planting this church literally laid the foundation. I can't help, I bring it up to you every year. I can't help every time I see Lloyd Powell, I just think of him s I was not here, but I think of him swinging in the rafters. They told me he was. They laid their own hands to this work and raised the walls of this church. And I know, as I have spoken to at least some of them, that their hope was always that the next generation would receive all that is around you. as well as what you cannot see, which is the spiritual building of this church, that you would receive it as a kind of legacy and inheritance that you would receive it as a kind of son or daughter, if you pardon the metaphor, in a family business. That is going to be passed down to you and then you are going to build on it, making it even more profitable for the community around you. I know that was in the heart. They longed for us to carry it forward and bring profit to God's glory. Now, we don't manifest that like other churches do. We do not have big and flashy programs. Many people here actually are ministering to each other with no one seeing but the Lord Jesus Christ. But if you're in a position like mine, you get to hear about it And it's happening non-stop, you taking care of each other. And I'm so thankful. As long as I've been here, we've taken care of each other actually as a family, as Christ told us to. Who are my mothers and my brothers? But those who obey the Word of God. And you treat each other like family. The family spirit was broadened this past year as we added to the pop-up we added the pop-up pantry and we invited people in some way into our circle, which doesn't surprise me. But again, I'm thankful And I wanted to begin with that. I am thankful for the past all the way up to this moment, but I do have some future concerns. And I want to give you a kind of tribal log here in how they have arrived because it's been through the study of God's Word as well as His providence in not only my life but yours that have brought me to certain conclusions. I have a growing awareness, and I'm saying I because I don't want to take away the liberty of other officers and say you're leaders. Let them speak for themselves, but I believe I'm on the same page with all of them. I have a growing awareness that God expects more from me and that he expects more from you. That growing awareness has dawned above the horizon as a firm conclusion. In all honesty I struggled as you as the rest of the elders and deacons did and many of you with the COVID issues this past year. I can't give you all of the details so that you could see how difficult it was. particularly for me and who I am as a person. We struggled through race issues here that you don't know about. We struggled through political issues this year that have remained secret that you don't know about. And my constant prayer was that we would somehow, in the midst of all of this, figure out what it looks like to walk worthy of our callings. What does it mean as we took case by case all of the officers having to make judgments that affected everyone here in this congregation? And there would be some judgments that we would make that we would know that are for your good, but that you would hate us for. But that's what it means to be a leader. And we believe that God was gracious to us. I believe that. And I'm thankful. I've learned to become thankful in all things by his grace. Yet at the same time as God gave us a path forward. He also showed me that I am being called with the officers to rise to the next level as leaders. Now this doesn't just mean basic things like let's have better communication around here. Let's make sure that everybody knows what's going on so that we can take these steps together and support one another and be unified in all of the actions that we take. Surely it does include that, but it believes it it includes far more than that And in order to get that across, I want to share with you two problems that I observe. Number one, the first problem is that I'm alarmed at a good sense, in the sense of being fully awake. at the political and the social developments over the last year. If you know me, this is a big deal for me to be alarmed. What is happening around you, I have concluded, is not a drill. It is not a test. This is the real deal. We are watching a highly motivated group of people. They have a very clear vision for what the future should look like. Those of you who love theology, they have a clearer eschatology than most of your friends. They work night and day to implement the vision. So far, here are some major ways in which they do the implementation. The public school system. the university system, the public library system, almost all of the major media outlets, and of course I could go on and share with you the overtaking of every major system. Or at least of its kind. We are not attuned as Americans in the life that we have lived and how we have grown up. We are not attuned to the strategies and the tactics of war. But if you were and you looked out on the landscape, then you would notice that the enemy has taken all of the strategic strongholds. And as soldiers, you would look at each other wondering what we should do next. That's the first problem. Now here's the second problem. What makes this worse is that we are watching the church respond poorly in two ways. First What has happened in the church is that they have said something like this, some of the churches. Whatever happens in the political and the social realm is none of our business. We are to preach the word and to administer the sacraments while we wait for Jesus Christ to return. That is the mentality. They would quote Second Thessalonians and say that we are to mind our business, and that it is in our business. That's a political or s or uh a secular realm and domain that is off limits to the church. And I've tried to preach against this in preparation of this speech today by calling this the Doomsday view, the Doomsday Bunker. Waiting for Jesus to knock on the lid so you can open the hatch and come out into the new heavens and the new earth, having done no real work. You can see how I feel about this. If you don't like doomsday bunker view, you can call this the Amish view. That's the first and we do have an inclination toward that. We have been unintentionally uh influenced by uh Some things out there that I don't need to get into. But this can be how we function. I've even seen our presbytery function this way as they refuse to speak out as the church against abortion. Number two, the church responds in a second poor way, and this is the worst of all, is that they join the army of wokeness. By adopting its views of men and women, children, sexuality, race, and more. They actually adopt the view of how to view everything And what ends up happening here is that the church ends up dealing with those who are working night and day to take the world for themselves. They do not deal with them as enemies, which is why I'm so so uh cautious in preaching to you, like I did this morning, making you aware of who your enemies are And I want to start telling you who they are by name. I feel the duty to do that. I'm not trying to bring disrespect to the pulpit, as why I mentioned who I did this morning. They think strangely that they mean well. That if they could just reason or hear the good points that they have to make But here is the problem that I'm running into. I'm not a scholar. I don't have time to consider all of the viewpoints that are out there and read all the journal articles, and I don't want to. I have a job to do, and that is to protect the flock and to glorify God. And from my standpoint, they could have all of the most they could they could share with the church, our enemy could share with the church a thousand good points. But the only thing that would ever come of it because of the enemy's heart, every time I would affirm it, they would just seek a way to destroy God and his kingdom. So I don't care if they have a good point. What they are not acknowledging, the church who makes this mistake, is that no matter how enlightened or no matter how many good points they have, the enemy Even points wherein we can agree they are driving the car off the cliff. And I'm saying this is a mistake because we're not Lemmings. In other words, this problem, which some of the church participates in, fails to recognize that our culture has a mission statement. This is the mission statement of our culture right now. They endeavor to disorder all of life to the glory of themselves and their false gods. And whereas in the first view of the mistake of the church, the problem, I called that the doomsday bunker view. This one I just want to call the prostitute view. Because the church has prostituted herself with the world. So You've heard a travelogue and you've heard the problem and you've seen how the church has responded to it in two ways. I believe that there's a third way, and that we have to walk down that path, because it is the only path of righteousness. Your officers have met, and they have resolved to counter the world's mission statement. We have essentially said, with a church father that you may be aware of. Is that if the world is against Christ, then we want everyone to know that we are officially against the world. If the world endeavors to disorder all of life to the glory of their gods, then know that we are committed to ordering all of life to the glory of Jesus Christ. I think a reasonable question, especially among a bunch of people here that who have worked in government and heard mission statements before, and you don't get excited about them anymore, is that what does this mean? What this means will have to be worked out. But it at least means this. It means that SREPC will not be doomsday bunker people and we will not be prostitutes. We will not sit by and watch people profane God's creation. We will not join them in their sin by God's grace. And when we do, if we do, we will repent again by his grace. Instead, and in line with the Lord's Prayer, Severn Run must seek the destruction of Satan's kingdom. You can see that you can't do that in either of the views that I showed you before that people have taken of the church. There's a third way. This is the Lord's Prayer. We must seek the destruction of Satan's kingdom, and we will endeavor by the grace of God to advance the kingdom of grace, praying always that the kingdom of glory would come quickly. Now, if you are astute or have memorized the Bible like Joe, some of the Bible Then you can hear the imagery, the biblical imagery that's going on here. You should feel as a group of people similar to the group of people that had gathered on one side of the Nile with Joshua before they entered into Canaan. And it is the same vision that we have here. We, like Israel of old, stand before Canaan. And as Joshua received commission from the eternal Christ, so too have we received the commission from Christ. And he has told us to go and to make disciples. And it is always surprising when you read this again, because he says For you to go teach them to obey everything that I have commanded. And I don't know how you would ever be able to do those two things. in the way that those the the doomsday bunker view or the prostitute view. How would you ever? So there's this third path that we have here. We of course have to keep in mind from 2 Corinthians 10 verses 4 through 5, the weapons of our warfare are not carnal. but mighty in God for pulling down strongholds, casting down arguments, and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, bringing every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ. That's in part what it will look like. It will mean that we have to devote ourselves to making our children disciples strategically and tactically. As Christ has instructed us to, in the midst of this current climate, not anywhere else, not in a 16th century reformation, but right now. We will devote ourselves to keep them and ourselves in the kingdom in the face of temptation, and there are enough temptations that go around. And it requires a great deal of wisdom. Anyone who has had children any time period of time, you know there is no recipe to follow when doing this, which is why I can't give you one here. I'm sharing with you our endeavors. We will endeavor by God's grace to expand his kingdom among the peoples of Anorano County because that is where we are from. We will seek influence in Anna Rundle County, even if they are not converting, so as to restrain their sin. People want to talk to me all the time about loving their neighbor. Is it loving to your neighbor to allow them to turn their little boy into a little girl? Or do you have some kind of responsibility to exercise influence to keep the little children safe? Even if they hate you for it. I believe that we do. And so I believe that we need to figure out ways to tactically and strategically restrain sin in Andronal County. And if the Lord allows us to to move even two inches outside of ourselves. We'll just keep praying that he would expand our influence for his glory. And as I said in the sermon this morning, I believe that we need to do this with optimism. Because Joshua heard from God the same words that you and I heard in the New Testament. You know what he heard in the first chapter of Joshua? I will never leave you, nor will I forsake you. Tell me there's not supposed to be a connection between what they're heading out into and what we are to head out into, though of course we're not using those same kind of weapons. With a group of people like us who have been trained in prudence, the biggest question of all will be: how do we do such a thing? I see the target. What are the arrows that I can shoot? And this is obviously not the place for us to go and plan out all of the details. It's going to create require a great deal of wisdom. It's going to require a lot of prayer and a lot of sacrifice to do this. And a lot of years, I will die seeking this vision. This is not a simple endeavor, and it therefore requires strategic thinking. We're not just talking about handing out tracks or something. We're talking about taking over the world. We must move into a time of deep and wise planning. As our Christ teaches us from Proverbs 24, through wisdom a house is built. We must also move into a time of deep prayer, as Proverbs 16 teaches us. Commit your works to the Lord, and your thoughts will be established. At the right time, the session has decided with the unanimous vote also of the deacons. That we are going to call the church to 30 days of guided prayer as we start to take strategic steps in this mission that we have. It is not really a new mission because this church has had this mission from the beginning. It is becoming intentional and focused once again. You've heard several elders mention the distractions. I know they're representative of us all. And that's what we're saying. We're gaining focus again on exactly why Christ has us here. Otherwise, why wouldn't he just convert us and suck us away? Later this year, we will gather in another congregational meeting before 2022. We're going to have a called meeting And we don't know how many months from now, but we have already made the motion and pass it that we are going to gather in another congregational meeting to cut to commit. To our fourth vow, but specifically, we are going to commit to the specific work and the specific worship of this specific church in Anorano County. In conclusion, let me assure you that this is not a game to me, and this is not a game to your officers. I'm not up here trying to give you some pie in the sky governmental vision. I'm trying to reveal to you what God has led us to over the last year. And in some ways, this is the synthesis of what he has been giving to me since I was converted into his kingdom. We are dedicated to lead you in this. You may not be happy about it at certain times You may speak against it, but that does not stop my leadership because I know that my call is clear. I know exactly what I am to do. If the Lord allows me to serve here, let's say, until I'm 70. By God's grace, I will still be here saying the same thing to you that this is our mission And as I start to contemplate more seriously my mortality at that age, I am hopeful that there will be another generation ready to take the flag forward and to carry our legacy into bringing the glory of God through the ordering of lies to Anarono County. That is my great hope. It is such a large vision that realistically I am wondering if Christ does not return before then, then perhaps in something like 300 years. Andorano County will be quite different, or will at least not be as worse as it would have been if we just let it go. And maybe the Lord will help us to influence even more than Andoronal County. I have to admit to you, I have dreams of God raising up somebody in our midst to take political office. in Andoron County, to be a councilman or a councilwoman or the executive councilman, to exert good Christian influence, which is good for everyone because Christ is good. If Christ does not return, then perhaps in 300 years we'll see such a sight. Maybe it will be sooner Maybe we'll find that at this church our youngsters aspire to such a thing and they're trained to such an end. And that is where we're heading I thank you for your time, and I truly mean this, not from a Democratic or a Republican standpoint, but may God bless the United States of America And may he begin with An Ronald County. Amen. I do feel the liberty to ask you if you have any questions. It's 305, so that works in my favor. Bradley. Yes, does anyone need any there is a song we're going to close our meeting with while while we're looking at that. Does anyone have any questions for me? Arch, yes, please. Oh, okay. I'll say Arch, you don't have any questions. You're the one that taught me this. Questions or comments? Okay. Very good.