Quorum which is eighteen point six people as you know. So if you're a member, please stand. And let's make sure we have it. Do we have eighteen point six Nikolai? All right, we're good. Everybody can be seated. The next thing we need to do is to uh appoint a clerk and I would take a motion for Brad Swaszczyk. All right. Is there a second? Any discussion? Congratulations, Brad. You are the clerk. Alrighty, let's open our meeting with prayer. Please join me. Could you turn us down a little bit, please? Thank you. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that we are able to gather in this congregational meeting Really, Lord, we know that these will be uh reports of your blessing on us over the last year. Uh we've so much bri water has been under the bridge. in just a year. I pray that you would be with each of the folks giving their reports. I pray that you would be with your congregation that they would exercise all of the Christian virtues. And this includes that they would have good questions that guide this church. into glorifying you more and more. We ask, Lord, that you be with us in all ways and that we would hear over and over again, really, that you are to be praised forevermore. In the name of Christ. Amen. All right, well we're going to go ahead and just get started. And so the first report on our agenda is from Miss Carol Spirgis, report on the Women's Ministry and Counseling Thank you. Yeah, sure. That'd be great. Thank you, Carol. And let me know if you need me to adjust the thing. Yeah. Thanks, Carol. Sure. Looking for some smiles. Makes it a little easier. I'm really, really grateful for the opportunity to share with you a few de details about the women's ministry. And given the time constraints it's just going to be a really broad brush. But I'm willing to meet with anyone who wants to have a conversation. or ask questions. Um at any time I make myself available for that purpose. But first I want to acknowledge That a lot of ministry among women and by women takes place informally and organically in homes, in schools, and workplaces, before and after Sunday worship services, by phone, through text, emails, letters. A lot of ministry happens in the context of the ordinary, ordinary daily life, and simply by the ordinary means of grace. that God has given to each one of us. And that's the way it should be. But there also is a place for having some organized groups. And so my emphasis has been on having small groups that are centered around studying scripture and prayer and beginning to build and develop relationships within that fellowship. so that we can encourage, edify, and equip one another through the Word. And then also the larger fellowship groups, those are opportunities for us to share broadly. And uh of course the last two years we have not had the opportunity to gather together. So that's going to be the emphasis this year to have large fellowship groups. But I just want to highlight, we do have two uh women's Bible studies. One is Monday night that meets at the church. And we're doing uh 1 Corinthians, and that's been a great study. And anyone who's new is welcome, always welcome to come. And then Tuesday night the Bible study meets in homes, generally in Elaine Nolan's home. And they've been studying um was it First Peter and Just finished 1 Peter, and now they're moving on to study um Genesis 1, 1 through 11. And they welcome anyone who would like to come and be a part of that as well. It really is a way for new people to get connected in a way that you can't really do on Sunday morning. Now, um let me find my place here So I like having the large fellowship as well because often we tend to gravitate towards groups that of people that are like us, in other words, they're in our season of life or they have some common interests and we tend to not get to know other people outside of our kind of a comfort zone. So the larger women's fellowship kind of brings all the women together in a quarterly quarterly time. So that we can begin to get to know people who are new and begin to move towards people intentionally who are not in our normal or natural circles of relationships. And it can be difficult in the church to look past those human differences and those generational differences um to see the deep the value of a deeper relationship with women who are not in the same season of life or who may not share your views about issues that are not not essential to the gospel And these large fellowship groups give us opportunities to kind of intentionally move towards one another. Now, as I said, the w the women's fellowship, the big events took a hit, as did every big gathering in 2020. And 2021 I was wrestling with um a lot of my I guess personal struggles, uh, and recognizing what my strengths and weaknesses were, and I knew that my strength is not in doing the organizing for those big events And the Lord brought us someone who is, and I want to acknowledge Michelle um Bartelheim, who's a a new member And she has a real heart for doing that. And not only that, but she managed to pull together that Advent Uh dinner that we had in December with like five weeks where she marshalled all the resources and got things organized And she also prayed daily for the women uh and for the Lord to bring those women whom he would bring And I am really uh pleased to say that he brought seventy-two women to that evening. And we had such a wonderful, wonderful time of fellowship and sharing. And yes, we had to throw up some tables at the last minute and kind of scurry about, but just like Jesus and his feeding the um you know the 5,000, he didn't know how many were going to come And the food was enough and it was it was all there and the women just pitched in and helped set up um more place settings. So that was just a real beautiful thing to see how the Lord answered prayer. We are still planning and we plans are underway to have more of these fellowship events. If you've seen in the bulletin, the next one is March 12th. It's going to be in the afternoon. And we are going to have two in the afternoon and we're going to have two in the evening. And additionally, we're planning these events around a theme. And the theme is broadly understanding our vocations to self, family. church and community while unpacking what it means to be ordinary women who honor Christ in our circumstances through ordinary means So Michelle and I meet regularly to conceptualize this and we're putting details in place and I meet regularly with Jesse so I'm trying to unfold his vision for ministries in the church and he's you know provided me with an awful lot of really good input and um counsel in that regard. So I'm really working very closely with him in this. So in closing, I want to thank all those ordinary women who I hate this, but this is a a part of being human. All those ordinary women who through the years have faithfully walked with me, encouraged me, counseled me, taught me, modeled Christ love, and I was not an easy person to love. And um In every way, it was through very practical and ordinary means. And the ordinary ways in which you have conducted your lives and the qu and quietly lived your faith. May seem unremarkable by the wor the world's standards, but not by mine and not by the Lord's. And I want you to know that you are extraordinary women And the way that you encourage and minister to one another. It's extraordinary. And the Lord is pleased. So I want to end by just reading a verse from 1 Corinthians 15. fifty eight Women be steadfast, immovable Always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. And may the Lord be glorified in the ordinary things that each of you do and are doing unto the Lord. Don't go anywhere. I'm gonna pray for you. Come on back. Let me pray for you real quick. Father, we thank you for Carol. We thank you for what you have done in her. And we thank you what you for what you do through her and just for her. We thank you, Lord Jesus Christ, and we ask that you would continue to rain down your blessings on her, for as you have seen, in all of the ways you bless her, she takes those things and she blesses others. I ask therefore, Lord, that you would be honored by her as your servant. In the name of Christ. Amen. Thank you, Carol. Our next report is from Marilyn Dorfel on the Severn Run Classical Christian Homeschool Academy. Thanks, Marilyn. Thank you, J. Okay. There is no way to put this where I can see that. Good afternoon. I'm Marilyn Dorfell. I'm being adjusted by Bradley for the moment. Thank you. I'm just gonna do this. At last year's congregational meeting I reported to you the abundant provisions that the Lord showered on the Academy in the face of the COVID pandemic. This year, this is the 21-22 school year I'm talking about. I'm delighted to be able to report that God has graciously allowed us to return to our home building here and to resume our normal program activities. Here are some of this year's milestones. Besides returning to our building, we've resumed our afternoon art and music classes. as well as in-person algebra, geometry, and advanced Latin. Our 16 tutors and three administrators are currently serving 80 students representing 46 families. Search a in case you don't know Severn Run Classical Christian Homeschool Academy uh better known as searcher, is committed to a classical curriculum and methodology taught from a Christian perspective For those who are less familiar with our tutorial structure, we meet here on Tuesdays and Thursdays when we provide instruction in English, science, history, Latin, art, and music for grades kindergarten through sixth. with additional classes in logic and math for grades 7 and 8. Our G5 through G D2 Latin students, I'm sorry, 6th grade to 8th grade, Latin students participate in a national Latin exam each year. Approximately 88,000 students take this across the globe. Nine of our 14 participants scored in the top 12 percent. globally last year. Besides returning to our previous schedule, we have initiated or reconfigured several new events this year. including a pageant style Christmas program just before Christmas and just the day before yesterday a school wide talent show which was really a breath of fresh air for the end of a long month of February. We enjoyed it a lot. We have also hosted guest speakers from NASA, the Institute of Cultural Communicators, and Red Baker Cheryl Vaughan. Apologies, Cheryl, I didn't tell you I was going to mention you. Members of our congregation regularly serve in many ways, including as judges in our science fair, which is coming up the first week in March. As Pastor Jesse has pointed out to us, the events of the past two years have been like a wake-up jolt from God to his church. recalling our hearts from drifting with our culture and resetting our priorities as His kingdom people. I'm reminded of the situation which frames Isaiah 58-12, where the Lord brings conviction to his people, away from casual lip service type practices. calling them to heart dedication and a determination to return to the Lord and serve him fully in their daily lives, the ordinary things. After pointing out his people's transgressions and the futility of their current worship, God goes on to give them a picture of what renewed obedience will look like. Isaiah 58, 12, those from among you shall build old waste places. You shall raise up the foundations of many generations. You shall be called the repairer of the breach, the restorer of streets to dwell in. We have certainly been made aware of breaches being made in our society and the mainstream culture. Nowhere is this more apparent than in the realm of education. Many families in Anarundel County are looking for alternative ways. to educate their children when confronted with the bankruptcy of what they've been doing in the past. We long to return to the foundations of the biblical order of reality, to retrieve wisdom from the past. And we would like to see our own children firmly established with secure streets to dwell in, that they might perpetuate the foundation for many generations. To progress toward this goal, it's my joy to announce to you that the search board, along with the SREP session, have determined to expand the Academy to include the ninth grade next year with plans to add one grade each succeeding year until our program covers grades K through 12. Yes, wow, it is we are very excited. It's a big thing. Subjects for the upper grades will include a Bible rhetoric combination. English literature, history, science, and math with Spanish as an elective. Curriculum has been approved for the ninth grade. For some reason, once you clapped, it made me nervous. Curriculum has been approved for the ninth grade and tutors are being interviewed. We have two students already enrolled from the current eighth grade class and open enrollment for other families will begin March 1st. Something to pray about. This class will fill the last remaining classroom space in this building. It in fact reminds me of my first dorm room at Wheaton College, which was actually a converted room closet. So before September of twenty twenty-three, we will be needing to find some more space. The session and the board have counted the cost and are convinced that the Lord is leading us to take this step in faith, this step of ministry and service. I'm reminded of the promise in Malachi 3, of the way the Lord has promised to bless the faithfulness of his people in practice. This passage specifically speaks about tithing. But I believe the principle goes deeper to bless our acts of faithfulness. Test me now in this, says the Lord of hosts. If I will not open for you the windows of heaven and pour out for you such blessing that there will not be room enough to receive it. So running out of room is a sign of the Lord's blessing. And it's all from his hand. Thank you so much for your support of Severn Run Classical Christian Homeschool Academy. Please continue to pray for us in these ways. Pray for wisdom for the session and the search aboard as we guide this ministry. Pray for the board, administrators, and tutors as they direct daily operations. Pray for decision-making, implementation, and the launch of the upper grades. Pray that the Lord will provide godly qualified tutors for vacancies. Pray that he will bring ninth grade students and families to expand to be ministered to and to contribute to this community of our risen Lord. Pray that we will be faithful to our calling And that the Lord's words in Revelation 3, 7 and 8, which he speaks to the church in Philadelphia, will be true of us as we embark on this new venture. These are the words of the Holy One, the true one, who has the key of David, who opens and no one will shut, who shuts and no one will open I know your works. Behold, I have set before you an open door, which no one is able to shut. May that be true of this door. I know that you have but little power, that is certainly true, of us. And yet you have kept my word and have not denied my name. May we always be an honor to our Christ. Thank you. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for Marilyn and we thank you for her work. We thank you that she represents so many different people that have made so many sacrifices, especially over the last three years with this academy. Which is an abstract way of really talking about raising up your children and your nurture and your admonition. Lord, I thank you that This was formed so many years ago. I thank you that it is a hybrid that recognizes the authority of the family, but also how we get to help the family. And I pray, Lord, that you would continue it for many, many years. We do pray that you would bring in just the right number of folks for our ninth grade. That you bring back the families from the K through the eight, that you'd give us the right staffing, that you would permit the board to continue to dwell in peace with each other. I pray, in other words, that you in many ways would deliver the Academy from the evil one. In the name of Christ. Amen. Thank you, Marilyn. We now have uh if the agenda is correct, we now have a report from the deacons which will include the twenty twenty two budget presentation. All right. You're looking good, buddy. I wore suspenders for you all today, so appreciate this. All right. Before we go into the budget, I did want to give an overview of the Office of Deacon and the things that we do here. That is our calling. The Book of Church Order describes the office of the diaconate as follows. The office of deacon is not one of rule, but rather of service both to the physical and to the spiritual needs of the people. It also says the office is one of sympathy and service after the example of our Lord Jesus Christ. The deacons at Severn Run strive to emulate the example of our Lord Jesus Christ. Through our service to the congregation and to the session. Organizationally, we divide our responsibilities among three categories. But because there's currently only two of us, we both tend to handle everything at all times. Those categories are the property, mercy, and finance. In the terms of property, we tend to the church's physical well-being. Our church grounds are over 20 years old And as such, we are constantly evaluating replacements and improvements for physical items like doors, the roof, HVAC systems, and the like. Additionally, we also manage special events and occasions that take place here at Sever and Run. The Lord has blessed us with a building and a large property, and we receive many requests from outside groups to use our property or this building throughout the year. The diaconate coordinates coverage for opening and closing the building for these groups and for other special events such as weddings or special services. That said, our primary focus is our corporate worship service every week. And you'll probably notice that most of the time a deacon is usually the first person here in the morning and often the last person here after service. Secondly, but one of most importance, is our ministry of mercy. When you give to the Deacons Fund, you are loving your neighbor because that money is set aside in our Deacons Fund specifically for helping those in need. We place a particular emphasis on caring for fellow Christians in keeping with Paul's instructions from Galatians. Therefore, as we have opportunity, Let us do good to all, especially to those who are of the household of faith. So our first goal is to bless and assist those within this particular congregation. then the wider church at large, and then finally those outside the visible church. We treat requests for financial assistance as an opportunity. God ultimately governs the ordering of all events, and so when someone faces a financial crisis, our goal is to ensure that the need is viewed through a spiritual lens as well as a material one. We will pray with and for the individuals, and in particularly challenging situations, we may also seek guidance from the session We may offer suggestions regarding personal finance practices and even suggest financial counseling. Ultimately, our goal is to ensure Christ is glorified and to point all who come to us to Him. We meet throughout the year discussing outstanding needs within the congregation, and we make action plans to address them where appropriate But we only know of needs when they are brought to our attention. So please seek one of us out if you are going through hardship and you need help. Finally, the Finance Subcommittee of the Diaconate creates and proposes the yearly budget for the session to discuss and approve. provides updates to the session in terms of our financial trajectory throughout the year. And we also work closely with Peggy, our treasurer. For those who don't know her, Peggy brings a unique combination of wisdom, experience, and sass to this church and to this her job. And we are truly blessed to have her. See, she diligently works to make this sure this church is kept in good financial standing, and her contributions far exceed the stipend that she receives. All right. With that said, that concludes my Deakin report, and I'd like to move now into the budget presentation. All right. Real quick, do you want to take any questions? I can take questions as a deacon. Thank you. Are there any questions for Nick as a representative of the ACNIT? One right over here. Yes. Um is the top up can tree handled by the recent. Yes it is. Yes, we uh um just wondering why that wasn't included in the Our Papa Pantry is handled by the deaconate. Uh and you'll see in our budget presentation that while the church budgets money for it, we do primarily run the pop-up pantry off of financial donations and also food donations from the congregation and actually the community at large. Yeah. I'm not seeing any other hands, so why don't you proceed to the budget report? All right. Thank you. Now, I do have a note here that before I begin the budget presentation, our treasurer has an announcement that she would like to make. Peggy, would you like to come up here please and make your announcement? Peggy, come on up here. This whole thing feels like Pastor Appreciation Day when people trick each other. It's descriptive. Come on up here It is. She was aware of this. This is I'm not throwing her on the spot. No, this is great news. Come on up, please. And you're the right person to give it. Oh shoot. Okay, this is show and tell. Well I gotta I gotta hear it. Yeah, this is show and tell. I'm holding a document here. It says loan agreement for $80,000. We got a loan from the PCA through Mission to North America. And uh it's was the balance of what we needed to purchase this land all around us, this seven beautiful seven acres. And I was just talking to a couple people in the office I have looked at all the churches around, and especially the PCA churches, and of all the churches all around here, perhaps with the exception of Lily's um Our Lady of the Fields Um, we have the prettiest campus and building of any of these churches. Especially huh? Including the church Yeah, right. But anyhow, uh this got paid off. This was signed by um Arch Van Devender, our fearless leader. And if it weren't for him, we wouldn't be here now. That's true. He had more more guts and uh and more faith than the rest of us did. But he had a vision and he sure pulled us along. He had a long whip. You know. Whoops. He he had a long whip and he wasn't afraid to use it either. So um guys never gave me a whip. He didn't trust me with a whip. You're a pump. We could we could beat up on you. Anyhow. You know, the Lord provides. And what we did is and what kept running through my mind What kept running through my mind on uh February 2nd on 2222, we went to Glen Burney Mutual Savings Bank with a check for one hundred and thirty six thousand dollars. And we paid off our mortgage. We we are totally free and clear of debt. Period. We owe nobody anything except our love and dedication to God. And what kept running through my mind that day was we took a big step in faith. We were obedient. We obeyed God. And look what we did. We just we kept the faith and this this is the result of it. And we worked hard, all of us who were members said. We built this church. We built that pavilion. And um I I I just can't say enough. I'm going we're going to after the meeting is over, we're going out to the fire pit and we're gonna burn this baby. Okay Um but before we do that, I would like to read the names. It's the old mortgage. That's a good question though. Always ask what we're burning. It um it was a six hundred thousand dollar mortgage And we paid it off early in four year well, we had four years to go yet. And we we paid it off four years early. But to honor the men. who were so bold and so faithful. I want to read their names. Some of them aren't with us anymore. Some of them are up there with Jesus. John Van Devender, William Brownfield, Randy Bibby, Ken High, Tim Hudson, John Speargas, Ed Orner, Paul Klein, Ron Crabb, Rob McNair and Norman Smith, eleven men who really had faith that we could do this. And we did. So join me afterwards when we burn this thing up. Okay. That's it. Thank you, Fate. Nick, will you please give thanks to our Lord? Lord God in heaven, how we love you. You have done such tremendous things for this church and this property. And we pray that You would continue to work through us in all that we do. We thank you for your faithfulness over these past years. In your name we pray. Amen. Amen. Now that she's taken all the great news now I get to tell you where we're spending all our money. All right. I do want to if you look at the first page of your budget presentation Should look something like this, or you might have a smaller uh bulletin style, bulletin format version of it. If anyone needs one, they are up here. Does anyone need one? Yes, could you have your label? So I just would like to go through the first page. And that some notable highlights for the past year, our general giving in 2021 was up $135,000 from what we budgeted. Praise the Lord. Uh Peggy has already shared with you our news about that we've paid off the mortgage. Uh what she didn't tell you is that today is This congregational meeting is February 20th, 2022, and our church had its very first service in the new building. February twentieth, twenty twenty. It has been twenty-two years. Two thousand. Sorry. We just started. We just started. We paid off the mortgage. Woohoo. All right. You can see uh the generous giving to the Kenyan church in twenty twenty one and those funds will be distributed throughout the year this year. And then Deacon Fund donations in 2021 were almost 18,000. The amount of funds that we used were almost 8,000. Again, these are funds that you as the congregation have given to this church. So if there is any need that you have, please see myself or Dennis, please come talk to us. We're not scary. We don't bite. I mean, I don't, I can't speak to you My expectation is that you'll um go over each page and then leave room for questions. That is correct. Okay, great. Uh before you move on to the second page, are there any questions on the notable highlights? You see the picture at the top? It was an adventure. When we got in there, Peggy made everybody in the bank stop and pray with me. So there was some poor guy trying to deposit a check he got roped into it. But as soon as he found out we're paying off our mortgage, he got really excited So it was it was a lot of fun. Praise God. We had to tell him we weren't paying off his mortgage. Uh I did say one hand, uh Natalie, you were raising your hand for the first page? Yeah, it looks like it's raising your What's this here? Does that basically have a decision? Pretty much. Yeah. Yeah. Any other questions on the first page? We're just going to go page by page here. Okay, let's go oh John Shin uh Bob Shinjak? Yeah, the older one. Um I just lance you through will we get as we get further in Will we find out how much we have in each of our different funds, like how much is actually in the DC funds, how much main through X. Great, good question. All right, seeing no other questions, let's now turn to the next page, which is a summary of major changes from 2021 to 2022 budget. So I would like to go through general notes first, just so that when you get to page four, you understand what you're actually looking at. And that means that the total giving amount that you see on page four does not include Deacons Fund or Education Foney given to those direct accounts because they are in-and-out funds. They do not count towards general giving. And then you'll see the 2021 actual total operating expenses on page four does not include money spent from our capital improvements fund. But it does include the $35,000 extra payment to our mortgage that we made last year from our surplus from 2019. And then if you notice that it does look like we overspent slightly in our physical plant section, that is because we decided to get our steeple cleaned and there were some things that were increased costs. So before we move on, just to give you a little bit of a just take one at a time and any if there's any more you want to say on general notes and then questions and then let's not take up salaries till later. Wait until the everyone is excused so everyone can feel free to to ask questions about salaries. After you have the summary of major changes on page two, just so that you are aware, page three in the top of page four. is just a glossary of terms. We found throughout the year a lot of questions centered around, well what is this and what is that and what is this four-letter combination What are we doing with this? And so we decided to create a glossary of terms to better help everyone understand what you were actually looking at in the budget itself. If you have any questions about what you're seeing or if you have a suggestion on a particular term you would like added to the glossary, please send me an email. And I would be happy to do that for next year. Okay, thank you. Nick, are there any questions on the general notes before we move down to the next bullet point or next uh bold point which will be physical plant? Are you okay with me proceeding that way? No. No? Is that okay? Yeah. Alright. That's why not. Um So before we get into the nuts and bolts of the budget, typically what has been our custom is to ask those receiving a salary or money from seven run to please excuse themselves from the room while we go over the salary portion of the budget. If we try to get that taken care of first. Good idea. And then we can invite everybody back in and they can be part of the rest of the budget conversation. Okay. That being said, I'd like to invite Jeremiah Horner to take over as moderator for me. And he has already agreed to do so. You really are funny. All right, so everyone who receives a salary from the church, if you could please follow me. And the families. And the family. So Nick, one one question I've been wondering for the past few minutes is do we need a motion to modify the budget for a new microphone? No. Okay. Keith, could you turn off distributed sound? Do you have a question? Moderator. I'll leave that to your conscience. Yeah. Not wishing to give the impression I have a seared conscience, I'm reading. Now, so that everybody is aware, uh although this budget document that you're looking at is the session approved. document and we are about to look at salaries in case anyone has any questions. The only thing that will need congregation approval will be Jesse's change in salary because what we have right now is a change in salary which represents a change in call. And so per the Book of First Order, the congregation needs to vote solely on Jesse's salary. But before we do that, I did want to just note that there are other people that we pay here other than Jesse to include Peggy, Bradley, and Marcy. And you can see there their total compensation, what the increase is, and the percentage of that increase. So before we discuss Jesse, does anyone have any questions? That I may be able to answer regarding Peggy, Bradley, or Marcy. We should note that I believe in all three of those cases it has been quite a while since there's been an adjustment. Okay. Yes sir. Is there a reason why it's different percentages for for all of those? Because I do know that it has been quite a while for all of those Yes. Um Peggy and Marcy had a specific they requested increases. Bradley did not request an increase, but to keep up with general cost of living, for this year it's 5. 9%. So we wanted to at least do that so that what he was making last year semi-equals what he should be making this year. Yes. Um I'm not suburbing anybody any of these increases, but I I thought I recall that for one of these people it was mentioned that it had been a while with the last time since they had accepted it. Um but that this year that person meaning last year that person was going to accept this offer. So That is correct, yes. Actually, uh Peggy did receive a little bit of an increase last year. Correct. Yes. This will be the very first increase for Marcy. We offered her a cost of living increase last year and she turned it down. Are there any other questions? Okay. Okay. Now we move on to Pastor Jesse. You can see the total amount representing the total increase. This increase is separated uh into three basic numbers. He had a requested increase, and then the session decided to add the tuition for three children onto his salary. And then based on that, we needed to add the increased uh Social Security and Medicare taxes that he pays as self being self-employed. So the tuition for three children from Searcha This tuition, adding these tuition is not exactly new. It's new that it will be as part of his salary. But in the past, we had given him a salary and then he would seek out these funds from other severin run ministries. in addition to his salary. So we thought it best for clarity to make it a part an official part of his salary rather than having him ask various ministries for support outside of his salary. We thought it would be best that we gave that to him and so that you all would know how much he was receiving and that he would have the peace of mind of knowing that he was receiving these funds instead of asking these other ministries for support and hoping that they would be able to help him. Okay, so the um the way uh the way the PCA works is a salary is part of the call package for pastor. And so a change in the salary means it's a change in the his call that can't be set by a session. It has to be done by a congregation and approved by the Presbytery. So should the congregation decide to give him This recommended increase, then a call package will be prepared, they'll have the new number, it'll go to the presbytery, and And they'll vote on it. The reason they do that is largely to make sure that congregations are not exploiting pastors and cutting their salary uh too much. So I've never seen it rejected. I've never seen it really debated. It's uh a check and balance to make sure pastors are being fairly compensated. You guys are very quiet. Does anyone have any questions? Well it's just that we using Yes. We feel like a change in call will that would mean a different title or something like that. Right. Yeah, it it sounds like that, doesn't it? Yeah. PCA does not shy away from arcane language. Okay. Are there any other questions or concerns? Okay. Well you begin the voting. Right. Are you um are there any speeches against this or does anybody have any concerns? Okay. Are you ready to vote? Unless anybody requests to do it by ballot. So all in favor say aye? All opposed? The ayes have it. Alright. I think we're ready to call them back in. Yes, this concludes the salary portion of the budget presentation. And uh if somebody could call them back in, that would be great. Okay, so the the next step then w that we've decided to do would be to put together a uh call committee to look for the new pastor. All right. I love you all. All right. What I'd like to do now is for everybody to turn in their budget packet to page four. Can I say something real quick? Uh all the staff just wants to thank you for your generosity. We do not take it for granted. Thank you. On page four you'll see under the coral-colored section, looking back at comparison of past year's actuals with the 2022 budget. You can see we have listed there all of our categories as well as giving an income and operating expenses from 2020. And that follows all the way to 2022. The plan for this presentation will be to go through each of the expenses by category. pointing out any notable changes and then taking questions on each section as we go through As you can see, the giving an income last year was $459,114. Our budget amount for 2022 is nowhere near that. We try not to look at uh last year's Giving and budget to that number, we try to look at the overall picture just on the off chance that we just had one really, really good year and that doesn't happen this year. So um things to note um if you look at the bottom our capital improvements account target We try to get to our capital improvements fund up to 90,000. Right now, the current balance is $57,451. In 2021, we did spend roughly $30,000 on capital improvement. We insulated the pavilion. We replaced one of our HVAC units. We have three. We replaced one of them. They are very old, and I suspect that we will end up replacing another one this year. And then we also purchased, I believe, a 40-foot storage container that if anyone looks behind the pavilion, you will see that. Now that the pavilion is insulated and has HVAC and we are using it for the pop-up pantry. We needed to take the storage that we had been using that space for and add storage. And so we decided to come up with this giant storage container and hide it as best we could behind the uh pavilion. So Our operating expenses account balance, you'll see there at the bottom, is $109,000. So that is one of the numbers that we looked at when making our decision to pay off the mortgages that had the additional funds in it from last year. And so the number that you see 109,000, that is after the mortgage has been paid off. Archie missed it. We announced that we paid off the mortgage. Are you here for the burning? At this time I'd like everybody to turn the page. As we look at each section individually, unless there's about page four. Sure. So the percentages underneath it is increased. So when you look at the but when you look at the lines and you'll notice that there are some percentages listed under the budgeted columns. That is the percentage of that column of that category in relation to the entire budgeted for the operating expenses. So for example, for emissions and outreach, you see that it says 8. 3%. So that number 28,665. represents eight point three percent of the total budget amount for twenty twenty one or twenty twenty two. Are there any other questions uh uh regarding this chart before we move forward? Oh okay. So I just uh the percentages won't make sense I think you're I don't see any other questions. Alright, so turning to page five, we have two categories on this page, missions and outreach and physical plant. We'll look at missions and outreach first. I would like to point out that when you're looking at these individual categories, if you notice something is bolded, on the 2022 column, that denotes a change in the budgeted amount from the previous year. So looking at the emissions and outreach section of our budget category, you will see that there is no budget budgeted change this year compared to what we did in 2021. Special operating. Uh I know pregnancycenter. have those total they they don't show up here at all to know what additional monies were given to those other ministries by special operators do we That is correct. So they are not part of the official budget. And actually, I should have noted this earlier. Thank you, Duane, is when you look at on page four the um Missions and outreach if you look at 2021 actual compared to the 2021 budgeted, I believe the difference is the amount that was brought in for some of those special offerings. I do not have the amounts specifically on me right now, but I can get them to everybody. And in the future I will make sure to put those as part of the budget. But some you know for some meetings it's nice to know that we are supporting some of those other ministries other and above and beyond what just said That is correct, and that's a great idea. Peggy. Relative tune back uh for our Friday offering always goes to uh one of our missions. And in 2021, of course, it was the pregnancy plane, which is now known as Wells Frame. What was bringing that but anyhow Marcy and I last year because of that Good Friday We were able to deliver a check down to pregnancy clinics at their offices in Annapolis there. A check for $5,000. And we were blown away too. You don't know how good it made us show to be able to do that so or is this money Praise God. Thank you, Peggy. It's great. Okay, you can see the we're starting with missions and outreach, right? Are there any questions? Let's deal with that column first. We have one. Uh Emma, is somebody raising their hand next to you? Lizzie? Did you have a question? Oh, stretcher. Okay. Uh Therese? I just had a question about when when do we visit? Is this the time or another time when we visit um as a congregation or a special committee or something who gets what and how they're doing. I I know there's some updates as far as Yeah. Um and and if they do need an increase or if with all the of people in our world, how they're doing both physically and Yeah. We can you can we'll just take that as a question right now. Um do you want to speak to that or Brad, would you like to speak to it? Go ahead. We actually do we call them and check on in on them. So Brad's got some stuff on them. It's a good qu question, Therese. So what we've been doing, I've been doing this over the course of the last year as the elder over the missions, where I call and actually speak in person to those whom we're supporting and I ask them really pointed and difficult questions about what they believe. So far, we have not found anybody who is out of accord with Orthodox belief that we are currently supporting. There have been some um votes on certain things that have given us some pause for some of the missionaries that we support. But what we are really trying to make sure we do is that we we balance it with uh giving enough time for folks to make different arrangements if we're going to take away from them the support that we've been giving for the last five, ten, fifteen years. There is an effort that's going to happen this year where we would like to rearrange how we're giving and to whom. As you can see, we don't have large numbers there for the those we're supporting, but some aren't even in the mission field any longer. They're working in the United States at an office gig with a salary. So it kind of is a question of should we be supporting that, even though it's not very much. And could that m that little bit, for example, uh $1,500 that goes to the Colborns, could that be better used by Great Shade? with Youth for Christ. And so we will be going through that and uh later on in this year we'll try to figure out what the best way to do that is. I'll give you my thoughts. I think that forming a special subcommittee from the congregation to tackle those kinds of questions and and things like that is something that we'll probably end up doing. So look forward to communication about that around the summertime. Uh can I do a follow up question on yours? Do you have any when you're talking to them, I think you asked them how they're doing financially just to make sure Right. Yeah, I do. And uh so far nobody that we're supporting is hurting financially at the current time or would be hurting financially if we were to withdraw support. So and and I don't mean uh withdrawal has a bad word. I if we decide to change how we're using this money and to whom it's going. W we would still always support and I make very clear to everybody that we will never stop praying for them and for their ministry. They are a part of Seven Run's history and will be a part of Seven Run's future. But at this time um we just don't see uh the capability of changing these figures without it being kind of an upheaval. This year is the first year where we have a surplus where Where perhaps we could try to get that missions back up to where it used to be, which I believe was ten percent of the church budget. So any other questions about missions? Um question for Nick. I didn't catch this before Nick in my review. With the pop-up blue pantry, there's a there's a balcony or increase, but it's not reflected. I think that's a type of typo. So we did talk about that. That is I believe that's a typo. Should it be six hundred? It should be six hundred, yes. Six hundred. Uh one last word on the missionary. Some of you were close friends with the missionaries. Please let us know uh if you hear differently than what you've just heard. Any other questions under the category of missions and outreach? Okay, I don't see any more. Would you like to take us into physical plant? Yes. So looking at physical plant All of the changes in this section were due to just general increased costs. The biggest change, there's two of them. One of course is the mortgage, which we've paid off So that is why we've only budgeted $2,742 because that is the amount that we spent from that line item this year. And then the second say biggest change is we used to have the trailer, rent for the trailer, in this section. And now that we've created a line item under programs and ministries for search, we have moved that specific line item to programs and ministries But every other bolded number that you see in this category is just due to general increased costs of things. Okay, the floor is open for questions on a physical plant. Multiple years or is that just an annual? So that's a fairly significant jump. Correct. Um we are currently looking into that because it was a a pretty big jump and we haven't had an increase like that in quite a while. Anyone else on physical plant? No budget capital improvement, say if your air conditioner breaks down. You put that money out and go to tax that comes from capital improvement. Uh because you don't really have Correct, yes. In our physical plant we have general building maintenance. Uh anything that would be a large expense like that, uh we tend to take from the capital improvement saving fund. Good question. While we're on that. I know last year at the budget we knew that we were going to do extra and I think it was replaced on the units. So this year has that been I mean you acknowledged already that you were probably going to change one of them, so I imagine that's you sort of know what's going to happen now. Yeah, we're trying to eke out as much life as we can and and put it off as long as possible. I think we probably won't we'll probably need to do at least one this year, but I'm hoping that we can eke out another year. There are any uh other questions uh about the physical plan? Okay, seeing none, go ahead Nick. All right. Would you like to turn the page? Page six. On this page we have programs and ministries. and personnel, which we've already covered the personnel section. So now we move on to just the programs and ministries. Once again, the uh bolded amounts are different uh budgeted from compared to last year. You can see we've budgeted slightly more for funerals. Most of this is just due to either general increased costs or in terms of family ministries. We've increased the budget for the women's and the men's ministry. The biggest change to this budget, this section of the budget is the addition of the CERCA section under programs and ministries. SERTA has always been a ministry of Severn Run for the past over 20 years and probably should have been always on this section of the budget. And so we're basically fixing that mistake and adding it to the budget. Additionally, you can see that they have Upper grades expansion support new for 2022 in the amount of $20,000. This is money that The board and the session work together on, and the session has decided to earmark for the searcha expansion. Should SERCA need it? It's not a for sure that that ministry will need the full $20,000, but the session wanted to support that ministry in its expansion efforts. in case it did need it. There's a lot of increased costs that go along with adding additional grades and we have to balance that between the enrollment of students And so to make sure that this endeavor did not fail before it truly began, the session agreed to earmark some funds for that ministry if they needed it. Okay, any questions on programs and ministries? Hey. Hey. Um, is there uh uh certain numbers they have to get in order to decide to go forward? So I believe we're going boldly, however, for the Um for everything to balance out each year we would need uh five students per grade. That's it. Yeah, that's a great qu good question. Yeah. Carol, please. I have just a general question on those the um the categories of elders' names next to them like Christian and Estography Family ministry has you does that signify that you're the elder who oversees those ministries? I believe that was the intention, correct? Pastor Jesse? I'm just looking at each one of them Yes, I believe that that's true. So in historically, just in the owner of the budget of that line items that they would have authority to redirect funds that are under that umbrella without outside Right. Yeah, that's what it looks like to me is that if I remember correctly what Jeremiah just said. That these folks are responsible for being able to change the budget and to distribute the budget. There's a little bit of a question mark next to this whole section because we are still transitioning from uh pre-COVID to after COVID and and we're in the middle of making decisions on how we're going to go forward with that. For example, you can see with the uh Christian education, our old Sunday school program does not exist at this point and yet it's still budgeted for. Did Nick Okay. Um but I'll just keep explaining. We decided not to remove these categories because we haven't made a decision a final decision to change from before. We're just trying to think through everything. We know that once whatever we start There's probably not going to be another great reset where we get another chance to reconsider. So whatever we're going to do, we want to make sure we're going to keep going. So that that's the idea. Yeah. Thanks, Carol. There is a possibility. We would always continue Christian education. We don't know yet. Okay. That's what we're that's what we're wrestling with and trying to do research and figure out what's the best means forward that is sustainable. Yeah. So Roger. Speaking of sustainability, how do you treat it on speaking of sustainable? Yeah. Would you try this? It's an old life way, you know, that's what we use. Not under programs and ministries. Um can you can you I I'm happy to answer whatever question really is the trailer part of our responsibility because it's under that sort of program Right. Right? SRA is it failed out of it? Or I mean I'm just asking because I'm just asking is that really sustainable for the school or is that kind of Wait, do we have things corrupt as all the being school? So we have okay, now I understand, thanks. Um the contract uh w With the trailer is made not with the ministry but with the church itself. And it is a rental contract. So we have not purchased it. And so we are actually free at any time to change it, get rid of it, get a new one, get a larger one, get a smaller one, whatever we would need to do when that particular time comes. No, I don't know if it's a little bit It's an open issue is a great way to put it. Okay, Dwayne? So this searches need to be with growth and adding the high school and our limited space here even with that wonderful trailer uh the limited space it's limited by the ground No limited space there. Um I mean I know there has to be thoughts. And I know this gets So I'll stick to programs in the ministry is sort of looking at renting either a larger trailer to facilitate them or another facility since our facility isn't large enough to facilitate their growth needs. And we're also saying since my children are there. Our growth needs. So is there is there consideration for renting another facility for a large trail? That's an ongoing conversation between SERTA and the session. We do not have a specific answer for that, but it's a conversation that's currently happening. Would be how to best address the growing needs of the academy Yes. Do you have anything you'd like to add? Not right. Not yet. Okay. I think they'll you'll hear some more start to come out in the elder reports and that kind of stuff. Yeah. Any other questions with program and ministries? Those are great questions you guys are asking. Obviously, we have space needs Marilyn, go ahead. I seem to recall at one point doing You might speak it up a little bit. Um the question was related to a building fund line item. Correct. We have actually last year. Last year we did create a building fund line item. Um the church has not officially budgeted to put any funds in it as of yet. You will notice that at the very bottom of page four. Now that's not to say that there are no funds in it, because I do believe that So the church in its official budget has not budgeted any funds for it, however, congregants may contribute to any specific fund located in the budget. And I believe that has happened, but I am unsure of the details. Okay. Okay, any other questions for programs and ministries? Okay, seeing none, we move to we've already done personnel. So operations in office, is that right? Correct. Okay. So we'll move to the final page of the budget, page seven, operations and office expenses. Once again, the bolded amounts under the 2022 budgeted column denotes changes from the 2021 budgeted amount. Everything here was just general increases. And I believe I did want to point out that in the General Assembly section of our budget We typically send our pastor and two elders to General Assembly every year. Last year we had funds that had been saved because the twenty twenty GA had been canceled, which is why some of those amounts are small for the 2021 budgeted column and we have of course had to adjust that for 2022 since we no longer have any credits just hanging around waiting. Okay, are there any dis uh is there any uh questions are there any questions on operations in office? Dwayne. This is uh definitely concerned to you, Dr. Jesse. Um but I don't see any room in uh the opposite sense for additional uh teaching staff, whether it would be whatever type of title you may give it of these dollars. Um your the amount that you give to this congregation and counseling and preaching and teaching is incredible and uh we are incredibly grateful to you. And I was I wasn't sure whether where to bring up this part of the conversation with the extra that was been giving last year that wasn't punishing for this year and I actually sent a a note to Nick pertaining to building fund and I even started to debate that in my mind and go well we have two different needs in growth. Right. And it was obvious and clear and obvious I believe to all of us when we uh installed uh Jeremiah Jeremiah today that at least 40% of people in this congregation this morning weren't members. So our growth has been shown in the last two years, both in physical and also in budget, and the needs and the strain on you So yes, it's a physical need for growth in a building, but also it is a physical need of I believe that there should be possibly be consideration for a line item in staff whether that position is is there if there was starting to be budgeted money when the need came there was a push in already there budgeted for that additional work. It's just a concern to have that how much I love you. Yeah thank you very much. Those are kind words. Please know that the the all of the officers give a great deal of time and Um you what you've said everyone has noted. Uh but Betty, I believe you had the next hand. Will it be the pastor's vote? Yeah, we'll send um Pastor Jesse and I believe Jeremiah and Bradley. Yeah, thanks for asking. It's important that we have all our votes present. It usually says like this, I'll go if you don't want to go. Alright, he's going. No. We we we that's not our only criteria. We actually do discuss it intelligently and with friends. Just so you know. We we have folks on the like for example Bradley's on a permanent committee. We try to serve not only in our local presbyterial context but at national level too. And so um guys that are already serving in various ways tend to match up. I think it was Christina first. And uh we have to take a majority vote to give her permission of the floor. No, I'm just kidding. Go ahead. Go ahead, Christina. And then Therese, please. Well, but that's true. The thing will be end up drawing them. Yeah. And I like to have does that do not be a healthy situation for the solution to make the easy Uh you're free to answer from the floor. Go ahead. Okay. So traditionally we've encouraged every elder to go to general assembly at least once per rotation. It largely ends up depending on the of employment the other house because this is a weak vacation and some people have more flexibility there than others It's a week vacation from their work with more work to do. Yeah, so that's that's that's really how it ha it has worked, who can go. So we do have some changes coming up. Um Joe's probably gonna have some more time to be able to Am I allowed to announce that publicly? Okay. Joe may have some more time to start rotating it. Okay. Good good question. Uh Therese, please. I remind you based upon the factory. Yes, ma'am. They could go but not vote. Uh they just really want a deacon to carry their bags for them. So I go, I sleep on the floor or couch and get them breakfast and lunch and Go ahead, Megan. Oh, I was making the point, but the church isn't capered. Yes, that's true. But he does carry our bags. vote that we're allowed. I I would say that's right. Is there any way we can if we're going to appoint? Okay, is there any way we can send an additional vote? We don't get any additional vote. All right, hold on one second. Let's start over. Go ahead. Correct. Yes. Okay. He's the enforcer. Yeah, he's the enforcer. And as the membership increases, so too can the amount of votes go to the General Assembly and the Presbytery. Wait where is it tricked? Uh 'cause it seems I mean we have the same amount of votes as Passadini P and that's a church that's a third or an eighth or a five, so Is it okay if we answer that offline so we can proceed with the meeting? Is that okay? All right, great. All right. Any other questions on operations and office? Okay. This concludes my report. Don't go anywhere. Yeah. I don't I I don't know if you know, but the budget takes an enormous amount of time. A lot of people have chipped into it, so thank you so much everyone who especially you Nick for putting your time into that and please let me pray. Okay. You want to pray? Yeah, let's stop. For my suspenders. Megan, you can now have your husband back. I know you haven't seen him for a couple of weeks. because he's been working on the budget. All right, let's pray. Father, we thank you for those that you've given to us to do the work that is necessary for us to keep going. to be prudent, to stand before you with a clear conscience, even financially. Lord, we thank you that we have always, by your grace, been a church that is um that shows their finances that nothing is hidden. I thank you, Lord. That is a sign of your spirit among us. And I thank you that your people obey you in the tithe. that they take a personal responsibility for the makeup of this place. They realize, Lord, that the air conditioning does not just come from nowhere. Lord, I ask that you would continue to bless us. And I do pray that with everything that you give us, that we would bless each other and we would bless our neighbor. I pray that we would never become luxurious. And I pray, Lord, that we would Be willing to give up things that would be nice for the sake of other people. In the name of Christ. Amen. Thank you, Nick. Okay, this brings us to our next set of reports, which are the elder reports, and we're going to start with Brad Swaster. Thanks, Brad. I'm gonna go ahead and just start us with a quick word of prayer. Let's pray. Christ Almighty, you are our King, you are our ruler. And all that we are doing here today is to remind ourselves and each other. that we are here at your pleasure. We serve at your pleasure. The resources we have are your resources and these lives that we lead are your lives. Please, God, we beg you to never leave us or forsake us, and to keep us firmly in your hand guiding us, that all we do and say and think would bring you glory forever and ever. Amen. So uh just because I had it open here, I'm going to answer the question that Therese had. Uh this is what we have in the Book of Church Order. Every church is entitled to two ruling elder representatives for the first 350 members. So a church, 350 members or smaller, is entitled to send two ruling elders. For us to get another ruling elder, we need to add 500 more members to that. according to the book of church order. Or you could uh reach out to your session and say I'd really like an overture to be drafted to change that so we can send more ruling elders and we could try to do that to change the book of church order. order. But as it stands now, the way that things are weighted is in order to get more votes, you need to hire more teaching elders, is how the PCA works. So to get three ruling elders to go, we need a church of eight hundred and fifty members. Doesn't make a lot of sense. I'll move on. Yeah, but if if we if we hired every ruling elder as a teaching elder, we could have twenty votes. Doesn't matter how big our church is. So yeah, he needs we'll all take a one dollar salary. I'm sure somebody would would have a problem with that. Okay. I am so very grateful to be able to serve you as one of the ruling elders here. I wanted to just give you guys a couple of updates in three parts, a personal update, a ministry update, and then I'd like to just exhort you very quickly. So as a personal update, a lot of things have changed in our family. We moved to the a house right around the corner, formerly the Bibby's house. So many of you have been there even without my knowledge. And then uh hopefully by the end of this year every single one of you will have made it to our house at some point in time so that we can uh have you over either for Sabbath lunches or some other function like that We are beyond grateful that God has chosen to give that to us. He's also given us two additional members of our household. We have another puppy named Luna. She's insane. And we have a bearded dragon named Jerry. He's pretty boring. Um my job has ha gone through many changes over the last twelve years as long as we've been here at uh Severn Run. Right now, it is probably the biggest change I've ever faced. There was a little bit of uncertainty for the last several months, but God has been very gracious to us, so I am still employed. Hallelujah. We are very grateful for this. It just means that the next few months of life are going to be pretty stressful. I am still committed to finishing seminary. It is not something that I've just dropped. I simply To quote one of my mentors, I'm not going to stop ministry in order to learn about ministry. So there hasn't been enough time. I am hoping that if things calm down at work, that I'd be able to resume in in September, I've got about thirty-five credits left. So if I could if I could finish that, it's like 18 classes at some point. I still feel called towards pastoral ministry and and my deepest desire is to be a full-time in full-time service for the Lord. Um, but I'm in no rush to finish seminary just to make that happen because it would take a whole lot for us to leave here. As far as Presbytery and General Assembly, it's already been mentioned that um we try to be as as busy in that work as we can. I'm committed to going to every Presbytery meeting. So because I work from home and a lot of those meetings are Zoom, it's very easy for me to do that. So I'm one of the two uh ruling elder commissioners to the general to the Presbytery meetings. The next one's on March 8th And I'm uh am hoping to give more updates about what's happening at the Presbytery level as this year goes on. At General Assembly, I am on the uh nominating or the nominations committee. It's a permanent committee that goes through all the different candidates that people bring up for these different Boards of Covenant Seminary, the Board of Covenant College, things like that. So that's a lot of work. I'll be traveling to Atlanta at the end of of March to do that work for this upcoming General Assembly, and I appreciate your pra prayers for that. And uh Lord willing, I will serve on the Overtures Committee. at uh a committee of commissioners if the Presbytery approves that and I really hope they do because I like to argue with people. Ministry update. Um M music used to be a whole lot more of what I do here. It has taken a back seat to a lot of other things, but the music is still very, very important. I want to make sure that all of you, especially those who are visiting or who have recently become members, that you understand we have some very um solid principles that we base the music here at Severn Run. uh on. One of them, uh and probably the most important one, is that our singing is a means by which we glorify Jesus Christ. So guess what we will never do at Seven Run? We will never not sing. I don't care what kind of plague goes through the country, we are going to sing praises to Jesus Christ. Singing is very important because it is the only way that all of us can pray at exactly the same time and it not be nonsense. We are all praying when we sing these hymns, the same prayer, at the exact same time. And it's in harmony. And this is what God is doing and making a body of a bunch of different Sinners into one body. Is that the that's the only way that the harmony really works. So we like to sing songs that are single. That our prayers, that have right theology about our God, and that the vast majority of us can sing well. So that means that there is a big difference between uh worship songs that we can listen to while we're cleaning our car or worship songs that we'll sing during the worship services. And while I appreciate everyone uh and suggestions on songs and things like that, sometimes y I just I just hope you understand. Some of those songs we just can't sing. Not because they're bad songs But because ninety-five percent of us actually can't sing them, right? They're too high or too low or too something else We want to be focused in our worship and in our singing on Colossians three, sixteen, and Ephesians five, eighteen through twenty, which teaches us that our singing While it glorifies Christ is for one another. We sing to each other. We sing to teach each other and to admonish each other. And this is what we will always do at Seven Run. We will sing to God with gratitude in our hearts, and we sing loud so that our neighbors can hear us, because that's part of why we we sing. Now, as you may have noticed, God has been sending a lot of people to us. And I just want you all to know, you new voices out there, we can hear you. And you sound great. And there's a choir that meets every Wednesday night at six PM. We know who you are. Don't bury your talent under the sand. So please, if you love to sing and if you have the talent to sing, and we know who you are Consider sacrificing one hour each week. That's it. Just one hour a week for the choir practice. We have a lot of fun doing it. We get to sing a lot of different songs. And it's just another hour that you get to devote to praising God. I want to also say that you don't have to sound great to join the choir. We have two qualifications for choir members. The first is a heart made of flesh that's been renewed by Jesus Christ, that makes you love him and want to worship him. The second one is that you can breathe in and out. As long as those two are there, you're welcome to join the choir. Most of what my time is spent doing at Seven Run of late in the last several years has been with the men's ministry. Um and that it is going to be focused under two Two heads, which is the men's breakfast and the men's Bible study. Men's ministry is very important because, as you know, the men, according to God's economy and in his order, men are the heads of the household. As the men go, so will our families go. As Joshua said, we choose for our house who we're going to serve. And so men, I encourage you, it's not a lot of time, it's twice a month, it's a total of three hours to be present at the men's Bible study. We have been going through a lot of scripture. We've last year we finished Ephesians. We began a study through the book of the 12, which is the minor prophets. We finished Jonah, which had a whole lot more than I think any of us thought was going to be in those four short chapters. We're currently in the middle of Amos. And wow. If you thought that those minor prophets were not important for us today, come on out on Wednesday nights at 7. 30 and find out Amos could have been writing yesterday in the kinds of things that he's saying against the church. As far as the men's breakfast, it is a great opportunity for fellowship and learning. We uh we try to cover topics that we think are going to be important for people's lives. Given that, if there are any topics that are important to your life that you'd like to see specifically addressed, send them to myself or to Nick Clark or to Pastor Jesse and we'll consider either getting somebody who's qualified to talk about those things or making ourselves qualified. by doing the research to talk about those things. But what we want to do is to be useful and we want to equip you through those events, breakfasts and fellowships. To do that work that Christ has before you and the work that He's got before you may be at the NSA, might be in government, might be in science labs. might be as teachers. It's whatever it is you do, that's the work that God's put before you. And we try to make those breakfasts informative for that for that purpose. The men's ministry is concerned in three primary areas: locally, denominationally, and Catholic. The Catholicity of the Church. And I don't mean that by the Roman Catholic, I mean that in the universal. Catholic. We care about the church here in Anorma County. We care about the PCA itself and we care about Christ's Universal Church. And so we are going to be focusing ourselves on praying in that way. And the men's breakfast is an easy way to introduce men to what we do here at Seven Run. And how we are moving forward. We're going to keep going through the book of the twelve. Uh I I imagine that's going to take us two, three years. I'm excited for it. It's what we do in the men's Bible study is more of a dialectic. We try to speak and talk it through. It's not just me lecturing on what the Bible says. It's us trying to figure out together how we're going to interpret God's Word. And ultimately, we actually have a really good time doing it. We laugh probably more than Bible studies should laugh. But it's a good time, and we're together and we're worshiping God with our attention. So I want to end for you guys with a brief exhortation. If you have Bibles, you can turn to Psalm 27. Or you can just listen, because I'll go ahead and read it for us. Psalm 27. The Lord is my light and my salvation, whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life, of whom shall I be afraid? When the wicked came against me to eat up my flesh, my enemies and foes, they stumbled and fell. Though an army may encamp against me, my heart shall not fear Though war may rise against me, in this I will be confident. One thing I have desired of the Lord, that will I seek, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. To behold the beauty of the Lord, and to inquire in his temple. For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion. In the secret place of his tabernacle he shall hide me, he shall set me high upon a rock. And now my head shall be lifted up above my enemies, all around me. Therefore I will offer sacrifices of joy in his tabernacle. I will sing, yes, I will sing praises to the Lord. Hear, O Lord, when I cry with my voice, have mercy also upon me and answer me. When you said, Seek my face, my heart said to you, Your face, Lord, I will seek. Do not hide your face from me. Do not turn your servant away in anger. You have been my help. Do not leave me nor forsake me, O God of my salvation When my father and my mother forsake me, then the Lord will take care of me. Teach me your way, O Lord, and lead me in a smooth path because of my enemies. Do not deliver me to the will of my adversaries, for false witnesses have risen against me, and such as breathe out violence. I would have lost heart unless I had believed that I would see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Wait on the Lord. Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart. Wait, I say, on the Lord. That psalm should give us great strength and courage, especially those last two verses. Notice that that verse thirteen says That we are going to see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. That's right now, y'all. Our hope is always in the future that's coming, the not yet. But there is an already, an already that Christ has done for us. And we should be focusing ourselves to see the goodness of what he's doing in our lives because that is how we wait on the Lord. That word wait actually could be translated hope. Hope in the Lord. Why do we have hope in the Lord? Why is our future bright no matter what we're dealing with now? It's because the battle's not over. The war isn't done. The victory has already been accomplished, even though the battle is raging. But we know that we cannot lose because Christ is on our side. And so, brothers and sisters, I want to exhort you and encourage you to be strong because what we're talking about doing here at Severn Run is going to create enemies. What we are focused on here at Seven Run is going to create adversaries, and I don't mean just from the world outside. There are those within the church who don't like the way that we are thinking and doing things. We are not alone. Christ has strengthened many of us across the nation and across the globe. He has heard and answered our prayer already. I don't know if you noticed, but this room was full this morning. God has heard and answered our prayers. And so I want to exhort you: hope in the Lord, have courage, be strong, no matter what is coming. and never stop fervently praying that God would send to us his people that all of us together can build his commonwealth We need to be praying that God will bring to Severn Run enough that we can plant more churches. Because I know we're talking eight hundred members to get three ruling elders. Guess what? If we plant a church with twenty people, that's three new votes that we get to send to Presbytery and to General Assembly. I'm not trying to say we gain the system, I'm just saying You don't need that many people to play in the church. Anyway, God is good all the time. All the time, God is good. We have to remind ourselves that no matter what we're seeing around us, we're watching bankruptcy in our leaders, bankruptcy in the systems that have upheld a lot of what we're comfortable with. We need to start creating new systems and we need to start founding every single thing we do in all of our life on Jesus Christ. I'm going to pray for us one more time. Gracious God Almighty, thank you. Thank you that we can hope in you, that we can Have courage through the suffering and the strife and the difficulty because we know who is on the throne. It is your power Is your will. You have sustained us and this church. You have sustained us individually. And in your mercy you've brought us here. We pray, God, that you would show your love to your people, bring more to Seven Run, and show us exactly how we can honor you, serve you, and bring you glory. And whatever our decisions are for the future. We praise you, our good God, in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Bradley. You want me to take questions, or are we I think you're okay. Okay, good. Yeah, thanks. Feel free to approach Brad after the meeting. Um Mark, is the next report mark Elder Mark Donovan. Thanks. Good morning. Afternoon. Afternoon. Yeah. So uh wanted to just share with you a little bit about Yeah, thanks for your report. Joe Maccas. Feels like my back. You have to excuse me. Are you okay now? No. Uh It's been a a blessing um to serve you uh this past year. Uh this is my um two three four fifth fifth year uh in this term and so I uh I truly um have been blessed By being able to get to know more and more of you in very intentional ways. Even more so than I have been able to in the past. Uh this color that exists on my face continues to get whiter and whiter. And this means that I have slowed down more and more, not necessarily um in my step, um, but in um my um approach to working through and listening and loving uh each one of you in a very special way. Um As we, as I continue to seek to shepherd um those who are in my group. I don't limit myself to that. And so if for some reason I don't know you as well as I should, I would encourage you to reach out to me. As a session member, we we work diligently to serve one another, but our primary goal is to shepherd you. I don't take that lightly. Every year continues to be uh something new for me. This year we all um were blessed to be able to be enriched by um this servant that was among us, Harry, Harry O'Haber. Jesse and I had the privilege, if you were here um at his memorial, we had the privilege of being able to walk side by side, Harry, and he taught me a lot. um about um what it means to be um present in this reality uh and be able to see it for what it truly is and and how to focus how to focus an energy um in an area uh to where uh one has very little capability to physically um do much of much of anything. What he did What he did so much more um in with his limitations. Um was was teach me that uh it's it's not about um something that is exerted in our physical abilities. It is an endearing love and adoration and continuing um effort in prayer and in um an ability to to express oneself uh within the lives of um of others He has been a rich blessing to us, and he was a rich blessing to me, and I really look forward to continuing to serve each one of you. hopefully uh in ways that would um bring glory to our heavenly father One of the things that I don't want to want you to misunderstand is my ability to be able to do anything good is first and foremost to bring glory to my Heavenly Father. Uh my wife um has been an amazing treasure. Um you all are blessed with her as being our church administrator, but she um She's been a blessing to me. Our prayer life, our time in the Word, is rarely done by ourselves. We primarily do it together. And it has been a solidifying factor in us being free to serve one another and to do so as one flesh. I can't diminish that. What you see in me, if it's anything good, it's because Marcy has richly blessed me. And so please know that my ability to be able to serve you has very much to do with her willingness to participate in that. And it is a uh is very much a team effort. Um one of the things that I have um I have been focusing a fair amount of attention on this year has been how it is that we are going to address some of the matters that I think we're seeing. And that is do we have the potential to be able to expand what it is the physical aspect of this building um on the land that God has given us. We have 7. 3 acres. And what I've done based on the session's approval is to do a feasibility study. And this feasibility study, based on my previous experience, because Marcy and I were primarily involved in the building of this building 22 years ago. To take all that information, that knowledge, and determine whether or not uh we have the capability to continue. And it appears that we can. There's been many changes in the county, there's been more restrictions, but our zoning is still the same. It's residential low density. And so I'm not going to get into the weeds of all the various details, but what I want to do is I just want to let you know that our um Our preliminary study has given us an indication that we may, we may be able to expand this building to Build a uh a wing that would serve um possibly three hundred and fifty um member sanctuary. That what it is that I have done will likely be given to a committee for them to be able to confirm as well as uh come up with a plan, a budget, and uh um encouraged and supported by constant communication with the county to make sure we're in line and don't have to jump through any you know interesting hoops to be able to do what we want to do. But be looking for future communication to be able to address uh the pressing needs of of what we have here at Severn Run run, what we uh what we currently see happening at Severn Run, as well as be able to serve the um the educational programs that we would like to see really blossom. We're we're blessed with an amazing um board through CERTA to our Academy. There's a tremendous amount of work that's being done behind the scenes to make that happen. We may Marcy and I may be um blessed to see more of that uh in our interaction with the board this year. Um but what I do want to encourage you with is that there's work being done to understand what our limitations are and how it is that we may be able to uh see this body grow and uh more importantly be able to educate the next generation um for uh for the glory of Christ here in Anorondo County. I want to also just end with just a little bit of a understanding of what it is that I struggle with, and that's patience. Um not only necessarily patience, you know, and how it is that we deal with one another, what it means to be a good listener, um, but limitations with uh how it is that we compare ourselves to one another. um constantly in a role of uh judging myself based on what I see in others. And um and I think that this can be a real stumbling block. It is for me at times. Um because I struggle with what it means to peep to please others and um and then lose sight of what it is means to please our our Heavenly Father. And um I'm I'm comforted um by uh some words. James has James has been an incredible um book for me, and it's something that I s I spend a fair amount of time in. Because I'm a forgetful little guy. James 5, verses 7 through 8 says, Therefore, be patient, brethren, until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, waiting patiently for until it receives the early and later rain. You also be patient. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand. This whole farming analogy is something that we as a session have been continuing to be reminded of. It's throughout the scriptures. And um It's been a uh it's been a great opportunity for reflection as we try to deal with the standard and and incredible pressures that uh we have on us. So God bless you. And God bless Sever and Ron as we continue to serve Christ in this community. Let me pray. Our Lord and our God, we thank you. We thank you that that you have Bound us to yourself, that you have blessed us richly in such a way that we know for sure where our breath comes from. We thank you that we can be free to serve you, free to love our neighbor as you have taught us. And know just how it is that we need to serve one another. You have blessed us immeasurably with this amazing word. I pray that we would continue to never be complacent, but always be into your word as thick as we possibly can. Being filled to overflowing with your wisdom and knowledge. For we pray it in Christ's name. Amen. Thank you, Martha. Thank you. Joe. Go to the gate. Well, we're at the two hour mark, so it works if we're in a meeting for two hours I say take a break. So let's everybody stand up and stretch a little bit. It's optional. It's optional. Don't make it So I I do have the advantage of speaking one of the the Oh, sorry. I do have the advantage of uh speaking one of the you know the chases behind me, but one of the last uh messages, so I will keep this brief. Anyway, this is my like Mark, this is my fifth year on the session with uh Pastor Jesse. I was on the session previously with Pastor Arch. And I I too am thankful that you've given me this opportunity to uh serve the Lord through the church. So I'm actually going to start with a scripture. I was reading my daily uh scripture Scripture today, and it was Romans 15 and 16. So here's Romans 15:5, which I think is very applicable to the work of a shepherding elder. May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such harmony with one another, in accord with Christ Jesus, that together you may with one voice Glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. So I think that's a really good verse just to uh to focus on in in in this next year as an elder. Uh I'm also amazed by my brother ruling elders that do so much of of extra activities like sitting on committees and and doing so much while while holding full time jobs. It is a challenge uh to hold a full time job and to do the work of an elder. Uh uh you know, so twenty I'm gonna look back briefly at at twenty twenty one. So Scripture says God's a God of endurance. I think we all we all see that. Twenty-one has been a tough year, uh, particularly with the loss of some precious saints in this church. I think of Janet Grabb, I think of Judy Benson, and more recent precious saints like like Harry O'Haver. And uh and there's been others. And uh it's a tough year. We all we are living through this unusual time the last two years. It is a time that God is putting us through uh in a sense of a pressure cooker and and and refining his his uh his sheep. So I I know I've been refined. It's it's it's been it's been a challenge to uh to continue to uh maintain hope, but I do maintain hope 'cause cause God is the God of it of encouragement. And and I think we're all encouraged. I know I'm greatly encouraged that by so many faces it's hard to keep track. It truly is hard for me to keep track of so many new faces around here And there truly is a a sense of renewed energy being led by our faithful pastor in uh in in a vision. So he asked today, what is your what is your place in Christ? That's a really good question. to focus on. What is my place in Christ? So the biggest thing I've been wrestling with in the last few years is uh is when am I going to retire? If you had asked me the question three years ago when my job was very stressful dealing with difficult people I actually would pray, Oh please this get me to September twenty twenty 'cause that was when I that was when I could retire. I did pray that. Anyway, the pandemic came, my job got better. Anyway I forgive those of you that don't notice that ha that don't know, I am retiring May thirty-first of this year. And people ask me why are you retiring because my job is actually going very well. I'm retiring because I tell I told people at work when I made And they kinda look at me strange. But uh and and one guy asked me, Well how many hours you know, I told him I'm an elder of church, I said, How many hours a week does that uh does that take you? I said, I d I don't know But uh so the point the point is people ask me, what are you retiring to? I'm retiring to you. I want to serve the Lord through this body of Th this is where God has placed me. So I'm gonna serve the Lord through this body. So I'm gonna have a luxury I haven't had in thirty five years. Somebody didn't have a job was May of eighty seven So so so it's it's kind of new and scary in a way, but I'm very much looking forward to what the Lord has in store for me 'cause I definitely want to focus more on on being a shepherding elder, more in visit visitation and and and hopefully do more teaching and things like that. So pray for me that uh God will will make it clear how this this gift of of time, which will be an unusual gift. I've never had time on my hands before, how I can use that uh for his glory to strengthen the disciples, to strengthen you guys. We all need each other, the scripture just says, to live in such harmony with one another, in accord with Christ Jesus. that we may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Is that your heart's deepest desire? To glorify the Lord and Father of our of Jesus Christ. Christ. It's uh it's wonderful to live, to to hear such convicting preaching and to s and I have to ask myself, why? Man, I don't know why people what they see in me. I try to be honest. I try to be honest with with the struggles in my life and and and lead by example in that way and sharing and sharing this my my struggles. And so anyway I am looking very much forward to uh new and expanded roles in in not just not just uh the specific role of a shepherding elder, but in in terms of getting to know and uh and and and build each other up for For the good of the kingdom. So that that's all. So let me uh let me say a prayer. All right. Our gracious Lord, we thank you, Father, that you you have called us each in our own ways. To our place in your kingdom. I thank you, Father, that you have called us to this household of faith, Severn Run Evangelical Presbyterian Church. I pray, Father. That our our uh our efforts in in in however feeble they may be, Father, may they be sincere, may they be by the heart. Most importantly, may they be powered by your spirit That we may seek with all of our hearts, minds, and souls, to glorify the Lord Jesus Christ through this body as we seek to serve you. Jesus' name. Amen. Chase. There you are. Good afternoon. So this is the uh end of my very first year. It's I've not actually asked the other elders how long they have served, so I'm a bit surprised to hear multiple terms. Um But I'm I'm very thankful uh for the ability to serve in this way, to be uh called uh to this office and feel quite overwhelmed with um What it requires. A passage that has been on my mind lately is from Titus chapter 2. I'll keep my comments short. given the uh the time. Uh but Titus chapter two, starting at verse two, so this comes just after the qualification for elders. Older men are to be sober-minded, dignified, self-controlled, sound in faith, in love, and in steadfastness. Older women likewise are to be reverent in behavior, not slanderers or slaves to much wine. They are to teach what is good, and so train the young women to love their husbands and children to be self-controlled, pure, working at home, kind and submissive to their own husbands, that the Word of God may not be reviled Likewise, urge the young men to be self controlled. Show yourself in all respects to be a model of good works, and in your teaching show integrity, dignity, and sound speech that cannot be condemned. So that an opponent may not be put to shame. Sorry, may not put to shame, having nothing evil to say about us. Um with the uh the training uh th throughout this year, especially uh the session gathering together for their retreat. uh with Mark Garcia. We've had a lot of great teaching uh in in thinking about how God has ordered this world and how He desires for us to to live out um where he's placed us in various vocations. And what I notice about this passage in in Titus chapter 2 Is Paul's attention to the stages of life. Older men, older women, younger men, younger women. This is important to Paul. And it reflects the fact that we as a community live not just as individuals, but in uh in these stages of life uh related uh to to each other. And that part of being in these different stages of w of life uh is that That comes with increased um authority and influence in the community. Older men, older women have significant Influence in the community of faith. And Paul recognizes that. And I've wrestled with that because here I am standing up here as an elder. That should strike you as odd, but it strangely doesn't. Um I'm not an elder uh in terms of stages of life. I'm a young man. I have A two-year-old child, four kids that are still at home. I am at my particular uh stage in life. And so I'm very thankful, I've been very thankful this year at uh the older uh men on the session with the white hair. And I really uh have seen over this year how how much I'm inadequate to this task and how much I need uh older men in the congregation. um and older men on session as well. Their counsel, their accumulated uh wisdom and experience um and have come to really see myself as uh I'm really an apprentice uh learning hopefully uh from them and and the the model that they provide And so I ask really I exhort you to pray for me one year in that I would continue to grow, that I would see the weaknesses. that I have, and I would appreciate that you would point them out to me. Pray that I would be receptive of those criticisms And know that just like the older men on session, the older men in the congregation, I desperately need uh need you. I need your advice and counsel. I'm looking to you just as, even though I'm in this position of an officer. So let me pray for us. Father, we thank you for your grace and mercy to us, that you have brought us together as a community of individuals. with all of our various gifts and strengths as families, as households. We see that the apostles were They recognize the significance of how our lives are ordered around households and those relationships, and Paul, the Apostle Paul speaks to that in several places. But we also see here in Titus II the importance of the fact that we're not just individuals, but we're individuals at different stages. of life and uh as we move along those stages of life there is a a natural authority that is wielded in the community uh that doesn't um uh arise miraculously uh for an officer when he becomes an elder, um but is something uh too to be grown into over time. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us as a body at these various stages, that we would be knit together. And through the ministry of the officers and of everyone here, we would grow up into the fullness of and maturity of Jesus Christ. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Chase. Uh I'm now on the agenda to be able to give my report. Uh before I do, I have a funny story. Um I'm on this dieting app called NUM. Anybody on NUM? It's this thing that's supposed to help you lose weight. Yeah. Hasn't helped me a lick. But uh But they they tell you they eventually join you with a big group. This goes to what you were saying, this group where they're supposed to you're supposed to be in this community where we're all trying to lose weight together. And I was supposed to introduce myself. So I did And I said, I want to lose weight because I want to serve Christ in this, this, and this, and I'm 41. And then I was talking to my wife later, and she said, you're 44. And and you turn forty five on March fifteenth. So I don't know. So I guess that proves I'm getting older. What's that? We didn't hire you for your math. Yeah, no, no, please don't. I've also found out that I have a math disease called Discalcula. So I want to say a few words. And because they're real they're revealing what they think. And then you can either uh be encouraged by that or you can be alarmed or whatever it is. So I hope you're really taking it in with each of the reports no matter who it was today And it and and you take what I have to say in also, because what you're going to hear is what I think about the particular situation. I'm quite surprised actually to see how much unity we have. in the reports on our size our sizing up of what's going on. I want to begin by just reminding you that in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth in the space of six days and all very good. Now I want to unfold that a little bit for you. It is not uncommon in our circles to use this passage in the evolution debate, and that's fine. I'm okay with that. That's right that we should, but if you look back at the saints of old, and I'm talking like those who under the inspiration of the Spirit pen the Psalms. or the Proverbs, you will find that the creation account was used for more than that debate. Very important ways that we need to retrieve as a church They viewed the creation account as a means to know primarily who is God. And when you find out who he is, because we're made in his image, who are we? Two very important questions. that everyone is asking these days. And you know what they used? And it's just like our God to do this. He used a single image in that creation count. He is like a farmer. Now you've already heard that from Mark Donovan, and we've been working with this together as a session, but that is so sweet of Christ, the Son. Knowing our feeble nature and that it can be difficult enough to live life and to get our head around things, to just tell us simply, I am like a farmer God is like a farmer. I want you to think about that for a minute. A lot of you know the creation account, just go ahead and think through the steps, but think it through a farming lens. Lying before him is a barren wasteland, formless and void. As a master craftsman, that's what he's called in Proverbs, the sun, he orders the space to support plant life, that which was couldn't support anything before. before. It was uninhabitable. And now all of a sudden seeds can grow. He makes the soil rich with a deep brown from nutrients. He brings rain or cuts furrows in the land, which brings water from the mountains to the valleys, and from these spring each kind of plant. His work continues with the creation of the land animals, and finally he creates from the dust of the earth man and woman from man. I know there's many other parts to that creation account, but. We eventually get to this point in verse 31 of Genesis 1. Then God saw everything that he had made, and indeed it was very good. So the evening and the morning were the sixth day. And then we go to the seventh, all still teaching us about who God is and who we are. It's like a farmer that works for six days. And then does not work on the seventh. The seventh day arrives wherein we thank and praise our former God for his goodness. This is not foremost a goodness discovered only by philosophers or some kind of abstraction. Remember, God is like a farmer. It is God's goodness easily derived from the blessings that He has showered upon His creatures by His masterwork of creation and providence. It is the taste of the apple. It is the productive work of turning the apple into a cider that tells us that God is good. Really, this is what Paul was getting at in Acts 14. He read the creation account the same way that I'm giving to you. The living God who made the heaven, the earth, the sea, and all things that are in them, left us many witnesses to his goodness, Paul says. He gave us rain from heaven and fruitful seasons. He fills our heart with food and gladness. God is the great farmer filling his creatures with gladness. He is forever blessed and forever blessing. This is the picture we gained just from the creation account. And we are made in his image. That's a kind of second step that you have to make We are made as in his image for six days we are to be blessing, and on the seventh we bless him, from whom all blessings flow. I just gave you the summary of everything If you know this about God, then you can see that over many years God has been farming at Severn Run. It's the only thing that really explains it. From the beginning of this church plant, God created a space wherein his new creation could flourish. You've heard a little bit about that throughout the reports. And flourish it has. Over the years, the congregation at Severn Run bought this acreage 7. 3 acres. as Mark pointed out, and with their bare hands raise the walls and the roof of this place. Now God continues to make our orchard fruitful. It's turning into a kind of ranch with many different resources to offer. The mortgage is paid off. This is a fruit of a serious congregation. And serious congregations are only made by the purifying work of the Spirit. Over the last year, God planted more and more of his plants among us. Each Sunday I look out from the pulpit and I see new faces. I have no idea who they are. I have to introduce myself to 15% of the congregation each Sunday. I look out from the pulpit and I see that those new faces become familiar faces. And then I look out from the pulpit even to this spot right here and I see that those familiar f faces Become family. And they're laying down their roots with us. In other words, God has been among us farming. Since we've heard this story before, we know how this is going to continue with God as the farmer. He has planted each of you for a purpose here at Severn Run. Whether you were planted here at Severn Run coming thirty-one years, if I'm correct, is that right? Or if he planted you a year ago or a month ago or a week ago, God always plants for the same reasons that we learned in the creation account. To bless and to bless Be blessed. I do not know how long it will take, and I don't know the exact timelines. If I were in my first year of the pastor, I would have given you timelines. But the Lord has been teaching me. But I do know that our next step, in my mind, has to be two things. Really the best way to say it is that we must be a blessing in two ways. The first is that we must bless each other, and the second is that we must at least posture ourselves to bless Anorano County. So let's just begin with the first. This won't take long. You must be a blessing to each other. Starting immediately, I want you to ask two questions. How can I be like my Father in heaven and bring his blessing to my fellow Severn Run members? That's the first question. And the second question is, how can I bless the people around me from the cradle to the grave? God created human life to travel like the sun across the sky. Our birth is a kind of dawning. There's a kind of middle-age high noon. And then we are set in the West in glory with our Lord. And what I'm saying is that we have got to be there for each other through the whole trip. And I do not care if you just became a member a week ago. We are your responsibility now because we are your church. And that goes for all of those who will join in the future. We must be there for each other through the whole trip. This is especially true at certain hours, as you heard Chase say. I was glad to see that we were aligned. The hour of birth and giving birth, the hour of admission to the Lord's table, the hour of marriage or devotion to the Lord in singleness, both are very serious. The hour of the empty nest, the hour of hearing you have cancer, the hour of widowhood, and especially the hour of death. I'll tell you right now, make it a commitment to always show up to the memorial service or the funeral of your fail your your fellow members of your church. Do not miss their death. And this is especially true for us at this time, that we have to be there with each other as we travel from one stage to the next. Quite honestly, I've not been here that long. And we are a different congregation from when I started. We are new to each other. We must become old friends. And this includes you as new members. There is no room in my heart for you to be shy You must be a blessing to each other. That's the first thing that we must do. And I cannot create a program to make that happen. You have just got to serve the Lord. by going and walking toward each other and making time and space for each other. The second is blessing being a blessing to Anorondo County. That's the second act of farming that we have to do with the Current stage of where we are in God's farming. You must be a blessing to Anoronal County. I know this because of two main principles. God would never create a garden where no one enjoyed the fruit. And then you say, well, we are enjoying our fruit. And that's why I want to give you the second principle. It is actually a great evil to not let your neighbor glean from your fields. And that's Anorano County. Our pop-up pantry must become more of a priority. Not only in your lives, but mine. Expanding our academy to high school is in fact the right choice. It is exactly what this world needs right now and this county, and we should each support it. It should not be something you only hear about once a year. It should be something that you follow along, something that is close to your heart. For example, next year we're going to have the talent show like we just did. I encourage you to come out. It was hilarious. They had sever several comedy routines. One girl did a Shakespeare play all by herself. Was Shakespeare and Juliet. That wasn't weird. It was tasteful. It was great. And I hope that you can start to support our Academy Academy that way. With no mortgage and increasing membership, here are my thoughts. We stand at a crossroads. That's how I view the situation. We stand at a crossroads. I think if I were in my first year of the pastorate, we wouldn't be standing at a crossroadroads. I already would have started walking down a path. But again, God is good. Well here we stand. If we go down one path, then we will stay our current size, seeking to serve the Lord as a single congregation. And in all honesty, I can say that this is a beautiful calling and I'm happy to die there. I hope to be able to serve as pastor here as long as Arts did to 70. Gives me quite a few more years, and if we stay like we always have been, then I will be privileged. But we are at a crossroads For the first time that I have been here, we have had fits and starts. But for the first time that I have been here, we actually have another possible path. And I'm still asking in prayer and discussing with the session and others whether we should take that path seriously. That's where I am in my thoughts. But there is another option for the first time. We may be able to move forward with the original plan not set by me, but by set in the founding of the church the the very DNA of what was hoped for from those who met in living rooms praying that this church would be established. The original plan when SREPC was first planted. And that plan was always to develop phase two of our property, and maybe even a phase three. Phase two meant a larger sanctuary. And the reason why we needed to do a larger sanctuary was not because we're in love with the megachurch. The basic idea was to increase in size, but never become so big that we don't know each other. Once we hit or there was some number that needs to be determined, but the the language used from the beginning, if I'm correct, is that once we hit around 200 or 300 members, we would have enough to send them out. In the establishment of more churches. Send 50 or 75 members to start a viable church in a strategic location. So as to grow in our ability in a full movement of blessing Anna Reno County. And this would be done over and over again as a biblical method of blessing. And I can honestly say I've looked down that path, and that looks beautiful too. I love the idea. of seeing all of the fruit that Christ brings through each and every one of you become fruits that can be more influential in different ways throughout Anorano County. But I want to be honest with you. I will only be ready to lead you with the session down the second path of phase two once I hear the plan. So that I can actually count the costs. I am not ready to commit us to something that we have no idea about. What does it actually mean to go down that path? And what are the hard things that can happen? And are we willing to still go down the path knowing those scenarios? That's what we have to answer. And we don't have those answers yet because we're just in the beginning. I believe that the Lord has made us the kind of place that could plant other churches And by God's grace, really bless Anna Runnell County. I would love to see a future member as the new county executive, for example. But I do ask you for your patience. I will let you know, and who knows when the next congregational meeting will be called because there's a great deal of pressure on us to make some decisions right now. We had 200 people in the sanctuary this morning. 200. We're at our max. But we're going to continue to be patient because we want to be prudent. We want to build the farm like the master farmer builds himself. And I will let you know if I believe is God really c if God is calling us down that path. It will not just be me letting you know, it will be the session. It'll be a committee. And then we can start to go down that path together. But until that time, my thoughts are that we are at a crossroads. And both paths are good. In the meantime, have no fear, you have plenty of work to do. First, the state of the church is that we are new to each other, and I cannot create a program to make you close. You must pursue each other across age and stage. You must bless each other through the whole circuit of the sky. And second, the state of the church is that we are at a developmental crossroads, which is a good place to be. While we consider phase two, we must show the Lord that we are faithful with what we have. Be a blessing to many other denominations in Andoronto County by supporting our upper and lower school. We have many different churches that attending here at this academy. It is a way for us to have great influence across Anaron County for good. And second, be a blessing to Andorondal County by helping with the pop-up pantry. Let's give it our heart. May the Lord bless our families, our church, and Reno County, and our nation. Amen. Amen. Let me let me pray and then um we'll let me pray and then you can uh ask any questions if you have them. Father, I thank you that each report seemed to be building on the same foundation, letting me know and the congregation know that we're on the same page. That we are at a crossroads. Please, Lord, do not let us neglect the work you've already given to us as we think about work in the future Today holds enough of its own. We do pray, Lord, that you would give us wisdom, though, as we take next steps. And wisdom, Lord, if there is next steps, will involve courage. I ask that you'd give us all these things in the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. Last year there were no questions for me, but I do want to open that up each year. Do you have any questions from me? Okay. That's that's Peggy makes a motion that we adjourn to the fire pit. All right, as always, if you have you do have questions but they weren't appropriate for the floor, please make sure you follow up. We're happy to talk about everything, all the business that was conducted today. And um and that's it. We've read we've received a motion to adjourn with prayer. Is there there's been a second? Is there any discussion? Yes, ma'am. Megan, we all need to thank you. Thank you, Megan. Thank you, Carol. Thank you. Uh let's have our newest member of the session come on up here, Jeremiah. Just want to let you know you're fired. That's what you did to me, right? Lord God, you have led us so far, and we trust you to lead us all the way. Amen. Amen. Very good. To the fire pit.