Each year on our anniversary, we have a reading, just a reading of the history of the church. There is great biblical precedent for doing so. If you remember, and uh some of the scripture stories, uh for example Israel at one point for each of the tribes stacked a stone to memorialize what God had done in their life. Well, the reading of the church history are our stunts. This is done not just here at this church, but there are memorials all over our land. I remember several years ago visiting West Point when one of our members had moved there to be a professor. He gave me a tour of the campus. And we came to this one place, it was quite impressive, it overlooked whatever body of water that is that winds back behind it. And in where you could stand there and there were benches there made of stone, and on each of the benches were engraved virtues that the soldier would need. to protect and preserve their country. And uh I remember thinking, just based on everything that was going on, Are these virtues still present at West Point? I think they were. They were definitely present in my friend whom I was visiting. They were present in the men that and the women that he introduced me to that lived near him. But my point in bringing it up to you is that what was the point of the memorial? It was not just sentimentality. It was that we would remember where we are going. What the good life is, what it means to be really human, and what it means to be, in our case, a good church. So I'd encourage you to do all those things with this memorial today. This isn't meant to just be a sappy ceremony It's meant to be of real value to you. Think about when you hear the the history of the church, think about what we're meant to be. Think about what we might have become and some work that we might need to do here. And then think about where we want where we want to go. And I'd encourage each of you in your own way to not point the finger saying this is somebody else's responsibility But that you would take your responsibility yourself for us to be a memorial to the Lord. The Severn Run Evangelical Presbyterian Church began as a work of Jesus Christ using the combined efforts of the Mission to North America Committee of the Potomac Presbytery and the Saverna Park Evangelical Presbyterian Church. It was originally conceived as an outreach to the Gambrilles, Oddington, Millersville community, which at the same time, which at that time, 1990, was the fastest growing community in the state of Maryland. A telephone call campaign, It's For You, was undertaken and successfully completed slightly under 20,000 calls to the local community to inquire if there was interest in a new local church. Many people responded positively and some 200 people ultimately came to our first service on the 3rd of March 1991. Uh from those contacted this way. Now is there anybody here that was present at that service? Could you just stand up, please? Do you mind? All right, very good. Thank you for your faithfulness. Excellent. It's good to see all of you. I see some of you all the time, but there's some I don't see that often. It's great to see your face. Severn Run started out as a mission church in the PCA, but became a full-fledged church on our second anniversary, March 7, 1993. Arch, uh he was the the one who stood up that was the tallest. That's Arch. Arch was called as the first official pastor and was ordained on the fourth anniversary of the church March 5th, 1995. I was a junior in high school. After many years in temporary locations, God gave us our current home in February 2000. It was the result of much labor and sacrifice on the part of the congregation, and many friends from our sister churches in the area And then in March of 2016, Seven Run EP called me, Pastor Jesse Crutchley, as their new senior pastor. Throughout the years, the church has earnestly endeavored to serve the Lord by being a place where people can find sacred rest. From the beginning, the motto was, rest yourselves under the tree. And it was not a call to stagnancy. It was not a call to laziness. It refers to the hospitality offered to our Lord by his servant Abraham in Genesis 18. 4. By exhibiting love to strangers, Abraham actually ministered to the person of his Savior. And it is done the same way today In the same way, Severn Run EP Church understands itself as being a community of believers where weary folks who are tired of traveling in a disordered world can be refreshed through the caring love and order shown by God's people. Within this vision there are many And varied ministries through which the Lord reaches out his hands. Some of them come and some of them go. I think of a ministry to the local middle school when I first got here, for example, in 2008 as an intern. Some of those ministries rise and they serve their purpose and then new ministries come in. But all of them, it is the way in which the Lord reaches out his hands to those with whom we come into contact. Worship of our sovereign God is understood as the deepest need for any person And as such is the cornerstone of the church's hope for bearing fruit to the kingdom of Christ. That is the engraving on our benches, thinking back to West Point. The SREPC of today holds hands with the past, ordering all of life to the glory of Christ, especially in Ann Ronald County. We look back with grateful astonishment to what God has done through the history of our church, seeing each era as a stone stacked to his glory. Showing human weakness but always the strength of God. And it is, as we look back with grateful astonishment to what God has done when we look at those stones through the history of our church. It is our prayer that we would even today resolve to carry such a beautiful vision forward. For God has shown himself faithful to us in all things. And I would encourage you even now to think of your own experiences. Has not God sustained us when we were weak? I wonder if those who were here in nineteen ninety can say amen. Has he not encouraged us when we were timid? He didn't give up on us and just say we were weak? And did he not provide for us when we were needy? When we look at the end of the matter, perhaps like the preacher in Ecclesiastes, we would say this: that it is God and it is God alone. That is the reason for our existence. And it is to him that we look for all that we need in the coming years of our service. And we have many needs now. It is to him and to him alone that there shall be all glory, there shall be all praise. There shall be all honor, now and forever, world without end. Amen.