So I'm I'm I'm speaking for myself in the session for for I think all of this. We have really poured our hearts into shepherding the flock. Have we? Do we have room to grow? Of course, and I'm sure you know all of those ways. that we need to grow. But we really have poured ourselves into shepherding the flock. And I'll just mention that two of the main ways that we've had to shepherd have been with membership interviews and then also with disciplinary matters. And they have taken quite a bit of time, particularly the membership interviews. But we believe that it's vital for the health of this body to take both of those things very seriously. Let me just mention a couple numbers so you can get a sense of how many times we're sitting in a room doing membership interviews. For example, in 2022 we welcomed 52 new members. In 2023, we welcomed 27 new members. And in last year in 2024, we welcomed another 50 new members. And of course that's a blessing from the Lord, and that's something we should celebrate, but uh you can begin to see where um our efforts have to be placed and and that there are there are some consequences to that in terms of what time do we have left to do other things. I want us to be able to celebrate not only growth in numbers and seeing the Lord draw people to be able to worship together as Christians in this area. but also growth in love and care for each other. It occurred to me the other day that I officially I think I'm the kind of person that pays more attention to problems than what has been solved Uh for whatever reason. But as I I sent out an email to the session and I said, could you let me know some of the good things that happened this past year? And they sent me a lot of bullet points of great things. And I thought, man, I've really been missing out on the opportunity to celebrate. Christ's presence and what he's doing among us. So let me just share a couple things from you. I wonder if you'll be surprised by this. Pardon me if your name doesn't come up or something, but I'm sure there's plenty of good things happening in your life. Uh one elder uh let me know that Uh we have an umbrella here that helps homeschooling families. We not only have an academy, we also have an umbrella that's the to help the homeschooling families. And we that umbrella has grown to 20 families across several counties now. There was a Bible reading plan that was put into place back in Jeremiah, remember when it was put into place? Twenty 14, 2012, something like that. And Jeremiah has with consistency by way of an automated computer kept that Bible program going and we're actually starting to notice that there's an uptick and growth quite a bit and people paying attention to reading their Bibles and following that plan It's worth mentioning by one elder they report that, did you know that Severn Run EPC Leadership is one of the most active churches in the Chesapeake Presbytery? We serve in LDC leadership. I'm the LDC chair. We also serve on the Presbytery Judicial Commission. Brad and Jeremiah, are you both on that? Brad is also the recording clerk for our Presbytery. Jeremiah has been the moderator. He claims the title of treasurer, but it's really his wife. And we're one of the few churches to always send REs or ruling elders to every Presbytery meeting Uh that's uh quite a bit of work there. Well b besides just that stuff, we have uh I'm hearing reports of there's long sta there's this relationship, this long-standing relationship of people bringing meals and providing rides for other people that need them. And I'm I'm wondering if you think of yourself, because I know a lot of people have chipped in with that. We've had a lot of weddings. to celebrate. We've had a lot of baptisms. We've had a lot of babies. There's something in the water. And we're seeing the, in all of that, we're seeing the Lord bring together couples and families under his name. There are guys confessing their sins to one another and seeking prayer that they could mortify sin and overcome temptation. There's many new members joining our fellowship who love Christ and his word that are contributing to the body There are restored relationships or relationships that are being restored. The Lord is blessing our families with employment when they were having a tough time making ends meet. They're getting jobs. Their income is increasing. The deaconate is growing in their gifts and in their numbers. This is an interesting number. This might be the largest we've ever been, but we officially, not counting myself, have 14 officers that are serving this church. We've had a few ladies go to the CCEF conference together, emphasizing their commitment to work um to the work of the church and to the work of women's ministry. We launched and we successfully made it through the Suffers for Seven. I really love that. Did anybody else get a chance to participate in that or is it just me that enjoyed meals? Yeah, it was it was great. It was really great connecting uh with folks. Um besides just what we can hear from the elders, we also hear reports on what's going on with the academy and all of the good things there. In the 2024-2025 enrollment, it's completely full. We now have 102 students and a record number of 19 tutors. There's quite a lot going on here on Tuesdays and Thursdays. We have seven students in our ninth and our tenth grade class this year with plans to add 11th in 2025. It's the second year of phasing in math. the Achilles heel of all homeschoolers. The next year math will be a core class at all grade levels. And if you could, if you if you wanted to write something down or make a note in your phone, if you could pray for faculty hiring needs And that the Academy is always looking for godly men and women with a love of learning and a heart for students to serve as tutors. And it's a great opportunity for a part-time ministry job with great potential dividends in the lives of the next generation of Christian leaders. End quote Marilyn Dorfell. Well said, my friend. Please also pray for wisdom and grace amongst the administrators, the board, the tutors, and the families. So many different stressors going on. And pray also that the Academy personnel can reach those families who would most benefit from help with homeschooling their children in a classical Christian context. Now we could um we have uh some things that the elders have reported to me, as I mentioned, and also a report from the Academy and I also have a report from Brad as the assistant and the intern. I'm not going to read the entire report because it would take several hours because Bradley is doing so much. So I just want to mention though, and you're welcome to talk to him afterward. And I wonder if you could even give your report if people asked But please remember that Bradley is in seminary. And I'll just hit a couple highlights in each one of these categories. He has done very well in seminary. He completed four more classes, medieval church history, modern church history, biblical anthropology, and eschatology. And he's going to be heading off to Greenville to preach his senior sermon. He'll be doing that on March 4th. And so he appreciates your prayers for the preparation and delivery of the sermon. I remember my moment of my senior sermon, and it was the worst sermon I've ever given. I really and I know you're gonna do better than I did. It was so bad Dr. Pipo took me out to Panera Bread afterwards just to make sure I was okay. But I had already been ordained and was pastor here, so they couldn't stop me. You'll do better He'll definitely do better. So please pray for him and his family while he'll be out of town and um to continue to encourage encourage Brad as he's moving forward towards ministry there. His internship, wow, what a I wish I could show you the checklist. Uh for interns and all that they have to complete. We put together binders in order for me to present interns that are completing their internship at the Leadership Development Committee And when they turn in their packet, it's about that thick of of things recorded that they had to do. The checklist is many, many, many, many items, and Brad is right at the end. He really just needs his evaluations to come in from me, and he's going to complete his internship and have that go before the Presbytery in In the June meeting. That's our hope. Yeah, our hope is in the June meeting for him to have his final internship approved. So that'll just be one more thing that he's finished. And uh he's doing done a great job uh uh on that internship uniquely since twenty ten. Uh in addition yes, yes, sir. Okay. Well, whenever that meeting is. May? May thirteenth, twenty twenty five. Thank you. Yeah. It would be disappointing for him to show up to a meeting that's not happening. Yeah, very good. So Brad's training is going well, his ministry, you are able to testify yourselves on the way the Lord has made him effective both in men's ministry, Saturday mornings, men's Bible studies, prayer times, other ministries including the young adults group, the youth group, counseling and visitation, discipleship. We saw once again his ministry to us here with worship and music, with the choir this morning for the 34th, his leadership in the morning service and in the evening service. And then his service as an elder outside of Severn Run, some of you might not know about. I mentioned to you that he is a recording clerk and he also serves on the PJC or the Presbyterian Judicial Commission. He's even filling in as the secretary for that commission when needed. And along with R E or with ruling elder Jeremiah Horner He represents Severn Run at the Presbytery meetings, as I mentioned, as a regular commissioner. But then more largely, I think you've even had to fly out of town for these, is that correct? He serves on the Review of Presbytery Records Committee. So I just want you to know that the PCA is safe because all of the minutes that are taken by all of the different churches, they eventually end up in Brad's hands And he sees if they're doing things well. Brad and others. of various Presbyteries ensuring that the General Assembly is exercising the proper oversight. And he hopes to serve on the COC or the Committee of Commissioners At General Assembly in June, which I'm pretty sure that's already solidified, right? Yeah. Okay, very good. And so I I'm not sure how many minutes that was, but those were those were really just bullet points of going over some of the good things that ha that are going on around here. I wonder if you've taken the opportunity to enumerate what good has happened and what what has Christ brought about. Maybe it doesn't look like we've arrived at the completion of all that Christ will do, but has he done some good things over this past year in your families? And in you individually, and as in you as a church member, and then what about you and your neighbors or different connections that you have to the community and at work? I bet you if you look you'd see that Christ is on the move. Um, even more than Aslan. So that's looking back on our quest and the path that we're on. I also want to share for just a minute on looking forward. We're while celebrating those reports, my heart is stirred toward wanting us to Acknowledge that we haven't arrived as a church. There are still things that we need to work on, still areas in which we need to improve. And so I'm really turning my attention and asking those kinds of questions. I'm asking some pretty big questions that define us and I really invite you to join me in asking those questions together. with me. For example, I do want to revisit the question, what is our mission here at Severn Run EP? I think whether we know the answer to that, the mission is going forward, but I think that we need to be more clear on what justifies our existence. What is it that we're participating in that is meaningful? Who is God shaping us to be for each other and for the watching world? If I don't have a very clear answer on that, and if you don't have a very clear answer on that, then there are so many problems that accumulate among us. If you don't have a target, you're not really sure where to aim. And you're really not going to hit it. So that has not been my strength in focusing on things like that, but the session is helping me out I've been working with some session members who do have the gift of knowing what a mission is and how to set a target for a large group of people so that we're all moving in the same direction. So as we're moving forward in 2025, I'm continually asking that question and trying to have not only a theological answer but a practical answer so that we have direction as a congregation. through prayer and reflection on considering, well, what are we doing? What are we doing? I have two priorities that have popped up. Two priorities that are on my best way to put it would say that they're on my heart. They're eating me alive. in the sense uh of um they're they're so important to me. And the first is this I believe that as we begin to see what our mission is, and I'll be sharing this over the upcoming year, One of the first priorities that's popping up to me is that we have got to uncover the various gifts that we have present within the congregation. I want us to uncover the callings and the gifts that are alive here. Every one of you is uniquely crafted by God. You're wired with a certain set of passions and talents. You pay attention to certain things. I'd love to see what you pay attention to and how blind I am to the things that you pay attention to and how much we need each other You're all wired with passions and talents for God's glory and for our shared good And I think that we need to be asking more often the question, what stirs the soul of you? What has the Spirit equipped you to offer to this congregation? And together, I want us to name the gifts that are present here. I want us to celebrate them, and I want to find a way to unleash your gifts. to be able to benefit this congregation and the larger community. That's one way that I believe that I could lead us into greater maturity is to take your contribution and your gifts more seriously. The second is something I'm committed to also, and it's very connected to the first, and it's this question: how can officers serve you? In allowing your gifts to flourish and your calling to be established. Our calling as officers is to equip and encourage you to live out what God has planted within you. And I really think best would be just a picture. And I wonder what pictures come to your mind. This is what gets me going. Not just a bunch of words, but a a a picture of a place where you would go And because of the thoughtfulness and the carefulness of the officers by way of the power of Jesus Christ, you have a place where you could go to thrive in Jesus Christ. Where you could go and you have a place to grow stronger in your families. That you know that attending here And being a part of this particular congregation with these officers will help you make make you a better mother, a better father, a better grandmother and aunt, and just go through all the familial relationships But there are things present here and there are people actively working towards those particular ends. You could go on to other parts of your calling. For example, we should be a place and the officers should be facilitating a way for you to be able to gain wisdom in whatever faces you to where you could walk through life competently, where you would develop meaningful relationships as fellow members of Christ's body And that you would end up being a shining witness to the world. I've said this for many years, but one of the things that gets my heart beating fast is the idea of if if uh God forbid If all of our neighbors found out that we're thinking about closing down, that they would rush to us and say, please don't, we need you. That is meaningful to me. And that is the kind of vision that gets my heart going. That's the vision that is driving me for 2025. And of course, this will be the rest of my ministry, really. And I know that the session stands with me in this. They've been helping me a great deal in being able to even put together a vision that asks these kinds of questions. And the next thing I would say to you, and I think this shows that I am receiving the sessions help because I would never have said this when I was younger. that everything that I have said will not happen overnight. And it's going to take a lot of effort and creativity. One of the elders is helping me to ask questions like this. And some of you should be very thankful. You know I've needed this perspective for a long time. How do we align our time, resources, and energy in order to make this real? Isn't that a breath of fresh air? Seeing how practical we can get and figuring this out, where it's not just a vision. that I'm announcing, but we're serious. We really want to see this through. And that's a challenge that I don't want to just tackle by myself. I want us to do it together. I think all of us need to be contributing to this. All of the officers and every one of you. And so as we press forward, I am confident that we will see more clearly who God is calling us to be. And we're going to know how to step into that specifically with details and with boldness and with joy. And that's my goal. So I think an important question at this time would just be, so what's next? And I I don't have all of the answers to that yet. Like I mentioned, there's a lot of work ahead of us. But I do want to say these things. Number one is I really need you to pray. I need you to pray about how God is stirring you. God is stirring you towards m a meaningful life. What does that look like? What are your gifts? What are your passions? What are your ideas? And I need you to share them with your shepherding elder as soon as you find out who they are. And I'm not even really going to wait for that because I'm hoping that the shepherding elders were getting ready to re-look at exactly who is shepherding who. And um you should expect your shepherding elder to reach out and not wait for you so that the conversations can begin now. I also want you, besides the prayer and talking with us, let's start conversing as a body about what how are you going to contribute to the health of this community and to the glory of God's wisdom and goodness. condition, I think you should expect to see updates from me. Every few months, let's say, I imagine over some time I could give you uh perhaps um uh more certain dates, but every few months uh through sermons you'll hear me working out the vision with you and how this is going to impact us, but also through just emails, sending you out an email saying, hey, remember the state of the church address and what the goals and the vision are? This is the progress that we've made toward that end. So you'll see that in emails every so often, so that you can see how we are growing together and continue to be a part of that conversation, giving me feedback on that email and talking to your shepherding elders. Over this next year, I want to see how God is going to shape us step by step. Into his vision for Seven Run, which began a long time before my time. But I know, I know that he has not called us here to be a group of people who are doing trivial and meaningless things. I know that he wants us to meaningfully engage with what he has decreed. for this area in Odington and Millersville and Anoron County. So I'm so grateful for you and your patience, your faithfulness I admire your deep love for this church and the kind of commitment that you have made. And I am trusting that God, who began this good work in us, not just individuals, but as a congregation, that he's going to carry it on to completion and shape us into the people that he has predestined us to be. And so my final words are, may the Lord bless the congregation at Severn Run Evangelical Presbyterian Church. Amen. Amen.