Thank you for your prayer earlier, Jeremiah. We are going to hear the word of the Lord now. We're gonna look at uh Titus chapter one and it's verses five through nine if you want to turn there. I'm gonna read that and and uh why don't you turn there and stand at the same time? So that when I'm reading it we're showing respect. This is an interesting passage in that um usually you hear this kind of thing preached on the day that officers are ordained. Ordained. And it's a real challenge to think that you're involved in this passage if you're not up for ordination. But I hope that you can see that it's life-giving to us to us. us and uh just imag just very quickly imagine not having the word of god in in all of the the things that arise within our lives just being in the dark And uh yet we have it. And so let me read it to you. This is chapter one, verses five through nine. For this reason I left you in Crete that you should set in order the things that are lacking, and appoint elders in every city as I commanded you If a man is blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children, not accused of dis uh dissipation or insubordination, for a bishop must be blameless as a steward of God, not self-willed, not quick tempered, not given to wine. Not violent, not greedy for money, but hospitable, a lover of what is good, sober-minded, just, holy, self-controlled, holding fast the faithful word as he has has been taught that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and convict those who contradict. Let's pray. Lord, this is our life. You have spoken to us, you have revealed your mind to us. And Lord, we ask that, just as this passage says, that we would hold fast to your word. That this would be a blessing to us and that as you minister to us, it will give us the energy and wisdom to go and to minister everyone that to everyone that you give us opportunity to minister to. We ask this in Christ's name Uh when I was in the uh eighth grade, uh or the ninth grade, so that would have been five, four Nineteen ninety one, ninety-two. Uh if you can remember those years yourself, I probably had different influence. in my life than you had in your life at that age, but during that time I was greatly influenced by the Seattle grunge scene. Some of you might not even know what I'm talking about when I say that. But the Seattle grunge scene included a sound Garden and a band named Nirvana. Has anyone ever heard of Nirvana? You've heard of that, yes. Very famous band actually. And uh lately I uh the lead singer was Kurt Cobain. And um Kurt Cobain uh by the age of twenty-seven stuck a shotgun in his mouth and killed himself. He was a very disturbed man, uh to say the least, very lonely, couldn't find his place in the world. Um and I got a chance to watch his uh biography with real clips and drawings th uh from his family members, including his wife. I don't recognize recommend that you watch it, it's not in good taste. It's uh there's things on there that I just can't recommend to you. It's pretty harsh. Uh but you know one of the things I was noticing as I was Watching it was that he was acting out in very similar ways that I was acting out at the same age and that his music um was a kind of uh a way for him to express this his disappointment with the world and it was it was a it was a way another way to embody and to express himself and I didn't even know it but subconsciously I was connecting with him through his music and viewing things as darkly as him It really goes to show you how much your society can influence you and your environment. I you know that we didn't used to think that. We didn't used to think that we were influenced by our environment very much. And we've even in Christian circles had to be very careful that we don't go too far with that because we know we had this movement where where there was this conditioning in psychology. And you know we don't go all the way in terms of saying that we're just conditioned by our environment and we have no choice in the matter. But there is an influence of our environment One of the things that Kirk Cobain had influenced me in is uh a distaste for any type of authority or institution. I don't know if you ever had those experiences before. There are different ages where you can have different distastes for authorities and institutions. And actually looking around, I'm seeing each of the different generations you've had your own movements that had distaste for authority and institutions. Kurt Cobain, in one of his videos entitled Smells Like Teen Spirit, had cheerleaders, high school cheerleaders, with cheerleader uniforms that had anarchy symbols on them. And that was one of the ways in which he was expressing his distaste for all institutions, especially school. Well, when you turn to the scriptures like we have before us, you've got to wonder if you've ever had Uh d have any of you ever had moments like that where you've been uh rejected authority and been tempted to dis have a distaste for institutions And and you've you've come to distrust them? Roger? Right. I think that we all have in different ways. We've been burned in certain cases and And and and other times we just grow up we're are born with a distaste for institutions. And so when we when we look at the scripture like we have here today in Titus, if you if you look down again, I don't know what Bible you have, but it probably has similar titles that mine does, which is Qualified Elders and Elders test and we're immediately moving away from the idea of just a love community to an institution. From a movement where you follow someone's vision and you're always inspired to policies and rules and stuff And yet Paul doesn't flinch when he talks about both love at great length in 1 Corinthians. and the need for dynamic community. And yet, when he speaks to his church planner Titus, he also sees the necessity of an institution. of structure, of offices even, of people that are have a special office versus a general office And that's just fascinating that we would see something more sophisticated than what our society offers. Most of the time our society would say no institution. And all hippie, or no hippie and all institutions. But here we're seeing not a blend, but something far more complex. And so what I want to do is I want to I want to look at uh uh Uh the uh there's some different parts. Basically I want to look at the lack and then I want to look at stewardship. Just two parts. Real quick, I don't think it's gonna be super long long, but there's a lack and then there's a stewardship. And what it's going to bring out is a theme that I'm I'm want to start developing with you and leave you with a question really about your attitude and thoughts concerning church government. I think that will be valuable for us. And if it's and if it's something that you already accept, I think some of you here do accept it and you embrace it actually, there are a lot of people around you that don't. And if you happen to be having coffee with them one day, maybe this will be some ammunition in your pocket or a way to navigate the conversation. So first in thinking about this theme of church government I want you to look at the lack. It starts off in verse 5. For this reason I left you in Crete that you should set in order the things that are lacking and appoint elders in every city as I commanded you. You can see the word lacking there right away. But what I want to point out is actually something bold that, and I've already alluded to it, that Christian community is incomplete Until you have a hierarchy of offices. In other words, Christian community is incomplete until officially governed is what this passage, just this part right here, verse 5, is saying. Notice how he points out, this is Paul writing to Titus, and Titus is a church planner on Crete, and we talked about the last time at the last time I I was speaking about this letter. And he's sending Titus there to pick up where he left off. And the ideas that Paul are communicating here are two concepts. First he says set in order. Now if you look at that word, it's really a complete which was uh started to be completed. There's a pick up where I left off idea. And then he explicitly mentions here in this verse that there is a lack. And then if you ask the question, what is lacking in this church? He doesn't say the Spirit of God. He doesn't say Christian love. In fact, those things are present as you read on in the letter. There are a great deal of the marks of the church. And yet he still says the church is deficient. specifically in terms of church government, that there needs to be officers appointed in order for the lack to go away. Do you see that's what he's saying? So if you have an empty bucket and then he says fill it, what is he asking us to fill it with? He's saying it needs to be filled with qualified men. The officer, the the elder. This is a a term that's uh used for the elder, and you can see at least in my s my Bible the title, although not not infallible is correct, qualified elders. And so what you have here is that surprising, I think, in this day and age, and and maybe some of you are more surprised than others. It's surprising to see that the church is deficient until it has officers. Because when we start talking about officers, we're not just talking about individual people. We're talking about office And so we're by implication talking about church government and how they will function. Now if you turn to other pastoral letters like 1 Timothy, there's both the elder and the deacon that are mentioned. And so we have two offices which are perpetual and which are necessary in order for the church to be that what Jesus Christ wants it to be. Now that is astounding to me. Most of the time we focus upon things like love or sharing our space, our time, and our goods, and of course that is good, but there's also a great emphasis upon appropriate church government. Now this is even further surprising to me because when we consider human nature And we look at the paths of humanity, we do not see good results when you put men in power That makes it even more astounding to me. George Orwell really captured this well when he said, if you want a vision of the future, imagine a boot stamping on a human face forever. Oftentimes within our society, we see men go into power and destroy themselves, their families, and those who are around them. And so uh I forget the saying actually, I wish Scott were here because he quotes it to me almost every day. Uh power corrupts absolutely or power corrupts absolutely, power corrupts absolutely Yes, there we go. Very nice. So uh uh there there's a tension that begins to build here. When you see men being put in power. Particularly on Crete, which was basically an island of drunks. So now you have drunks in power in some sense. And that reminds me of the reason why well, never mind. We'll stop there. I was going to say an Irish joke since I'm Irish, but I'm not going to do that. You even have this manifested when you see God's people placed in power in the past, like the Sanhedrin. And we can see perfectly what happened to them as they brought Jesus forward with trumped-up charges and then crucified him unjustly. So it's interesting to me that it's still being recommended here. And that the tension that ends up happening is that the if we understand the story that's going on here, Jesus ascends and he sends his spirit and from on high has authority over all nations, and therefore any work that's being done within this church and any commands that come from Paul are going to be from Jesus himself. So the very man, God man, who was crucified by the Sanhedrin and had first-hand experience of corrupt men in power, nevertheless and yet still Says to Paul that he is to be appointing officers in each of the churches. And if you look throughout the rest of the scriptures, you would see that each of the churches have officers appointed. And who are we to um question Christ's wisdom? So he has something else on his mind about officers. than what we would gain just from an inductive generalization from our own experience in our own society. And that immediately moves us back to that Kurt Cobain illustration. You may not just be influenced by your environment and your opinions and attitudes towards government because Jesus Christ changes everything. He even changes government. The gospel changes everything. Since he is active in his church, and has chosen for there to be a church government, then we can trust that he believes that there really should be and that we should have it. I want you to consider two other um passages Just to back up what I'm saying, that Jesus Christ is setting up church government. Consider Acts 20, 28. Therefore, take heed to yourselves. This is Paul speaking to the Ephesian elders. Therefore, take heed to yourselves and to all the flock among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers. It is the Holy Spirit who is making and appointing people to church government So now we have uh really the whole Trinity involved. And if you were to consider Ephesians chapter four, I'm sure you're familiar with that, where Christ ascends on high and sends gifts to men, that passage, no matter how many times I repeat this to you, is always fascinating to me. that the gifts he sends are pastors, teachers, evangelists, basically the officers for a church governmental system. And so obviously Christ sees a great deal of wisdom in this. Perhaps what has happened to us is that we have a classic case of throwing the baby out with the bathwater. We see this when I um took my worship clas reformed worship class at Greenville Presbyterian Theological Seminary. Dr. Pipa, who is as reformed as it gets, and Presbyterian as it gets I was very I was very surprised to hear him say we need to raid the old PC USA warehouses and get their kneelers. and stick them under our chairs and start kneeling more in church during confession. That really struck me because I hadn't kneeled in church since I went to St. John Evangelist Roman Catholic Church. when I was uh in elementary school where you had the kneelers that flipped down. And he really challenged me to say, you have thrown the baby out with the bathwater. Kneeling is not corrupt. Kneeling before the Lord's Supper and worshiping the host was corrupt That's something that they did wrong. But kneeling in and of itself, there's nothing wrong with that. It is a biblical worship posture throughout all of the scriptures for people to kneel. And the same thing needs to be said in regards to government. Where we just said with the kneeling. Government is not in and of itself, in its nature, and in its essence, corrupt. But it can be corrupted. And so what we begin to see here are the beginnings of Jesus Christ doing something new. He's not willing to say that's because men and women have corrupted government that he's going to give up on government. Just think of the inner-trinitarian relationships in the economy of redemption. That's a mouthful. But think about how the Son subordinates himself to the will of the Father voluntarily, and that the Spirit is willing to proceed from both the Father and the Son. There's a government that's going on there. Our God is a God of order and not a God of chaos. And so what we begin to see here on the pages is of this of this passage, just looking at verse 5 so far. is that there's a bigger picture going on here. We move from just considering officers that are qualified and setting up something that was deficient if it didn't have them. to beginning to realize that Jesus Christ in his kingship has come to reclaim government for its purposes in glorifying God. And he will do so by a microcosm within his churches. Now that is amazing. In other words, church, government, and the officer has become a witness of heaven arriving on earth for people to see what it looks like to exist for the glory of God and in eternity. When we get to heaven, the new heavens and the new earth, there will be ranks of angels. Luke chapter 19, verse 7 says that if you are serving the Lord well in this earth, then in the next he will give you ten cities to be overseeing. And so government will continue, and this is b becomes the most interesting thing, at least for me right now with this passage, is that this reveals to us that the change is already beginning. That just as I was mentioning to you before, with the victory over sin, that heaven has come to earth and has begun, in our regeneration we have become new creations. As we get together corporately and we do so in an organized fashion, in a government, we're already beginning to show what the new heavens and the new earth earth will look like. And so here's an amazing thing that you probably didn't think of when you first walked in here. That church government is a great witness to the unbeliever of to what they could have, eternal life. And so we need to be pumped up and excited about church government. That's the application of this, is that you should be excited about church government. About Presbyterian polity should get you really going It's a legitimate application of this. Um Yeah. Well i if you really though if you do b if you believe what he's saying, what Jesus Christ is accomplishing If he's going to renew all things, and he didn't throw government in the trash can, but is instead redeeming it, we need to have a whole new respect for it and a whole new great deal of honor for it. Now, oftentimes you can see how this is applicable and has something to do with you as a general Christian, but also specifically when you're thinking about your officers, how important is it that they are walking a holy life? How important or how tragic is it when they fall into grievous public sin? It's not just a personal problem. It is a mark on the very face of eternity that has happened. And so it is no wonder that they must be held to a different standard. And you need to think about that when you're evaluating folks for nomination and election. And if you are an officer, you need to think about the great grand vision that you are a part of. What a privilege. Nothing you've earned, but have been given and appointed by the Holy Spirit. That really brings us when you start thinking about those personal aspects of and how they fit into that microcosm that we see of the heavens and the earth, the new heavens already showing up in the church government. We're already on our way to talking about stewarding. That's the next thing that is brought up. You have the grand vision of what Jesus Christ is doing as the great king and how he's ruling in a just government. And he's going to do so through appointing men who are stewards. And that's what we see in verses six through eight. And I'll look just look at that with me for a second. If a man is blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children, not accused of dissipation or insubordination, for a bishop must be blameless and As a steward of God, not self-willed, not quick-tempered. And he goes on there with uh and continues with the list. If you wanted to, there's different ways to organize that list. You could organize the list in concentric rings like onions, that that built really move out from personal and private out into public. For instance, the implication here when he talks about being sober-minded is a person that governs their interior quite well. They have a good interior government. Do you know what I mean by that? Their mind and their heart and their emotion If you've ever read Plato's Republic, he talks about the importance of not only an outward government amongst many men, but also the government within a single man. between his faculties. And you can see that present with the implication of controlled desires. But there's also the familial relationship. So you have the interior, then you have the family society. Notice that it It speaks about being the husband of one wife and then also remarks on the children. And then it moves into a larger sphere of really the the of being a good citizen in the state In some sense, you could say this is a description of a virtuous politician. And I think that would be a good thought for you to have because Paul really is thinking of a polis here. He's thinking of a city-state or a commonwealth that God has established. We've already seen that in the beginning of this letter, so that's not a foreign thought. When he refers to them as the elect of God. That was a name for Israel, which was a commonwealth and nation. And that should continue on in this passage for you. You really should be hearing political language at this point. There's broader social relations, particularly in the drinking of wine, which is a social thing. Not quick-tempered, you need someone else to frustrate you for that one. So that's societal. And then of course you could see not greedy for money or uh ungodly gain, which deals with trading, which also requires other people. So you can think of it in those concentric rings. But really the main category under which all of this falls, the reason why those characteristics need to be in place, is the broad category of steward. It says, as a steward of God, and you really need to see that as him linking or letting you know what is the broad category that he is using in order to govern his thoughts. as to what the criteria should be for someone who's going to be ruling over the house of God. Now I've said the house of God, and that's basic that that was in that society how stewards were known. Stewards were known as those who uh the homeowner had given the rights to look over their property. If you think about different examples within scriptures. There's Joseph and Jacob, each of them were stewards. And think of the the um the the uh responsibilities of some of the stewards. For instance, Abraham's steward was even given the responsibility of finding a wife for his son Isaac. So you can see the great responsibility that is understood within this culture as to what a steward is supposed to be doing. And of course there's parables also as to the good steward and that his life is there to serve the master. And so in the same way with that kind of responsibility We see within our society little things like, for instance, how much thought do you put into choosing a babysitter? You know, I was scared to death when we first had children because I knew I was going to have to find a babysitter and I'd have to leave my leave my children with them. That is very scary to me. And you can think of all of the references and and um and channels that you go through to make sure and and the wife my wife is always sizing them up and making sure that she She's uh wants to leave her children with them. So remember that, ladies. Think of all of the time that you put into choosing a babysitter or choosing a school with teachers or choosing a lawyer or choosing an accountant. And so, of course, w what we see here, being a steward over the household of God, how much more uh should we put thought into This person being uh responsible and credible. And you can see therefore why he would list the things that he did. And he didn't write them. This was not a uh an absolute list that he pulled out of the ether in the universe. This was relative to Crete. These were the struggles that they had within their society. I'm going to quote this later, but if you look a little bit late uh further down He says, one of them, a prophet of their own, said, Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, and lazy gluttons. That's how they're known. And so when you're planting a church there and you're searching for a steward for the household of God, you can see why he would have this list because of the responsibilities that are placed before. That moves us back into a kind of tension though, because of our knowledge of the nature of human beings, particularly people like Cretans. I mean, if they had been influenced by their society for so long, how could we ever, if we put so much thought even into just picking a babysitter or an accountant How could we ever trust a Cretan in being an officer over the household of God? And notice that it's not just one place. In the verse 5 it says, appoint them over cities. So we're talking about multiple churches here. On Crete, men need to be appointed that have grown up in a culture that knew nothing but pagan idolatry and drunkenness. How is it that we would ever come to again trust men in power? It's like the problem just keeps showing up again for us. You realize that Jesus Christ has a vision and you want to trust him But then you become very concerned that men would actually be able to do so. But if you continue down in the passage, we gain some, I think, reassurance about our concerns There's an implication here if you look at uh verse nine. I want you to look at that real quick Holding fast the faithful word. This is the final part of being a steward. Notice you have in verses six through eight, you have lists. You have a family list, and then you have a negative list, and then you have a positive list. Does everybody see that? In the original language, it shifts in nine because there's a different part of speech showing a different structure, and it says holding. You see that? Switches to a participle, and it's holding fast the faithful word. So he's speaking about a different domain that the officer really needs to be very good at. And that's actually going to continue with the whole next sermon In 10 through 16, he's speaking about the elders' task, which is the continue to teach sound doctrine and rebuke those who are misleading people. So we moved in already into a little bit of a different attribute that he's focusing upon. The purpose for Paul writing this, the main purpose is for Titus to make sure that he understands that the elders have a main job of protecting the flock. It's exactly as he had mentioned to the Ephesian elders. There are going to be people that come in, that try to upset everyone and take advantage of people. You need to protect them. You need to hold fast to the word. But there's an impli and that's the main point. And you could preach a sermon on that, but I want to draw out an implication, because just as our confession says, implications by good and necessary inference are also the word. So I want to bring out an implication here for that tension that we feel in putting men in power, like Cretans, or former Cretans, we should say. When he says, hold fast to the word, that you may buy sound doctrine, he is listing an instrument The word by is an instrumental preposition letting you know the instrument with which you will use to accomplish your task. And in this case, you can see that it's sound doctrine. He actually repeats that. And then when you look down at verse 13, It says, this testimony is true. I mentioned the this testimony is true. Therefore rebuke them sharply, still talking about the sound doctrine, that they may be sound in the faith. Do you see that? there's an actual change that can take place within these people. In other words, it's just like Ephesians, when he says the sword of the Spirit is the Word of God. And that is what he places in the hands of this church planter here and all of the elders, that there can be an actual change in people where they can go from being a Cretan, a drunkard Cretan. to an elder or a deacon, and you could actually trust them in their office Not that they would be perfect, but that they would always repent, and that the majority of the time they are leading you in the right direction. And when you find and when they find that we find that they're not, that they are responding to your criticism and that there is change on the spot. There's actual hope for that. Now that's a really interesting question to ask you. Do you actually believe that the Word of God changes people? That is something that our society does not believe. They do not believe that people change. And yet here, the very foundations and foundation and basis of you ever uh having a clear conscience and being a part of a Presbyterian church with church government like this. You better have the hope that the Holy Spirit is effectually using the instrument of the Word of God to change people. Otherwise, you are putting drunks and liars and cheats into power. And that is not right for you to do. You are just going to hurt people. But if the Holy Spirit is using the Word of God to effectually change people, to change people from drunks and liars and gluttons into people that are the stewards of the household of God. If you really believe that and embrace that, then we may have this microcosm of eternity that Jesus Christ is creating. That's something for you to consider and to start to embrace, to see the foundation, and do you really believe that? Of course you do. But now that I've brought it out in the light, I'd like you to reflect upon it a little bit more what you're agreeing to. Let me let me um reinforce this a little bit just with some personal experiences. I um was just speaking w w with a friend of mine who is very much like a lot of folks in the church. Most of you actually as I'm looking at you, Matt, were you growing up did you grow up in the church? Yeah, most of you here have grown up in the church. And that's interesting because being a coven covenant child is not something I have any experience with. And it and uh so when I was speaking to my friend who is also a covenant child, it was really encouraging to me to he to talk to him and I said he he was searching for a sermon illustration actually. And I so I guess I'm using never mind. I asked him, I said, although you may not ever remember a time when you were not a Christian, and you can relate to that, right, Covenant Child? Although you may never remember a time when you were not a Christian, when he looked back, he could see when the lights got brighter at least. His knowledge of sin intensified. His awareness of the presence of Jesus Christ and taking it seriously became greater. And so therefore, what I asked him to do is I said, remember the person before the lights came on or got a little bit brighter. I guess for a covenant child, it's a dimmer switch. When it was dimmed a little bit lower, I want you to see that person in the mirror. And I said, what do you think of that person? And he said, I'm ashamed of him. And I said, what that implies is that you're no longer that person. That imperceivably in some sense over years without even you noticing it there has been a constant progression and growth and change in you as an individual to where now at the point you are at the point where you are being considered as an associate pastor in Georgia That you will be ministering to people, being a steward of the household of God. And that's the same hope that we have here, that the Spirit Just as you may personally reflect upon your own experience. When you look in the mirror and you see yourself in the past And you are ashamed of that person, but you know you're not that person anymore. That is a sign of the work of the Spirit changing you by the Word of God. That's the instrument he used. And so change is possible for you, for Cretans, and therefore we have a solid foundation to believe that we may trust putting people into office to be able to deal with that power in order to begin showing that aspect of of eternity, true, right, and just government among people. Something that we'll be experiencing forever. The question that you have to answer Is are you ashamed of the gospel? That's the final question. Because in the Gospels, when Jesus talks about the gospel, he describes it as his work and his words. That's the gospel. And so if this church government is being appointed by the Holy Spirit, and it is Christ who sends him to do so, are you ashamed of Jesus' work? By not respecting or dignifying or celebrating church government? If so, I hope that I've given you a lot to think about here to begin working toward repentance. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for showing us yet another part of eternity, of being able to see your kingdom present now. Father, we ask that we would glorify you in no longer being ashamed of your gospel, of not being apologetic to the emergent church and to a society that knows nothing but corrupt government But that we would use it as a part of our evangelism in showing that we are a place where human beings can be in different offices and do different things and yet still look out for one another. We can still wash each other's feet for your glory. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. We are going to sing a final hymn, which has come