Timothy one twelve through seventeen. The title of the sermon today is a case study for all Christians. You could uh re-entitle it a pattern for all Christians. That's what I mean by a case study So I ask that you please follow along in verses 12 through 17 of the first chapter of 1 Timothy And I thank Christ Jesus our Lord who has enabled me because he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry. Although I was formerly a blasphemer, a persecutor, and an insolent man But I obtained mercy because I did it ignorantly in unbelief. And the grace of our Lord was exceedingly abundant with faith and love which are in Christ Jesus This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief. However, for this reason I obtained mercy, that in me, first, Jesus Christ might show all long suffering as a pattern to those who are going to believe on him for everlasting life. Now to the King eternal, immortal, invisible, to God who alone is wise, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Christ, just having the scriptures before us are a gift that we are not deserving, of which we are not deserving We thank you for the grace of your communication to us, disclosing yourself to us and how you are conducting yourself. and our responsibilities to you. We ask, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would work through your word today. We pray that you would make it powerful, that we would be changed, that we would be changed to where our faith would increase and sprout from its muscles. Seed, becoming the largest plant in the garden. And Lord, that our love would grow, both for you and for our neighbor. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Once we arrive at the center of First Timothy, we'll be able to acknowledge just how important it is to keep a certain word in front of our face during this series. And it's the word charge What we have before us in this letter is Paul charging or commissioning Timothy to bring order or to maintain order within the Ephesian church. Now, we've only been through, you know, we're not even through the first chapter yet, but I wonder what you have noticed already are the marks of a healthy or an ordered church There are at least two that we've covered. And the first one that we saw, a mark of a healthy church, is that the church is subordinate or submit to the apostolic doctrine of faith and life. Well we talked about the apostolic doctrine. It's not just a particular set of teachings. discrete set or a limited set, but it is the way in which we would read all of the teachings, especially the Old Testament, or what we call the Old Testament. The French call it the Elder Testaments. The second healthy thing about a church is that it would be ordered knowing the purposes of God. For all of the tools and the instruments of his kingdom. Now last week we talked about that in terms of what is God's intent? or his law. What is his purpose in his his plan of salvation? How does he use the law within the life of the church and in the life of the world. Well, we exploded that and we started asking the question a little bit, or what's the guiding light of all of God's purposes for all of the things that He has given to us, all of the treasures through Jesus Christ. And a healthy church knows more and more how to use what God gives us. They know the purposes behind the plan. Well today we continue into another market that has healthy church which I'll I'll announce a little bit later. I want to start by just making a few observations with you So let's take a look at the scriptures together. And let's begin in verse 12. Here we see something that is actually quite familiar to us. I'm sure that you have heard someone give their Christian testimony, or you yourself have given your Christian testimony to another person. Well guess what we have here in verse 12 and following? is we have Paul giving his experiences, his witness, and his testimony as to his relationship with Jesus Christ. And he characterizes it particularly in his thankfulness. to Christ. Now, why was he thankful? Why was he thankful? And that's really where we start. If you answer that question, you'll start to see the pieces of his testimony. And what it brings out is the consideration of the kind of man that Paul was, that's a part of his story, where he moves from being called Saul to being called Paul. Take a look at some of the features or characteristics of Paul. If you look in verse thirteen, he gives a three points of his treachery. He was a blasphemer. He was a persecutor, and he was an insolent man that you could think of a someone who disregards the rights of other people in the in a in an aggravated and violent degree. So think of like uh an oppressor or a dictator. He doesn't care what your rights are or what is due to you. He just does his will upon you. And that's the kind of man that he was. What Paul is doing here is he is describing the way that he particularly treated the people of Jesus Christ. Do you remember the reports about Paul from the book of Acts when he was called Saul? Some of the things that were said about him. Well, here, remember these. Here's Acts 8, verse 3. As for Saul, He made havoc of the church, entering every house and dragging off men and women, committing them to prison. Now we talked about a prayer request last week of three women who had been drugged out of their home and now they are missing and we pray for them. And here you have Saul being the guy who would have done that kind of thing. You felt sorrow for the families, and guess who would have been behind the sorrow? It would have been this guy named Saul. Imagine yourself being in the same situation. Now, maybe you would think, well, yeah, good luck, Saul, enter in my house. Well, he had more power than you realize. You can see this in further accounts of who he used to be in Acts chapter 9, verses 1 through 2. It says this. It says, Then Saul, still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest and asked letters. from him to uh to the synagogues of Damascus, so that if he found any who were of the way of Jesus, whether they were men or women, he would bring them bound to Jerusalem. He had the magistrate and all of its military power behind him. He was given warrants for the arrest of particular individuals, and it didn't matter if they were men or women, he would drag them from their homes So why was Paul thankful? Paul was thankful because despite his murders, you know why he was called a murderer, by the way, just specifically, he is responsible. for the death of Stephen of Seth and his martyrdom. Review that account and see that his that uh he gave consent for it to be Done. Paul was thankful because, therefore, that despite being a murderer, despite the imprisonment that he enacted on God's lovely people, men, women, and children, despite the fact that he had continued violence With a continual snarl, breathing violence against Christ's wife. Christ treated Paul or Saul with patience. And he actually went even further than just being merciful or patient. with Saul. Do you see what else he gave him? It's right there in those first couple of verses where Jesus Christ has even entrusted Saul to become Paul and an apostle a great commissioner and ambassador of the gospel himself. You can see this actually in the verses that we looked at last week. Take a look at verse 11, according to the glorious gospel of the blessed God, which was committed to my trust. Now that word my really takes on some meaning now, doesn't it? Can you believe that Christ committed it to Paul? That he would give him such honor? To bring these things, to disclose himself, to show him everything that God is revealing to the human race about their salvation. That he would place Paul in a level of responsibility and call him an apostle. Make him his servant. Are you beginning to get a sense as to why Paul's thankfulness is such a prominent part of his testimony? Christ by his grace moved Paul from ignorance and unbelief, signified particularly by something like scales falling from his eyes in the account on the road of Damascus. Christ by his grace moved Paul from those scales to sight into the estate and the state of faith and love, as you see in our passage, in Christ. Jesus. That's the first thing I want you to notice is the testimony of Paul in that he is thankful. Here's the second thing I want you to notice, and that is that Paul shows that his personal experience is actually a pattern. He is not interested in just wanting you to hear how he feels about something. He's not just telling you his story because he likes to tell stories. His story is a pattern for all Christians. We see this specifically within verse 15. This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptance that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief. However, for this reason I obtained mercy that in me first Jesus Christ might show all long suffering as a pattern. As a pattern. It is a pattern to those who are going to believe on him for everlasting life. Now the way that he he brings out this pattern is he starts there in verse 15 with a what he calls a faithful saying. It's not just a saying. Now a saying is something that we all say, right? A saying is something that uh a way that we formulaic we characterize a particular experience And it's not just a saying it would be like, hey, you know what they say. It's not just a saying, it's a faithful saying. It's a saying that has spread across the Christian communities as capturing an essential reality as to what God the Father is doing through the Son and His Spirit And that is captured in verse 15 that Jesus Christ has come into the world to save sinners. And then Paul adds, as a part of integrating his testimony with the work of Jesus Christ. And I am the chief sinner. And I am the sinner of sinners. And I am the first of those whom Christ is calling. And then we see most interestingly that he says that one reason that Jesus Christ gave him mercy, one reason was to be a pattern to all of those who will believe in Jesus for everlasting life. Now A pattern of what? What's the pattern here? We've got to make sure that we get that correct. What does Paul mean here by pattern? What he means, the main focus is that he has become a portrayal. He has become a pencil sketch. He has become a depiction Of the kind of patience and mercy that Christ is offering to the rest of the world, even the worst of the sinners. It is not to draw your eye and to stare at Paul for Paul's sake, to be amazed and to wonder at him. You are to see Paul and use him to see Christ, to see what Christ is like towards sinners That he is long-suffering and patient, and has not drawn the sword from his side in execution. That is the great pattern that is to be taken into every age, that those who have sinned may have hope of reconciliation with God. There is still time, even to this day. Otherwise I would not be giving the sermon. It would be over. Paul has become a living illustration of who Christ the Eternal King is. And it is a continuous revelation. We were just reading Exodus and hearing the same things. the eternal Christ. And here the eternal Christ is in his incarnate, ascended, and exalted state. Christ is a just king who is patient and will turn back from judgment. He will grant mercy. When even the worst sinner would repent. The picture that is being painted, the depiction and the portrayal, the oil painting that is in front of you, is that if you were to give Christ any reason to give you mercy, he would take it. That is the picture that we have. He is just looking for any kind of repentance that he might give grace and forgiveness. And Paul is a pattern of that. Now here's the final observation. With all of this, with all that God is doing by His mercy and His grace. Taking people out of an estate of sin and misery and into an estate of salvation, he cannot help but to drop into doxological soft. And we sang immortal invisible for this very reason. There it is. Now to the King Eternal, Immortal and Visible, to God who alone is wise, the honor and glory forever. Amen. There it is. Locating every piece of everything that is happening within Paul's life and the life of every individual. individual. It's all being wrapped up in the great movement and actions of the eternal God and what he is doing with his creation. And that's why we would have to return back to doxology, because he is at the center. Well, if we were to take all of these observations and gather it up, we have a helpful doctrine this morning, and it is this. It is another doctrine about the health of the church. A healthy church is a witness to the patience of Christ, the eternal King. A healthy church is a witness to the patience of Christ, the eternal King. So what I'd like to do is I'd like to take a look at the history of patience. And then I'd like to look at the presence of patients. So let's begin with a history of patients. Now, if you take a look again at our passage in verse 15, let me reread it to you. This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptance. That Christ Jesus came into the world. To save sinners. Now that is a funny way of putting it. And I think what Paul is doing here, the way that he has arranged this, he did not say Jesus Christ. He said Christ Jesus. And because he's talking about him coming into the world, I think he's trying to place some emphasis on just what is happening here. That Paul has arranged the word so that the emphasis on the title Christ is present. That Christ came into the world through the incarnation to see Now, whenever I do membership interviews, especially with covenant children, I tend to ask when was um Well where was Jesus Christ before I don't remember how I asked it. Has Jesus Christ always been alive? And what this does is it forces them to make a distinction. What they have to do is they have to see that, wait a second, Jesus Christ is unique. And has two natures but is one person. And his eternal nature is because he is the eternal Son of God who has become incarnate. And so I have to talk about him in two different ways, and I have to say, in one sense, he has always existed and is the eternal Christ, but in another sense, he was conceived in the womb of the Virgin Mary And born of her, yet without sin, and his name is Jesus, and it happened in Nazareth. And we have to talk about those two things. So there's your hints, if you want to be able to do well in the interview. with the second. Just have the mystery of the second person of the Trinity and its incarnation doubt. Just kidding. You just need to know some facts about that. Well I think the same thing is going on here. Before the incarnation, he was not in the world in the way that he is after the incarnation. but was from all eternity. As the Son of God, in other words, he was in the beginning. It was through him that the world was created. It was through him that the world has operated in constant providential order. It is through him that God the Father has been reordering the chaos created by humans. And since Christ, the Son of God, has been from the beginning We therefore have a record that precedes his incarnation of his patience We will not only look at the patience of the Christ in the compressed history of the New Testament, but you may go all the way back to the beginning to see it demonstrated to you. And there we have once again all of the scriptures before us that we might consider the whole council of God. Though Paul ends up being a pattern of the Christ's long-suffering, Paul is not the only pattern. We have a long history of the patience of God. Now, if you took the time to study the patience of God, if you were to leap through all of the pages of the scriptures, what you would find in every instance Is that the patience of God is couched within the context of justice? That may surprise some of you because in our culture we don't talk about patience that way. We have things dislocated and we don't know where anything goes anymore. But here, when we see God's patience, it's within the context of patience. Now, in order to illustrate why that must be the case necessarily, just consider a moment. If you had a relationship with a person who was who was let's say that you are a um uh the military system and then there was a citizen If you said to the citizens, I see all of the crimes that you're doing, and let's say that they're heinous crimes And you say to them, we are going to give you this warning. We are going to be patient and long-suffering with you as a military unit. But take my word, you better repent because my patience is wearing thin. What if that person said to that military unit, because they were more powerful than that military a unit. I don't need your patience because you can do nothing to exact the kind of punishment that you're talking about upon me You can see how patience must also, for it to make sense, has to be placed within the context of justice, which requires a kind of power. In order for it to be enacted. Otherwise, what good is your patience? You're not patient with people that are more powerful than you. Think about that a little bit. If you consider patience that way, you can begin to see its necessity. If you want a more simpler way, instead of just kind of reasoning through it that way, you can see that the patience of God is couched within the justice of God. of God just by looking at its iteration throughout the scriptures. For example, consider Romans chapter 2. As the apostle reflects on God's patience, Through the expansive history of the Old Testament, he reminds the Church of Rome of an unchanging truth. This is in Romans chapter 2, in a whole section on patience. He says this. God will render to each person what is due according to their deeds. There we have patience and we have justice alongside of each other in Romans chapter 2 verse. 6, and then he goes on in verse 11 to say, there is in fact no partiality with God. God, in the context of his justice offers patience to people to give them time to get on board with his program. The alternative would be for God to say See the wrong that is done and to immediately give you what you deserve. But he withholds the hand and he waits Now we see this as a part of his overarching plan when he created the heavens and the earth and all that is in them. He created all things in a specific order, and he obligated himself to maintain that order, particularly through the Son and His Spirit. In him, all of creation lives and moves and has its being. That's how Paul would put it, quoting some poets When humans therefore threaten the order, they must of the necessity be stopped based upon how he has obligated himself, and they must furthermore be punished for their cosmic treason, and you better believe it That God will uphold justice. What we find in the midst of God upholding his justice is his long suffering. God sees that all humanity, God sees all that humanity does against him, but he does not lash out in unreasonable fury, but he is patient and he is long-suffering. Toward them. Throughout history, it may seem that God is not loyal to the promises of His justice. Look around today and tell me if everyone is receiving their due. Is everyone right now receiving what they deserve? How much injustice do you perceive in just a single day? And yet God has promised that he would make sure that this world is maintained in justice. So you could see why people would start to derive the conclusion that perhaps he's inactive. That perhaps he does not keep his promises. But I assure you, however, that he does. The answer is not that he is not keeping his promises, it's the way in which he does so, which is the way of patience. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise. This is how Peter explains this situation. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, but is long-suffering toward us, because he is not willing that anyone should perish. But that all should come to repentance. Now let me ask you. As we're looking and going all the way back, because it's the eternal Christ that we're talking about, and therefore we get to look at all of the biblical history and not just the New Testament, what biblical examples could you give me of God's patience within the context of justice? What examples come to mind to demonstrate His long suffering is in the context of justice. That's all I'm really trying to prove to you right now. Could we not recite his patience with Cain? What about the whole world during the time of Noah? We read in the New Testament that Noah was a preacher of righteousness. Which means he was telling people, he was warning them of the coming judgment. That means that there was a time when God was withholding the flood, he was holding all of the waters that would come up from the deep All of the waters that would drop from the sky. He was holding the torrent back, waiting for just a sign of repentance across the face of the earth. And there was none who listened to Noah. Not one listened to the preachers of righteousness except those who boarded that vote. And couldn't we remember all of the warnings and the chances that he gave to Pharaoh and that he gave to God? Egypt. What about Israel's wanderings in the wilderness? Is there a list of long suffering that we see present within the eternal Christ in the book of Judges that we just studied? Was he not long? What about in the Chronicles of the Kings? What about all the prophets that God sent to his vineyard Israel, consummating, even in the sending of his own sons, the great prophet? How here's one for you. Now we've we've we've really at this point covered all of the Old and the New Testament, and let's move now into the work of Christ that is not inscripturated. Let me ask you this. Since the ascension of Jesus Christ, how many preachers has Jesus Christ sent into the world to warn people of the coming judgment? The sending of the preacher is a demonstration and manifestation of patience. Because if he was not patient, there would be no sending of the preacher. He would just execute the acts. I just wonder if we still use scrolls, which I think we should go back to. How long would the scroll be if you recorded every act of patience of the Lord Jesus Christ in the context of justice? As a king, surely the eternal Christ has a history of patience that is always located on the table of justice. Now that is a history of patience, and I'd encourage you, it's actually quite useful to go through the Psalms to see God's patience. Patience. Go through the rest of the scriptures and just try to focus on the patience of God. And though I won't get into this too much, may you be patient like Him. May we be like God in his patience. The second thing I'd like to bring out is the presence of patience. Not just the history, but the current presence of patience. Patience. As a church, we have an obligation to make sure that God's patience is known in the present also. Like Paul, we are made in God's providence to be his witnesses and a pattern of the long-suffering of Christ. Jesus. Every single one of you is an example of the patience of Jesus Christ. That He waited for you. That he waited for you and gave you opportunity to repent. That he sent you warnings and you heeded them. Now this has not to start in a few ways. It has to happen in a few ways that we would be a witness, a continual witnessing, a witness of the long suffering of Christ Jesus. I have two main ways that I want to give you and then we'll close. The first main way that the church has to remain a witness for the long s of the long suffering of Jesus Christ is that the church must maintain that patience and long suffering are in fact situated within the justice of God. One of the most tragic things that is happening right now is that it has been mislocated. Right now, the wider church does not believe that Christ will hold everyone accountable. They've stopped believing that. There's no judgment in their talk. Christ is viewed as inactive, mostly because I think they consider him dead, and he is only alive in the spirit of his teachings. So there's a reworking, a metaphorical reworking of what the Bible actually says there. These are mainline churches that are holding us. They have no real sense of a created order. What they see when they look out onto the world is Plato. Plato that can be formed and shaped in any way that they desire. Though it may come in a pre-packaged form, such as male or female, it makes no difference through technology. We may now reshape it. There are no limits. Now it is within that cultural mindset that the church no longer warns people of a coming judgment. But they only accommodate to the current fashions. They're no longer warning of a coming judgment, but accommodating to the current fashions. I think that perhaps in the 80s and the 90s the church was being patient because they thought that the world was actually doing something wrong and that they would be held accountable for it. But now when I look at the church, large swap, this is a large brushstroke, I'm not talking about every single church, but large brushstrokes of the church no longer believe that the world is even doing anything. Wrong. What their job now is to do is to accommodate and to make room for other people who are different than us. Do you see how tragic that belief is? Look at that belief and all of the actions that would come from it, if there really is a judgment. The whole world, by way of the church, would be further misled until there is this astounding moment when they all realize that they're wrong. Unfortunately, the way that the rhetoric goes is to tell someone the truth about the judgment. and the true nature of true long-suffering and patience being couched with injustice is no longer considered loving. What is considered loving is to accommodate. But I'm here to remind you and to remind me that it is not loving to fail to warn people away from the day of accountability. I cannot think at this moment of anything more cruel than you not to tell somebody of what will happen. That every deed will be did in its dessert. That this cosmos is undergirded by justice, by the just one, is how the name New Testament talks about it and how Paul talks to the Romans about it. It's no wonder he gave him that title there, the just one. I want you to imagine with me a moment I want you to imagine with me a day when Jesus Christ arrives and he gives to every person what they deserve. I want you to imagine if that there is the that you decided that you were going to join the church in this large movement that it's doing where it's just going to accommodate and redefine Everything. Where it's no longer going to warn. It's going to drop the idea of the supernatural. It's going to drop the idea of judgments. It's going to drop the idea of accountability. It's going to rework the limits of what it means to transgress something to where it's meaningless. Why don't you imagine that you joined them even in a little way and you You have a friend, you have a family member who stands there at the judgment, who realizes in that moment that actually they are going to be held accountable for every thought and word and deed that they have have ever done. And they look at you and they say, Why did not you tell me this was going to happen to me? Now I understand that this is just a imaginative scenario. And I understand that they would need to be held accountable themselves because even if you said it to them, there's a possibility that they would not have listened or they would have heard and rejected But what if you're also in the situation where you never said a word as to what the future holds? I thank God that it is not up to us. I thank God that Jesus Christ is in charge. But I do not think that the by me raising that question and talking about Jesus Christ in charge removes us from our responsibility. Responsibility. Don't you think that if that person asked you that question, you would realize that you have done one of the most cruel things in the world? Who in that moment will think that your American accommodation and tolerance was an act of love and compassion? I want you for a moment to evaluate your entire life in this regard in the face of the eschatological that will happen to every human being, whether alive or dead. That is where all terms are defined correctly We will see if your accommodation and your tolerance was actually an act of love and compassion, or if it was an act of cowardice and hate. Instead, I think you will realize in that moment, even if you receive salvation, even if you're allowed in the gates of heaven, I think you will realize you were just one of the gates. Of the most cruel people in all the world. Now, the second thing that we must realize in order to be a witness to the long-suffering of Jesus Christ. We've got to make sure we still we that we couch long suffering within terms of justice and that therefore we would talk about warning people of the judgment that is to come That is a part of what it means to be a healthy church. But there is a second one. Now, once the church actually is attentive to what our job is, As servants of the Lord, and we begin to confess the truth about justice and judgment and patience in the context of justice. There's a second thing that we have to happen, that has to happen. We're able to fall off on two ends. We can become accommodating or or we can become unmerciful And that's the second part, is that we, even though when we are ready to give warnings, we must not fall off on the other side by absolutely condemning any group of people. Now, what I mean by condemnation is there's no hope for you. There's no hope for you. The church is not permitted in the economy of salvation. Until the Lord returns, to ever take that posture with anybody, we must always be willing to offer patience as long as Jesus Christ. Christ is offering patience. And this is where you can really use the pattern of Paul. If Jesus Christ is willing to show mercy, To Paul, then Jesus Christ is willing to show mercy and therefore look for repentance in the worst of sinners today. And we have no other option but to do the same. Your job is essentially this. You are to offer them the opportunity of repentance and knowledge of me until I tell you to stop. And until I hear stop. We can't stop. The church therefore cannot condemn, in the way that I'm defining it, or treat sinners today. As if they have no hope. Because as long as we are in the midst of the plan of salvation, there is hope. We must always, therefore, in this age, extend to them the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. And just look and see if in that final moment they're finally going to repent so that Jesus Christ can give them the hand of mercy. We must always pray for their repentance. We're actually getting ready to get into that in 1 Timothy. We must always pray for their repentance. We must always posture ourselves. This is of the utmost importance We must always posture ourselves so that they know, and this is extremely difficult. We must always posture ourselves so that the world knows that Jesus Christ has not given up on them. Sometimes the church postures itself, and if we're a witness of the attitude of Jesus Christ, it looks like Jesus is sick and To death by them and wants nothing to do with them. And that is not the posture that he's in. He is looking for those who will repent and kiss the son that he might offer mercy. That, as Peter said, no one should perish. That is the kind of God that we have. It's the kind of Christ that we have, and we should not misrepresent him. That is to take his name in vain Have you been cruel through your accommodation? I understand that there are probably hundreds of professors at at this point that will make arguments to make what we all know is unrighteous to make it look like it's righteous. Everybody's doing a great job right now showing what's actually evil to appear as if it's good. Have you bought into it? And in buying into that even a little bit, have you become cruel because you've begun to accommodate yourself? to this world. Are you failing to warn them of the judgment to come? Are you failing to hold human beings responsible, even before their God? Or do you fall on the other side of the track? Have you given up hope on those whom Christ is still offering the hand of mercy? Are you giving up hope on those on whom Christ is still exercising patience and longsome? That's important if we want to be a healthy church. My prayer is that we would instead be a healthy congregation by situating patience within the framework of justice. That's going to require some And my prayer also is that we would encourage people to repent as long as God's patience lasts. And it is my prayer, therefore, and I hope your prayer that we would by doing these things have another mark that we are a healthy church. The mark that we are witnesses to the long suffering of our eternal Lord. May God make it so. Oh no. Let us pray. Oh Lord Jesus Christ, we have so much to learn about how youth Conduct yourself within this world. And today we've learned about you and your patience. We pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would help us to situate our patience and your patience within the larger context context of what you're doing and obligating yourself to the order of this creation We ask, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would not let us give into the temptation to accommodate the evil, to take away the judgment. To remove from our lips warning. We pray, Lord, that you would give us the grace of courage and resolve. We pray, Lord, that you would supply us with more and more arguments. showing the reality of your coming judgment. We ask, Lord, that this knowledge of yourself Would cling to the hearts of those who are under your wrath, that they would turn, that they would look to you in knowledge and ask you for mercy And we ask, Lord, that you would grant it. We ask that by the power of your Holy Spirit you would effectually apply all of the work of your salvation. That you would grant them an inheritance among the rest of the saints. Oh, and Lord, we pray that you would do this even among the worst of sinners across the earth. world. We ask, Lord Jesus Christ, for your long suffering to them and that it would lead to repentance and not the storing up of faith. Further wrath unto the day of the Lord Jesus Christ. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. Amen.