God's Word now as we continue in the book of Deuteronomy, and we're going to stand for the reading of His Word. Well today we're looking at chapter 5, verses 22 through 6. 3. The title of our sermon is A Consuming Fire. Beginning in verse 22. These words the Lord spoke to all your assembly in the mountain from the midst of the fire, the cloud, and the thick darkness, and a loud voice And he added no more. And he wrote them on two tablets of stone and gave them to me. So it was when you heard the voice from the midst of the darkness while the mountain was burning with fire, that you came near to me, all the heads of your tribes and your elders, and you said, Surely the Lord our God has shown us his glory and his greatness, and we have heard his voice from the midst of the fire We have seen this day that God speaks with man, yet he still lives. Now, therefore, why should we die? For this great fire will consume us. If we hear the voice of the Lord our God any more, then we shall die. For who is there of all flesh who has heard the voice of the living God speaking from the midst of the fire as we have and lived? You go near and hear all that the Lord our God may say, and tell us all that the Lord our God says to you, and we will hear and do it. Then the Lord heard the voice of your words when you spoke to me, and the Lord said to me, I have heard the voice of the words of this people which they have spoken to you. They are right in all that they have spoken. Oh, that they had such a heart in them that they would fear me and always keep all my commandments, that it might be well with them and with their children forever Go and say to them, Return to your tents. But as for you, stand here by me, and I will speak to you all the commandments, the statutes, and the judgments which you shall teach them, that they may observe them in the land which I am giving them to possess. Therefore you shall be careful to do as the Lord your God has commanded you. You shall not turn aside to the right hand or to the left. You shall walk in all the ways which the Lord your God has commanded you That you may live and that it may be well with you, and that you may prolong your days in the land which you shall possess. Now this is the commandment, and these are the statutes and the judgments which the Lord your God has commanded to teach you That you may observe them in the land which you are crossing over to possess, that you may fear the Lord your God to keep all his statutes and his commandments, which I command you, you and your son and your grandson, all the days of your life And that your days may be prolonged. We'll we'll end there before going into the Shema. Please pray with me. Father, there are many voices in our lives. It is our prayer that we would hear your voice above all others And that we would hear it with great reverence and fullness of heart. We ask for this even this morning. Make it so, Lord Jesus Christ We have many things going on in the service today, including the Lord's Supper, and so this is your introduction. Are you ready? Okay, great. Here we go. There are three main things I want us to see from the passage today. There's basically three voices. The voice of the people, the voice of God, and the voice of Moses the mediator. And that's how we're going to look through all of the verses of this passage under those three main headings. And so let's begin in verse 23 with the voice of the people. Follow along with me here. I'm in 523. So it was when you heard the voice from the midst of the darkness. And you'll notice by the time he gets to 24, there's a quote from the people. And they're making a request to Moses. In 23, the setting is redescribed. Remember, this is an account that Moses is giving of what happened in the past, and he's giving it to a new generation. He's giving it in such detail and so well, it seems like it's happening right there in the moment. But this is a past event that he's relaying to them. And he places an emphasis on this part of the description on the voice of the people. It was like a congregational meeting by those who were in charge, got together and decided to go and to speak to Moses. And they decided to speak as representatives of the whole nation. And they voiced two main concerns as we see the setting here. First, in verse 24, we have uh seen God's glory and his greatness, they say. And we are surprised to still be alive is the sentiment. That's the first thing. were how terrified they were to even place a foot on the mountain because of the fire and the smoke and the loud voice And so they, in getting together, go to Moses and they relate to them that we are very surprised to still be alive. This must have been a wild experience. When I say wild, I mean it in the same way as wild animals Wild animals are differentiated from domesticated animals in that the one kind of animal cannot be tamed or controlled, and the other one can. In other words, the fire on the mountain, the clouds, the darkness, the loud voice, they let the people know that they were in an uncontrollable situation. What could they possibly do to control a God like that? Who could set a whole mountain on fire? The fire on the mountain and the clouds and the loud voice were extremely uncomfortable. There was a kind of power and holiness. That was present that they had not witnessed before and made them shake to the core. You can see a similar situation as people experienced Jesus in the revelation of his glory. His power, his untamableness. Listen to this from Luke 8, 22 through 25, and think about it in terms of the Chesapeake Bay, if you want, or the Severn River. Now it happened on a certain day that he got into a boat with his disciples, and he said to them, Let us cross over to the other side of the lake. And they launched out, but as they sailed, he fell asleep. And a windstorm came down on the lake, and they were filling with water, and were in jeopardy. And they came to him and awoke, saying, Master, Master, we are perishing. Then he arose, rebuked the wind, and the raging of the water, and they ceased, and there was a calm. But he said to them, Where is your faith? And they were afraid and marveled, saying to one another, Who can this be? For he commands even the winds and the water, and they obey him. It's an interesting story because it did you notice that it compares two untamable things. First, there's the untamable weather. We're very familiar with that. Have you ever been in an untamable moment of weather? a tornado or a hurricane or struck out on the bay in a boat you never should have been on. These were fishermen in that situation, and so the storm must have been pretty bad, I'm sure. I have a friend who is a local waterman, crabs right out in the Chesapeake Bay, and when he tells me that the waters were bad, it was bad. This must have been bad for them You realize your smallness and your weakness very quickly when a squall picks up on an open body of water. As humans we use meteorology to predict storms, but we have no science to predict Control them, isn't that true? You compare that to the second untamable that's in the actual boat. Notice that they were afraid of the storm, but then their fear turned toward him who calmed the storm. The storm is still, but the disciples are still terrified because of the raw and undomesticated, the wild power of Jesus Christ. The elders and the tribal leaders in this passage experienced some kind of wild equivalence. Jesus just calmed the storm. God sent a set a mountain on fire and spoke with a loud voice from it. And they said, Surely we have seen his glory. But they also said something else. The national leaders voiced that they did not want to go through that experience again, and who could blame them? I recently was stuck inside of a virtual world called Oculus Rift where you put these goggles on and it was very scary and I don't really ever want to do it again. Unless it's not a horror one. That was just a fake experience. This is a real experience. I could imagine the disciples being in that storm and never wanting to be in a storm again. Moses records the reasoning here within the scriptures. He says that they feel blessed to have escaped with their lives the first time. And they don't want to take a second chance. Instead, they would rather Moses keep meeting with God and just mediate their responsibilities to them. You can actually find the exact words in verse 27. Take a look there. This is a momentous occasion within their history to establish a mediator. You go near And hear all that the Lord our God may say. And tell us all that the Lord our God says to you, and we will hear, and then we'll do it. You can see the distance that they're trying to create from this difficult experience. Now that's the voice of the people. It's the basic setting after God gave the Ten Commands. The people speak of their fear and their request for a mediator so they don't have to interact with him directly in his untamable power. And the disciples, even in the New Testament, felt that about Christ as he revealed his glory in different ways. That's the voice of the people. Then we turn to 28 through 31, we move from this basic setting that is given to us in the voice of the people. To the voice of God. And so let's take a look at this together. It starts in verse 28. He says here: Then the Lord heard or overheard the voice of their words When you spoke to me, and the Lord said to me, and now we have this dialogue between the Lord and Moses, and thus the voice of God. And notice his focus in verse 29: what God highlights He says, Oh, that they had such a heart in them that they would fear me and always keep all my commandments, that it might be well with them and their children forever. The untamableness that God had revealed to them was always for a purpose. It was for the purpose of them having the right kind of fear in order for them to respond to his grace in the exact right way. And that's what God communicates here. He was quite pleased that they were treating him with such reverence. As one commentator adds, God expresses a wish that the Israelites would never lose their present reverential disposition toward him. Now you have to remember again that these are words from the past In order for a present jet generation to hear for their future, this is the motivational speech given by Moses to a new group of people that they might obey. That they might continue to follow the Lord. And you could think of yourself in some way as hearing this as they an even newer generation And so when you hear the Lord emphasize and focus on the fear of the Lord, doesn't that give you a clue as to what needs to be a major part in an emphasis of your own life The fear of the Lord. That you should know what that means and that it should be a part of who you are. It's a major motivational component of this. You know it's a complicated phrase. You know, you can't break the phrase the fear of the Lord up and then glue it back together with meaning. In the same way that you, if you want to understand a butterfly, you can't take butter and then fly and then understand a butterfly. butterfly. It's different than that. You have to look through the scriptures. When you look through the scriptures, this is a great summary by a Puritan C. Bridges. He does justice to all of the word studies. He says, the fear of the Lord is that affectionate reverence by which the child of God bends himself humbly and carefully to his father's. Law. I want you to listen to that again because there's some key words in that. The fear of the Lord is that affectionate reverence by which the child of God bends himself humbly and carefully to his father's law. Did you notice what he did? He spoke about us as children and about God as our Father. Does that seem misplaced for you in the midst of fire, a loud voice, and smoke? It's not. He truly understands what's going on here. I believe that that is I chose that quote because it's the most accurate thing to do within this moment to understand the Remember, we just had the fifth command. Honor your mother and your father. God sometimes uses the word honor and fear interchangeably. You could say fear your father and your mother It's used that way throughout the scriptures. Listen to Leviticus 19:3. Every one of you shall revere or fear his mother and his father. The word is substituted. The Hebrew word is substituted in that context. For the same word that we see within the fifth command. Now, I want you to take in your scriptures and flip to Deuteronomy 32, verse 6. I want you to see a very, very important passage that helps you to understand this entire book. After all of this fire, after all of this smoke, after all of this loud voice, this is how God still wants us to think of Him. 32 verse 6 of Deuteronomy. Do you thus deal with the Lord, O foolish and unwise people? Is he not your father? Who bought you? Has he not made you and established you? That sounds very much like the preface to the Ten Commandments, doesn't it? He wants to be known as father throughout. And so that really gives us a deeper sense of what's going on here with the fear of the Lord, since fear and reverence and child and father are all related. God was pleased because they feared him as children should fear their father. In this context, it's best understood as the relationship of God as Father. When you take fire, smoke, and loud voice in the concept of fire, you end up with a very complex relationship, don't you? It's sort of what Rob was saying during the confession portion. Our heavenly father is hallowed in a unique way from all other fathers. On the one hand, it it's captured by C. S. Lewis in the Narnia series well, isn't it, when he says Uh he has this this dialogue that happens within his narrative. The children were curious about Aslan and they asked the beaver, is Aslan safe? Be a figure of Christ who is God. And the beaver replies, No, but he is good. Something similar should happen when you look at the mountain. And there's fire that has descended in smoke and the loud voice. It's not safe But we know that that last part is so important, but he is good, and that starts to bring out the fatherly influence that is a part of that in his role. From the fire and the smoke also come grace and tenderness, as he tells us not to murder one another, but to allow our lives to flourish, to stand up for family and marriage. That he released us from slavery, it's all grace pouring out from the fire. It's complicated. It's like nothing else on earth, our relationship to him. I remember finally starting to relate to my earthly father in the right way after many years of causing misery and grief to my father, and I won't go into the specifics because they're Actually, quite embarrassing. I returned after becoming a Christian, and I asked if he would sit at the table with me. And the only thing I could do at first was just cry before him I cried, and eventually some words came out of my mouth where I expressed my deepest sorrows for the way that I had treated him. Countless sleepless nights that I have put him through. And to this day, as I thought back, by God's grace, I am still honoring my earthly father. It is my My great delight to have a reverence and love in my heart for my earthly dad. It's because I want to love him. I hold him in the highest regard. I fear my Father. I'm not afraid of him, but I fear him. And that's what Jesus is teaching us to do through this passage. He taught us this also in his prayer. Our Father who is in heaven, hallowed or revered. is your name. May we fear our God. Notice that the voice of the people have spoken. They are very concerned. God's voice speaks up and says, I've overheard what they Said, they're right. They should be afraid, and I actually delight when people have a reverence for me as a father who speaks from the fire and from the smoke and with a loud voice, but they are words of grace. It's a complicated emotion, it's a complicated rationality. But we can hear God's voice. So that's the voice of the people, and that's God's voice. That's the emphasis that He gives. But there is also the voice of Moses. And that takes us down into his section. Moses really is anticipated through this entire progression. Take a look at verse 27 again. You go near and hear all that the Lord our God may say, and tell us all that the Lord our God says to you, and we will hear and do it. We need a little distance. We need somebody between us and God and God and us. That's in verse 27. It's already anticipated that Moses' voice is going to have to say something. When we turn to verse 28, take a look at verse 28 and 31. Then the Lord heard the voice of your words when you spoke to me, and the Lord said to me, I've heard their words. They are right in all that they have spoken. And then jump down to 31. But as for you, stand here by me and I will speak to you all the commandments. You see, he put it in the place. He told the people, return to the tents. I'm going to go ahead and accept your request. Moses will now be the mediator. I will speak to him, and then he will speak to you. And that's the progression that has been anticipated all through this. It's been trickling through, but it is directly here now, and it's the voice of Moses. Moses acts in his role as mediator. A mediator is a middleman. It's one who represents God to people and people to God. And in this context, the emphasis Is placed on Moses representing God to his people. As the mediator, Moses does more than repeat the Ten Commandments over and over again. To understand the rest of the book of Deuteronomy, you must understand Moses as mediator and what he is accomplishing. Moses is taking what he hears from God and he is repeating it verbatim, or writing it in stone and giving it to the people, but he is also in ex- Explaining it in applicatory detail for their time and for their space. And you will see that in the upcoming chapters. That's all his mediatorial role. You'll see this in the rest of Deuteronomy. He's going to apply it to different life situations. He's going to distill the essence of it in terms of love. He's going to motivate and stir them up. But for now, beginning in verse 32, as a kind of preface to all of this, he's going to give two main charges that I want to go through with you. It begins in verse 32, his first charge. He says to them, Therefore you shall be careful to do as the Lord your God has commanded you. You shall not turn aside to the right hand or to the left. You shall walk in all the ways which the Lord your God has commanded you. He begins by telling them to be careful. We've heard this word quite a bit. And this is then reinforced by a helpful metaphor. Did you notice the metaphor that's present within the passage that he uses to help you understand your Christian life? He's inspired by God, and Moses describes the Christian life as a path that you should not go off to the left, and you should not go off to the right. This is the nice thing about a path. A path marks the way to your destination. There's famous Christian literature called Pilgrim's Progress, and he's supposed to stay on the path until he gets to the celestial city. That's what's so good about the path, is you know where you're going, where your feet should trod. But the difficult thing about a path is that you get distracted and you like to take exit ramps. Oh that place looks great, take the exit. Oh that place looks great, takes the exit take the exit. That's if you haven't read Pilgrim's Progress, that's the entire book right there. You don't need to read it. He's on the path, but then he exits You still need to read it. Okay. Very good. Yeah. That's the difficult thing about a past. And that's a great metaphor for us. You can think of the original context here with the Israelites with religions, the surrounding nations and their gods. It's the concept Constant warning to them. Be careful. Do not go off the path by becoming attracted to these other gods. Lowercase G And their ways of life. It tempted them always to take the exit ramp, and they took the exit ramp many times They were tempted by other religions. This continued even in the days of Jesus with the New Testament. There was still the temptation to other gods. Even amongst the Roman Empire, there was a mystery cult and gods all through their culture But it also took a different form, where the national empire under Caesar wrongfully honored him as a god And now they were tempted not just against gods, but now to give themselves over to a country or to a nation and national And we still have those same temptations to leave our path. There are other religions. There are obvious ones like Islam or Buddhism There are those that even go by the name of Christian, like Pentecostal Prosperity Gospel that we see in third world countries. And you could even say that America sometimes acts like a Caesar. or an empire seeking to tempt us into its ways, its view of life and its purpose, how we should view money, power, sex, business, marriage, etc. There is a great indoctrination that could happen if you We wanted to be a child of this nation. And so we are tempted in all of those ways to go off of the path also. Now there's a second charge here too, once we get to chapter 6 in the first two verses. In his second charge, Moses fixes his attention on the fear of God, but he connects it to the younger generations. Notice. Now this is the commandment, and these are the statutes and the judgments which the Lord your God has commanded to teach you, that you may observe them in the land which you are crossing over to Possess, that you may fear the Lord your God to keep all of his statutes and commandments which I commanded you, you and your son and your grandson, all the days of your life, and that your days may be prolonged. There's now the fear of God in this charge, and it's now connected to the younger generations, and our responsibility is the older generation to instill the fear. I'm not going to spend a lot of time going through all of the words and doing that kind of exposition. I just want to ask you a question, because we'll exposit all of this in the upcoming chapters. Do the children around you know that you love and revere God? That's a question we must continually ask ourselves. I was reminded this morning of what a seminary professor of mine said, Dr. Michael Morales, those of you You know my seminary professor. Listen to this. It is a fearful reality that we pass on to our children not so much what we believe as what we A father may lead his household and family worship daily, but if his children's best memories With him are hooting and hollering over a ball game. We can be sure those children will grow up to hoot and holler over a ball game with their own children, but we can't be so sure they'll do anything with worship. And I'll state that again, just the top part. It is a fearful reality that we pass on to our children not so much what we believe. Believe as what we love. Amen. Moving forward into chapter six And the following chapters over the next week will fill us in the details. This is a kind of introduction to this whole next motivational speech that Moses is giving The people spoke. They were afraid and requested a mediator. God heard them and then he spoke. God emphasized and commended their reverence and he granted their request for a mediator. And Moses already in this chapter and will through the rest assumes the role of mediator. And he begins by giving us two charges, helping us to understand our Christian life through a path, and re-emphasizing. And over the next chapters, he will stay as mediator, explaining to this group of people and to us by the Holy Spirit that exact path that we are to Have within our own lives as we seek to follow the Lord. You know, it's interesting when you look at this and this word, does the word mediator shine off the page for you? We try to scatter it throughout our service bulletin because mediatorship is not just limited to Moses. We sit on the other side of Moses' death, and we have the opportunity to look beyond the book of Deuteronomy and beyond this speech. Moses promises, even in the book of Deuteronomy, that one greater than him would be sent. Have you ever thought about that in particular? Who is the greater one that would be sent ultimately besides Moses? You say Jesus, right? Of course, but have you thought about that specifically and uniquely and particularly within this context? In what specific way would Jesus be greater in this context? Isn't it the most exact thing to say that Jesus Christ will be a greater mediator than Moses? And wouldn't he be a mediator in the exact same sense in which they mean mediator throughout this entire book when referring to Moses? In other words, wasn't Moses making everyone aware that one day God the Father will send a mediator greater, to whom God the Father speaks to more greatly, who can speak to us more greatly than Moses ever could? Or any of the other mediators whom God met with or spoke to in a dream. That's Jesus in his precise light with this prophecy. God would meet with Moses, and Moses would tell the people God's thoughts. If Jesus is greater, Jesus is more in the way that God the Father meets with him, and he is greater in the way that he tells us God's thoughts. Listen to this from Hebrews 1:1 through 12, 1 through 2. God, who at various times and in various ways spoke in time past to the fathers by the prophets. Has in these last days spoken to us by his Son. This is the great truth of Christianity. God is not silent And he speaks to you particularly through Jesus. That's the great truth because, and now you can understand this more greatly because you have read this passage, because Jesus is the ultimate mediator He does not just ascend some mountain in the desert. Jesus comes from heaven itself to relate to you the exact thoughts that God wants to give to you. There is no better messenger, if you want to know what God says, than Jesus the Christ. That was the gospel. That is the good news that he has come down from heaven, from the heavenly mountain, and descended, and he's bringing the words to you. Today, we have to ask, do we receive the words of Jesus with less reverence and seriousness Then the Old Testament people received the words of Moses. It's a good question for us to ask, particularly within this culture. People think that Jesus is Some happy clappy hippie with long hair and Birkenstock sandals trudging through Jerusalem. And then he doesn't care what you do And if you do care what other people do, then you're a legalist. Now I want you to turn to the book of Hebrews very quickly. I want you to see this verse that we just studied used within the New Testament. We can begin in chapter twelve, verse eighteen. And we'll look at this very quickly. I want you to look at two main things. Let me read from 18 Tempest and the sound of a trumpet and the voice of words, so that those who heard it begged that the word should not be spoken to them any more. It's exactly what our passage is about. For if they could not endure what was commanded, and if so much as a beast touches the mountain it shall be stoned or shot with an arrow. And so terrifying was that sight that Moses said, I am exceedingly afraid and trembling. We look there and we say. There was some kind of terror that fell over people in the New Testament. But when we turn to the New Old Testament, when we turn to the New Testament, it's not like that anymore. But you have come to Mount Zion full of hippies and love. But we can't interpret it that way. Let me let me suggest this to you. This next paragraph is telling you If you were afraid at the mountain and had fear for God, then you should have an even greater fear now because Jesus Himself has spoken to you and not Moses. But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, to an innumerable company of angels, to the general assembly and the church of the firstborn. Who are registered in heaven, to God, the judge of all, to the spirits of just made just men made perfect, to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant. And then in verse 25, do not refuse him who speaks. See how he gets right back on the topic? For if they did not escape him who ref who spoke on earth, how much more will you speak? You escape from him who spoke from heaven. And if you still think Jesus is a hippie, go down to verse 29. He nails it all home and he says: do not forget, even in the New Testament, our God is a consuming fire. What am I trying to prove here for you? What is the application? We are to look at Moses the mediator to recognize that God had always planned that there was a greater mediator that he would put in place, and it is Jesus Christ. And you must take his words seriously, more seriously than they took the words of Moses. Really, it's the same seriousness because the words of Moses were the words of God, and the words of Jesus are the words of God. Do you refuse to hear God the Father through Jesus? Where have you left the path that Jesus has placed you on? Why don't you take his words seriously? Do you not realize that you have asked your whole life to receive what is actually true? And it has come to you from heaven in Jesus Christ's name. himself. Oh, that we would have such a heart that we would fear our Heavenly Father and always keep His commandments. And on this day, as I think about this, and I think of the ways in which I myself have even left the path, I still praise Jesus Christ that He not only comes down the mountain and explains What God has said, but that He gives me and He gives you His Holy Spirit, that our hearts would be transformed and we can learn to obey those words. This is Jesus Christ. Whenever you walk into this sanctuary, you will hear about his superiority and his greatness. And we have done so once again. I want to continue this in the Supper because he was not only a mediator for Moses, he was a mediator for the high priest Aaron. And we need to talk about it. So let's pray. Father, we thank you for these three voices that you've given to us: the voice of the people, your voice in accepting. That Moses should be mediator, and the voice of Moses once again reminding us that you would send you, Lord Jesus Christ, to be our great teacher. To be a teacher. That can send us a spirit to where we actually would obey. We thank you, Lord Jesus Christ, for you for being our mediator. And we ask that you be with us now as we go forward in the supper. Amen.