Chapter eleven. Starting in verse twenty-seven. God's holy word for you, God's holy people. Then they came again to Jerusalem. And as he was walking in the temple, the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders came to him. And they said to him, By what authority are you doing these things? And who gave you this authority to do these things? But Jesus answered and said to them, I also will ask you one question. Then answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things. The baptism of John, was it from heaven or from men? Answer me And they reasoned among themselves, saying, if we say from heaven, he will say, why then did you not believe him? But if we say from men, they feared the people. For all counted John to have been a prophet indeed. So they answered and said to Jesus, We do not know. And Jesus answered and said to them, Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things. Please pray with me. Almighty Lord, we come to you and to your word. We need to hear from your word. You have given it to us that we would not be left without a light in this world. And so we beg you, Holy Spirit, use this word that you have recorded. that you have preserved, that you have brought into our lives, use it for your purposes. That it would reveal the darkness in our own hearts, and that it will help us to see the path, the narrow path, the path of righteousness that you would have us walk on. Help us to see Christ in this passage. We beg you in his name. Amen. Please be seated. There's a famous quote from G. K. Chesterton. He says the Christian ideal has not been tried and found wanting. It has been found difficult and left untried. We must ask ourselves, why do so many reject Christianity? Why do so many people in the world reject Christ? Perhaps we should ask ourselves, why do we question Christ? Why do we at times doubt our Lord Jesus? Why do we sometimes doubt His Word? In our study through Mark so far, we have been seeing all along that Jesus is the Christ. He is the Son of the living God. He is the Messiah, the long-awaited. Mark has not been lax in the examples that he gives us. From the very beginning, he's been showing us. And we've been seeing these. They're kind of like a photo album, like snapshots of Jesus' life and his ministry. Can you think of some of the things that we have examined together that show us that Jesus is the Son of God? He came preaching the gospel. Repent and believe. The time is at hand. The time is near. He was baptized. Do you remember something extraordinary that happened after this baptism? God the Father Himself spoke and said, This is my beloved Son. The Spirit of God. Drove him, drove Jesus into the wilderness where he would then be tempted by Satan. And after he came from the wilderness Mark continually tells us that everyone is amazed at his teaching. Do you remember the phrase that Mark uses? He teaches as one who has authority. Jesus taught and did not rest his teaching on someone else's thoughts. He did not rest his teaching on other rabbis or the learned experts. He taught as one who had true authority. And it's been helpful for us that Pastor Jesse's been taking us through the Sermon on the Mountain, what he pointed out this morning. That Jesus, in his authority as the Son of God, is allowed. He has the right to change your understanding or what you thought was your understanding. about what he commands. And this morning we saw that we may have thought that we were all free of guilt in the sixth commandment. But by Jesus' teaching, what have we found? There is none. There is none righteous. No, not one. None of us are guiltless when it comes to the sixth commandment, and it's the same is true of all the other commandments. None of us is guiltless. In our most recent excursion in Mark, we saw that God is really expecting that our faith will bear fruit, real fruit. He was expecting fruit from that fig tree, if you recall. And he was expecting the fruit of faithfulness from his people, from his house, from his temple. We must not be mistaken that the fruit that comes from faith in God is somehow from us. Doing these good works, producing this fruit, that's not what saves us. It's not the source of our salvation, is it? But it is the result of our salvation. Having faith, being given faith by God, means that we will produce the fruits of faith in our lives. The source of faith is God Himself. And we saw that in Mark when he took us. To that mount. And he asked the question of his disciples. And he asked, who do men say that I am? And when the confession of who he really is came out, do you remember what he said? This was not from men. It was not from himself. But when Peter confessed that he was the Christ, the Son of the living God, he said that it came from his Father. The source of faith is God above. But what is the source of faithlessness? What is the source of unbelief? Or another way to ask it is what is the source of doubt? Have you ever given that much thought? It's an important question. Because not only will we encounter many in our lives who will doubt Jesus Christ. And who will doubt what we tell them about Jesus Christ. But at times in your own life, you may find yourself doubting him, doubting his words. And so I rejoice that God has given us this passage, preserved it for us. Because it teaches us that doubting Jesus Christ is not because of a lack of information. But a rejection of God's authority. This is true in the world and this will be true in us. That doubting Jesus Christ is not because of a lack of information. But indeed it is a rejection of God's authority. We're going to look at this in three ways tonight. First, we're going to look at Jesus being questioned. We'll see this in verses twenty-seven through twenty-eight. We'll look at Jesus' answer To the question in verses 29 and 30. And then we will see together that the reason the reason for their doubt is revealed. So let's jump right into it. And we see Jesus being questioned in verses 27 through 28. Then they came again to Jerusalem. Remember he has entered the city, he entered the city as as the son of David, entering his own home. He didn't come with legions of angels to conquer the city, he was welcomed into it. And he had gone into the temple in Jerusalem, his father's house, and he had cleansed it. And so here we are in another day, having come again to Jerusalem. And as he was walking in the temple The chief priests, the scribes, and the elders came to him, and they said to him, By what authority are you doing these things? And who gave you this authority to do these things? The when of their question is very significant. Jesus didn't just emerge on the scene, did he? He's been around for a little while. He has been doing a lot of amazing things and teaching a lot of amazing things and changing lives in amazing ways. He's even raised some from the dead He's cleansed lepers of their leprosy. That's not something that these men could have ever done. He's restored sight to the blind, like Bartimaeus. Son of the unclean. Is that something that these chief priests and scribes and elders could have done? No. So we have to ask ourselves, why are they asking this question now? After Jesus has done these things, after all that he has done and said Well obviously it's because of what has most recently occurred. It was okay to ignore Jesus while he was out there. But now he has come into Jerusalem. He's coming to the temple. And in essence, he's messed with the money. Can't mess with the money. He is really shaking things up. I I couldn't help but imagining. Now the scriptures don't tell us exactly what happened after he cleansed the temple. I couldn't help but imagine that they probably didn't just stop everything altogether. And it was not like he was in the temple and it was totally free of these things, but I do imagine that there was a different aura and atmosphere going on As these priests were carrying those vessels and implements for what they were doing, the duty that they had been given, I wonder if they weren't quite so bustly Shuffling around and running from here to there. I wonder if it was quieter. If there was an air of respect and reverence happening in the temple. What we do know is that Jesus was able to walk around it He's walking. And as he's walking, he's teaching. He's teaching them. And so as we know, as Mark has shown us, it's always crowds of people following Jesus wherever he goes. It's not as though it was just Jesus and eleven guys walking around the temple. I imagine whoever was there was following him. And so imagine yourself in that crowd. Perhaps you hadn't known who Jesus was Perhaps you had just come to Jerusalem and this was your you know your first time hearing this. Wow things are a little different this year. Last year was really off the chain in the temple This year everything's really kind of quiet. Who's that guy walking around? And so you start falling to the crowd and you you're listening to him teach. And you're saying to yourself, who is this guy? This is an amazing teacher, obviously from God. Obviously, listen to how he teaches Now imagine you're there and you're hearing this and you're watching the crowds and you say this is oh wow this is a really special thing and then all of a sudden A large group of men are making a beeline through the temple, towards the crowd and towards Jesus And I say a large group of men because what we have here, the chief priests, the scribes, the elders, this makes up the ruling body of the Jews, known as the Sanhedrin. And there were typically 70 members of that group. Now we don't know if it was all of them there, but it was enough, I'm sure. And they didn't just walk around. Yeah, the chief priests didn't show up into the temple wearing jeans and a t-shirt. They had a uniform. They had vestments. They had roads. They had roads that communicated something. Communicated their official capacity. As those with authority in that place. And so imagine you're there in the crowd of Jesus and you see the authorities coming at you, coming directly to Jesus. And you're wondering to yourself, well, why why this stern looks this is amazing. I've never been in a temple where it's in this this worshipful. But what what's happening there? And they come to Jesus. And what are they going to do? Perhaps they're going to do like they did in Mark 3. Do you remember what they did when Jesus had cast out a demon? They said Oh, this this isn't real power. This is this is not from God. Obviously not. Couldn't be. It says by the power of the Elzeb that he cast out the Elzebad. And at that moment Jesus revealed that he is genius. Do you remember what he said to them at that time? The house divided against itself can't stand. If Satan's empowering his servants to fight against him, well then Satan is defeated. That's great. Perhaps they were coming at him and they were going to make an accusation like that, but that's not what they do, is it? These authorities over the Jewish people, they come And they're gonna ask some questions. And what they ask is significant. By what authority are you doing these things? And who gave you this authority to do these things? Do you guys hear the real question behind that? It's passive aggression, isn't it? They don't actually want to know They're saying something with their question. And what they're essentially saying is, Who do you think you are? What right do you have to come in here? What right do you have to come and shake up everything that we've been doing? Do you not see this robe? Do you not see the tassel? Have you not seen the things? This is our authority You come and question our authority? It's a loaded question. And we have a lot of experience with this, don't we? That's pretty much every interaction that you'd see on the internet or any kind of debate that happens out there, nobody's really wanting truth from each other. What do they want to do? They ask a question that's kind of a veiled insult. It's a loaded question. I'm going to ask a question seeking to discredit you. Because then you're going to say something that obviously everyone will hate I'm gonna ask you I'm gonna ask you how many genders there are. And your answer is gonna show that I now have a right to reject everything you say because I disagree with you Or maybe the other way, they're gonna ask someone like us how many genders there are, so that we will say the truth. And then they can say, look at how terrible you are, you unloving terrible person. And this is the same thing that was happening here. They wanted to discredit Jesus Christ, which shows that they were just they're just not honest with themselves. And I find it very fascinating. Jesus publicly challenged them when he came in and he told them, Is this not to be a house of prayer for all nations? Yet you have made it a den of thieves. And he clears them out. It's a public challenge to their authority. And so look at what they're doing now. They're going to publicly challenge his authority. And so again, like in Mark chapter 3, when they told him, you must have, you're working for the devil, casting out the devil, he answers and shows the genius. The genius logic of the Logos. He who is logic in me, personally. Uses logic and catches them into a trap. He says, verse 29, but Jesus answered and said to them, I will also, I also will ask you one question. Then answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things. Notice that he's not rejecting their question. He's just rejecting their assumption that they have any right to question him. He says, no, I will I'll answer you, but you're going to answer me first. And he doesn't walk into their trap. He turns it back on them. He exercises true authority. Do you notice some things about true authority here? How um how defensive is Jesus being? Can you tell? Do you f do you get the impression that he's threatened by these men? Do you get the impression that their questions are causing him to doubt himself? No. True authority doesn't get defensive. It doesn't need to. Real authority doesn't have to defend itself. Real authority is there. Real authority is there whether other people recognize it or not. So I want to encourage you, husbands and fathers Doesn't matter what the world has been telling you, you actually do have authority as the head of your household. You really do. You don't need to feel threatened if it's ever questioned or doubted. You don't need to feel threatened if it's doubted or questioned by your children. You don't need to feel threatened or defensive if it's questioned by your spouse. You need to exercise it in a way that Christ exercises true authority. And he's already told us, and I love that we've gone all the way through Mark together. Remember he says how we exercise true authority in the kingdom of God? We don't lord it over others as the world does. True authority means you are the servant of all. It means you put yourself last, and you put others before you. You don't need to stand on your authority as the head of your household to say that everyone now must serve me. Rather, you can exercise that true authority that God has actually given you in the same way that Christ does. By serving. He doesn't feel threatened by a challenge to his authority, and then he answers them with the question of his own. Just the genius of it. I love it. The baptism of John? Was it from heaven or from men? Answer me. To answer me here is is a command. It's not like a hey if you want to answer. No. He has the authority to demand that they respond to him first. And his question shows the real nature of their question, doesn't it? They don't really care. They're not really asking. You know, they're not they're not thinking that some other Sanhedrin got together and uh voted. You know, there was a motion and a second, and they all voted to to grant Jesus the authority of a parapatic teacher, a teacher who walks around and And really riles things up. That's not what they're asking. What they're really asking is, who gave you authority over us? We understand authority. How dare you think that you have authority over us? Or that whatever authority you do have is higher than ours. We need to understand that what people say is their problem with Jesus, it isn't always the actual problem, is it? Right here, it could seem like uh a lack of understanding. They're just they just don't they're just confused. We're just confused where your authority comes from Or a lack of information. How many times have you heard that one? Right? There's just not enough info about Jesus. I just if if I had more data I could I could decide. I could make a good rational choice No, Jesus' counter question and what Mark shares with us as their response reveals the real reason that they doubt Jesus Christ. So we see this in verses 31 through 33 together. And they reasoned among themselves, saying If we say from heaven, he will say, Why then did you not believe him? But if we say from men, they feared the people. For all counted John to have been a prophet indeed. The way that they are thinking shows us that they're no dummies. This is not faulty logic, is it? It's not faulty reasoning. Do you see what they're saying? They're smart. They're real smart. They're not playing dumb, even amongst themselves. They're showing That their reasoning is very, very dishonest. And they're being dishonest with themselves and with each other. This whole thing has been a big display of their dishonesty. They want to try to catch Jesus They want to try to catch him by implying that he doesn't have real authority. They want to think we have a legitimate reason for rejecting this guy. We have a legitimate reason for doubting who he has claimed to be. And this is exactly what people do, isn't it? People come up with all these reasons why they can't believe that Jesus is real. The Bible is just a man-made book, just written by men, right? Men are fallible. Men are men have problems And then added a whole bunch of stuff, took a whole bunch of stuff out? There's no reason to believe it. Is that a genuine question? If we had seven, eight more hours, I think I could go into all the reasons why it's not But I simply point out that when we do look at the copies of the scriptures that we have now, the earliest manuscripts, they match. There's very little variation. And when we talk about like in the New Testament and all the different variants that are there The vast majority, 99% of all of the changes or differences are spelling, spelling related. Which makes sense, because if you went back and you read Shakespeare when he wrote Shakespeare, none of those words would look the same as the way they do in the, you know, most recent edition that was printed. The English language has changed Spelling has changed. The Bible has not changed. Those kinds of differences. That doesn't give you a good reason to just throw it all out as though it doesn't matter or has no authority. There's an interesting thing that happens here too. You see the fear of the people? I wonder how many people you know doubt Jesus or reject Jesus because of their fear of others. Are they afraid how people will see them? Ask yourself, do you ever doubt Jesus because you're afraid of how people will receive you? Do you doubt the power of the gospel when somebody comes to you and is hurting and their life is falling apart? Do you doubt it? And say, you know, I can't even offer that. That's just gonna sound like a platitude. That's just gonna sound like I'm I'm trying to tell them that that thing everything will just be alright. Instead, you should share with them the reality that everything will be alright for those who are in Christ Jesus. God himself took on flesh. He came in the form of a bondservant. He submitted himself to the Father's will, even to death on a cross. The statement of the gospel itself has authority. Because it's real. You don't have to answer every objection that everybody has to the gospel. Sharing it, believing it. Sometimes that's enough. But remember it's not they don't reject Christ because of a lack of information. So you don't need to say all the things that you've heard from a pulpit. You don't even need to go into why we can trust the canon. You don't need to go into those things with people because their rejection of Christ is not based on an actual rational objection. If they're honest with themselves. They are afraid to recognize God's authority. They're afraid to say that there is someone else who has a right to tell me how to live. There is someone else who has a right to decide for me where I will go and what I should do. There is a person who exists who has a right to define sexuality for me, to define how I understand my body. To define how I use my body. You know there is someone who lives and exists who has a right to tell you that you should save yourself for marriage The world will tell you that that person is you. You get to do whatever you want to do. But there is an authority who has a right to tell you how to live and how to be. And all of our doubts, even as Christians, and this is important, you may have doubts of your own, even as someone who is saved You doubt that what is happening in your life is is good? It's a good thing. It's a good thing to lose your job When that happens, that's hard. It's a good thing that the dream has not come true. Only God knows exactly what he is doing. And God's authority, his absolute and total supreme authority, means he has a right to come in and clear out your temple. He has a right to come in and completely change how you have thought about yourself and about what you're doing here. He has a right to do that. A couple weeks ago when we were looking at that uh first chapter of Colossians, we saw, oh, where does that right come from? Well Jesus Christ is God. Jesus Christ created all the universe, all that is, has been made through him. He has a right to do with it as he pleases. He has a right to do with you as he pleases. There's something funny that happens in the Greek here. So they do their reasoning about John the Baptist. And in verse thirty three it says, So they answered and said to Jesus, We don't know. Well in English it just kinda sounds like they're saying, eh, we don't know. The way it's written specifically in the tense in the Greek, it's we have not known. As though we've been wondering how about this. We had no idea. We've been staying up all night. We're just a weird John Baptist. He did some great stuff. It was really cool. Look at all the people. We have no idea. Whoa. How dishonest. All the world, all of Israel was following after John to receive his baptism. And they say they didn't know where it came from? Come on. John, it tells us specifically. John chapter 1. You don't have to turn there, I will read it for you. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. This man came for a witness to bear witness of the light. Hmm That all through him might believe. He was not that light, but was sent to bear witness of that light. That was the true light which gives light to every man coming into the world. When they ask John, are you the Christ? What did John say? No, I am not. There is one coming after me whose sandals I'm not even worthy to untie. John bore witness of him. John says there's the The Lamb of God who comes to take away the sin of the world. John the Baptist says these things to them. In Matthew chapter three, these same kinds of people with authority, having a whole lot of Let's call it pride in themselves. They come to him. They come to John In Matthew chapter 3, starting in verse 7, but when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he said to them, brood of vipers. Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Therefore bear fruits worthy of repentance. And do not think to say to yourselves, We have Abraham as our father. For I say to you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham from these stones. And even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Therefore, every tree which does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance. But he who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. His winnowing fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly clean out his threshing floor and gather his wheat into the barn, but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire. John very clear in his message as a prophet. And they were rightly afraid of all the people. Because they counted John to have been a prophet indeed. In the Greek there, it says they counted him to be a real prophet. Real. The people could see that John was sent from God. The people could see that Jesus is the one that John was referring to. But why couldn't they? Oh, they didn't have enough information? No. They are rejecting it. They are rejecting Christ and Christ's authority. And so there's a couple things that I just want to conclude in applying for us. Brothers and sisters, are you honest with yourselves? When you encounter a doubt that you have about God's word If you turn to those challenging passages that say certain things about how worship is conducted, for example, or who can be a leader within the church When you read those things and it causes you to swarm a little bit, be honest with yourself. Is it really because it sounds like that doesn't make sense, or is it because The Word of God is challenging your right to autonomy. Because the Word of God is challenging your understanding of how things should be. Who has the authority and the right to define how things should be? It's God alone. Another thing to think about this is well what Paul tells everyone to be like the Bereans. Do you guys remember the Bereans? What did the Bereans do? They searched the scriptures. So if somebody was teaching them and teaching them a a beautiful message And they were wondering to themselves, hmm, where's that coming from? Paul doesn't say, hey, you better respond to that minister's authority and just do what he says. No. But there is an authority that you must respond to. There is an authority that you must do what it says. And what authority is that that He's given us? If you love the Westminster Confession like I do, you know it's chapter 1. It's the Word of God. It's the Scriptures. He's revealed plainly to us. In words, because that's how people know things, right? We know stuff through words. He's given us words that we can understand, and he gives you a spirit that you can rightly interpret those words. Because you need to know that it has an authority over you and over your life And so the final thing that I will leave with you is just a question. Whose authority do you follow? Who has the authority to tell you what to do? To define who you are and what does it mean? Next time we're going to come to a very clear illustration of authority when we get to the rebellion of those wicked vine dressers. And this is why Jesus tells this. And I'm the last thing I'll say is that Jesus is not answering them Even though they didn't answer him. Right? It's not as though he says, I won't answer you, and then he goes around and answers them with a parable. He's teaching this parable to the people He teaches the people. He's teaching the crowd that had been with him. And when he tells them this parable and at the end of it They reveal exactly why they were asking these questions because they seek him to destroy him because he's challenging their claim to their authority. May our God bless us to recognize when we are being dishonest in our own doubts And that our real challenges are based on us rejecting God's authority to control and define us. We are not autonomous creatures. We don't get to do that. And so I would pray. And hope that you would pray, that the Holy Spirit will show you if there's any way that you're trying to reject Christ's authority and to set yourself up as an authority in his place. Let's pray together.