Remember that Jesus Christ of the seed of David was raised from the dead according to my gospel, for which I suffer trouble as an evildoer, even to the point of chains. But the word of God is not chained. Therefore, I endure all things for the sake of the elect, that they also may obtain salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. This is a faithful saying. For if we died with him, we shall also live with him. If we endure, we shall also reign with him. If we deny him, he also will deny us. If we are faithless, he remains faithful. He cannot deny himself. Let us pray. Christ, the preaching of the Word is your plan, and you stand by it. I therefore ask that you would bring to pass that which you have promised, that the preaching of your word would be effectual unto the ends of salvation for your church. I pray, Lord, that it would not just be an initial salvation, but an ongoing salvation. And moving from glory to glory, all to glory. And I ask that you would use your words to this end. May we have ears to hear and eyes to see. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. I believe I've mentioned this to you uh a few times. It made quite an impression on me, so I keep bringing it up with you. It was in the summertime, and we were out by in my backyard, and something happened with one of my children, and my temperature started to go up with anger. And one of my daughters saw my face that I was becoming angry and that I was getting ready to say something in my anger, but before I could just let it Go, let the word fly, she said to me. A soft word turns away wrath. I thought, man, this like religious education is really biting me right now. Uh but she was right and I I stopped. I stopped in part because it was such a wisdom coming out of such a small person, I th I pretty much viewed it as from God. But I stopped also because of the way that the the child put it. It was not a 27-page diatribe. It was a little faithful saying. From a little faithful heart. And it struck me, I stopped. And now, even to this day, when I start to watch my temperature go up, it doesn't always happen. I have not arrived at glory. But that little moment and that phrase will come back to my mind. And sometimes, by the grace of God, I take a different path and I don't stir up wrath in my household. Those little proverbs can be helpful. Little memorable sayings or a verse from a lyric in a song. I wonder if you have any of those things. Is there a song lyric that has stuck with you or a proverb that has helped you in more than one occasion? Helps you to get through life. Some kind of a faithful saying. These faithful sayings are helpful to us. And help has been a main topic for this part of the sermon series because we've been seeing that Paul's main purpose in writing this letter is to aid or to help Timothy. We at the end of last week's sermon were able to summarize many sermons and we saw that Paul was seeking To strengthen Timothy, for him to stir up the gifts and the graces that God had given to him, because he was going to have to suffer hardship in order to complete his mission. And so then he started to give him different images. Do you remember this? Different pictures and characters. He said, Timothy, it's going to be like you're a soldier, enlisted to a commanding officer. Timothy, it's going to be like you're a marathon runner in a race. Timothy, it's going to be like you're a farmer. And then after we had those analogies or similes, We then moved to two models where we were able to see that even Christ had to be like a soldier, a farmer, and an athlete. And so too did Paul. I wonder if you picked up when I was reading there from verse 8, where Paul talks about the suffering and the endurance that was required of him for the sake of the elect. All of these images accumulating in one major argument to stir up the heart of Timothy and you, the church, that you would carry on your great commission. Well, the same thing is happening this morning, but we're moving away from uh uh similes and models, and we're moving into a memorable thing. It's like Paul punctuates his lesson here for Timothy with a song. And you see it there in 11 through 13. This is a faithful saying, he says. He has other faithful sayings and other letters that he gives. But this is one of those faithful sayings, and you can see how the how it's grouped together. You can see how these things are grouped together. Now what I want to do is I want to Take a look at this faithful saying. We're just going to look at the first verse eleven and the top of twelve, make an observation about it, and we're going to go ahead and and see the lesson that the Holy Spirit wants us to learn today, and then we'll work on the use of it and its application. So take a look at your scriptures with me. And I want you to take a look at verse 11 in this faithful saying, he says, For if we died with him, we shall also live with him. If we endure, we shall also reign with him. Verses eleven and twelve look just like Hebrew poetry. They therefore have parallels that are running through them So that you can understand the message that is being given. If we die, if you keep staring at, just keep staring at your Bible, don't look at me right now. Keep looking at your Bible. If we die, you can see it uh uh right there in front of you. If we die is parallel with if we endure. And we shall live Is parallel with we shall reign. They're not exactly synonymous. One builds on top of the other, but you can see there's this kind of parallelism resulting In a lyrical statement or a poetic statement of all of the models and the illustrations that we had before If we die or endure like a soldier, if we die or face death like an athlete, the feeling of death in running that marathon. If we face these things like a hard-working farmer when the hand begins to cramp from working in the soil, if we face death, If we face hardship like Christ and like Paul, then the rewards are medals of honor from your commanding officer. Victory laurels for completing the race crowned by Christ Himself. A field of harvest, then offered in joyful sacrifice to Jesus Christ. And then that final part with Paul, eternal life for the elect, glory for the elect. Glory in eternal life for us. You see that this song is really the embodiment of those models and those likenesses. And so we may take this lesson from it, and it is, in fact, our children, our doctrine this morning The Christian must live by an invariable law. Expect the cross on the way to the crown. The Christian lives by an invariable law, you could put it even in less words, cross before the crown. The Christian lives by an invariable law, the cross on the way to the crown. Now I'd like to enlarge this. By three main sections. Paul's life, your life, and our lesson. Paul's life, your life, and our lesson. I want to begin with Paul's life because I want to get our feet keep our feet on the ground here. Paul is being very intentional at giving you pictures that you can see, stories that you could understand, so you can see uh what how Christ governs his kingdom and how you are to operate it within it. We've seen this portrayed by the soldier, the athlete, the farmer, Christ and Paul. I've already said that. But I want to break it down one more time for our understanding so we don't miss this before we head off into the next section. And to do this, I want to review very briefly the life of Paul, or a snapshot of a certain time in Paul's life. If you take a I encourage you to go ahead and flip in your Bibles to Acts chapter 9 And I just want to read a couple verses to you so you can see what's going on here and how this whole thing begins for Paul. Paul, in all of his history and all of his experiences with Christ, is bringing all of those things into this letter. So it's important for us to be able to see it. And I'm going to begin reading in verse 3 of chapter 9 in Acts. As he journeyed, he came near Damascus, and suddenly a light shone around him from heaven. Then he fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? And he said, Who are you, Lord? Then the Lord said, I am Jesus whom you are persecuting. It is hard for you to kick against the goads. So he, trembling and astonished, said, Lord, what do you want me to do? Now this is a pretty interesting section because if you were to go back up to verse number one, Saul, who later will be called Paul, just make sure you're following that. He's still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, and he's gaining uh arrest warrants. But then when Jesus meets him on the road, boy, does his attitude change. Do you notice the voluntary submission of Paul pretty much at the moment that he meets Jesus Christ. He calls him Lord. He's trembling and he's astonished. And then he doesn't try to run away from him. He doesn't deny him or rebel against him. He says, What do you want me to do? It's very similar to an Isaiah confrontation from Isaiah 6. Paul's really already switching here. And then if you go back to chapter 9 in Acts, and now look at verse number 19. So when he had received food, he was strengthened, and then Saul spent some days with the disciples at Damascus. And then look at verse number 20. It begins off with the word immediately. He preached Christ in the synagogues. That Jesus Christ is the Son of God. I just want you to see what's going on here with Saul turning into Paul, where Jesus Christ reveals himself To Saul, that Saul might truly be able to see who Jesus Christ is. And just by the experience of Christ, Paul already knows that he is Christ's inferior. And that Jesus is his superior. He says, You, Lord, what should I do? Paul has all of a sudden moved himself into a soldier. That is relating to Jesus Christ, like Jesus is the commanding officer. And then, besides the experience that Paul has, he then meets with his disciples. The disciples undoubtedly explain to Paul who this Jesus Christ is, sharing with him all of their experiences, and then he really becomes convinced, and you can see in that next line He starts going into the synagogues and completing the mission that Jesus Christ has given to him. Now, when Paul is on that mission, Jesus Christ, just as he promised the disciples in Matthew 28, I will never leave you and I will never forsake you, so too was that promise with Paul. You can go back to 2 Timothy now so you can follow along. So too was that promise with Paul. But here is a really important moment in this sermon. Because this is an important moment for you to be able to see the reality that Paul has been sticking in front of your face for the whole letter. The important reality is this. Sometimes that promise, that promise of success, that promise of relief, that promise Of so much more of what it means for Christ to be there for you and to never leave you nor forsake you. Sometimes that promise is not fulfilled when you think it should be Paul entered cities, and surely he preached the gospel like we just saw in Acts. And surely he prayed, O Lord, please let me give this sermon without them cracking my skull with a stone But sometimes the stone hit the skull. Now does that mean that the promise isn't true? No, it doesn't mean that. It means that sometimes promises are fulfilled at a time that we didn't expect. Just ask yourself the question: When was the promise fulfilled to Christ? It surely was. In him being raised from the dead, seated at the right hand of the Father, given all authority in heaven and earth. But the promise did not c uh come to be, was not fulfilled before he had to bear the cross. It was after. And that's been the whole point of the models and the illustrations that Paul has been giving Timothy and that the Spirit has been giving to you is that you will be living a cruciform life The promises mostly come true after you are crucified, just like Christ. That is a basic invariable law for the church. And we can see it here In Paul's life. We could even go forward and we could say this is how the wise King Jesus chooses to govern his kingdom. He's not doing it because it's out of control. He's not grasping at straws or threads, trying to rein things back in because they've gotten out of hand This is how he intentionally has chosen, like a wise war strategist, to unfold how he will establish his kingdom. Through this invariable law. Sometimes we do not see God fulfill his promises until after we are stoned. Sometimes God permits the cross before he gives us the crown of victory in our endeavors for him. Very important lesson. That's been going through this whole letter. I want to make sure you don't miss it. Now that's Paul's life. Now let's go ahead into the second section of your life. Not just Paul's life, but your life. Now I want you to stop and I want you to really think about your own life. Don't think about the words, think about your own life. I want you to think about your life. I want you to use your memory. I want you to think about what's going on inside of your life. And I'm speaking to you Christians right now. You should have discovered by now that Jesus Christ is your superior. He has in one way or another displayed to you his majesty. He has displayed to you his wisdom. He has credential himself in such a manner where you know, Jesus, you should be in charge, and I should follow you The disciple, discipler relationship is clearly established. King and subject are obvious. That should have happened for you. He is your Lord. All of the you don't even have to be a Christian to see that he is your superior and you are his inferior. If you were to just look at a list of his characteristics as to who's the greater and who's the lesser. Jesus Christ wins. He is your king and he is your God. And that being the case, just like Paul discovered that on the Damascus Road, the road to Damascus, just as he discovered that and said, Lord, what do you want me to do? So too have we discovered in one way or another, and if we didn't discover it in an experiential reality like that, though I think you probably have if you think about it. You did by meeting with the disciples like Paul did and discovering Jesus Christ by way of his word. And Christ convinced you. He placarded himself before you and portrayed himself through all of his revelation to where you said, He's the creator and I'm the creature. He's God and I'm not. He's the Lord and I'm His subject. The relationship became very clear for you, just like it became clear for Paul. And whether you said this out loud or not There was a certain moment, maybe it was just in your heart, maybe it was just in your conscience. I don't know, but you said, What do you want me to do, Lord? Because you knew that you were obligated to him. Now that's quite reasonable. He is the commander, you are the officer, and above this you have the Holy Spirit and his word, and you understood in community among the disciples, wherein you may acknowledge who he really is. And even above that, besides just knowing proper relationships within society, there was something planted in your heart where you saw who he is and you see how he governs and what he stands for, that you fell in love with him. Even if it's as small as a mustard seed. You fell in love with your king and what he desires. And you, in some way, even if it was in small measure, began to say, I have a heart that is after the Lord And now you are saying things to put you in a company with all of the saints that are in that cloud of witnesses. Just like Paul. It's now just like you. Now, I want you to really think about that for a moment, because I just told your biography. I want you to think about your biography and now come into the moments of your ordinary day. Where are you serving Christ in his kingdom? Because you are, I watch you do it all the time. In really difficult circumstances. Lots of twists and turns Where are you serving Christ in his kingdom? And to what has he called you to specifically? I want you to think of what you're actually going through right now. What is it that you're facing as a man or as a woman or as a child? We all are facing different things. What has he placed you in specifically? What is it that you woke up this morning thinking about? When you have the radio on, though no one listens to the radio, I guess we are all listening just to our phones or whatever. And five or six songs go by, and you have no idea what those songs were, because you were thinking about something else that's preoccupying all of your attention. What's that thing? What are you facing? What is happening in your family calling? What is happening in your church calling? What is happening in your job in this county? In this state, and in this nation. And now that you have a specific in mind, I don't know what it is, all of you are dealing with your own things. Now that you have a specific in mind. How has God made promises that his will will be done in those areas? Maybe we could take a step back. Has he made promises to you that even in those areas he will never leave you and he will not forsake you? Yes, he has. That's something we'll talk about here in a minute, but yes, he has. For our lawful vocations, he has promised to us: I will not leave you. I'm not going to leave you as a mom and all the hard work that that entails. Man, is that I could just stop and talk about that for a long time. Man, is that a lot of hard work? And it just never stops. I'll just uh uh I'm not gonna give an example of my own wife because I don't embarrass her. But I'm just telling you right now, I know that you women are working hard. And Jesus Christ promises that He's not going to leave you and He's not going to forsake you, whether it's as a a mom or a grandmom or maybe an an an aunt. Or a manager for the government. We have some some women here who are managing many people in the government or who are teaching or managing teachers. And I know that you as men are working hard, facing many difficult things, and the Lord's promises with you. I will never leave you and I will never forsake you. That promise is true. But here's the question because of the earlier point. When are the promises going to come true? Have they come true now? Sometimes yes, but I bet if I spoke with you for about three minutes, I could point out how they haven't come true yet. Some of them. Some of the endeavors that Christ has put you on, they are not complete. The promise has not been fulfilled, and you are struggling with hardship. It will be sometimes later. Now, here's the big question. Remember, in our first point, we had a very important moment in the sermon to recognize what was going on. Cross before crown, that there's an invariable law. Now here's another very important moment in the sermon. If sometimes the promise comes later, What will that necessitate in you as Christians to stay on the Christian path and in the race? It will necessitate that you would have to endure. That is Paul's second main point throughout this whole section of the passage to Timothy. You are going to have to have spiritual endurance. And that really brings us to our lesson. I want you to flip to Genesis 3. 15. We've seen Paul's life, your life, and now our lesson. Turn to Genesis three fifteen. I'm only going to read the very first portion And I just want this I want this to ring in your ear. Ears. If you have two ears, it'll ring in both your ears. I'm only going to read the first line. You see it? And I will put enmity. What does that tell you about the fundamental nature of your life? Is that it will be one of warfare one of conflict, one of hardship. It is an invariable law that there will be a cross, and then therefore what is the main lesson that you need to take, according to Paul, is that You must have characteristics wherein you are able to endure. That is your main lesson. You'll see if you go back to 2 Timothy. That Paul says this in chapter two, verse one, chapter two, verse three, chapter two, verse ten, chapter two, verse twelve He says it also in the first chapter. He'll say it in a different way in the third chapter, and he'll say it again in the fourth chapter. It is on his heart and his mind that Christians would understand that due to the invariable law There is a main characteristic that must be continually stirred up in you, and that is spiritual strength, courage, and endurance. Unto the end. Just like a soldier, an athlete, and a hardworking farmer. Just like Christ and just like Paul. Now, at this point, what I'd like you to do, and I mentioned to this, I had the opportunity to fellowship with the students over at FCA at Rockbridge this past week. And I talked to them about the importance of looking at different things as a mirror. When you look in a mirror, you see things about yourself. And as I pointed out to them, you could look in the mirror and you could say, boy, I shouldn't go out of this house until I comb my hair. Or whatever it is. I want you to look at the Word as a mirror. And the Word is telling you that there's an invariable law that is a part of your life, Christian, and that is that you will have to bear the cross. And therefore, a primary characteristic of all Christians must be endurance and spiritual strength. I want you to look in the mirror at Jesus Christ and at Paul. And all of the cloud of witnesses, and I want you to see: do you have endurance? Do you have strength? Do you have courage? Now, when I look in the mirror, I'll share with you, I find that I have got a lot of work ahead of me. I find at least two main things. Number one, I was not convinced that a fundamental law of the Christian life was that we'd have to bear a cross. It always caught me by surprise. That's changing now. And the second thing is, I can look back on experience after experience after experience where I did not serve my Lord well for one main reason, and that I did not have courage or spiritual strength. So I figured out a way to rationalize myself out of situations or whatever it was, instead of actually standing. For him until the promise became complete. And I wonder when you look in the mirror, if you see some of the same things that I saw about myself. As soon as I saw it in the mirror, I said, Oh Lord, what should I do? And I wonder if you're asking a similar question. Oh Lord, what should I do? I know we don't want to be that way. None of us here want to be that way. And so I'd like to answer that in just a couple ways. And you can take notes on this. I have found this, this is this is not just something I read in a book, this is something I try to practice, and it's actually helping. So I hope it helps you. It comes from God's word, so it shouldn't surprise us. What should I do if I look in the mirror and I find that I don't have the endurance that Paul's talking about here? The first one thing that you must do is you must find out if you actually in your life are following God's will. That's number one. Keeps showing up in my life every day. Sometimes I get I become a part of things that have nothing to do with him You know what I mean by that. Of course everything in a way has to do with him, but I haven't resolved to follow God's will. I've become a part of this silly thing and I'm exerting energy towards it. And it doesn't really have much to do with his kingdom. And if I could have it over again, I would have never signed the dotted line to be a part of it, because it's not worth it. It's not producing anything I'd really like to see happen. So the first thing we have to do is we have to make sure that we have God's will in sight, and we know what that will is Now we would and this is encouraged to us in Romans chapter 12 that we would know his good will He gives us his Ten Commandments, and he says, If you are my disciples and you love me, you will follow my commands. It's another knowing his will is another way of talking about obedience to the Lord. Paul says, What should I do, Lord? That's the question you have to start with. What should I do, Lord? And this isn't rocket science. Y'all are already doing it. You have all of these different vocations that you're a part of. And you were doing the Lord's will. But you could refine that, and you may find when you ask the question that you're a part of things you really have no business being a part of Number two, once you know that it's God's will, you need to be motivated by the outcome. You need to be able to see that. If I were to set that as my resolution and my endeavor That will of God, if that actually happened, it would be one of the best things that I've ever seen happen in this life. I would be so happy to be a part of something like that. And that's the same thing and the same mentality that Jesus Christ had. When you look at the book of Hebrews, Hebrews 12, verse 2, it says this. Looking onto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. Now listen to this, who for the joy that was set before him For the joy that was set before him, he endured the cross. You see, it's the same conversation that we're having right now. If you want to be able To answer that question, what should I do? How could I have more endurance? You have to love the thing that you're fighting for. We talked about that before in one of the sermons. Remember the quote from some politician? British politician. So what is the joy that is set before you, brothers and sisters? For Paul, it was, and Timothy was the salvation and the glory and the eternal life of the elect. Remember that little phrase? What about you? Is it the salvation of your children? Is that worth fighting for? Could you endure to the end? For the salvation of your children. You could. I know you could. What about your nieces and your nephews? What about their salvation What about a marriage which glorifies God and encourages others? What about singleness which is used to accomplish more for God than many people around you can accomplish? That's number two. Number three, you must trust that God and all of his power is with you. If you don't, your heart will turn to wax and you'll turn back. Because as you set out on those endeavors, you're going to find that God delays in the resolution of your resolve. He's not just going to grant it to you the moment you start to put a little bit of effort into it. Well, we did the catechism. Oh well, salvation's on them. That's not what we're looking for. Catechism is just the beginning. There's so much more ahead. And we must trust God in all of his power. Just as Paul brought up earlier in the passage. Pointing out that Jesus is the Son of God, that He has omnipotence, that He has omniscience, and all of this underwrites you in your Great Commission. And the missions that he has given to you. I'd encourage you to think, for example, of Isaiah chapter 35, verses 3 through 4. Strengthen your weak hands. Does that sound familiar? The book of Hebrews is quoting this, so I'm just going back to the source. Strengthen the weak hands and make firm the feeble knees. Say to those who are fearful-hearted: Be strong and do not fear Behold, your God will come with vengeance. With the recompense of God, he will come and he will save you. You've got to believe that in your heart. Gotta believe it in your heart. It must be a part of your being. And I'm going to tell you right now that of all the points that I just gave you, that's the last one there, this is the most difficult. It is the most difficult to actually believe that God is with you. If you look at biblical history, this is where the fracture occurred each and every time. But he is with you. And you're going to have to find that because of who you are, that you are a part of a fallen race of men and women. You're going to have to get early to keep drilling this truth into your heart. And you're going to have to sing songs. You're going to have to support each other if you're really going to believe that God is with you. Otherwise, it doesn't really go in there. This is what Jesus Christ, in fact, is seeking to get you to do regularly. I would say the biggest problem, I won't elaborate on this because of time, but the biggest problem with being able to believe that God is with us is that we are intoxicated. By many things in this world around us, and we're not really taking the time to stop and to drill in our hearts that He's with us. We're taken off by distracting cares of the world. Now I don't know uh much about Jackie Robinson, but I did watch a movie called 42. And I do like stories like the Jackie Robinson story. I know that Jackie Robinson wasn't a pushover, at least for portrayed in the movie. He was uh in fact brought over to the Dodgers, I guess it was, in part as portrayed in the movie, because he had very little fear and was ready to fight. And that's what the he needed to have. He needed to be ready to fight. Uh he was put on a military bus and then they sought to put him in the back of the bus and he refused. So the military police removed him. That's the kind of man he is or was. And just keeping that in mind, I want you to hear this dialogue from the movie between Jackie Robinson and the owner of that baseball team. I guess at the time it was the Brooklyn Dodgers. The owner comes to Jackie and invites him to be a part of the team and tells Jackie that in order to make this work, he's not going to be able to be a hothead or to fight like that. So then Jackie responds and he says, You want a player who doesn't have the guts to fight back? And Mr. Rickey says, no, no. I want a player who's got the guts. No, I I want a player who's who has got the guts not to fight back. Which will be his own kind of struggle. And Mr. Ricky goes on, he says, people aren't gonna like this. They are going to do anything to get you to react. If you echo a curse with a curse, they'll only hear your curse. If you follow a blow with a blow, they'll say the Negroes lost his temper. That the Negro does not belong. Your enemy's going to be out in force, Jackie, and you cannot meet him on his own low ground. We win with hitting, running, and fielding. And only that. We win if the world is convinced of two things, Jackie Robinson, that you are a fine gentleman and a great baseball player. And then Mr. Rickey goes on, he's a Methodist. I think Methodists might have been more sound back then. Mr. Rickey says, like our Savior, you gotta have the guts to turn the other cheek. Can you do it? Jackie Robinson says, you give me a uniform, you give me a number on my back, and I'll give you the guts. This is how they have chosen to govern that particular situation in the introdu in introduction of a black baseball player in a segregated world. And that would require a different kind of strength than a fist fight. Both are kinds of strength. And I just want to ask you, as we're considering the scriptures here and then trying to translate it over into the normal decisions that human people that we make as human beings, what was the joy that was set before Jackie Robinson? The joy sat before Mr. Rickey was more money. He just wanted he said, there's white men, there's black men, but all dollars are green. What about Jackie Robinson? Jackie Robinson was after the fundamental civil rights for the African American. Many times within the movie, the bathroom says whites only. And he said in his mind, and those around him said in their mind, the world would be a better place. If the bathroom didn't say whites only. And the joy before him was a vision of a world that was not segregated. And that was a good vision. And it was worth fighting for. It was worth him doing something that didn't come natural to him. He was good at breaking the nose. of being drug off the bus by the MP. And now he had to enter into a different kind of fight for the joy that was set before him, which were civil rights. Would those civil rights, and this is the core of our sermon this morning, would those civil rights just be given to him? The crown and the harvest of civil rights would be granted after much pain and after much suffering. And therefore, the primary characteristic that Mr. Rickey knew that he needed in Jackie Robinson was endurance and courage, and to speak plainly like the working class, we just need some guts. And it is the same message to you today. No guts, no glory. No pain, no gain. No cross, no crown. The Christian must live by an invariable law. You must expect the craft, the cross, on the way to the crown. Amen. Please pray with me.