Please open your scriptures with me to Philippians chapter four. Over the next few weeks, we'll be taking a verse at a time, and then we'll be finishing out our series here. We have the verse this morning, one next week, and the week after. But just so we have a bit of a context, I'll be reading 14 through 23 for the next few weeks. Philippians four fourteen. Nevertheless, you have done well that you shared in my distress. Now you Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia No church shared with me concerning giving and receiving, but you only. For even in Thessalonica you sent aid once and again for my necessities. Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that abounds to your account. Indeed, I have all and abound. I am full, having received from Epaphroditus the things sent from you, a sweet smelling aroma and an acceptable sacrifice Well pleasing to God. And my God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus. Now to our God and Father be glory forever and ever. Amen. Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren who are with me greet you. All the saints greet you. But especially those who are of Caesar's household. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, in you we live and move and have our being. I therefore pray that you would empower your preached word here this morning and that you would give your congregation attentiveness. That they would pay attention to you. I pray that you would deliver them from the evil one. And I pray that as the word is scattered among them, that they would be the kind of soil that grows up into a harvest. that they would be fruitful. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Well, I suppose that you've all picked up on the theme for today, having to do with fruitfulness. We've seen it within our songs, we've heard it within the confession of faith, and then you're hearing it again from me, and even within our present passage, we're hearing about fruitfulness These are different ways that the Apostle Paul, as an excellent teacher under the Lordship of Christ, is continuing to the same drum beat and to hammer in to the people of God and every generation just what our calling is. They were called to be fruitful. We've looked at it under another concept. We've seen it as soldiers for Christ, shoulder to shoulder, shield to shield We've looked at it in terms of our imitation of the apostles or of Timothy or Epaphroditus or any of the saints that are to be commended. We've looked at it recently in terms of citizenship, just asking the question, well, if our citizenship is in heaven with Christ as our king, well then what does it look like to be a good citizen? Last week we focused on one particular feature or trait, which was the idea of contentment. I didn't go into a long philosophical diatribe about contentment. I was really just approaching it as the man on the street would have talked about contentment during Paul's day. It just means that as you're seeking to accomplish or endeavor to accomplish uh Christ the King's mission for the glory of his name that that even when things seem thin, even when it seems like you're scraping the bottom of the barrel and trying to live for your Lord, He's given you enough. He's given you enough to be able to accomplish what he's called you to accomplish. And we we as a congregation are called to live within that, not to live within anxiety. But to live in contentment in that way. So we revisited last week very precious promises, they should be precious to you, that the Lord is with you, He'll never forsake you. And we've seen this all the way through scriptures. And our prayer really as a congregation and as parents And as older brothers and sisters for our younger brothers and sisters is that we would have, by God's grace, the faith to actually believe that Jesus Christ cares enough about us. That he hasn't left us as orphans. He didn't drop us off on some desert island and say, figure it out on your own. It's just not the picture of the Christian's life. The Lord is with you, and therefore we can be content. Now this morning we have another feature that we're coming up against here within this letter. And that feature is another aspect of being a heavenly citizen, or do you want to pick up the gardening metaphor now or the farming metaphor? What does it look like to be a good garden? And the answer is fruitfulness, but I want to unpack that just a little bit and then we'll go ahead and move into why this is so important. So just take a look at verse number 17, because that's the the verse that we're going to focus on this morning. He says, Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that abounds to your account. Just want to focus on that. Paul in verses 15 and 16 is continuing that discussion that we had last week, where he's very pleased that the Philippian church has financially supported him. But he doesn't want them sending any more aid. That's not what he's looking for. You can see that in verse number fix number 15 first. where he commends them for the kind of sharing that they've done. Now you Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel when I departed from Macedonia No church shared with me concerning giving and receiving, but you only. Very generous congregation. So we're still in that discussion, and then in verse number sixteen you can see there it is again, for even in Thessalonica, you sent aid once and again for my necessities So in the context of that, we see that Paul is focused in on, again, I'm not looking for any more aid from you. I just wanted to commend that from you from the past. And then to really put a fine point on it He shares with them in verse number 17 his main focus, which is, I was never concerned. My main priority was not how much money I could get from you. My main priority was, will this group of people be fruitful? Will the church, let's put it this way, just in terms of modern terms, will the church that has been planted grow up to be a plant that has fruit? That's his main concern here. And the the finances end up being an evidence of that for him. That this is a certain kind of fruit. And then so too would have been the sending of Epaphroditus. That's a lot of traveling, a lot of distance showing the fruit of supporting him and co-working with him that the gospel would increase. Now there is a little phrase at the end of 17 that might catch you. It says there in 17 that he's looking for the fruit to abound to your account. Let me just Address that very briefly so it doesn't gnaw at you all all Sunday. When he says that uh that it abounds to your account, let me let's just be clear, he's not taking back what he said earlier and that you're going to accumulate good works so that God is in your debt and owes you salvation. It's worth mentioning. The human heart can drift into that direction. Please remember our sermons on Paul's biography, that he used to have that mindset. that I need to do a certain set of things to earn uh uh to have a certain level in my bank account before God so that He owes me something. And he made the argument in chapter 3, all of those things that I had accumulated in my religious life became nothing to me Once I realize that my righteousness is not by way of those things, it's by way of the righteousness of Jesus Christ. When you get a chance, if just to be refreshed, even. you know, today while you're eating some pasta, I don't know what you eat for lunch, but not pasta. But Philippians three, seven through nine is your go to. You really want to go there and and remember that he considered all of his works rubbish. and look to the work of Christ for his merit and for his righteousness. He says in verse 9, for example, of chapter 3, that his gain is when he was found in Christ. not having his own righteousness which is from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is from God by faith. Now that's not what it means. Now what it can what it what we can say it means if there are other there are explanations throughout the scriptures is that We see language like this to your account in Peter's teaching, and he means that you're starting to grow in godly maturity or virtues. It could also refer, there's explanations for this kind of language, and these aren't mutually exclusive, of rewards in heaven. Maybe we could talk about that another time, but there are rewards after death. that Jesus talks about. But it's not the you're not earning the reward of your own salvation. It's something different. The main thing that you need to know when we're looking at verse 17, now that I've got all those caveats out of the way, is that his focus is on what? Fruitfulness. That's what he's focused on. So that's our focus this morning. That's the trait or the feature. Heavenly citizens are fruitful. Joe has done such a good job this morning, hasn't he? Where he just helping us to see that we're a plant planted by the Lord, growing up, and that we're intended to bear fruit by his power. What a beautiful picture for the life that he has given to you. I want to unfold that, that the heavenly citizens are fruitful. I want to look at the history of fruitfulness very briefly. I want to look at the responsibility of fruitfulness. And then I want to look at how fruitfulness So f fruitful the other the otherness of fruitfulness, I don't know. But fruitfulness is for others. So the history or the genesis of fruitfulness the responsibility of fruitfulness and then fruitfulness is for others. So children, if you're writing notes, you could do history, responsibility, other. And that would be three. H R O. You could do that. Okay. Very good. So let's begin with just the genesis or the history of fruitfulness. I want to take you back. This is very important. And I'm hoping to talk to you more about this. I had the opportunity to speak with the officers about this even more of the the history of fruitfulness. We see it happening all the way back in Genesis verse uh twenty si won chapter one verse twenty-six through twenty-eight. If you want to flip back there with me and just get a a little hand exercise here and flipping to your scriptures Genesis 1, 26 through 28, I know I've brought this up to you before, and I'm going to keep doing so because it's so foundational. And 126 through 28, you can take a look at this at another time. This is meant to be familiar with you, but you see in verse number 26 that God is making man or has the plan to make man in his own image according to their likeness, and they are to have dominion over the fish of the sea sea, over the birds of the air, and over all the cat over the cattle, over all of the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So there's the plan. And then in 27 we move into the specific execution of that So God creates man in his own image, in the image of God. He creates him, male and female, he created them. And then God blessed them. That's that empowering we've been talking about this morning. And he says to them, There's this commission or this mandate that's given to the human race. Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it, have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over every living thing that moves on the earth. My main argument, it's not just mine, but the church all along has made the main argument that though this is in the beginning of the Bible This is God's sovereign purpose stated that continues to abide today. The problem that we ended up running into is that this first Adam, so here's the story. The first Adam, being given this commission, puts himself into a position where he's not able to fulfill it. In fact, he and his children start working against it very quickly. So you have to ask the question, well did God create this plan and then Adam did what he did, Adam and Eve, and then he just kind of threw the plan in the trash can? My argument is no, that the plan still stands, and what you end up seeing throughout history is you really want to ask the question, how will God accomplish the creation mandate And if you look through history, you'll see that he is going to accomplish the same thing that the rulership of the earth, the maintenance of the earth, the stewardship of the earth will still remain under the human race, but it will do so under the kingship of Jesus the Christ, who is God and man. He is the God man. So if you wanted to see arguments for this in the New Testament, for example, you would certainly want to go to Hebrews chapter 2 and you would see as As the author of Hebrews is seeking to establish the superiority of Jesus as the king, that one of the ways he does so Is he shows that he's higher than all things. He has all authority in heaven and earth that even includes the angels And in fact, in chapter 2, he says, you know, we've all read Psalm 8 before. Jesus is even the fulfillment of Psalm 8. Well, let's flip the Psalm 8 together as a congregation. Please join me. This will this will help you to become more familiar with your scriptures too. The author of Hebrews points us to Hebrews points us to Sa Psalm 8 being fulfilled in Christ. And I'll begin Just in verse number three. Actually I'll begin in six He says, you have made him to have dominion over the works of your hands. You have put all things under his feet. All sheep and oxen, even the beasts of the field, the birds of the air, and the fish of the sea that pass through the paths of the sea And then of course it's a redounding to his glory, O O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is your name in all of the earth. And you could you could even hear Paul's how much how wise are you in what you have accomplished in Jesus Christ. But you see here, you see the in Psalm number eight, you see the repetition or what fancy people call the recapitulation of that creation language. And that the author of Hebrews is saying, all of this is happening in Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ will bring heaven and earth together to where this is finally going to be able to take place. And he's going to empower you as his people. to where you can be restored in what you had lost in the first atom by being united to the second atom. This is the history behind fruitfulness. And then if you take a look at your bulletin, I know we're bouncing around here a little bit, but you can handle it Ephesians chapter 2 in your bulletin. Just focus here on the final verses. I'll start with the word, for by grace you have been saved. This is the assurance of pardon. For by grace you have been saved through faith. For by grace you have been saved. Through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works. which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. So now we're, this is a, this is basically like the cliff notes of redemptive history. But nevertheless, you can begin to see this history that's unfolding that's leading to this one thing here, which is That God's sovereign purposes for his people is that they would become fruitful through the ministry of their king, who is Jesus Christ. Now some of you wonder throughout your days, whether out loud or just it's kind of a subconscious thing, especially if you're younger, but it can happen when you're older too. You ask the question What justifies my life? What gives meaning? Why should I get out of bed this morning? What is the purpose for why I am here? So I'm not just giving you an inane history here. What I'm showing you is that by way of the scriptures, God has revealed to you that the main purpose for his people under the Lordship of Jesus Christ is to be restored in our fruitfulness as we continue in his sovereign purposes of the creation mandate. That's the history of fruitfulness. Now, let's go back to verse number 17, and I want to point out a particular. He says, not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that abounds to your account Here is where we see the responsibility of fruitfulness. Paul, as a leader, looks out at the particular congregation and he doesn't just leave them to their own devices. He takes responsibility that what the Lord has begun in them, that he would participate with the Lord as he's empowered to do so, to help to water Sometimes he scatters the seed, sometimes he waters, and God makes it grow. But Paul takes responsibility for the fruitfulness of this group of people, which is why he wrote the letter to begin with. And he tells us elsewhere within the same letter that as he imitates Christ, so are we to imitate him. So what does it look like taking this history of fruitfulness and seeing that you have a great deal of responsibility? The next step by way of verse 17 in imitating Paul is to say, You have a responsibility to the people around you to make sure that they are fruitful. I seek the fruit. I would encourage you to have t-shirts made or something. I seek the fruit. I seek the fruit. Paul was saying this early on in Philippians chapter 1. He says, And this I pray that your love may abound still more and more in knowledge and all discernment, that you may approve the things that are excellent. That you may be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ, being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God. Now it's the same thing that he ends up saying a little bit later with whatever's praiseworthy, whatever's excellent. It's also what he says in Romans chapter 12, verses 1 and 2, approve the things which are excellent. that he's after in working with this particular congregation, that they would become the kind of people that whatever faces them in their normal, everyday, mundane lives That they would be able to face it with discernment and the knowledge and the wisdom of God, and that they'd be able to solve those particular problems to where wherever God's people showed up There would no longer remain a desert where nothing can grow, but we would begin to see that the soil is now capable of bringing up plants that then can produce fruit. That's the vision that we end up having here that Paul has from the beginning of his letter here in Philippians in chapter 1. And Paul wants you to imitate him as a leader. Are all of us leaders here? All of us are leaders here, that's the answer. All of us are leaders here. There are leaders in our families. Let's call that a positional authority. that God has granted you the position in wherever you are in the family, that there is a certain authority that comes along with that. There's also authority in and leadership responsibility in terms of just being fellow members of this church. I can just point out where we vow at baptism. Do you, the members of this congregation, undertake the responsibility of assisting the parents in the Christian nurture of this child? And you say, we do. It's the same thing. Some are official, some have official responsibility, and we call them officers. But even if we look at our our book of church order, it ends up saying all those duties which private Christians are bound to discharge by the law of love Are especially incumbent upon them by divine vocation and are to be discharged as official duties. Which means that everybody is responsible in some way for the people that are around them. All of us bear some level of responsibility for the fruitfulness of ourselves and for those around us. Now that's the second part. So we have the history of fruitfulness. We can then see the responsibility of fruitfulness that we're called to here in imitating the apostle in that he took responsibility for the people that were around him. And then thirdly, I want to look at just the nature or the of fruitfulness in the sense that it's meant to be for others. It should go without saying, but it doesn't. That true fruitfulness is when we help others to be fruitful. We can help ourselves, but I'm focused where where Paul is, where he's trying to help others be fruitful. The fruitfulness in our passage, we don't need to read it again. But in verse 17, the fruitfulness in our passage, one, is created by the Holy Spirit. It's not something you just drum up. But number two, it is a fruitfulness that is expressed in love and concern for other people. And in this case The Philippians were concerned about Paul and they supported him financially and they took a personal interest in him. to where they were writing letters, but then they even sent apaphroditus who almost died in this particular effort. And we are to imitate the Philippians in this case. That we should be looking for, as the Philippians, we're looking for continued fruitfulness. in the Apostle Paul, as Paul was looking for continued fruitfulness within the Philippians We should be imitating those things, but we've got to be really careful here because sometimes when we think about helping people, we don't put it into the category of helping them to become fruitful. We put it into the category of helping them to feel good about themselves or to get rid of their negative emotions. There's something going around in our culture. where that ends up being the end goal. Help the person to get rid of their negative emotions. And you can think that you have accomplished something when you really have just begun. Let me give you uh an example here of what I'm after. I'm really trying to get particular on on a problem that I see. There are lots of books out there In helping us help others or helping ourselves with worry, with anger, with depression, with fear, with grief, and with guilt. M thousands of books, seminars on those issues. And reasonably so, because people don't enjoy being let's just call let's call them I know it could be more than this, but let's just call them at the very least, people don't enjoy being in negative emotional states It's a little different with grief because grief is should be permitted to go on for a certain time. And there is a place for guilt. But the mistake that we can end up making is that we as individuals can begin feeling fruitful if we're just rid of the negative emotion. Or if you're working with someone and trying to help them be fruitful and you brighten up their day, for example, and they've been in a depressive state, you think your work is done. But it's not. You haven't met the definition of fruitfulness just yet Because the way that we're defining fruitfulness here by way of just not a complicated definition, but looking at what fruitful people do is they do things. So all you've done at that point is you've prepared a person to be in a state to where now they could begin to be fruitful And we've got to watch out for that. I want you to picture, for example, a lake, and you've got somebody, or maybe there's a couple people you're trying to help out, and they're in the lake. And the lake, the water is symbolic. The water represents worry, anger, depression, fear, grief, guilt. And it's surrounding them. And they're at different levels. Some of them are kind of bobbin and and they're not going to last much longer. So you throw on this rope And by God's grace, He gives you a little bit of traction and you're able to pull them in out of these waters and they they get back onto the shore and they get their breath And And what? Is that it? I mean should you break out a a beach towel and just let them sun The whole point of getting them out of that those kind of waters is so that you can get them back. Since we're doing Pilgrim's Progress, I'll be allegorical. Getting them out of the waters of grief, worry, etc. , onto the shore of usefulness. We want them to be on the shores of usefulness. To where now those states that were hindering them, depressive states, anxious states, etc. are to a lesser degree affecting them to where now they can be more useful for Christ and His kingdom Now I see that as a little bit of a different view than what sometimes we're handed by the world. So I'm setting us apart as a congregation and saying It is good for us to be able to start getting rid of some of these negative emotional states, but it's on to a further end, which is be able to advance God's kingdom for his glory. When you reach the shores of usefulness, it's time to start asking the question, little by little, depending on your condition, what does God have me to do now? How might I help a person now? How might I be fruitful for my Lord now? In other words, we try to make progress in worry, anger, depression, fear, etc. , so that we can be fruitful to some degree for the glory of God. Fruitfulness is for others. It is not to be defined as therapy for ourselves. Please watch that. It's another way of saying please choose your goals carefully. What we end up seeing in these three points by way of this single verse is the history of fruitfulness. God has sovereign purposes. And his sovereign purpose is to create under Christ's kingship a fruitful society. And therefore he pours out by his Spirit gifts on you that you would be useful and that you would help each other to be useful. And that means that we can't always accept the way that the world frames things. It's not just about having good feelings. You having a more balanced or controlled or or plausible life is for the sake of something even further, which is where you can get back in the game and be a player. By doing good for others in the name and by the power of Jesus Christ. I think I brought up maybe it was a month ago, I don't remember. But I think I brought up to you that I had watched a documentary where American troops had finally overtaken a concentration camp. Did did I bring this up before? Okay. I'm gonna do it again. I'm sorry It ends up being a great example, I think, this the symbol of one flag going down and another flag going up. It's a good picture of what we're doing Well I I remember seeing it was caught on uh not caught on film, but this was an acting out of it where American troops had overtaken a concentration camp and as a sign that that that they were now in control, that they now had dominion, that it was now their culture. That they had fulfilled that mandate, so to speak. They went ahead and they removed the enemy's flag and they put up the American flag. And we talked about that before, as what's going on in each one of us, as well as what should be going on within us as a society. But I want to add a dimension to it When I saw this on film, all of the American prisoners did what? They celebrated. They celebrated. It was beautiful to see. I actually shed a tear when I was watching it. But the dimension I want to add so that we can be a little bit more accurate to what goes on with us. is that I didn't see this, but I bet, just knowing a little bit about the military, I bet some thousand miles away at some headquarters where people were not at the concentration camp but had just been a part of the planning and making sure that the planes bombed when they were supposed to and the maps were accurate and the railray the the trains were working. I bet you that all of those people inside of those boardrooms or in those conference rooms or in those headquarters. I bet you they were shouting with joy too Because they're all on the same team, all working towards the particular end, which is represented by that one flag coming down and that other flag going up. And that ends up being the picture of what Jesus Christ is doing with his church across the globe. Taking under his wing every nation, taking down that flag of the old Adam, putting the new one up, showing that Christ is Lord here over this particular person, over this family. over this congregation, over these larger communities, and when you can't be there for each other because We have limitations. We should still be the kind of community that is so excited about someone else in our congregation being fruitful that we're like the people back at the headquarters even though they're over there winning the victory in the concentration camp. I'm trying to give you a little bit of a vision here of what it would mean to be there for each other. We see this, for example, in the admission to the Lord's Supper. of uh let's just take young children for example. You know when the young children come in to interview with the sessions, there's there's two there's three main parts but two of substance. The first part is like, what's your middle name? The second is tell us your Christian testimony. Do you know what that means when we ask a child, tell us your Christian testimony? It means tell us how Jesus Christ has begun to empower you to be fruitful in the spheres of life that He has given to you. Tell us what it's like when you are at school. Tell us what it's like when you're with your annoying, annoying little brother. Tell us what it's like as you relate to your mother and to your father. How are you fruitful? How are you bearing the fruits of the Spirit? We don't expect them to be the tallest tree with the most fruit in the entire congregation, but there needs to be a Christian testimony. of Christ working within their life. And then what we have tried to do by way of those who have volunteered is to be able to celebrate their fruitfulness. Not as just one family being able to celebrate or one person being able to celebrate, but all of us taking interest in the fruitfulness of each other by way of having cupcakes. By way of us being able to see the vowels that are here. And then some of you choose to have a lunch or something along those lines. That's the same kind of vision But in a different place than the one flag coming down and the other one going up and people over in the headquarters cheering. It's not your child But you're thrilled because you have an interest and an investment at some level in the fruitfulness of the people around you and in other people's children. You show up the funerals for each other. Even though you may have said two words to the person, because you just didn't get a chance to be able to know them, but you show up because they were a part of your congregation And you have an investment in that they have finally reached the apex of their fruitfulness as they enter into glory And so we set commitments as a congregation. I'm going to be committed that when someone dies in my congregation, I will be there to honor them. That kind of culture starts to come up. It's the same kind of thing. All of the congregation celebrates what should be communal victories, not just in raising our children, but all of the thousands of little bits of work that you all are doing. Just take a moment, I'm going to end here in a second. But just take a moment and think about, if you were to just look around, Think about how much people are doing here in this congregation. And I don't just mean here at the church. I mean in your lives that God gave to you. How many hours are you working for the Lord and by His power? There's a lot of hours being put in. I'm looking out of here at people that they wake up and they go to work and then they and they when they stop work is when they fall asleep There is a tremendous amount of fruitfulness in here. And the message in part is, hey, guess what? You know why you're so fruitful? It's because God is accomplishing his sovereign purposes in you. And then the added dimension that I'm really trying to get you to see here this morning is, would you please start being invested in the fruitfulness and being excited for the fruitfulness of other people? Ask them a little bit about their life. Hear what the Lord is doing. And say to them, I'm going to pray for you. You could at least do that. And then if you hear they have some kind of event coming up, after the event's over, you could say, how did the event go? Little things like that, because you know and you are excited about the advancing of Jesus Christ's kingdom and that that kingdom is advancing in the people that are around you Are you being fruitful? That's where you find your meaning. Are you taking an interest in others' fruitfulness? Now, Joe, you beat me to this, but I'm going to read it anyway. John chapter 15. I am the vine, you are the branches. He who abides in me, and I in him, bears much fruit. And by this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit, showing yourselves to be my disciples. Amen. Let us pray.