Our passage this morning is in Hebrews chapter four. Please turn there with me. And we'll be looking at verses fourteen and sixteen. 16. Seeing then that we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but was in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy And find grace to help us in time of need. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we ask that you would give us an extra measure of the Spirit this morning We may very realistically be able to reduce all of our problems down to not being able to trust that you care for us. Would you give us that gift this morning? Would you help our little mustard seeds to grow and to sprout? And for that sprout, To simply be that we know that you love us and that you have a heart for us. We ask these things for your sake. Amen. I'm wondering which kind of person you are. I basically see two kinds of people in the world. If you were to go to mission barbecue with me, and I ordered the ribs and you ordered the brisket, would you allow me to have some of your brisket? There are two kinds of people, those who share what's on their plate and those who refuse to do so. Which kind of person are you? Actually, I am one that doesn't share. Um just I would eat your brisket though. Amen. Yeah I don't mean to be trivial with this, but um, you know, Jesus is the God man. He has human nature. He ate, he made breakfast for his disciples on the beach Can you imagine that? If he went to Mission Barbecue with you, would he share his food? Which kind of person is he? I don't know actually. I don't know if he would or not. I don't know that he'd be violating God's law by not sharing his food from his plate on mission barbecue, which is why I don't feel any compulsion. But to see underneath of it though, of what you can begin to pick up about a person, is Jesus one that shares. You know it's a good question for us to ask. Jesus, that he sees everything. He sees all of your hurts, your pains, your sins. What does he do with it? What does he do with his knowledge? Is he like the kind of person that has everything and then he never shares anything? Is he that person? Does he have treasure chest upon treasure chest of God's blessing, but he never chooses to give those blessings to you? Is that what you think of Jesus? Now I want you to think of some of your difficult moments in life. Have you thought of Jesus that way? I think you have, because all of us have. It's something within us. It's it's part of the sanctification process to not think like that anymore. This morning's big idea is really important. We can see it in the passage we'll be developing in it. You can see it in your bulletin. Is that Jesus is the greatest high priest, and this is important relative to what we're talking about with him sharing. Jesus is the greatest high priest filled with mercy. And he is filled with grace, and he is filled with those things for you, his church. We're going to look at the comparison stated. You can see this again in your bulletin, the confidence gained And you can take notes especially under the conclusion inferred. These are the three parts of the text that we'll see as we consider Jesus, the one who truly does share. Jesus is the greatest high priest, is the first point that I want to see under the comparison stated. And you can see this in verse 14 of chapter 4. Take a look with me. Seeing then that we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. Now you notice that pattern. You can see there's a command that follows the reasons for the command. Let's focus on the reasons Throughout the whole sermon, and we'll get to the commands at the end like we normally do. Jesus is the greatest high priest. You can see this in verse 14. It says, great high priest. Just as the author showed Jesus to exceed Moses, do you remember that back in chapter 3? If you want to look back at the number 3 in your Bible, you'll see all kinds of discussions. about Jesus relative to Moses. It says there, consider the great apostle and high priest of your faith. This is what the author has been doing. In chapter 3, the author briefly declared Jesus to exceed Aaron and Moses. Therefore, holy brethren, be partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and high priest of our confession, Christ Jesus The author then developed Christ as the apostle. Lots of comparisons between Jesus and Moses. Even when you get to the wilderness example and Psalm 95, we're still talking about Jesus and Moses. Jesus and Moses, and Jesus comes out as the greatest, the great new Moses. Now guess what we're getting ready to do here in the text? If you were to even flip with the next several chapters all the way to chapter 10, you're going to see that we're moving from Jesus as the apostle to the Jesus the high priest of our faith. That's what's happening here. And so we should expect a comparison not to Moses, but some other kind of a some other kind of comparison. The comparison that deals with Jesus as high priest. Jesus as the high priest is going to continue until chapter 10, roughly verse 16. Verse 14, in fact, does not say that Jesus is the high priest. You notice that? You could read right over it because you have Jesus as high priest in your mind quite often. It says, What does it say? It says Jesus is the great high priest. Now in the Greek, it would say Mega He's the mega high priest. Now what does that communicate to you, just using that language? There's a comparison that's going on here. Mega is the term of comparison. And with whom does the author compare Jesus? It's obviously that which is held highest within the Hebrew mind, Aaron. Aaron, the high priest from of old. Aaron was the high priest, in other words, but Jesus is the mega high priest. You see the point? What he's doing here, the comparison, now think about how important that would be for this congregation that this letter is written to. Think of how stark that would be. The author continues the comparison by stating that Jesus, the Son of God, passed through the heavens. So he's not only doing a comparison by saying Mega. He is more than Aaron. You had Aaron in the old, you could have Jesus in the new. Jesus is not just the high priest, he's the mega high priest. But then he starts to list some specifics to point out in other ways that he exceeds Aaron. Given the context, when we read the words passed through the heavens, this is referring to his high priestly calling and office. We're not just talking about the heavens in any way you could talk about the heavens. We're talking about the heavens in regards to his high priesthood. The author is referring to Jesus as the high priest entering the holy of holies. That's a temple image that we have. Leviticus 16, if you'd like to read that this afternoon, would be good fare for you. Leviticus 16 records the laws for the Day of Atonement. All the other priests. Would remain in the courtyard. I want you to think of this sanctuary as the Holy of Holies, just to have an image of the temple. And I want you to think of the front sidewalk as the courtyard. The front doors are the first veil or set of doors to enter into the holy place. These would be the second door and enter into the holy of holies. And there's only one person that is able to go into the Holy of Holies. All the other priests would remain in the courtyard out on the front sidewalk The high priest would then enter. He would open what was called the outer veil, which would be the front doors, and he would enter into the holy place. At the far end of the holy place there would be another veil called the inner veil, and the high priest would pass through this veil and enter into the Holy of Holies as a representative for the people before God in order to atone for their sins. The author here likens the heavens as the inner veil into the inner sanctuary. That's what he's saying. Jesus passes through that veil into the Holy of Holies, into the presence of God. Now, if you look at verse 14, you could look at verse 14 in this passage all day long and not see those details. What I'm gaining from is chapter 9 of the same book where he develops the imagery. In chapter 9, it says: Therefore it was necessary that the copies of the things in the heavens should be purified with these. That that which was made on the earth, the tabernacle, was just a copy of the real thing which was in the heavens, he says. For Christ has not entered the holy places made with hands. like the tabernacle and Solomon's temple. They are just copies of the true. But he entered into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us. Now that's Hebrews chapter 9, verses 23 and 24 if you'd like to look at that later. And that's the comparison. There's two points there in verse 14 of comparison that kick us off until chapter 10, verse 16. in seeing Jesus as high priest. Aaron was the high priest. Jesus is the mega high priest. Do you see the point? Aaron, on the Day of Atonement, passed through the veils into a copy of the Holy of Holies. Jesus passed through the veil of the heavens. into the very presence of God. You should be thinking of his ascension, going up into the heavens, to sit at the right hand in glory, which is where Stephen sees him right before he's martyred. Now here's a question though. If Jesus has passed through the heavens and he exists in supreme excellence and glory in the presence of God, how can you here on earth still connect with him? Do you feel like there might be something missing to the relationship? Jesus disappears behind the veils. And he leaves you out on the sidewalk. How does that feel? It can feel lonely And that is why the author brings up the next verses. Everything is to strengthen us in turning to him as our high priest. He is not so lofty that he does not care for us. We have a confidence to be gained. Jesus is the merciful and he is the gracious high priest. Now that's a personal relation right there. It is something that you can feel and something that you can experience. Although Christ is in heaven, as one author has said, his heart is for us here on earth. That's Thomas Goodwin. Do you see the evidences of this in verses 15 and 16? Look at verses 15 and 16. Do you see descriptions or qualifications that let you know he is personally attached to you? That his heart is yours, even if he may be thousands of miles away, so to speak. Physically speaking. For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses. But was in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace in our help of our time of need. You can see the personal relationship shining through, particularly in his sympathy. Jesus is sympathetic toward you. It's another way of saying he has feelings for you. He has a heart for you. Although he's in heaven, he thinks about you by name. He knows your name. I've s I uh I got a chance to meet a famous preacher at General Assembly. Uh he's semi-famous anyway. He's a Presbyterian preacher's name is Tim Keller. I I he I think he might have thought I was stalking him because I said hi in the restaurant and then I accidentally sat next to him during the worship service and then I saw him someplace else and it It was getting a little weird. But he didn't know my name. And it really showed the kind of relationship that we had, that I was just stalker. I really wasn't stalking. But if he did, what would that say? You get that feeling? What someone that you think has done a lot of good for you or has been important to you, maybe it's not Keller, maybe it's someone else. What if they knew your name? That's what he's saying here, is that Jesus is sympathetic to you. He, you know what, he suffers when you suffer. Now just try to believe that truth. That when you suffer, Jesus suffers. Tell me that would not change everything in your life. When you suffer, Jesus suffers. He has compassion in his heart for you. And it's not just a feeling where he's fine just sitting there. He desires you. To relieve you of whatever you're going through. He wants to put an end to it. Jesus is sympathetic as the one who, in fact, knows how to suffer. He's not just sympathetic from inexperience. He's. He's not he doesn't just have a big unintelligent heart. He has an intelligent heart, and he learned his intelligence from suffering himself. It says that he was sympathetic. He knows our weaknesses because he was at all points tempted. Of course he didn't. He never sinned. But he at all points was tempted. Talking about suffering there. You really ought to read this in relationship to Psalm 69, which is obviously a messianic psalm. The Messianic Psalm 69 records the agony of Jesus. Listen to what he says here. Listen to the kind of thing that he knows. You know my reproach, my shame, and my dishonor. My adversaries are all before you. Reproach or shame, it has broken my heart. Jesus. And I am full of heaviness. I looked for someone to take pity on me, but there was nobody I looked for comforters. I couldn't find anybody. They also gave me gall for my food, and for my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink. Now you should be thinking of the crucifixion. Crucifixion, right there. That is the kind of suffering that our Savior has going through. Jesus knows what it is like to be alone. He knows what it's like to need comfort and to not be comforted. To only look out, and he wants to see a friendly face, and all he sees are his enemies. And he brings that experience to you. To be able to say, I know what you're going through. And I am here to help you. Jesus, out of his personal experience with deep pain, his heart feels for you is what's being communicated here. Yes, it also says in the passage that Jesus is on the throne. That starts to put back in the passage a sense of distance because we could never approach people that are too important or too excellent. But it says that he's on a throne of grace, just to bring us right back. He's not just on a throne, he's on a throne of grace. Jesus has mercy and grace, it says, for you to help you in your time of need. Given the context, Jesus' mercy can't just be about reconciliation with God the Father. That certainly was covered in chapter 2 and chapter 3 in dealing with his high priesthood. But it means so much more than that. Doesn't mean less than that. Think again of Jesus as omniscient. He sees your intents and your thoughts, he sees the depths of your struggles more clearly than you. And now I want you to take his omniscience, and I want you to join it with his humanity. Now here's a quiz The first one's really easy. We have his omniscience and we're going to join it with his humanity. And this makes all the difference for us as we consider him as our high priest. Is Jesus alive? Ask that to someone in the grocery store the next time you see them. I bet you you'll get different answers. Now, here's the harder one, and you can ask this in the grocery store also. Being alive, does Jesus have a body? Did he resurrect with a body? Did he go to heaven With a body. People will stumble over that. And part of it is that we don't understand the importance of the resurrection. After Jesus' resurrection Jesus walked the earth for forty days, the disciples saw him disappear with his body into the heavens. You know that this is significant because his resurrection shows that he victoriously completed his work, therefore we're justified and accepted. before the Father. He's been exalted to the right hand. All authority has been given to him. You see you rely on his kingship. His resurrection shows that we too will resurrect one day with new bodies. See that in 1 Corinthians Corinthians 15. But what about this? This is the point here in this passage. Jesus' bodily resurrection is significant because his continued humanity assures you of his sympathy for you. He brings his sufferings that he experienced on earth to heaven to never forget, so that he always will be able to relate to you. He does not shed his human nature. That in fact would be a horrible heresy. Please don't believe that. And it would be a horrible discomfort for you. Jesus is the God man still. And therefore knows how to be sympathetic. He remembers his pain. You see the comparison stated in the first point That when the Holy Spirit addresses the Gentiles, he reminds them of their miserable life without God. That's what would have happened in this letter if it was just the Gentiles. He would have reminded the Gentiles of their miserable life before they ever knew God. But what does he do here? When the Holy Spirit addresses the Hebrews, he assures them that joining Christ is not a loss. It's a gain. Why? Because Christ is greater than Moses. He's the and because he's greater than Aaron, because he's the mega high priest. That's the first point. And from that, we can go forward with confidence, still being gained, even though he is in heaven. Although Christ is in heaven, Christ has not forgotten his church on earth. His sympathetic heart, full of grace and mercy for his people, invokes confidence within us. The difficulty will be pile driving that truth into our hearts, truly believing that Jesus has compassion and sympathy for us. But the truth is plainly stated here. I don't need to develop it anymore. Surely Jesus is the greatest high priest filled with mercy and grace for his church. That's the big idea of the sermon. Now you have a third point on your bulletin. It's really the conclusion of the sermon. It's the application part. And it's a conclusion inferred. You recognize the pattern. We do this each time in the book of Hebrews because it goes back and forth that he's going to give you a command, and he's going to give you reasons for a command, and he'll have giving you another command and more reasons for that command. And here you see the same thing. Basically, hold fast by going boldly. The author motivates you toward obedience. That's again what's happening here. We've seen fearful diligence We've seen lots of motivation. Here's another one. Motivating you to run to Jesus as the high priest by knowing who he is. The duty required in the passage is twofold. Take a look at verses 15 and 16. or 14 and 16. First, he states a goal in verse 14 that you should take seriously today. You, church. You Christian, you saints, hold fast your confession that Jesus is the Messiah Hold fast your confession. At least means a deep personal belief in Jesus as the Messiah. It also means obedience to Him out of that deep personal belief. You should think of the Great Commission. Second, notice the other command, which is a means of help to accomplish the first command. The means of help to accomplish that goal is to go boldly to the throne of grace. in your time of need. And you can see that in verse 16. If you want to hold fast to your confession, go to the throne. If you want to be obedient, go to the throne. Why would you ever go to the throne? Well, see first part of my sermon. That's the his whole point here. Now how does one go boldly to the throne of grace? This can't be a physical ascension. into heaven to the throne, he's talking about prayer here. Now isn't that lovely? Don't we all want to talk about prayer? Isn't that great? He's talking about pray here. In other words, if you really know the difficulties of this world, if you know misery, and I know that you do, if you know what it means to be miserable, and if you really know who Jesus Christ is, then you will pray for help in your time. That's what it's saying here. That's the conclusion that's inferred. If you know the world and you know Jesus, you will pray It is a duty that we have, especially in our time of need. Are you in need? Can you think of a need that you have right now? Are you in a time of agony I know that some people are in agony that can't be here present today, and they'll end up listening to the sermon online. They're answering yes when they hear this. I'm in so much agony, I can no longer be public. Go to Christ for help in your affliction. Listen to how well Christ knows agony, and being in agony, Jesus prayed more earnestly. Then his sweat became like great. Great drops of blood falling down to the ground. He knows how to help people in agony. Do some try to make you feel ashamed of your faith? Go to Christ for help and persecution So then Pilate took Jesus and scourged him, and the soldiers twisted a crown of thorns and put it on his head, and they put on him a purple robe, and then they said, Hail, King of the Jews. And they struck him with their hands. Do you know that level of shame? To be publicly humiliated and naked before people. Jesus can help you if you feel ashamed. Especially if you feel ashamed for standing up for him. Do you feel like God has deserted you? Go to Christ for help in times when you feel like God is far away. That's a little bit of a paradox, right? You're going to go to him even though he's far away, but he asks you to do that. He invites you. And about the ninth hour, Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And every other psalm that we see, where there are deep, deep forsakings. Are you concerned about your death or the death of loved ones? Death is very difficult. Have you thought about the fact that you'll be facing death? Some of you are thinking about it more than others. I just turned full. If I'm thinking about it, that's a joke. It did cross my mind a little bit. My father had his prostate removed. I began thinking about death more seriously. Thinking about losing our fathers, our mothers, our friends. To let go of present things that we hold dear, like our children, not being able to see them anymore. To have to hang up our hopes never really was able to achieve those things. It's another thing that's difficult about death. We have to give up departing loved ones. We don't get to see them Any longer. I'm not really sure what happens. We have to ponder the unknowable next world. And it requires a strength that is absolutely outside of you. To be able to handle death? Who is the one person who has experienced death that can still help you to walk through death? Is it not your great high priest, Jesus Christ? Christ has experienced death. He will walk you through your deathbed. If you have lost a loved one in Christ, he has walked him or her on her deathbed, present with her. Pray to him for help as you think about death or in any time of need. Now Although I think you accept the pleas that are going on here, and you see, this is a lovely idea. I really do want someone to turn to like this. I know that some will not pray. And I know that prayer is very difficult for us. We read these things, it sounds excellent, does it not It sounds glorious. It sounds lovely, and yet we will still falter within our prayer lives. We will still choose to bite our fingernails off In anxiety and obsession and never turn to Jesus until we hit our bottom. Never before. Why is that? It's because we don't really believe what's happening here. Well, what contradicts it? Of course, the world, but also your own experience. You believe that Jesus has failed you in the past. That you have gone to him in times of need and he did not help you. You had to figure it out yourself. Those are the thoughts that cross your mind. Were you in a time of need? Did you cry for help? Did Jesus show up? There are some, you have to be honest, you're going to say, no, I don't think he did. And if I can't trust on him full time, I can't trust on him at all Now the Bible gives different answers to that. There's no easy answer to that. Don't think you're going to walk out of here with all the answers to those questions But I want you to first remember that God's timing is not your own. Those of you who are the more mature saints will know that God's timing is not your own. And you have learned how to wait. And that has been very beneficial to you. Please remember that. Learning how to wait has been a very beautiful lesson that you have learned Embrace that and see that as a grace from Jesus Christ, the ability to wait. Yet the greatest reason I will say for unanswered prayer today that I see Is that the prayer or the cry for help is in relationship almost entirely to selfish desires and not God's I have a unique position. I get to see James 4. 3, not only in my own life, but in the lives of other people. You ask and do not receive because you ask amiss, that you may spend it on your pleasures. Being in the position of pastor, I get to see the lives of many different people struggling. And I can pick up on patterns by God's grace. And the pattern that I see not only within my own life, but in those of others and the majority, is that when you pray for help in time of need, so that you So that you can receive help. It is usually in relationship to selfish desires and has nothing to do with the kingdom of God, even if you have talked yourself into thinking that it does. It really is. And you learn it later. You learn it a few months later or a few years later and you confess it to God and you say, I've been selfish this whole time. None of this was really for you. I'm so embarrassed that I can deceive myself so quickly. Now that should resonate with your experience. But here's the thing. Here's the other pattern that I see among you: is that when you pray that you could be faithful to God and serve Him, I have yet to not see a prayer answered. Within my own life and within your life, I see prayers answered all the time when you are seeking to serve God. I can't think of an example of an unanswered prayer for you to be faithful and obedient to God. Even in the most horrendous circumstances, losing your husband or your wife, seeking all kinds of things that you think you need And not receiving those, but you know the thing you did receive? You stayed faithful. You stayed the course. You held on to Jesus as the Messiah. That's what I saw. And that was a grace from Jesus Christ, our high priest. I want you to take Paul as an example for what I'm pointing out here, which is an overarching philosophy on answered prayer and non-answered prayer. I gave you James for one reason and a major reason why it's not answered. Now listen to this with Paul as we think about having a more satisfying prayer life. Paul in 2 Corinthians 12, 7. He says, unless I should be exalted above measure by the abundance of the revelations, a thorn in the flesh was given to me. A messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I be exalted above measure. Now you know this is the old thorn in the flesh passage, right? Paul's been praying. He's been in his time of need saying, Please get rid of this thorn in the flesh. Some say that he was going blind. Now imagine having to walk the Roman roads and go from city to city with poor eyesight. You're already being beaten. Imagine how difficult that would have been. It's not unreasonable that he'd ask for his eyesight. That's why they some people say that Luke the physician accompanied him to be able to take care of him It's why they say in one of the epistles, you would give me your own eyes out of love for me. That's where this hypothesis comes from. Whatever it is, it's a great difficulty for him. It's a thorn in the flesh. Paul asks that it would be taken away. Why? Because it's miserable. No one is debating that, not even Jesus. He understands the misery. But does Jesus answer the prayer? Why does Paul ask the prayer? Paul asks the prayer so that he can do his job. What does Jesus say? He says, my grace is sufficient for you to do your job. And you can still keep the thorn. That's what he says And so Jesus gives him the grace not to be able to take away the misery or the cross, but the grace to have the power to carry the cross until he has fulfilled his debt to Jesus and bringing the gospel to all men around the Mediterranean Sea. Jesus says that his grace is sufficient for his weakness. It is the weakness Jesus is saying, I will leave the thorn, but give you enough grace to still accomplish your calling. Now we're narrowing in to being able to have a very satisfying prayer life. Still remembering that God's timing is not your timing. What are your biblical motivations? Are you a mom? Are you a dad? Are you an uncle? Are you an aunt? Are you a grandma? Employee and a husband, a wife. These are all biblical vocations. And you can put them in order. You serve God in your vocation. You exercise godliness in the calling that has been given to you with the things that are given you today and not tomorrow. Today has enough of its own troubles, Jesus says. You go to Jesus boldly in your time of need. When you are being hindered from serving Him in your vocation, He may not remove the pain, He may not remove the agitation. But he will give you a path to serve him. I swear to you, it will seem like all of the chaos on either side, like the Red Sea parting, and you will see a clear path to serve him amidst the pain. Amidst the disturbance and the chaos. And this requires that we have to have a totally different paradigm. You can't live for worldly ambitions any longer because he doesn't answer your prayers for your ambition. For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we will carry nothing out. Isn't that true? And having food and clothing, with these we shall be content. But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and harmful lusts, which drown men and women in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. American materialism, for which some have strayed from the faith in their greediness. And they have pierced themselves through with many sorrows. And here's the problem Within your American context, you are tempted away from having a satisfying prayer life because America tells you you need everything. Not that you desire. You need everything. You need that set of clothing. You need that car. You need that house. You need your husband to love you. You need your wife to respect you. And the scriptures come out and they say the only thing that you need is God through Jesus Christ. You may desire these other things, but you better develop some self-discipline because Jesus is not in the business of giving you all of your desires. It's called carrying our cross. It's called rejecting materialism and redefining what we truly need, making the distinction between need and desires, and having the self-discipline to forego our desires. When Jesus chooses not to give them to us so that we can accomplish what we need to accomplish, which is being holy and serving Him And 1 Timothy 6:6 ends with this. Now godliness, serving him in our vocation, with contentment, now that is great gain. That's life. That is happiness. Seeing then that we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, seven run, hold fast your confession. And if you're having trouble doing so, if you're in a time of temptation and you want to seek Him in obedience and faithfulness, then come boldly to the throne of grace. That you may obtain mercy, and that you, in fact, may find grace and help in your time of need. Please pray with me. Lord Jesus Christ, we have