Now, we're beginning a new series this morning, and it's in the book of Hebrews. The book of Hebrews is quite thick and detailed So if you want to stand any chance of following this sermon, then you should probably have a Bible in front of you. It's a good rule. If you would need a Bible, if you raise your hand, I'll get somebody to bring you a Bible if we need Bibles this morning. You can always put one up on your device if you need But I will be going through basically verse by verse exposition in this book. So You'll need a Bible. Which is good news, right? You're in the right church. Very good. Tate, do you need a Bible? Okay. Uh Aaron, do you mind grabbing Tate a Bible from the shelves? There's some right over on the side. Thank you, Aaron. This morning we're just going to consider one, one through four. We won't consider as much of four um as I would like because uh the verses following that will get into the relationship Between Christ's excellence and the excellence of angels, today we'll be focused mostly on just Him and His person and His offices and work. So let's um please allow me to read verses one one through four and then please allow me to pray for illumination. God, who at various times and in various ways spoke in time past to the fathers by the prophets, has in these last days spoken to us by his Son. whom he has appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the worlds, who being the brightness of his glory into and the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power when he had himself purged our sins, sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high, having become so much better than the angels, as he has by inheritance obtained a more neck an e a more excellent name than they. Please pray with me. Father, we ask that you'd glorify your Son. And Holy Spirit, we ask that you would glorify Jesus Christ above any competitor. Amen. A couple of years ago, this included, well, I noticed it because you I got on the band A couple of years ago the Orioles they played well. Do you remember? They made it to the playoffs, and this rise in success resulted in an increase of fans, including myself. And that was a natural response. It's a natural response for human beings to gravitate towards the winning team. People want to root for the winning team. You have entire schools that want to increase their attendance. They get a winning team and then people want to go to that school. That's one way to populate a school. We want as human beings to be associated not with a losing team, but with a great team. I think we can all recognize that Devotion to the greatest ends up being the general theme of the entire sermon or letter to the Hebrews. That's what the entire book is about: being devoted to the greatest. Devoted to the greatest. The author, whether it's Paul or Luke or Apollos, seeks to persuade his audience that no matter who steps into the ring of contention Jesus is greater and therefore deserves your greatest devotion. No matter who who or what it is, Jesus is the greatest. Now to emphasize the main point of the book, we've included, and we'll do this on our bulletins now, the main theme of our sermon series, you can see right on the cover. If you ever want to know what we're talking about in the book of Hebrews, it's always going to be Jesus is greater. That's what every point really revolves around here in the in in the letter. This that's what that author seeks to do is that Jesus is greater and that He He therefore deserves your greatest devotion. And you can see in the back of your bulletin in the outline the first big idea that we'll consider as we consider Jesus being greater. This section is packed. And we could go on, I could just stay here. I could just take each word and do multiple sermons on it. But we're not going to do that. God the Father has spoken in the past by the prophets. But in these last days, he has spoken by his son who is greater. You can see that big idea right there in your bulletin. It's a little bit of a long sentence So you can keep rereading that, and then we will consider that in three parts. The past, the last, and the greatest. God the Father spoke in the past. Now that is a tremendous statement. God the Father spoke in the past. You can see this very clearly in verse 1. God, who at various times and in various ways spoke in time past. The big idea, in fact, is pretty much a statement lifted right there from the passage. The author of Hebrews is not speaking about all the persons of the Godhead when he says that God spoke in the past. If you notice in the passage, there's a distinction between the persons of the Trinity here. Notice in just a verse later that he's going to begin speaking about the Son. You can just glance, you can see the word son all over the passage, particularly when he's being compared to the angels and later to Abraham. Son is all over, and here we're seeing it's the Father principally That is on his mind, that each person of the Trinity then is distinguished by their work, and it's the Father who is speaking. One famous philosopher and Christian apologetist has said, God is there and he is not silent. Now that's tremendous. It blows agnosticism out of the water. And atheism, of course. Because he's there and he has spoken. God was not silent, but had revealed. We're speaking here in this passage, if you notice the tenses in this first verse, he's speaking before the advent of Jesus Christ. He revealed, God the Father revealed his thoughts and his desires. And now it's going to go through different ways in which he has revealed this. He's going to qualify it. He's going to say, Very clearly in the passage that God the Father revealed his thoughts and his desires at various times. Do you see that? He revealed them at various times. The emphasis is that God spoke. in different ages, revealing little by little, began with a a kind of acorn and little by little grew into a sapling and then and then a full-blown oak tree after the advent of Jesus Christ He spoke little by little, inaugurating different ages. He spoke under the age of Adam. He spoke under the age of Noah, and he spoke under the age of Abraham, and he spoke under the age of Moses, which most important here in this letter to the Hebrews. God spoke to these persons at different times, not just in different ages, it says He revealed his plan little by little to each successive person. He revealed his thoughts and his desires in various ways, he says Now the way, if you think of this, you could just scan all of your Bible reading that you've ever done, because he's summarizing everything here. He's saying he's spoken to you in different ages, and he's spoken to you in different ways in those ages. The ways could either be the manner in which God revealed Himself. For example, sometimes He reveals Himself, the Father, in visions, in dreams, and voices through angels. Or it may be that God revealed his will and his thoughts and his desires by prophecies or sermons or promises or threats These are all the different manners or ways, the several ways in which God has revealed his thoughts and his desires throughout the scriptures. You've just read them, you know that. And he's categorizing them here for you. He further goes on to say that he revealed them to the fathers. So God, who at various times and in various ways he spoke in time past to the fathers. And here he's just meaning the ancestors of the Jewish church. And then lastly, he revealed them by the prophets. So the full picture that you see here just within the first verse was God speaking. Inaugurating different ages, and in those ages giving visions or dreams, or even speaking face to face with the prophets. Those prophets would then give sermons or warnings or promises to the Old Testament church. Now you get that, right? Those warnings or threats or promises or sermons were then written down on scrolls. It's called the inscripturation. It's scripture. It's what you have here. God speaking. And it being recorded. Now, the author is seeking to contrast between the past before the advent of Jesus Christ and the present time of his writing. And so you see the next point in your bulletin under last is that God spoke in these last days by his son. The emphasis still on God the Father speaking. The whole passage is really about that. And yet there's a comparison that's being made. That's really the key to unlocking the meaning of the passage is to notice the comparisons. You may want to map them out yourself because some of them are verbalized and some of them are not verbalized. For example, notice some of the verbalized comparisons here. Times past versus the last days, by the prophets versus by his son, to the fathers versus to us. You see the comparisons that are happening in the passage, and you could keep going with comparisons that aren't supplied that aren't supplied in words You could go at various ages, at a single age, under Jesus Christ, by various ways, by a single way, speaking through Christ. You could do those kinds of comparisons. One comparison which is misunderstood oftentimes if you take a look again at the scriptures in verse 2 are the last days. He has in these last days spoken to us by his son. Now, because of our contemporary American Tim Lehay context, The last days are often thought of as the renewal or the complete end of the world, but here that's not what it means. Here he's speaking of the last days of the Old Testament Jewish worship and state. This is the prophecy, ultimately, of the destruction of that way of life The last days are the Old Testament Jewish worship. The main purpose of the book of Hebrews, actually, the book was not originally written to you. It's written to Jews. And his main purpose was to convince Jewish converts to Christianity to not leave Christ. Do not go back to the Jewish church was the main message. Jesus is greater. That's his main message. Don't go back to Moses. Jesus is greater. Don't go to angels. Jesus is greater. That's the message. The author is pointing out that these last days. The last days are the last days of worship as established by Moses, in fact, and therefore don't get caught on the wrong side during the transition. And that's what they're in right now. Jesus spoke of the last days in the way that I'm saying this passage means it in Matthew 21. I'd encourage you to study that parable today in light of this. In Matthew 21, there's the parable of the landowner, and you can notice in your spare time some of the elements in that parable. God established a vineyard. Do you remember this one? God established a vineyard. It's a clear allusion to the establishment of Old Testament Israel. God sends his servants Well he that there are servants that lease the vineyard, and then God sends his servants, the prophets, to gain fruit from his own vineyard, but the prophets come and they kill. They kill the prophets one by one. And then he says, Surely I'll send my son to gain some fruit. They won't touch my son. And he sends his he sends his son and they kill him too. And then at the end of the parable, God says, Enough is enough. The last days arrive, and he takes his kingdom or vineyard and gives it primarily to another nation besides the Jews. Now the fulfillment of that prophecy and that parable may in fact be read in your public high school or whatever history books It is destruction or the fall of Jerusalem and the destruction of the temple in 70 AD. The transition is over. You want to keep returning to the temple? I'll just take the temple down. was the idea. The destruction of the temple has not ha has not happened when the letter to the Hebrews was written. The author, perhaps, only knows that the entire age of Moses was being superseded by the age of Christ. And if you, as a Jew, don't turn to Christ, then you may fall just as stones from the temple will in fact fall. And that's what he means by last days. Thus, the author next pulls out all of the stops to persuade his people to embrace the Son as the greatest of all of God's servants. Do you see the necessity of him doing so, of the original situation of what's happening there? And so he seeks in verses 2 through 4 and the rest of the book to establish that the sun is greater. But notice the flow of the passage. God the Father has always shown great love and interest in his people by communing with them. That's what the act of speaking is doing. He's sharing his life with you. His former ways have been superseded by his work in Christ. Don't stay in the past. Come to the present is the plea. And he would say something like, perhaps you could hear the author saying to this congregation, I understand that God spoke through Moses authoritatively. I understand that angels accompanied him. I understand there was smoking and smoke and flashing of lights at the mountain. I understand that Moses' face reflected the glory of God and that God called him a friend. But have you considered the Sun? That's the emphasis here. This is in fact the emphasis. Look at the passage. Look at the magical whom whom who. I know it sounds like Dr. Seuss. Whom whom who? Look in the passage. He doesn't develop any of the prior ideas that I have mentioned. Last days, that's all for me to fill in because we're unfamiliar with the context Look at what the author does in fact fill in. He mentions in verse 2 that in these last days he has spoken to us by his son, whom he has appointed heir of all things. through whom also he made the worlds, who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had and it continues It's an unfolding of who the Son is, whom, whom, and whom. The point is that there is no one greater to follow, even Moses, than Jesus. First, he points out, if you trust in the wisdom and discretion of God the Father, which they did, this is a point of commonality. If you trust in God the Father, then know that the Father appointed the Son. He has appointed whom He has appointed heir of all things. The Father has appointed. If you trust the Father and his appointments, then you should trust the Son. However, if you do in fact need the resume or the credentials of Jesus Christ, well then here it is. He is the one, first of all, who is the second person of the Trinity. In these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom He appointed heir of all things. Through whom also he made the worlds. He's the second person of the Trinity, and therefore he is the one who has, in fact, made the worlds. This Jesus Christ is the one who made our planetary system Can anyone else put that on their resume? Or second, angels in Job 4. 18 are called the sons of God. What a distinguished title. And mankind, we are made in the image of God, but only Christ Jesus It can be said of Christ Jesus here, who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person. The exact image of his person can only be said of Jesus Christ. And if being God and creating the world do not give you over to Jesus, then how about considering his continual care for creation and for the church? That's the next thing that he mentions in the resume. And upholding all things by the word of his power. Have you ever thought about that? I know you think of God in general when you look around and you see things being taken care of and all the birds being fed, but here it's declaring that this is your Jesus that upholds these things. The one in whom you have entrusted yourself. He cares for creation and upholding all things by the word of his power. The universe only continues in existence. or with lawful regularity because of the providential diligence of the Son of God. That's what's being declared here. The same may be said of Christ's priestly care for his church, not just his providential care. And that's why he brings up him purging our sins. His office of priest. In the same way that the sun cares for us, by ordering all events, the sun rises and falls, the crops grow and bear fruit, the cattle graze in the fields, the milk harvested. And the cream undulates in our coffee. That's what happened to me this morning. All because of the great care of Jesus Christ, but he cares even more for his church. He has, with his care as our priest, restored us in communion with the Trinity. He has is restoring us and purging out all of our sins with the sanctifying work of the Holy Spirit. And thus, he, the author of Hebrews, is leaving not only this congregation but us with a question: You tell me, who's greater? To whom should you entrust yourself? Is there someone greater? Was it right for the Father to give all majesty and excellence to Jesus Christ? Should this congregation go back to Moses? Even though he had all those accoutrements around him, everything was so exciting during that time with the mountain. Should they go back or is Jesus Christ greater? That's the whole point. The past, the last, the greatest, God the Father has spoken in the past by the prophets, particularly Moses. But in these last days, these days were, don't get caught on the wrong side of the transition. He has spoken to us by his son, which is demonstrably In this resume that he has given to us, the greatest. That's the whole point. God the Father has spoken the times past, but in these last days he's spoken to us by his Son who is great. Now, although this is written to the first century Jew, and I spent a lot of time just talking to you about the text, because I find it's so unfamiliar with this cult. But you know that's good. The authority is based on the text. I hope that it's more clear now. You can see where I could keep going on each of the words And although we're not this first century Jew to whom he's writing, we do face very similar situations. The Jewish Christians were tempted to turn away from Christ, and I want you to think of their temptation for a second. The leaders, it is said within the scriptures, did not most of them did not turn to Jesus Christ and become his follower. That means the influential in society. Those who have status. That means you're the one that they're ashamed of It's the wealthy. In fact, I want you to think of the very infrastructure of the city and how it would have been a temptation. Anywhere they went in the city, they could see the temple and they could perhaps smell the sacrifices and they could say, How could that be wrong? How could I not turn back to that? An entire city that has settled that. Every meal was a reminder of food and bathing laws. And here the author tells them to turn to Jesus, and Jesus isn't even physically present with them any longer. He is present by his spirit. And we have the same temptation, but oftentimes not to Judaism, although Judaism I've noticed when you attend college, particularly University of Maryland, there is there can be a pretty big pool, a temptation to go over to Judaism. That doesn't tend to be our problem. But we do have a temptation to move ourselves away from Jesus Christ also within this culture because we are people of comparative analysis. I know, that's weird, right Right. Even if you're if you think yourself as artistic and you don't like what I just said, you are a person of comparative analysis. I promise. You compare your life with the lives of those who are If you have a friend who's successful successful, you say, Now how are they doing that? If I just follow the pattern, I'll be successful. If they are powerful, if they have status, you say, well, how did they do that? Which book did you read? And then they begin to read, you begin to read that book, and you seek to gain power. Then you ask, as a Christian, how does Jesus give me those things now? And then you say, He doesn't. And then you say, well, and there's the temptation. The temptation immediately moves on, and you say, well, maybe that's a greater way. And here's the thing. It's a real temptation. It's a real temptation that The entire infrastructure of America is set up in such a way to make it look like you're on the losing side. It was the same thing for them that day, looking out at the temple, taking up half the city. How could they say that that's the losing side? And in the same way, there is an illusion that's being created now. There is a question that all of us have to consider. And that is, I understand that in the ultimate realm, and in the ultimate cause, that Jesus is providentially over everything. I just got done declaring But let me ask you this question, in terms of your temptation. Who is it who providentially manages the American way of life? Most folks that I speak to who are young Christians go through a period of time where they feel ashamed for being a Christian They feel like the fool of society. Where does that come from? Who has providentially arranged America And its infrastructure in such a way to where a person would feel like a fool for being a follower of Jesus Christ. Now that's a good question. Each day there is someone, or there is something creating the illusion that you do not need God, much less Jesus Christ. And that science and human passion is all that you need. Who does that? What institution is upholding it Wouldn't you have to say that there's a general thread running through our entire society, that every major institution is somehow contributing financially and philosophically to the illusion that you do not need Jesus Christ? And that if you do, you could adopt him as one of the prophets in Hinduism, or one of the prophets in whatever other religion, or that he's a great moral guy? They adopt him into their worldview, in other words, into their philosophical ideals that they're promoting. You think of the German state for a moment. And all of the propaganda that Hitler had put in to the establishment of the infrastructure to where people didn't think twice about sending millions of people away on trains for death. Who providentially arranged that to where it was able to continue for that long? We have the same kind of situation in our culture where someone Or many people are all contributing to a giant idealization and worldview that puts down Jesus Christ as the greatest and elevates whatever other ideal there will be. Let's call it diversity, and let's put over Macy's believe. Let's do whatever we can. Let's take all of the money that we can and create the highest buildings that we can so that all that you can see is the American dream. Is Jesus really greater than the skyscraper? Is Jesus greater than the bull on on at Wall Street? That's the temptation that they had, but it was with the temple. It was with their affluent leaders. And we have the exact same problem with us. We are tempted by looking at the very infrastructure of America, the very wealthy and the s those with status of America to think, well maybe I could start thinking about Jesus Christ like an American And just adopt him as one of my my bouncy vowels on my dashboard. That's something that we have to consider. Because the message here is that the temple will fall. And that's the case too when we turn to the book of Revelation. Anyone that stands in the way of Jesus Christ will in fact fall. or anything, or any group of things contributing to an overarching infrastructure within society, just like the temple, godless America will in fact fall. Let me read this for you, Revelation 19, 1 through 3. After these things I heard a loud voice of a great multitude in heaven saying, Hallelujah! Salvation and glory and honor and power belong to the Lord our God. For true and righteous are his judgments, because he has judged the great harlot who corrupted the earth with her fornication And he has avenged on her the blood of his servants shed by her. Again they said, Hallelujah, her smoke rises up forever and ever. It is a picture of whatever tries to stand in the way of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is greater despite the appearances of what this world may paint for us, despite the illusions, rest assured and rest in this passage, in the resume of Jesus Christ. That Jesus Christ is better than any of those illusions. And let us turn to him now in prayer. And let's consider his greatness in the Lord's Supper. Please pray with me.