For today, Acts 10, uh verses 34 through 43, I will be moving back to the Gospel of Matthew in next week's sermon. We will be picking up where we left off And um that is, if I remember correctly, chapter eight, verse one. Uh it may be seven, verse one, I forget which. But um we will p we will pick up at that point and we will com continue then through the study of Matthew uh uh for whatever time the Lord gives us to do so. But today we're looking at Acts ten, verses thirty-four through forty-three. Then Peter opened his mouth and said, In truth, I perceive that God shows no partiality. But in every nation, whoever fears him and works righteousness is accepted by him. The word which God sent to the children of Israel, preaching peace through Jesus Christ, he is Lord of all That word you know, which was proclaimed throughout all Judea and began from Galilee after the baptism which John preached. How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power Who went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him. And we are witnesses of all these things which he did, both in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem, whom they killed by hanging on a tree Him God raised up on the third day and showed him openly, not to all people, but to witnesses chosen before by God, even to us who ate and drank with him after he arose from the dead. And he commanded us to preach to the people and to testify that it is he who was ordained by God to be judge of the living and the dead. To him all the prophets witness that through his name, whoever believes in him will receive remission of sins. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. The Sunday after Christmas is our traditional New Year's message. Uh it is a time in which we look forward and I try to set a a frame for how where we are at the church and how we're headed in the uh near future And 2015 is going to be an important, a very important year for us here at Severn Run EP. And we will be talking in detail about that at the upcoming congregational meeting. I'm not going into it today, but I will ask you to take my word for I'll ask you to take my word for it, and that you make every effort to be here in the third weekend in January for our congregational meeting. But as we are thinking about this, it's a good time to take stock of where we are and what God is doing among us, and to also look at what God could be doing among us and where he would be having us move. He is building his church. He is glorifying his son. And he is doing so through the Holy Spirit that has been given to his church. And that's what I hope to focus on this morning. As we see here in this passage, God's great plan for the world and for uh uh his history for history in this world is to uh be accomplished through his church, through his combined people. The church that he has purchased with his very own blood. And as we look at our church Where we are and how we stand in light of these words, I want us to see how this point passage points us back to where we started. And then projects forward to perhaps where we might be going as we embrace this vision for God's church with zeal and perhaps self-sacrificial enthusiasm. First, what I want us to see in this passage is that Peter, good old Simon Peter, has had his eyes opened, if you will, in a very special way. He has had, as it were, the Holy Spirit kind of slap him around and point him so that he sees what's going on, what's really happening in the world And it's somewhat of a shock to him, and that's what he is reacting to. We see that immediately in verse 34. Where he says, in truth I perceive, and I need to expound that a little bit. I need to unpack those words He's saying in truth, now I understand. Now I have grabbed hold of this idea in truth. that God does in fact not show any um favoritism or any partiality Every people group, every person, no matter who they might be, who fears him and works righteousness is accepted by him. Now today we're 2,000 years on the other side of the cross of Jesus Christ, and many of us in this room have grown up under Reformed uh teaching and and perhaps even uh uh uh teaching uh other than the reformed faith, but we're generally used to the evangelical message. This does not seem to be all that earth-shattering to us But to Peter it was. We're talking big time experience here. He had just gone through this situation in which God had opened up the heavens to him and to reveal to him While he was praying up on the roof of his house, where he could go to get into the cool, I suppose, as as well as to get away from uh all of the racket. He's up there, he's praying, it's about mid morning. And suddenly he's very hungry. He falls into a deep trance, and in that trance he has a vision and a great big tablecloth With all kinds of to him disgusting animals are on this tablecloth And he hears a voice from heaven saying, take, kill, and eat. And this just shocks him For these animals are all unclean animals. It is strictly against God's law for him to eat them. And he responds and he says, Lord, I have never eaten unclean food. And the voice says, what God has cleansed, what God has washed clean. You must not consider unclean Hmm. Now this is an earth-shaking idea to him. The idea of clean foods and unclean foods was very it was endemic. To his whole idea of what it meant to be a Jew. And then what he saw is that God is not here just talking about food. God's talking about a revolution in the way that he's doing business here on earth. And prior to this time, the Jews had been preserved as a special people through the institutions that God had put in place for them. God had put many devices into their life to keep them separate from other people, to distinguish them from all other people. so that they could be seen as being a specific set apart people for the purposes God had for them Now these institutions were food laws, marriage laws, ceremonial laws, civil laws, all given a very special purpose that was oriented towards one thing. It was to distinguish this group of people, these Israelites, these ethnic people, as having a special mission in God's progress of history. They were to provide a witness, a promise to the world. Throughout history From Adam's sin in the garden down through Noah, down through Abraham, through all of those, God has set a promise That was going to happen at some point in the future. And the gospel prior to Jesus Christ was to trust in God who has made this promise of a Messiah who was to come And this promise is going to be coming through this special people. That was their whole reason for being separate, identifiable. Through them, through the blood descendants of Abraham Through the ones that had this specific ethnic heritage, a seed would come who would be a blessing to all the peoples of the earth. Now food laws and other kinds of laws like this were important for cultural identification. And God would not honor them. The Jews knew, as this special people who have set aside to this purpose, if they defile themselves with unclean people or unclean food or unclean religious activities And so Peter had had this beaten into him since his birth and by 2,000 years of heritage, or thousands of years of heritage. And now God's telling him. From this point on, all of those institutions that distinguished you from other people Or to be done away with. That which used to be unclean has now been washed and is now clean, and he, Peter, needs to recognize That this is a new day with new potential for the future. And when Cornelius the Gentile, centurion, shows up at his door in obedience to his own vision Then Peter says, now I get it. Okay. Here's a Gentile. But he's no longer a Gentile. He's my brother. And he grabbed hold of that. That's what the word says there. It's not just that he knows Genosco. No, it's Paralambano. It's he took it and he held it close to himself. Because he finally saw what God meant. There is no longer any clean or unclean distinction between Jews and Gentiles Cornelius is blessed of God, beloved of God, even though he's a Gentile. And he is beloved every bit as much as Peter is beloved. And then through that instance, Peter saw that it was not what ethnicity That was important in the kingdom of God. But rather as he says, that a man feared God and did good works, that person was acceptable to God. Now this was an earthquaking wake-up call for Peter because it changed his entire perspective about where to go from here. And now we see Peter. Putting all of this in perspective by essentially re-evaluating the life of Christ. He re-evaluates everything he knew and was with Jesus in doing throughout his whole life. In verses 36 through 41, Peter essentially summarizes Jesus' life and characterizes this whole history of his life, death, and resurrection in terms of the Word of God. In other words, he sees all of Jesus' life as the Word of God given to demonstrate, to reveal that indeed the great purpose of history has been come about. Peter says this word, which God gave, sent to the children of Israel. He sent Jesus Christ preaching peace. Jesus, the witness of his life, his preaching and his teaching, which began in Galilee and spread throughout all of Judea. How he preached and healed the sick with great power and authority because he was anointed with the Holy Spirit. It was an overpowering witness. It was a witness that could not be denied. If you knew the Old Testament and you knew the Messiah that was to come, you look at the life and the history of Jesus Christ and you say, this has to be him. And yet they killed him. They hung him on a cross But God raised him up on the third day. And Peter says, we were there. We were eyewitnesses to this. We know it to be truth. And Peter sees now the life of Jesus Christ in a different fashion. He sees the life of Jesus Christ in terms of him meeting with Cornelius. That means that in Jesus Christ, God has kept all of his promises to Abraham. The seed has come. Here is the man who would be a blessing to all the peoples of the earth And that was the message of the life of Jesus Christ. In other words, that is the gospel. The life, death, and resurrection, the ascension of Jesus Christ, the historical fact of it is the word of God given to God's people. So that with demonstration of power and authority, all of history, all of human history has been set on a new course, has been given a new direction. And it is that new direction, that new course, that Peter now sees to be a governing imperative and overarching principle for the lives of God's people from this point forward. In verses 42 through 43, Jesus or Peter is telling us that in the life of Jesus Christ, hear this. In these verses, In the life of Jesus Christ, every child of God has been given a ministry. Every child of God has been called to a life of bearing witness to this life of Jesus Christ as it is here summarized and the essential ramifications that grow out of it, the necessary implications of that historical fact. Every person who has been given the Holy Spirit such that now they fear God and are called to do works of righteousness as we have talked about, those who are acceptable to God in verse 35 Has now been called to bear witness to this historical reality. This means that every child of God must be familiar and thoroughly taught the historical truth of Christ. Notice how I said that, the historical truth of it. They must be convinced. That he was born into this world, lived, and died, as Peter here testifies. Every person must become intimately familiar with the gospel of Jesus Christ. As specifically recorded in the m uh synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, and also in John So that the life of Christ, his specific teachings, his specific actions, his specific fulfillment of prophecy becomes an integral part of life on which everything else is built. The teachings of Paul and all of the rest that follow are built upon this foundation that Jesus Christ lived. And he lived in accordance with that which is taught in our Gospels. So as Paul and Peter and the rest of the apostles built on the implications of that, so The life of every believer must be grounded first and foremost in the historical reality of Jesus Christ as he has taught to us Because the core of the gospel, the core of the good news, is the person of Christ Himself. And every disciple must be intimately familiar with Him. Able to recognize him, able to think in terms of him. Every disciple of Christ is called to this foundation In proclaiming the truth to the world and the implications that are to be found in the rest of Scripture, we are to start with this: Jesus is real. He is not just a body of doctrine. Christianity is not just a body of doctrine. It is not just an abstract theological idea. Jesus Christ is not a myth. Grown out of the r human religious impulse and given some kind of coloration that makes it essentially indistinguishable from all the other religions of the world. He is not like Santa Claus. He is not like the Easter Bunny Jesus is real. And in him, in his life, God has revealed that we are not alone in this world. The evidence of Jesus' life is irrefutable for any who but the most hardened skeptic. The historical fact of his life is overwhelmingly obvious. If we believe without a doubt that Julius Caesar was real, why do we not believe that Jesus Christ is real when the substantiation for his life is so much greater than that of Julius Caesar? There is a God in heaven, and every man and woman and every child is intimately, eternally involved with this God. That is the testimony of the life of Christ. And this Christ, who has ascended to heaven, has set a date when he will judge the living and the dead. And brothers and sisters, it's coming. It's closer today than it was yesterday. And tomorrow, Lord willing, it will be closer still. But just as Jesus' life is real, so is this day real. That's what Peter's saying here. And everyone, Jew and Gentile alike, will give answer to God for the life that he has lived on this earth And that will be a scary day, because the wages of sin is death. But praise be to God, though death is what our sins deserve, yet everyone who believes, as Peter here says Will find remission for their sins. Everyone who truly believes that this Christ is in fact alive that he has ascended into heaven and that he is Lord. He is Lord of all things and he is specifically Lord of my life. Everyone who gives their allegiance to him and trusts him and fears him and is dedicated to the life that he has called them to live. Then Jew or Gentile alike, they will receive remission for their sins, forgiveness of their sins, they will pass through judgment, and they will enter into life eternal with Him. That's what Peter saw. And he saw that this is a revolution in the progress of history. And that's why now as we take a look at this teaching, we should evaluate where we are as a church and where we ought to be as a church In light of it. And that's what I hope to do now. Let's take a realistic appraisal of our church. This is my opinion. You may dispute it, but here's for my thoughts. Realistically, I confess that there is much about our church. That should result in praise to God and enthusiasm for his kingdom. In many ways, Severn Run is unique. I see us as being unique, not in the sense that there are no other churches like us. But in the way that Christ is calling us and what he has created among us and the strengths that he has given us. I think our biggest strength is that we're family. We are, on the whole, a very close church. People know each other, they care for each other, and they show it. There are family squabbles here, just like there are in every family. Not everyone feels as included in the church as they ought to be. And there are areas where we need to be conscious of that, that though there is a closeness here, it is not uniformly felt across the board. And there are those who feel isolated among us as is the case. However, on the whole, God has done a work here. And bringing us together that is different from any other church that I've ever been in in my way too many years. We need to praise him for that. And we need to see that as a foundation on which to build. Another strength we have is that there have been, and there continues to be significant works of the Holy Spirit among us Now this is an area where I am more uniquely set to observe than perhaps you. It's been my privilege to be present. Or to be aware of God doing some truly amazing things among us. I cannot name names, but that doesn't mean that the names are not firmly fixed in my mind. I have seen lives change significantly through the ministry of the Holy Spirit and our fellowship and our worship, our counseling, and all of those things. I remember recently one person saying that Seven Run saved her life. That's not true. The Lord saved her life. But he worked through Severn Run to do it. I've seen marriages healed. I've seen love reawakened where it had turned to arrogance and anger. I've seen joy replacing despair. For the size of our church, we have had a wonderful harvest of significant works, where people really have found rest under the tree, as is our motto. By the nature of the beast, privacy and confidentiality require these things not be broadcast. But what I call us to do is to realize that they are going on and not just assume that God is not doing things among us because he is. Sometimes I am amazed at how much. I will point to our our worship and our preaching. I won't comment on the quality of the preaching. But at Severn Run we insist on that preaching being focused on God's Word as it is enscripturated in the Old and New Testaments, and without hesitation and with intention of preaching the whole council of Scripture And not just that which is easy to preach and that which is not controversial. Whether it is done well or whether it is greatly in need of improvement, Yet those are the goals that are consciously in place. And over the years the preach word has been oriented in that direction and has borne fruit Oftentimes the preach word is like giving a rudder order to a large ship. You turn the wheel, and after a while the bow starts to move. Doesn't happen right away. The constant preaching of Christ and His kingdom as being the focus of our lives and not something that is just added to our lives, I believe, has had its effects. And we've even seen some impact outside the church as we have essentially a worldwide ministry of people downloading the sermons. and listening to them. I had a Facebook a guy on Facebook the other day tell me he was listening to my sermon even though he was down in Arkansas. I think our worship is another strength. It's not flashy. It's solid. It's biblical. And it's satisfying to most of us. It's always in need of improvement, but on the whole, we focus on the essentials. We seek to glorify our God and celebrate his son. And to a large extent. I think that we are solid in that also. Those are some of the strengths that occurred to me. Where do we need to change and where do we need to grow? How do we build on what we already have? And here I think we need to look at this passage and see the emphasis that is there. For brothers and sisters, this is, I think, in 2015 what I consider to be Our most pressing need. I see us often in terms of the church at Ephesus in Revelation 2. John there is given a vision. He speaks to the church and he says, You've done many good things, and I've just said there, a few in the in my rehearsing of what has gone on among us, I've said there's many good things going on us. And there uh uh the uh Jesus says to John, uh to the church at Ephesus, you hold fast to the word as we hold fast to the word. You stand against heresy as we seek to do. You have been patient under testing. You are a good church, in other words. But Jesus then says, But I have this against you. You have lost your first love. You don't have that zeal, that energy in your love for me and for my kingdom that you once had. You don't rejoice in the opportunities that I bring your way. You have fallen into patterns, and good things are being done. But not with that passion that becomes infectious to others, and that bears witness to the power and the glory and the depth. That the Holy Spirit provides. The good works are sometimes as far as we go When what I desire, Jesus says, is that good good works bear witness to the love that you have for me. And the love that you have for each other. Here's what I have against you. You have fallen from your first love. Brothers and sisters, in this pivotal year that is facing us, this is where I think we should focus. Peter in this passage really gets fired up He gets, huh? Peter's a enthusiastic guy anyway, and you see it happening here. He gets fired up. Jesus has changed the world. The world is not the same as it used to be. And though he has ascended to the right hand of God the Father Almighty, yet he is here with us, among us, working in it, through us. And therefore the future is unlimited. We can do great things through his power. We can overcome any obstacle that Satan puts in our path, and we can tell people about this wonderful Savior who will in fact judge the world, but who offers remission of sins for all who believe in him. Brothers and sisters, those are our orders. Our orders from our Lord Our orders from the Lord who expects to be obeyed, we are to tell people about Jesus. Why? Because we love him. Passionately. Because we really do bel do believe that he is alive And that he's very real, personal, and powerful to the tearing down of barriers. We had that fire when this church was first planted 24 years ago. Those of you who were here remember as I do the excitement, the zeal, the energy among us. We were looking forward to the people that God would bring through our door because we didn't know who they were. We didn't start with a core group. We didn't know who was going to be next. Whoever walked through that door, they were welcome. And we looked forward to building relationships with them. We look forward to building a church and to see the power of God work in it. Because God was working among us, there was an electricity in our Bible studies, in our worship service, in our fellowship dinners, and all of those things. But that means, brothers and sisters. That if that energy is somehow flattened out, then what is really before us now is that it is time to replant our church. It is time for us to see that it is up to the next generation of members in our church to embrace the vision of the church to take ownership of it and to build on the foundation that has been laid. I don't know if you notice the significance of this most recent election of officers. We had two men elected, one to the office of elder, one to the office of deacon, both of whom, I believe Jeremiah was not 13. I believe both of them, when we planted the church, were under the age, were below, were beneath the teenage years. Is that right, Gloria? I think so. The next generation is moving into leadership And it is time for the younger generation, the younger people, those people who have joined our church, those who have grown up in our church, those who are coming into our church perhaps for the first time, it is time for you to embrace this church and make it your own. Now older people. It's time for us to make room for that. But also to encourage them and not to take the attitude, well, it's theirs now, let them have it We who have been around a while, we know where the potholes are. We've had the experience. We can't just step back away from that process. There is a role for the older generation also. But my major challenge to the new families and the new members, both in age and time of arrival. You have been called to this church at a crucial, crucial, critical stage in our church's history. And God is calling you to step in. to look for opportunities to serve, and to make this particular congregation of the Bride of Christ glorious. It is time for us to recapture Peter's zeal and dedicate ourselves to falling in love with Christ again. For that reason, we need to study the life of Christ for the purpose of awakening love for Him. Each of us need to take stock of where we stand in the light of the Great Commission that Peter is here essentially. Encapsulating. And without losing what we have, we as a fellowship of believers here at Severn Run EP Church need to dedicate our lives to keeping the main thing, the main thing. No matter what your vocation is, no matter what your calling is in the outside secular world, your major purpose is to build the kingdom of God. That is what Christ has called you to, and it is the main central purpose of your continued existence in His kingdom. We have been included in his kingdom, adopted as his children, as his brothers and sisters, even though we're Gentiles. We are the people of God during these the last days before he comes again. And as the people of God, it is our call to love Him with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength, and to love each other as ourselves. We are to do this with a holy passion, a self-sacrificing passion, and we are to stir up love and good works among each other in response. This, brothers and sisters, is what I hope we focus on in this coming year. And for however many years God gives us thereafter. And God willing, so we shall do. Let's pray