Matthew. And when he had called his disciples to him, he gave them power over unclean spirits to cast them out and to heal all kinds of sickness and all kinds of disease. Now the names of the twelve apostles are these. First, Simon, who is called Peter, Andrew his brother, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother. Philip and Bartholomew, Thomas and Matthew, the tax collector, James the son of Alphaeus, and Lebius, whose surname was Thaddeus, Simon the Canaanite, and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him. These twelve Jesus sent out and commanded them, saying, Do not go into the way of the Gentiles, and do not enter a city, enter a city of the Samaritans. But go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. And as you go, preach, saying, The kingdom of heaven is at hand. Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out demons Freely you have received, freely give. Provide neither gold nor silver, nor copper in your money belts, nor bag for your journey, nor two tunics, nor sandals, nor staffs For a worker is worth his food. Now, whatever city or town you enter, inquire who in it is worthy. Stay there till you go out. And when you go out into a household, greet it. If the household is worthy, let your peace come upon it. But if it is not worthy, let your peace return to you. And whoever will not receive you nor hear your words When you depart from that house or that city, shake off the dust from your feet. Assuredly I say to you, it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gibor in that day, in the day of judgment Than for that city. And may the Lord add his blessings to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. The sermon titled for today is A Message for Every New Year. Please be seated. Been a while since I've been in this pulpit and I'm gonna have to find out which glasses work. There we go. As you might know, I have retired again. And uh as part of my retirement, in order to give myself some degree of organization, I have continued my studies through the Gospel of Matthew taking us uh a short segment or uh technically a peregope each week. Spending three or four hours every day studying that. Well, uh when Bradley called about a month or so ago Uh, and ask if I could preach today. I was most happy to do so, and it just so providentially happened that this passage had uh occurred to me and had been studied and so I looked at it and saw that it might fit. Within the overall theme of what I was going to preach on, or what what I would preach on on New Year's Eve, which are Of course, New Year's resolutions. Now I think those are a good thing. You know, I know the lifespan of keeping a resolution is measured in nanoseconds. But I think on the whole that they are a good thing. Humans are kind of hardwired to make uh resolutions or to go through a period of reflection at New Year's It doesn't matter whether the calendar begins on January first or whether February fifth, as in the Korean calendar, or the Jewish New Year in September New Year's Day is a period of reflection. Should be a period of reflection after the hangover is lit up. And I have thought uh Christians when they do so. Whatever time of the year it's undertaken. It doesn't have to be just two years. We should perhaps, in particular, should set a time for this kind of thing After all, isn't Christian duty of repentance basically taking a look at your life and seeing where it is that perhaps you have deviated from what God would have from you to do. And is that not basically the same idea as taking a resolution? Make you one. So perhaps that might be something we consider today. What is it that God may be requiring or asking of us? in the form of making resolutions. Now I will tell you right up front, this is what I call a meat and potato sermon. So the passage basically preaches itself, I'm just going to kind of stand up here and let it do that But uh so that's where we're headed with this. And what I'm gonna ask you is what if as a church Not just as the virtual personal resolutions. What if a what if as a church God is calling us To make some resolutions. What might they be? Jesus' message, as highlighted in the Gospel of Matthew, is that in himself, God's kingdom With Jesus as its Lord has been established in history. Matthew is a proclamation of that great event. The Messiah has come, he's brought the kingdom, and you better recognize the kingdom is here and react to that. And the uh we are saved into that fellowship. That's what the gospel is. Matthew is very clear on this. Matthew is unique among the gospels in the way he does this. Now, as we are called to Christ, what we may not realize right away Is that we are actually called to this visible church. Peter calls the Church of Jesus Christ a spiritual house, a loyal priesthood. But that's so cute. He says we're a holy nation. He's talking about the visible church. He's talking about us. A holy nation, God's own special people. Now, Jesus Christ has done that. We, brother sisters, we are a separate race in the world. I couldn't, I didn't take time to research it and find it again, but I could quote you some ancient Roman writers who actually listed the numbers of races in the world, the ethnicities And he went through the ones you would expect, but at the very end of it, he listed Christians. A separate group of people, distinct. Their own social order with their own style of speaking, their own customs. And that's what we are And Peter says that we have been created as this holy separate nation of the world for a purpose. He says very clearly it's to proclaim the faces of Christ. Not just here in worship, which we automatically are inclined to do here in the sanctuary, but we are to proclaim Jesus Christ out in the world around us Peter says that's what he what he uh created us as our motivation to do. Now, perhaps we're thinking about resolutions. Perhaps we might ask as an opportunity presents itself in the words of something like what John Kennedy said. Perhaps what we should be asking is not so much in this particular instance what God has done for us. But what is it we can do for God? As we look forward to this next year, we all look forward in gratitude for the life God has given us and the opportunity. And God says that we are saved unto love and good works. And he also tells us that the Word of God, in 2 Timothy, will equip us for every good work. Well, perhaps we should take time to discover what is it God's calling us to do? What good works are we called to? Jesus points to these good works in this passage. He posts through this, but he has a learning for us. Jesus has a mission for us as a church as well as individuals within it. Here in Matthew 10, as well as in many other passages, he says, he lays the foundation for us to see what that purpose may be. And if we're going to do resolutions, maybe this is what we should do: to get on board and make it a priority to do what God wants us to do. To resolve. To make pursue his purposes our great plan for our life. Just a quick review, Matthew's gospel is written to make the case that Jesus is the Jewish Messiah. And his opening section begins out with Jesus' genealogy that is consciously crafted in the form that you would read genealogies in uh Genesis showing the link between what he is doing in writing his gospel and in Genesis all the way through Jesus' uh his account of Jesus' birth in which he is focused on Um uh Jo uh Joseph, not only in the way because of the reception of the Jewish people. to the fact of the wise men coming and doing, bringing their gifts, uh fulfilling Jewish expectations about how uh the Messiah is to be uh king of the nations And through Jesus is being proc Jesus being proclaimed by God Himself as His tongue in his baptism. After that initial overall section, then there is a period in which Jesus does a bunch of miracles. that demonstrate his mighty power even to the point of healing the Garestine demoniac, a gentile, a crazy man. With that then we return to the Seminole of the Mount, which starts a whole new section. And in that it casts him as the new Moses. The one who has come to bring the law into his kingdom. Following that, we have the Galilean ministry, which is almost thoroughly a demonstration of Jesus' powerful works. But other than the Sermon on the Mount in that entire group, there's not a lot of teaching And when when it does teach in the Lord's seven uh uh the seventh of the mount, it is directed towards all people. It's not directed just toward his kingdom. What we see is Jesus being proclaimed through his great work, establishing his credentials. The focus is on the purpose of Christ throughout Matthew, on the person of Christ. Throughout Matthew, it's always that way. There's going to be a lot of teaching that starts up in chapter ten. So chapter ten starts with Jesus' teaching ministry. And this particular chapter is the longest sustained teaching as the Sermon of the Mount. Notice again, it's not for a general purpose, a general public, like the Sermon on the Mount. It's directed towards Jesus' disciples. It's directed specifically toward his church. Embodied in the disciples, the prototype embryonic Church of Jesus Christ. We should carefully note. And you must note this because this is how the sermon is crafted. That chapter 10 here in this teaching is directed towards Matthew 28 with a Great Commission. And everything I'm seeing today in this section is informed by Matthew 28, because they are linked together. There's a literary bookend type form here. The session between chapter ten and chapter twenty-eight is unified by that sense of what Jesus is doing. So we should very carefully note this lake with Matthew 28 and the Great Commission. So please keep that in mind as we now continue to proceed. Okay, so let's look at the chapter a little more closer. Notice in verses 1 through 4 that Jesus is addressing just his twelve disciples Verse 1, Jesus called his 12 disciples to render. Okay, that's pretty clear. And we just, Matthew gives us these names. And notice here. This list of names includes Matthew as well as Joseph, uh Jews. Matthew is recording his own remembrance of what Jesus said here. We could have a great deal of confidence in what we're doing here, because this is not secondhand. Matthew was there. This is what he heard. And then when we note that Judas is present, that gives us some more insight. That this is in fact directed towards his teachings here, are directed towards his visible church, not his invisible church In other words, in the invisible church is elect, everyone in the invisible church, by definition, is elected to eternal life. Not so with God's visible church. It includes those who are not so elect as well as majority those who are. But Jesus is here speaking to this group of people is very clearly speaking to us. God's visible church. He's speaking to the churches will exist in time and in space and in history. Now The church of Jesus Christ, from this, we can learn, is not perfect. I don't think that's news to you. All right. It's not perfect. He has called us individually, in this regard, into his church to be part of that fellowship. It is not a perfect fellowship. That we are joined to other sinners. But Jesus is greater than our sin, both individually to salvation And brothers and sisters, in time and space, unto the perfection of our work. He's greater than our sin. Our perfection as a church is not a hindrance to Jesus. Using us for his good purposes. Do you believe that? Presbyterians never speak. Okay. Do you believe that? Because Jesus came to found his church and to use it as an instrument for his purposes, and he's gonna do it. Christ Visible Church is the most important institution in creation in all of male society It is set apart from all other institutions. It is called to be holy and to be identified by its common source. It is the temple of the Holy Spirit. Everybody church is the temple of the Holy Spirit. Not bad, huh? Pretty good. It is the body of Christ in the world. These are all things that you know. They're clearly taught in Scripture. And as such, it is God's chosen instrument for his purposes. Brothers and sisters, it is a great privilege to be part of the Bismillah Church. Did they say great privilege? Not everyone is called to it. Not everyone comes into it There is a choosing process, even to the point of being called to the visible church. Now, perhaps this might be where we start a resolution. Cross one resolution that we might make is to be more thankful for the church in this coming year, to meditate on it as we are called to do in our membership vows, and to see how we can strive for its purity and peace. Would that not be a good thing to do? Dead silence, okay. Our individual salvation, we need to get our mind right. Our individual salvation is our entrance into the visible church. It is that which we are how we are set apart to be a member of God's people And even if it is not unto the eternal election, eternal salvation, as it was with Judas, yet it is still a great blessing. Brothers and sisters, even those in God's church who are not who do not have safety faith but uh are perhaps having what we call a historic faith. They've got customs they yeah I go to church every Sunday because I've been that's what I was in raised to do Well, you know, even a historic place like that that brings people to church and maybe even makes them active membership is still a great blessing to them. It is a great blessing for infant children to be born into the fellowship of the church. There we go. And when we stop and think about it in that regard, that extends to all of the people that God calls into fellowship. Do we see our church as a blessing? Yes. And are we conscious of it? And are we thinking about it? And are we seeking how to celebrate it? That's our first application, perhaps. He has given us a church that is the ground and pillar of truth. And as a result of that, we should rejoice and be glad in it. Now, that sort of privilege is where we start We have to have that before we can begin to appreciate what our purpose is. Now notice the power that Jesus gives us, Jesus gives to his church. Verse 1 again. Jesus gave them special divine authority and power. Now hold on for just a minute by thinking about the special powers of healing, the miraculous powers that are listed here. Just consider the general principle that is underneath it. The visible church as a body of Christ is to show forth to the world the power and grace of Jesus. The power And the grace of Jesus. As Jesus went around doing good works that are evidence of his royal presence in the world. So the church is continue doing what Jesus did. He came with healing in his wings. And as a result of that, the Church of Jesus Christ is to continue to bring healing in the world in where it has been placed. And to do so in the name of Jesus. Okay, let's talk about this special powers that Jesus gave to the disciples to cast out unclean spirits so he were sick. As you guys all know, the age of extraordinary powers, the age of of uh extraordinary gifts is past. The book of uh Letter of Hebrews makes this very clear to us But that doesn't mean the church is not specially gifted anymore. Yeah, as a pastor and a teaching elder in this church, and if someone is really sick, I can't walk up to them, put my hand on them, and say, I command you to heal. I can't do that. But I can pray to the God who has the power to heal. And as an ordained pastor, I have been called to do that. Well, guess what? So have you. It's not just pastors that can pray for and expect God's power to work through. Them as they seek to bring healing. That when we look at that, Jesus taught that through faith and power The church can move mountains. He told us that whatever we ask in his name, believing it will be done. When's the last time you invoked that privilege? Well, it's the last time you believed you could do it. The visible church is a gifted above all other human institutions in that the church It's been given, has been given priestly access to God the Father. We have this access to Jesus, or to God the Father, through Jesus. We have been As Peter said, we we're made into a nation of priests. We can go to God the Father through Christ. With the absolute assurance he's going to hear us. Not man. The Lord of the universe, the God who created all things, listens to what we, his people, say to him. Now, not everything we may ask for will be granted. If I had more time, I'd tell you some stories of what I've seen granted as a in prayer amongst the people of this congregation. But just as the disciples were amazed when they went out, as we are told in Luke, when they set out the Saturday, they came back, they were amazed at what they saw happen Then say we ought to be continually amazed at what the Lord Jesus Christ is doing among us. He's working in us. He's working through us. He's doing stuff. We can see it. We can see his power at work. The degree of depar depravity that we see in the world around us may be daunting. It tends to make us think of the church solely as a place where we can go to escape all that stuff out there. Now that's not entirely a bad thing. We must have our own filling stations when our spiritual gas gets low. And the church provides that. But we must not let that obscure our overall purpose, what Jesus' revealed will is called us to do. Jesus came into the world to bring a sword, the word of truth. And that sword is to slay the nations. Including the United States of America. And as members of Jesus' army, we are called to engage in spiritual warfare. Jesus is going to equip us to do that. He equipped the disciples, all of them, including Judas. Judas came back as one of those in the 70s talking about all the good stuff that he saw happen. But when we think about that, we will see that the equip the equipping will bring about the great works we do in his name. And then In you doing great works or good works, it becomes a venue, as Jesus Himself did. It becomes the sphere, it becomes the opportunity, the possibility, the place where we can proclaim. We don't just go out and grab a guy on the street. If you want to do it, go ahead, you might get beat up. But we don't just go out on the street, grab a hold of some guy and say, I'm going to tell me about Jesus. You know, put him up against the wall Well, there might be some place to do that, but that's not our general way. What we do is we do good stuff, we do things, and people notice them, and we get to talk with them. It's called relational invasionalism. And as we build a relationship, but through doing good works, we have the opportunity to proclaim. And that's what we have to do. Brothers and sisters, the church can make a difference in this world around us You think it's bad out there? It is. Was it bad in the Roman Empire? You betcha. But that doesn't mean that the church cannot make a difference So that's what we're called to do, is to make a difference. Perhaps that's the resul another resolution we could look at. To see this year the church is an angel of change, and through dedicated prayer We can ask for opportunities to bring healing, both in our own lives, but also by gathering with our brothers and sisters. In groups dedicated to the purpose of earnestly and sincerely praying in faith for healing. That might not be a bad thing to do. Now let's look at the peculiar condition given to the twelve, verses five through ten. Jesus sent them out to do a job. Now I call it peculiar because it is specific to them at this point in history. They were to go only to the area that we call Galilee. They were not to cross any borders into any of the surrounding Gentile nations, or to go into Samaria, which was a different nation. They were to focus, as he says, on the lost sheep of Israel. Now this phrase points back to Matthew 9, 35 through 38, where Jesus spoke to them about the harvest. Did I lose it? Yep, I did. Where Jesus spoke about the harvest and how there was a great need for workers. That's what he is pointing back to in this particular statement. So the disciples here are given a unique or a peculiar mission. But it is not fundamentally different than the Great Commission. Just the opposite. It is preparatory for the Great Commission. The apostles yet, as of this point, did not have the full gospel They do not have what you and I have. The full knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ in his person and in his work and what he has done. So, as we see in verse 7, they were only given the bare outline of what they were to preach. They were to preach that the kingdom of God was at hand. But even they did not at this point know exactly the fullness of what that meant. But notice that as Jesus gives them this command, he gives them a free He explains it very thoroughly, relatively thoroughly. What they had was sufficient for the limited mission that they were to pursue And he gives them a target audience. He tells them, this is the people that I want you to go to. And then, as we see, the message they were to preach. In doing so, he also communicates to them that they can be confident of the support And real impact of what they were going to accomplish. Now notice, as we look at this, that this is not too hard to see a paradigm for the local church. We have a target audience in the area where he has established us. So everybody church is planted here. Was that by chance? In other words, God from all eternity has providentially ordered that there be a church here. Yes? Well if that's the case, then obviously what he intends is for the gospel to go out in this area. We in faith must believe, like those twelve, that we are to have the support and power we need Now the Great Commission does indeed say is a call to evangelize the whole world. But correctly read, as I believe it should be read, it calls us to evangelize where we've been sent. And to do the in the only uh um command in that whole passage is to make disciples. So correctly read, the visible church of Jesus Christ is to understand itself as a sent church sent to an area for the purpose of making disciples by proclaiming the Word. Now, by its very institution, when we look at this, we are called into existence in a peculiar place at a specific time. And the overarching mission is to proclaim Jesus Christ's kingdom in that area. The disciples were to view all of Galilee, as they called the Galilee of the Gentiles, as their specific stomping grounds. They were not to be unduly Worried about resources or pro uh protection. They were to live by a maxim. Freely you have received Freely give. In other words, they were dispensed wisely of the gifts. And the blessings that they have received in the church. The good things, the blessings that they are aware of. That which they have found in the church, to be able to commend it as the body of Christ and and in their own understanding to see Christ's presence in it, they are to take that. Into the world as a call, an encouragement for others to find it too. There was a saying back when I was a program manager in the Navy, But at some point you gotta shoot the engineers and build the thing. Now, all that really means is that left to their own devices, people working on projects will keep trying to improve it, and they'll improve it and they'll improve it, and the thing never gets built. The church can sometimes be like that. It can know what its mission is, but it can hesitate to get out there and do it because, you know, maybe we just need to plan for this and plan for this and plan for this and plan for that. Well, worrying about how to map out every detail of what to expect and what we are going to need. actually obscures one major problem. We're not gonna know what it is we need until we start doing it. We have certain wa uh overall things that we need to plan for, of course, but a battle plan never lasts after the first bullet is fired. And God's in control of how our efforts are going to be uh developed. And so we can't use the idea of not being prepared for something To keep us from never doing it. Whatever we do, there will be successes and failures. But those failures are not really failures at all. The church being obedient to Christ becomes not only an instrument of salvation, but an instrument of judgment. This passage clearly teaches that. There is no doubt about it. If someone receives our ministry, as Jesus told the twelfth, praise God for his Great works, rejoice with them and let your blessings flow in that household. But If they don't receive it, and this these words are reflect the uh ancient idea of hospitality to not receive a stranger was a was a dreadful moral failure But not be received was a direct reflection upon God Himself. Now the church being in obedience to Christ in doing this, when that reaction occurs, leaves that house or that person or that city without excuse before God. And that's exactly what Jesus did when he came into the world. He came into his own, but his own did not receive him. And that's exactly how the church is used to make it clear to the world around them that they have no excuse if they do reject us. But the great news is that not all will reject us. So Perhaps we need to think about all this and begin with a prayerful humility before God. And perhaps we ought to ask him to reveal to us anything that might interfere with embracing his call to personally and corporately take the gospel. In word and action into the world. We all have to do this on occasion. Second Timothy says the word of God is useful for teaching, reproof, and correction. Teaching us what God expects, reproof, saying you ain't doing that, and correction how to go about doing that. If anything in teaching today has opened up in you, some sense of reproof. Or some sense of shortcomings in the regard of fears and doubts to what has been covered, and before God it might be good To ask him to reveal that to you and to correct those things. So we may resolve to undertake in that regard a godly self-examination. But that requires that we submit ourselves to the calling. This has to be a conscious thing Sanctification is not as easy as a turtle falling off a log, as I heard Wood relatively famous theologian say. I doubted whether he had ever been a pastor, or had even seen his own sanctification in that regard, because it's not always easy But when it comes to this, we have to consciously undertake our sense of calling What is it God wants me to do? In some form, in some day, God wants me to participate in the work of bringing his gospel to the world. That means becoming missions-minded. And missions, brothers and sisters, is not just about over yonder. It's not just about foreign missions. Domestic missions is the first priority of the visible church, because that's why we have been called into place, and then we are to send out foreign missions from us. So we should think then about how we should go about doing this. I suggested it before. You might consider some resources on Evangel on uh relational evangelism, if you want to see how what I'm talking about might work. But nothing equips us better for the work of ministry than having like-minded And motivated brothers and sisters around us united towards that end. So maybe we should think about gathering with some like-minded people. To pray ourselves and to encourage ourselves into mission, we should consciously undertake to identify our Galilee. Jesus made it clear. That's where I want you to go. When we think about that, the question would be: where is Christ sending us? As individuals and as a corporate goal, we have a life sphere in which we move. That is our sphere. Perhaps our calling is our neighborhoods, our vocations, anything associated with our life Just think of it this way. Nothing in your life, just like no one in this room, is here by chance God has ordered your life. He has determined your steps. And as a result of such, your life is the sphere in which He has called you to minister. As a result of that, we may need to carefully consider how to approach the towns and the households within our spheres, a conscious thing. As the disciples had to do. The point of this: Jesus has just told these same disciples back in chapter 9 that the fields were white with harvest. He said only the workers are few. The response of that observation was to call the twelve and send them out. Can it be any different with us? Is our world, our up close and personal world, is our world, our up close and personal world, not white with harvest. If I were to ask you right now to just survey your life and list five, six, seven things, people, whatever. That are begging or that are tugging at your heart because they are missing out on God's salvation. Would you have compassion on them, as Jesus did when he spoke about that same thing? When he looked on the people and had compassion on them because they were like sheep without a shepherd. But you identify them. And then you begin before God to ask how you can be used in it. When we think about that, when we ask and consider that the world is white with harvest And Jesus says, the workers are few. The next question is: whom shall I send? And the minute you ask that question, you know the answer. Right. We need to be thinking as members of the team. Severed one is a body, an organic unit. We're not alone. We have our brothers and sisters. And as a result of that, we can call on them for help. We must be courageous and persevering in our mission. It's a scary thing. Well it's for the disciples, it is for us. But success in the kingdom of God is not measured by spiritual scalps on our belt. Success in the kingdom of God is being obedient and letting God bring the results. And lastly, we should resolve to stir up each other to love and good works, consciously, building ourselves up Infesting ourselves with zeal for the kingdom so that we long to have opportunity to share the good news. That's not a bad calling. It is our privilege to have it. Will you pray with me? Well, then God, thank you for the opportunity of examining ourselves. You have given us a whole new year. We've lived through another one. They seem to come awful quickly. And Lord, we thank you for the blessings of life. We thank you for the blessings of fellowship in the church. Lord, your church is a beautiful thing. And I thank you, Lord God, for it. I thank you for the the one that is commissioned here. Lord, I pray that you will fill us up with a holy zeal for while you would have us live and how you would call what you would call us to do And give us every expectation of joy, Lord. Yeah, there's there could be some scary things in it, and not everything might wind up being ecstatically experienced. But what we can see is how you work. We can come to know you better. We can see your hand, as your disciples did, as they walked with you and saw the way you did things. And saw how you guided them. Lord, even as we undertake to follow you, the end result is we will know you better. And we will begin to appreciate even more your lordship in our life. Lord, as we come to this table now, I pray that you will guide us here also. And let us see that by taking of your body and blood, we are in fact partaking of your mission. And grant us, Lord God, joy in that, as in all things. For I ask it in the name of our blessed Savior. Amen.