So if we could find our seats and um we have uh more people streaming in from the north back so if we could make room for everyone. Scooch toward the center if you can see the first time. We have about a minute and a half. I know. Turn me up. I don't know what it is. I can see more folks pulling into the parking lots, so make it easier on the usherers in just a little bit to where they can more easily find a seat for somebody Thank you for putting the spotlight on me. All right, good morning everyone. Good morning. All right, I officially have the floor. The time has come. Welcome to Severn Run Worship. You can bring me back down. It's great to see all of you. Please be sure to check the back of the bullets and we have a lot of things that are in transition, moving into the school year, different events happening. Sunday school starts next week, that kind of stuff And uh we're still uh carrying forward our meet and greet. Make sure you make those. We're hoping to see some smoked ribs again from Elder Jeremiah. It's going to need a stipend from the church. I'm glad to see all of you. I'm looking forward to worshiping with you this morning. That is why we are here. Whether you acknowledge it or not, God has gathered you to worship him in the glory of his name this morning. Can you hear me okay? No. I'm saying yes and no. So bring me up just a little bit. Thanks. I saw some faces that looked disturbed. It is good to have the time set aside by God Himself to be able to worship Him. We really need it. Although we have as Christians been remade by Jesus Christ and his Holy Spirits, as the song says, we are prone to wander. One of the graces that God gives to you to bring your heart continually back to Him until you either go to be with Him or He returns and makes you perfect is to regather you and make you remember him every Lord's day. And so you have in front of you an order of worship that is for that single task. It is in the fixed sense to remember what God the Father is doing through Jesus Christ our Lord and his Holy Spirits. That is why you're here this morning. Let's go before him, asking for his blessing and grace in prayer, and then let's worship him together. Please pray with me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, you have gathered us here. Father, we thank you that you have given all authority in heaven and on earth to our Lord Christ Christ, we thank you that you are not just another human leader. You are the eternal Son of God, having taken upon yourself human nature. You are in your ascension at the right hand of the Father, and you have gathered us here by the power of your Holy Spirit to worship you, our triune God. We ask, Lord Jesus Christ, and plead with you. We even petition you that you would rule over us in this hour or so. Lord, in a special way, that you would set aside this space as a liturgical space, that we would see the meaning of all of history consummated in you and your glory. We ask, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would do this through the means that you have chosen. The means of your preached word, the means of confession, the means of significant, meaningful, and truthful songs. Pray that you'd bring conviction in our hearts of sin, of truth, and of righteousness. We pray that you inv would embolden us to stand against evil We pray, Lord, that you would give our hearts humility and compassion, that we might continually offer the mercy of salvation, even to our enemies. We ask these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. So be it. Amen. Let's stand for our call to worship from Psalm 118. Several verses taken from this Psalm. All nations surrounded me, but in the name of the Lord I will destroy them. They surrounded me, yes, they surrounded me, but in the name of the Lord I will destroy them. They surrounded me like bees. They were quenched like a fire of thorns. For in the name of the Lord I will destroy them You pushed me violently that I might fall, but the Lord helped me. The Lord is my strength and my song, and He has become my salvation. Oh give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endures forever. Amen. Let us think together Christ is coming. Crime is coming back with Roman before Let the glory of Raka make us may be Christ is hardly, Christ is hard on the Prince of East. She shall give me all thy glory when I commend my reign. Christ is coming, Christ is coming, let me for me touching Oh my god, happy mining for command and moment. But it may be better shiny, they never be more shiny. Christ is coming, Christ is coming, hate the joy us. With the land for people, let go of remain untrong. Christ is coming, Christ is coming, come for Jesus quickly Amen. Let us behold now our Christ from Matthew 6, 25 through 34. Therefore I say to you, do not worry about your life. what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air, for they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns. Yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they? Which of you, by worrying, can add one cubit to his stature? So why do you worry about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field how they grow. They neither toil nor spin, and yet I say to you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Now, if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith? Therefore, do not worry, saying, What shall we eat? Or what shall we drink? Or what shall we wear? For after all these things the Gentiles speak. For your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you. Therefore, do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will worry about its own things. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. Behold your Christ. Please pray with me. Christ, it takes some time to meditate upon this teaching that you have given to us. And there are many treasures, rubies and diamonds. That can be shaken out of it by the power of the Spirit. But there is one diamond gleaming above them all, and that is that you, our God, are sovereign. Lord, you take care of all things. And more than that, we know that you are good, evidenced by the fact that you look after us in the daily bread that we need. You take care of us. That's why we give you the name, Father. Or rather, you give yourself the name, Father. Oh Lord, as we look back in this week, Though we have professed with our lips that you are sovereign and that you are our God and Father, Lord, we have been giving you lip service at least some of the time. We instead of expecting you to look out for our good and the good really of this whole creation, we expected horror. and demolition and destruction and evil to rule the day. We became anxious and we our blood pressures went up. There were all kinds of manifestations of us not trusting your goodness, your fatherliness. Lord, we know that you're not telling us not to be concerned. But Lord, we take it too far. Lord, this is just one of many things. And it brings us to a time where we must confess. Lord, we've praised your holy name, but in the midst of your holiness we've seen our unholiness. And we must come to a time of confession. We ask that you use the instrument of our elder this morning. Give him the wisdom and the power to lead us into a time where we can acknowledge our sins before you and even move towards repentance. Move towards the good instead of the evil. We ask these things in the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Morning. Do you know what I really like? I like details. Details It didn't fall this time. Cool. Okay. Now I'm gonna tip my hand a little bit. This might get me labeled as a nerd, but I'll go ahead and say it. Details are the best. There is the dark side to details, though, there's a lot of them. And every once in a while I start noticing all the details that are wrong. Things I haven't taken care of. Things that need to be done. Ways I've failed, ways I'm failing, missed opportunities, wasted time Which after a bit of we'll be generous and call it introspection leads to a realization that I can't do anything right. I've wasted every talent God has given me, and I'm so deep in the hole of failure, I'll never be able to claw my way out, and I might as well give up. And maybe that's just me, in which case this is super embarrassing and is actually one of my worries. But a bit of worry in the dough of life Puffs it up into full-blown, bloated anxiety. And that can turn into a rushing torrent of panic A bit of worry is the pebble that starts the landslide. Now often my brain will step in to help. My brain says, Jeremiah, you look worried. And I'll say a bit. And my brain says, actually you look pretty rough, dude. You look stressed. You look anxious. You look overwhelmed even. I bet you're behind. Off track. I bet you can't do anything right, can you? And I say, thanks, Brain. I needed that. That's when my brain starts to tell me truths. We all need truths. My brain says, you know what you should do? You should let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, since as members of one body you are called to peace and be thankful. Colossians 3:15. And I say, yeah, I know. And my brain says, therefore, I tell you, do not worry about your life. Jesus said that in Matthew 6:25. And I say, yeah, brain, I know. Thank you. I heard that on Sunday. That'll be all. And my brain says, ever helpful, do not be anxious for anything. Philippians 4 6 You're anxious, and that means you're sinning. And you should stop that right now because God hates what you're doing. So, are we all better now? And so now I've got crushing anxiety and crushing guilt. Now, everything my brain is telling me is true. But it's not the full picture, it's not the full truth. And when God tells us not to worry, it's really easy in the minute to miss what's going on. It can feel like you're on a diet. And there's a big piece of chocolate cake in the fridge, and God says, whatever you do, don't think about that chocolate cake. Don't want the chocolate cake. And I can't think about anything except the chocolate cake. But that's not what's going on. That's not what those verses are telling us. When God says not to worry, he's not inviting us to a diet, he's inviting us to a feast. Now the full Philippians passage says, Do not be anxious about anything, but in every situation, by prayer and petition, with thanksgiving. Present your requests to God, and a peace of God, which transcends all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Jesus Christ. And the question is, do we believe that? Do we believe that God loves us, that he adopted us, that he's our Father, that He is there for us, that He wants to take our burdens away? And that he wants to give us good things. So faith is not blind hope, it's not a leap in the dark. It's believing that God will honor his promises. God gives us hope after hope and promise after promise, and he does this because he is a good father. And he knows how to give good gifts to his children. And our job description is this Accept the good gifts that our Father is giving us. And that's a good job to have Let's pray. Let's go to our Father. Let's confess our sins and know that He hears us. Lord God, all too often we chase after everything at once. But you've given us better directions. You've told us to seek first the kingdom of God, your kingdom, and that all else will fall into place. Lord God, let us flee the temptation of worry by running towards your table. Our Father, hear our prayers. Hear the prayers of your people, your adopted children, whom you love. As we come before you now, prayer in our hearts. This is Lord God, you have promised to hear the voice of our supplications, and that changes everything. We believe you. We believe your promise. We know that our prayers are not mantras. We're not sending them out to the universe. They aren't personal affirmations. You are our Father, you are my Father, and you listen to us. Amen. Hear now the words of pardon. Blessed be the Lord, because he has heard the voice of my supplications. The Lord is my strength and my shield, my heart trusted in him, and I am helped Therefore, my heart greatly rejoices, and with my song I will praise him. Let us stand and sing praises to him. God would be a wing water to purple. He plants his force in the sea and ride upon the store. He made a bad of never mistaken. He treasures off his bright meeting and worth his sovereign will For being with mercy and shall break in blessings on your head. Judge not our Lord by evil things, but trust him for his grace. The eye of crowding prowling the eye of high Is perfect still right and fast one for me and we are But we will be alright By God, we we should have yet worked in vain. God is so interpreted, and he will make He will make it plain. Let us respond with the doxology as the usher comes forward with our tithes and offerings. Lord God, we bring you these tithes and offerings. They're not membership dues for church. They're not pure charity. They are worship. We bring them to you. With one voice saying, You have given us so much, and we want to give a little bit back to you. We know you don't need our tithes. But we know that you delight in your children holding up our pennies to you, saying, You are the God who gives. Amen. Glory be to the mother and to the sun and to the city. That it was in the world. Uh children three and under are dismissed and please remain standing for the word preached. For the word breath. Hopefully not for the word preached. Let's turn to Judges chapter nine. The reading will begin in verse twenty-two this morning. I just want to repeat a line from the uh previous song. His purposes will ripen fast, unfolding every hour. The bud may have a bitter taste, but sweet will be the flower. I pray that everyone would embrace that today. Judges nine beginning in twenty two and we'll read to the end of the chapter together. After Abimelech had reigned over Israel three years, God sent a spirit of ill will between Abimelech and the men of Shechem. And the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech, that the crime done to the seventy sons of Jerubal might be settled, and their blood be laid on Abimelech, their brother, who killed them. and on the men of Shechem who aided him in the killing of his brothers. And the men of Shechem set men in ambush against him on the tops of the mountains, and he robbed all who passed by them along that way. And it was told Abimelech. Now Gaal, the son of Abed, came with his brothers and went over to Shechem, and the men of Shechem put their confidence in him. So they went out into the fields and gathered grapes from their vineyards and trod them and made merry. And they went into the house of their God and ate and drank and cursed Abimelech. Then Gaal, the son of Abed, said, Who is Abemelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? Is he not the son of Jerubal? And is not Zebul his officer Serve the men of Hamor, the father of Shechem. But why should we serve him? If only this people were under my authority, then I would remove Abimelech. So he said to Abimelech, Increase your army and come out. Then Zebul, the ruler of the city, heard the words of Gaal, the son of Abed. His anger was aroused, and he sent messengers to Abimelech secretly, saying, Take note, Baal the son of Habed, and his brothers have come to Shechem, and here they are, fortifying the city against you Now therefore, get up by night, you and the people who are with you, and lie and wait in the field, and it shall be as soon as the sun is up in the morning, that you shall rise early and rush upon the city. And when he and the people who are with him come out against you, you may do you may then do to them as you find opportunity So Abimelech and all the people who were with him rose by night and lay in wait against Shechem in four companies. When Gaal, the son of Abed, went out and stood in the entrance to the city gate, Abimelech and the people who were with him rose from lying in wait. And when Gaal saw the people, he said to Zebul, Look, people are coming down from the tops of the mountains. Then Zebul said to him, You see the shadows of the mountains as if they were men. So Gaalf spoke again and said, See, people are coming down from the center of the land, and another company is coming from the diviner's terebinth tree. Then Zebul said to him, Where indeed is your mouth now, with which you said, Who is Abimelech that we should serve him? Are not these the people whom you despised? Go out, if you will, and fight with them now. So Gaul went out, leading the men of Shechem, and fought with Abimelech. And Abimelech chased him, and he fled from him, and many fell wounded to the very entrance of the gate. Then Abimelech dwelt at Aruh Mah, and Zebul drove out Gaal and his brothers so that they would not dwell in Shechem. And it came about on the next day that the people went out into the field, and they told of Imelech. So he took his people, divided them into three companies, and lay in wait in the field And he looked, and there were people coming out of the city, and he rose against them and attacked them. Then Abimelech and the company that was with him rushed forward and stood at the entrance to the gates, and the other two companies rushed upon all who were in the fields and killed them. So Abimelech fought against the city all that day. He took the city and killed the people who were in it. And he demolished the city and even sowed it with salt. Now, when all the men of the Tower of Shechem had heard that, they entered the stronghold of the temple of the god Darit. And it was told Abimelech that all the men of the Tower of Shechem were gathered together. Then Abimelech went up to Mount Zalman. He and all the people who were with him, and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and he cut down a bough from the trees, and took it, and laid it on his shoulder. Then he said to the people who were with him, What you've seen me do, make haste and do as I have done So each of the people likewise cut down his own bow and followed Abimelech, put them against the stronghold, and set the stronghold on fire above them. So that all the people of the Tower of Shechem died, about a thousand men and women. Then Abimelech went to Thabez, and he encamped against Thabez and took it. But there was a strong tower in the city, and all the men and women, all the people of the city, fled there and shut themselves in. Then they went up to the top of the tower. So Abimelech came as far as the tower and fought against it, and he drew near the door of the tower to burn it with fire. But an unnamed woman or certain woman dropped an upper millstone on Abimelech's armor uh head and crushed his skull. Then he called quickly to the young man, his armor-bearer, and said to him, Draw your sword and kill me, lest men say of me, A woman killed him. So his young man thrust him through and he died. And when the men of Israel saw that Abelech was dead, they departed, every man to his place. Thus God repaid the wickedness of Abimelech, which he had done to his father by killing his seventy brothers. And all the evil of the men of Shechem God turned on their own heads. And on them came the curse of Jotham, the son of Jerub Baal. Amen. Let us pray. O Lord Christ, we thank you for inscripturating your word, that you would protect us against the devices of Satan, that you would fortify us in faith and hope and love. And I pray, Lord, that you would take the sufficiency of your word and make it efficacious to your congregation this morning. Meet them where they are, build them up, construct them into your mighty temple. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Last week we realized that The passage, at least one of its purposes from last week, was to show us what we as a church do not want to do. We do not want to become a certain way. We specified this by saying we do not want to be a group of people that exchange public service for self-promotion. And we do not want to vote no matter whether it's the church or the state or the federal government We want to pray and conduct ourselves in a way to where we do not have self-promoting leaders in power insofar as God permits during this era. We want instead to walk with the Spirit, being fruitful for the good of the other, and establishing leaders who bring life. And may we as a congregation, therefore, know the moral of Jotham's fable. May we know the lesson of the trees. Well, we have finally come to the closing of Gideon's account. Can you believe it? Feels like we've been dwelling on poor old Gideon for some time. I want to start by just drawing out a few observations. We're not going to look at every detail. There's an obvious thrust to the whole passage. And then I have some applications for us this morning. So let's take a look at some things together first off. I want you to know that the main thing that we're we end up seeing here This is the first observation. Did you notice that all of those who have corrupt power die? You see that? That God Himself made sure of it. It is said in the beginning of the passage, and it is said at the end of the passage, that justice is done by the Lord. He interrupted their egomaniacal, selfish ambitions. Abimelech, in the beginning, it doesn't seem like that's what's going to happen. He is politically strategic and persuasive. Abimelech, in fact, continues to dominate for some time. He dominates, for example, the men of Shechem. You see them always on the run Even when they uh pull together their new war hero, Gaal, he's on the run within a second. He's got a big mouth, but nothing really back behind to back it up That's what we end up seeing in especially verse 45 when Abimelech kills the inhabitants of the city, and then to make sure that this place is never productive again, he throws salt over it. Verse 45. Well, where are the leaders in such a time? But they're hiding. They're hiding in the temple of Baal Barit. We've read that before for several weeks. And then we get to verse 49, and we see that Abimelech and his men. go to that last vestige of hope for the city. They set the stronghold on fire above them, so that all the people of the Tower of Shechem died, about a thousand men and women Well, you know what this does? This emboldens Abimelech. And so he moves on to another area, seeking to demolish Thibez or Thavez. The residents of the city are almost, with the snap of a finger, dominated again by Abimelech. They seek refuge in a fortified tower. Abimelech, full of hope and confidence, seeks to repeat what he did in Shechem. by laying bowels against the tower seeks to repeat by setting them on fire in verse 52. But just when the reader expects the tower to be ignited and collapsed Perhaps as Abimelech stood there sure of his victory, the narrative ends up taking a surprising turn. A nameless woman, perhaps possessing extraordinary strength, I would say everyday strength for her roles. She picks up the upper millstone, which is the smaller of the millstones that grinds out grain. She throws it from the roof of the tower. and it lands on Abimelech's head. Crushing his skull enough to where he knows his demise is sure, he calls his armor bearer over to thrust him through, so that it is not said in his tales that he was killed by a woman. Of course his efforts were futile because here it is in the story that his head was crushed by a woman. First the men of Shechem and then Abimelech are destroyed. The briar has destroyed the men, and the briar has set himself on fire. That's the first thing I want you to notice is this kind of dominance that he has, and yet the control of God. And this brings us to our second observation, really, and this is the whole point. The question you want to ask when you see an account like this is why are we given these accounts of the death of Abimelech and Shechem? Did you notice the details? Some things are detailed and then it's other things are just are are glossed over. Huge moments of time. Days are passed by. But then the the narrator camps out on details. Why the details of the millstone on Abimelech's head Why the details of men and women burned alive in the temple of Bael Barit? Why these phoci? The answer is given in 56 through 57. It's the whole point. That's why the book ends are the book ends. Thus God repaid the wickedness of Abimelech, which he had done to his father by killing his seventy brothers. And all the evil of the men of Shechem, God returned on their heads, and on them came the curse of Jotham, the son of Jerubal. That was the point of the entire account of Abimelech. Earlier, Jotham stood on Mount Gerizim prophetically pronouncing the cursed destinies of those who murdered Gideon's family. Those destinies have come true, and the curse has in fact been realized. That's the point. But there's actually a point that stands back behind the point that makes the point possible, and that's this. The real point, what gives substance and backbone to the curse of Jotham is that God stands behind all things, restoring order in the world. Here you see a specific manifestation of it where God Himself restores order among the tribes of Israel. So that one power-hungry person is not dominating everybody. He equalizes and harmonizes. He stands behind it all. And that is the real point standing above and organizing all of the details. That's a very important thing for you to recomm to see. We read a lot of words this morning The whole account of Abimelech is quite long. What are you supposed to do with all the details as you read your scriptures? You need to organize them towards the central point. Has anyone here ever heard of a trireme? I'm seeing all the teachers wag their heads, yes. A trireme is a ship. I said trireme. A trireme. It's a ship. A trireme is a ship, and I'll start with the front of the ship because that's the whole point of the ship. It has a very strong bowel or beak that thrusts out from the front of it that is then reinforced, reinforced at every space behind it. The entire wooden structure is all for the sake of reinforcing the beak. And then guess what else is on there that then is the for the the sake of the wooden structures for the sake of all the men that will sit in there with their oars paddling. Perhaps you have seen this boat where you'd have paddles out of either side and there'd be fifty paddles here and fifty paddles here, and they're all moving at the same rate, creating as much energy and potential as they possibly can. And under them is a wooden structure that is then reinforcing the main beak of the bow of the boat, and they are going to take that trireme and they are going to run it into other ships and sink them. Now that is the famous image that has been a has been a part of the preaching of God's word on what is going on within every passage. And I just bring it up so that you don't miss the main point here. Our passage this morning with all of the details are like the person's rowing and the reinforcing wooden structure. They're all moving out towards a single beak that is to be driven within your mind and your heart today, and it is this Our triune God stands behind all of his creation, working out all things to his own good order. You could say that that is the bow and the beak of all of the scriptures. But it is the main emphasis that we see here within this passage with Abimelech. You see it bookended and it is to order all of the details. Let me state it for you again because that is our doctrine this morning Our triune God stands behind all of his creation, working out all things to his own good order. Some of you summarize this, and you say, He's sovereign. This is a longer version. Our triumph God stands behind all of his creation, working out all things to his own good order. Now, what I'd like to do, and children, please take a special note as you take your sermon notes, is I'd like to break this down and work it out in just two main applications, which is the basic story. And then the use of the story. The basic story and the use of the story. So now you have two main points to discuss over lunch. Are you ready? Okay, that's great. Lunch at home. Okay, let's begin with the basic story. What I want to do is just get back to the basics this morning and retell the story of the world. What we are in need of, over and over again, is to have a correct, pardon my language here, I'm not going to say anything bad, it's just complicated. We need a correct historiography. There are many different narratives out there trying to retell history. And here's the thing, folks, you've got the right one. So I need to keep reminding you of it. And so we're going to do so with just the basic story, and this could be in a children's book. We want to go back to the basics. In the beginning, God took a wasteland, he ordered it, and he made it productive for his creatures. He said, I will give you blessing. And the cattle ate, and men and women flourished. That's the idea Everything and everyone had a place under his most gracious rule. That is the picture and the primary purpose of the creation account. is for you to see a great king, a farming king, who puts everything in order for the blessing of others that they might share in his life of blessing. Human beings, however, were unwilling to remain under his order. They wanted to organize the world and relationships how they saw fit without reference to God God established his farm or garden wherein men and women would join together, having children to care for the land that more and more blessing would abound. all of the potentialities that were latent we would bring out by the power of God's Spirit. But humans ended up raising their voice And saying, out of a corrupt will after the fall, saying things like, Well, we hear what you're saying, but we want men and men to be together. We want women and women to be together. We want to redefine what all of that means. I want to be both, depending on the time of the day. God established brotherhoods and sisterhoods and neighborhoods so that we may give life to each other. But humans said, I will murder those who get in the way of my desires. And the way towards blessing is to use all resources that I have to establish my own personal kingdom. That's a pretty good summary of Cain and Abel, who are but types of all humans. So then what do we see God doing in this story? And this story, by the way, children, is a great way for you to get the summary of what you should be saying when you're ready to enter towards the Lord's table. You should have these kinds of things down. So, what did God do? He did not leave humans in this condition and state, but decided to give them a judge and a redeemer. And his name is Jesus Christ. Now I want you to turn in your scriptures with me. I know you've been to this passage a thousand times, but that's okay. I want you to turn to Genesis chapter 3, verse 15. Some of you probably have this passage memorized. It is so familiar among the church You can see here in Genesis 3. 15 a clear temporal manifestation of God's plan. That he has not chosen to leave human beings in sin and misery, but he is providing a redeemer for our restoration. Genesis 3:15, and I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed, and he shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. Now here's where you've got to open your heads up here, okay, when you're reading the scriptures. These statements, as many statements that we see within the book of Genesis, These are not just describing a one-time event that happened in the past that doesn't really have much relevance for today. This statement in Genesis 3. 15 is a comprehensive summary of what God is doing throughout all of history. You can see this in other places in Genesis where it talks about the man is to join with the woman. They become one. That's just not a description of what took place in the garden, but a comprehensive summary for all of human life, God's intents, ordinarily. It's the same thing that we have here. This is a comprehensive summary of what God is doing in the world. Now, look at that passage, and I'm going to go ahead and say, point out a couple things for you. Here's the first thing I want you to realize about this passage, and I'm sure you know this already, but it's a good reminder. The woman is the church. Eve is Eve, I get it. That there's more going on here in how God writes things, and Eve, or the woman here, is the church. She is the bride of Jesus Christ. Number two, the serpent is not only Satan, and it is all those who live in adversity to God. and his created order. They are called the sons of Satan, or they he is called their father. The one who will crush the head of the serpent is the eternal Son of God, who becomes incarnate, and his name is Jesus Christ, and he is our Lord. And so here you have it. The summary of Genesis 3. 15 and all of history is this. God the Father Is re-establishing his garden of created paradise through his son and his holy spirit. That's our historiography. That's what's going on. That's really the whole story. And so what I want you to do is go back to that Judges passage, and I want you to see how history is played out In particular, from that comprehensive summary, even within the account that we have of Abimelech. So when you read that episode in Judges, you should see the same storyline working out in the details of our lives. Even before the Son of God is incarnate or becomes human, you see him acting sovereignly in judges. Who do you think is acting? God the Father has always acted through the Son for the restoration of his church. We have the church present here in this passage, and it is God the Father working through the pre-incarnate Son and his providential actions here in this passage. Even before the Son of God is incarnate or becomes human, you see in the Judges passage that the Son of God keeps sin and misery under a certain threshold until he returns. Till he comes first from the perspective of this passage with his first advent and then his second advent. When humans and their armies, like Abimelech and the men of Shechem, push too far, you must know this. The eternal Christ crushes their little heads. He crushes them and despises their interruptions in kind of momentary interruptions. And then there will be one day when the crushing is complete. But that's what you see here in this passage. All you saw in the story, everything in everyone, please mark this, everything. And every one is at the Son's disposal. Everything will be according to his will. The father did not place a son in charge who will fail in the project. There is not a loose molecule in all of the cosmos or universe that could thwart What the sun has planned to do. The sun can be seen in all of the particulars of the story. And that's the important thing because I think philosophically and theologically we can get those broad contours, but what's really strengthening is and comforting and really uh even uncanny is to see him work it out in all of its specificity in the lives of everyday people. The sun Can send a spirit to Abimelech and the men of Shechem to make them enemies with each other. With the statement of a decree. Go forth. And the end is already determined from the beginning. That is who you're dealing with here. The son is the one who placed that false confidence and courage up into Abimelech's heart without sin on the son's part. So that he sought to not only conquer Shechem, but Thaz. And do you know why the sun moved him towards Tabez? Because the son had already planned that an unnamed or unknown or nameless or certain woman who's climbing to the top of her tower with a millstone is gonna drop that thing and he and all of his providential actings will make sure that it crushes, going back to Genesis 3. 15, that it crushes the adversary or the serpent who was present at that moment in history, who is Abimelech. It is the story played out every time in every era that the sun always rises especially according to the prayers of his people, and he squashes those whose hearts are filled with selfish ambition and corrupt power as if they were only grasshoppers And all we have to do as the church, even if it goes through several generations, is to pray and to wait. To pray and to wait. That is the primary role of the church is to pray and to wait. There are a thousand things that we can do, and Christ will use them all. But when we look through the scriptures, we see prayer and waiting. The sun directs the millstone to crush the head of anyone against his kingdom in any generation. They stand no chance. Now that's the basic story, and then you can take that story and you can see it present within our judges' story today. The sun is just acting throughout history for the sake of his bride, that she might be fruitful to the glory of the Father by the working of the Holy Spirit. Now, when you hear something like that, it is really uh encouraging. It's helpful to have a general historiography, sense of history, where things are going, what to look for, the marks of the sun. But are there other ways that we can use this? And that's the second point, the use of the story. What are we supposed to do with that storyline? We are blessed to know the true narrative and destiny of the world. What should we do with such treasures? Well, you know, 10,000 things, right? There's 10,000 things that we could do with such treasures, but I want to bring up what I have found in the scriptures to be the most important. Top of the list. I'm not kidding around. Top of the list. And when I look back in church history among those whom we trust, this is on the top of their list too of what they do with the story. Are you ready? Number one. You know the story, you know things where things are going, you have a good historiography, and you are going to be held responsible for that. And here's the first thing. You need to warn other people There are some people in this world who have chosen to be adversaries with the Lord. And you need to warn them. With great wisdom and timing, we must figure out ways to warn them. Before they live in the destiny of their curse. Did you notice that in Genesis 3:15, anyone who is not in the Lord is under a curse? Did you notice in judges what happens to people who are under a curse? Is there any way for them to escape it? Do you see what I'm saying? You look out at your neighbors. They're under a curse. And you need to warn them. When you look out, let me just ask you actually. I said you look out at your neighbors and then your When you look at it, your neighbors, and when you look out on the culture, what is it that you see today? When you look at those people who are frustrating you, who are doing different things than you, who want to turn the moral upside down, what do you see? Who do you see? What did I hear? The devil? Okay, that's true. You see men, women, and children ignoring God and his kingdom? They seek to establish their own moral order, correct? When you look out at our culture, do you not see that they use their military, their scientific discoveries and technology? their universities and centers of learning, their money and everything else as an army set against God the Father and His Son, the incarnate and ascended Christ. Have not the nations turned against him, the one whom he has anointed? Do you not see Psalm 2 every day? That's fine. And then what is your attitude towards them? How do they make you feel? Most of the time, when I hear you talk, yes, I do hear you say pity and sorrow, I hear anger and frustration. You are appalled. And that's fine, I can understand that. But when we consider our history and the way things are going and how Christ is working in it, we have to go further. When you realize where these people are headed and what their destiny is, and we realize that we have got to warn them, the beginning of you being able to warn them is for you to have some kind of compassion towards them. And that can grow out of the mercy and compassion that God showed towards you when you were under the curse. Let me ask you Why should you have compassion on such unruly people who are destroying everything? Think of the worst. Is it not because they are under the curse and all things are against them? Do you think that if you had a little uh way to view the final judgment and what they will go through, do you think that you are going to watch them? And think they deserve more. When you are in that perfected state, you will see act of righteousness and justice. It is perhaps possible at that moment that you will not feel pity, but you're not going to feel like justice was not quenched when you see that person. You you may even reflect on yourself and on what Jesus Christ has done for you when you consider that could have been you broken that way. And then if you could rewind, perhaps we would have had more compassion and mercy when the era was around wherein Christ was handing out mercy. You and I are here to warn them. We want to make evangelism complicated. We and that's we want to go to universities, classes, and learn how to be an evangelist and and then maybe after four years we can through presuppositional apologetics finally talk to another human being That's fine and it has its place. But I'm telling you right now that it can be as simple as you opening your mouth and just warning somebody because you know what their destiny is Because they are under a curse, because they reject God's anointed. Do you not know where all things are headed if you stay under the curse? We are here to warn. This is one part of evangelism which has been forgotten. You want to debate all their points, and that's fine, but do not forget the warning. Someone before I was a Christian brought me into their office. They were, I've told you the story before, we were in a state facility, so they had to lock the door so they could so that other employees could not see that they're going to bring out a Bible. And talk to this young man who was myself. And all he did was share with me the story of Noah. and of God's wrath on the whole human race, except for those who were on the ark, and he said, The ark is Christ. Would you like to be in Christ? And I said, I can't say what I said. I said I do, but in choice youthful words. I do. And then when I looked back, as if I were reading Hebrew, which you have to read backward, I saw that from my earliest years, Christ was bringing me to this point that I would accept his mercy. And do you see how it came out of a warning? And it wasn't complicated. Things can get complicated, but we still should not forget the warning. In fact, I would say one of the most effective things under the sovereignty of God who makes all things effective. is to show them or tell them the story of Abimelech and let them know that this is their own story or destiny if they don't submit to the Christ of God. So that's the very first thing. It's on the top of the list of all the theologians I've read. Warn. Now here's a second on their list. Offer mercy. Offer mercy. Along with warning, we must speak of mercy. Let me ask you, since we're talking about historiography this morning, what is the era in which we live? If you had to make a timeline for class and then mark all the eras, you'd say, well, this is the medieval age, and this is the this age, and this is this age, and this is the modern age, and the postmodern age. But when we look at the scriptures and we map out our historiography, what age are we in? We what's that? We're very interactive today. Say that again? We're in the latter days, which are the time of the continual offer of mercy. There is a declaration of peace from the king of the cosmos. That's the era that you're in. Did you know that this era will close and peace will no longer be a possibility? The judgment will come. Mercy is done. Justice is enacted. That is the age in which we live. You live in the era wherein Christ offers his goodness, he offers his mercy, and he offers a good life to those who leave their cursed ways behind. That's called repentance, by the way. Who by the power of the Holy Ghost leave their cursed ways behind, submitting to Him as their Lord. And what you can do when you're sharing the mercy of God is you can do so in all the specificity of like reading the story that we just did here. What do you love about God the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit? Can you share that you love those things with another person? What do you love about the life that He has given to you even though it's difficult? Why would you still not trade it out? Even though it's full of tough stuff? Why would you still not go back? Can't you tell that to people? To show them that even in your travail there is mercy, or that from mercy flows all of this goodness even in travail? You must show and tell people his goodness and the good that he has done for you and the good that he has done for the nations of this world. Now I want to say one more thing. I know I only announced two main application points, but I want to say one more thing because I have an expectation, which could be right or wrong. That's the whole nature of expectations. I am expecting some of you to say that if I warn people, or if I if I even get a chance to share the mercy of God with people, There is no way that they are going to listen to little old me. Do you not understand how complicated things have become within our nation? What makes you think that they're going to make any time for me to discuss this with them? What makes you think that they would use my words? I can uh uh barely uh say the right thing now and again. And this is where I want to bring you back to this Abimelech story, and I just want to point out the women with woman with the millstone. Let me ask you a couple questions. Why did this woman have a millstone? I mean it makes sense to me It makes sense to me that this was a regular item in her kitchen, so to speak, that she'd be using, breaking down the grain, making flour for the household. It's like in our days, if we had somebody ransack our town, we'd have women up at the top of the tower throwing kitchen aid blenders off the top, and it would have hit Abimelech in the skull. Those things are heavy And what that ends up communicating to us Again, I think this is uh ends up being figural for the church, the bride of Jesus Christ up there on top of the tower, crushing the skull of the adverse adversary through the sovereignty of Christ who's been given all authority. But it communicates to us That Jesus Christ is going to work through all the little things that He works out of you. So when we come to the table and we don't have any hope thinking, well if I just warn them, there's no way that that is going to work. That is not a plausible solution. And I would grant that to you if God were not back behind everything, making all of his words efficacious in those whom he intends to gather to himself in mercy out of the curse. It's as if it's too easy. All you have to do is speak as a good fruit that He has created in you, and then let Him do the work. My mentor is primarily Arch Van Devender. He was in the ministry for a very long time. And I asked him at the end of his ministry days, which were supposed to end several years ago, but he just keeps working. I said, how could you summarize it? What's the key thing? What do I need to do as a pastor? He he said it this way. Just show up. Watch God work. Can you believe now? You all know how intelligent Arch is? Do you know how complicated he can be in systematically explaining everything in life? He's not a just me and Jesus kind of guy. But this is how he chooses to summarize and describe what it means to be a Christian. Because he can see that God is going to take these little things that he's worked out in us. The things that are a normal part of our lives, the little words that we can say, the things that we can warn about, and then it is up to God to take those things and turn them towards his ends. And you have the blessing of being a part of it, like the disciples taking the five loaves and the fish and feeding thousands. It will be an act of God. And that brings us back to the main point. Our triune God stands behind all of his creation. Working out all things to his own good order. If you believe that, then you will have hope in your evangelism. You will be willing to warn. You will be willing to offer mercy You will not be scared that you're not smart enough. Let God do the work. God the Father will crush the head of all his adversaries through the Christ and his bride, the church. At this time, therefore, we must give warning to others and tell them of his mercy and offer of salvation. A time is coming. Please catch this vision. A time is coming When from the tower in heaven the Father pushes off the great millstone of Christ to come and crush all evil in every land. But the millstone has not arrived yet, which means you have time to warn and you have time to offer the mercy of salvation. As long as it is called today, may God use us at Severn Run to gather Anorono County from the curse and from the fate of Abimelech Let us pray. Father, I thank you for the patience of your people this morning. But we did need to cover all of history. Oh Lord God, we can even apply our sermon to the preaching of the Word. Are the words spoken by Jesse Cresley this morning powerful enough to move and sculpt hearts? Oh God, may it never be. We are but earthen vessels in your hands. We are clay, and you are the potter And we call upon you, therefore. We bring our supplications before you that our warnings and our offers of mourning, our offers of mercy would strike ears that can hear. We ask, Lord, if it is in your good purposes that you begin with our children, whether they're small or grown up and out of the house. We pray that it would spread across the land. We pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that people would hear your gospel again, that they'd see your goodness, that they would run to you. I ask these things, Lord, in your name. May you do it by your power. Amen. Amen. Let us stand, brothers and sisters, and prepare for the Lord's table this morning. We're going to start with an invitational song, and I'd ask the elders to please prepare the table We'll sing together what wondrous love is this. For my soul together for my soul. Well I was singing down, singing down, singing down. Well I was thinking Cry the sight is crowd for my soul. For my soul is ground for my soul To the line to the land I will sing, I will sing. To God and to God I will see I will sing, I will sing Amen. You may be seated. Please give thanks with me for this table. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you have sent your only begotten Son. O Lord Christ, we thank you for your grace poured out on us, even in this table, for it is a means of grace. It is here, Lord, in the fixed sense that we remember you, that we commune with you by the Holy Spirit, not only in the preached word, but in the taking of the sacrament by faith. We thank you, Lord Christ, and we ask that you would take such simple things as bread and wine or grape juice, and you would make them effective onto the building up of the faith and love and hope of your bride, the church. Ask these things in the name of Christ. Amen. This is the table of the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the King of this table and therefore sets the rules. He has stated that this table is for his people. It is for them to be strengthened, to enter in and to sup with him. There is a prerequisite. And that prerequisite is that by the power of the Holy Spirit, one, you would accept that you are a sinner before him and that you need his atoning death in order to have life. And two, that you need his life offered as a perfect sacrifice to God when all you ever had to offer was death. And so we are beneficiaries here at this table of the righteousness of the Lamb And that righteousness of the Lamb was not just something we said at VBS and then moved on with our lives. It consumes us. wherein we ourselves by the power of the Holy Spirit are becoming progressively righteous also. We still struggle with sin, oh boy, do we? But we are growing in righteousness in the Lord. Always give him credit for his good works in you. So if you reject Christ because you reject that you're a sinner, if you reject Christ because you want to be your own Lord, then this table is not for you and you're not a Christian. But we encourage you here, just as you heard in the sermon, to acknowledge the time in which you live. This is not the era of Trump. And this is not the era of Biden. This is the era not of China or Russia or Ukraine or even the United States of America This is most importantly the era of the Lord Jesus Christ offering mercy to the nations that they would be gathered in. That's what's really going on in history. Everything else flows from that. Acknowledge the era. Hear the warnings of the story of Abimelech. Acknowledge your sin and the free offer of salvation in Jesus Christ. As you speak with us, I'd encourage you to do that. Talk to a Christian that you respect for one of us up here. For those of you who are Christians, this table is yours. Own it. This is the covenant that Jesus Christ has made with you solely by his grace and his mercy. When you see the body broken, see that it is not you that must be broken by the wrath of God and his justice, but that he takes it for you, taking your transgressions. See the love of Christ. See the love of God the Father. See the love of the Holy Spirit. See in the table the work of the Trinity for you unto his glory. Let us pray. Now, Father, that is impossible. We cannot see unless you give us sight. So I pray for your congregation now that as they take the bread and then the wine, as they hear the words of institution coming up, I pray, Lord, that they would give that you would give them the faith to see who you really are. And what you have done for them. I pray, Lord, that you'd let them see their hope that all things are working out towards your goodwill. Now charismatic leaders may raise their head and seem like they have all power, but it's just a matter of time. All things in heaven and earth shall bow before you. I pray, Lord, that we see this and many other things in the supper. Work in your people by your spirit. In your name. Amen. Brothers, let's begin by passing out the bread. Please hold on to the bread until we can hear the words of institution and then take them together as a family. The smaller dishes are gluten-free if you need that. I think you want to make a I think it's going to be a good thing. Thanks, Brian. We got everybody. PS drawn. Okay. You may have seen it. Oh no, hold on, sorry. Okay, like we see it. For I receive from the Lord that which I also deliver to you. That the Lord Jesus, on the same night in which he was betrayed, he took bread. And when he had given thanks, he broke it. And he said, Take, eat. This is my body which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me. Let us take and eat. I think I'll tell you how we can do it. Oh Lord Christ. For our sake, you are the bruised heel, struck by Satan But Lord Christ, you have taken what the intent was true death, infliction of permanent harm. And you have taken it and turned it into that which gives us all life You are raised by the power of the Holy Spirit as a new creation And you have, in your ascension, even sent us your Holy Spirit that we too now are raised to life. But it all began when you, as the eternal Son of God, took upon yourself human nature. O Lord Christ, please look down upon your congregation now and see their love for you. For it has come from your great work. You have been sent in love, you have created love. All things shall be consummated in love. We thank you, Lord, that through these good works that you have done, truly good works. That uninhabitable space and desert shall become fruitful again. We look forward to the day In the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. Well now pass out the wine and the grape juice. The grape juice is in the colored glasses in the center, and the wine is in the outer rim. Or rims. I don't know the just position. In the same manner he also took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. This do as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Let us take and drink. Oh Lord Christ, we look forward to that day. But we know why there is a pause in your return. It is that the free offer of salvation may be offered to all the nations on the earth. I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would put a bee in our bonnet and that we would get to work in warning and offering mercy. In the name of Christ, Amen. Amen. Let us stand and close our service. I am me, but thou art mighty hold me with thy powerful hand. Fred of heaven, Fred of Heaven, beat me till I want no more, beat me till I want no more. Oh may now perfect the whole country when the link we got flow. Storm deliver, strong deliver, me does it more strength and sick, me does it more strength and healed When I go be my sunset. Death death and healthy instruction let me stay for taking a side dog, songs of greatness, I will Never give to me, I will never give you. Amen. And now receive the Lord's benediction. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all. Amen.