That'll be our scripture that we're looking at today. And I'm going to begin with the prayer, and then that'll give Brad some time to get the Bible. So please pray with me. Let's ask for illumination that the Lord might teach us Psalm number five. Lord Christ, we thank you that we're able to enter again into prayer before you Lord, we ask that you would teach us not only the contents of this prayer, but that you would teach us two other things. That you would teach us how to pray like this, and that It would become a regular part of our prayer life. And we pray that we would realize and take comfort in the fact that you are praying as our King As David prayed for his people. We pray, O Messiah, that you would represent us in our interests before the Father. And we pray We pray, Father, with great comfort, that you would hear the prayers of our Messiah, Jesus Christ, and that you would defend and that you would protect us from lies We ask this in his name. Amen. Please allow me to read Psalm 5 to you. Give ear to my words, O Lord. Consider my meditation. Give heed to the voice of my cry, my king and my God. For to you I will pray. My voice you shall hear in the morning, O Lord. In the morning I will direct it to you, and I will look up For you are not a God who takes pleasure in wickedness, nor shall evil dwell with you. The boastful shall not stand in your sight. You hate all workers of iniquity. You shall destroy those who speak falsehood. The Lord abhors the bloodthirsty and deceitful man. But as for me, I will come into your house in the multitude of your mercy In fear of you, I will worship towards your holy temple. Lead me, O Lord, in your righteousness because of my enemies. Make your way straight before my face. For there is no faithfulness in their mouth, their inward part is destruction, their throat is an open tomb, they flatter with their tongue. Pronounce them guilty, O God. Let them fall by their own counsels Count them out in the multitude of their transgressions, for they have rebelled against you. But let all those rejoice who put their trust in you Let them ever shout for joy because you defend them. Let those also who love your name be joyful in you For you, O Lord, will bless the righteous. With favor you surround him with a shield. Amen. On what or in whom do you place your confidence? You're supposed to elevate beehives off the ground so that pests don't mess with the bee. And I remember making an elevation device. I took some plywood, I cut it into four-inch strips, and I put two by four blocks on the ends of those two by four strips, making a rectangle out of them so that there would be a raised kind of bed off of the ground on which to place the hives. And I remember while building them When it rains, this plywood is going to delaminate, and the hives are going to come crashing to the ground. But I went ahead and I did it anyway. And I wonder if there are things within your life that you know you shouldn't be putting your confidence on. It doesn't deserve the weight of your own foot, and yet you go ahead. And you make that your foundation anyway. What we see in Psalm 5 is David putting his confidence in the right place. He has heavy thoughts Things are going very badly for him in Psalm 5, but he does not build an untrustworthy rectangle to put the weight of his life upon. Instead, he turns to the Lord. That's what we see in Psalm 5. The Messiah, David He invokes Yahweh, and he knows with confidence that Yahweh will hear and defend. That's where he places his confidence. It is his God. That's one of the things for us to learn in these Psalms as we flip from each Each one, where does David turn? He turns to the Lord. Do you turn to the Lord? Is he your confidence? Is he your defense? Is he your shield? When you need things to be lifted up so pests don't destroy. Is he whom you choose? David chose Yahweh to be his shield because Yahweh revealed himself to David and taught him to do so. And the Messiah Jesus did the same. And both teach us, as they invoke Yahweh with confidence, that Yahweh will in fact hear and defend, and therefore he is defending Is worthy of our confidence. Now I want to look at this under three parts. That's the main teaching of the Psalm, that the Messiah invokes Yahweh, knowing with confidence that Yahweh will hear and defend. That takes into account all of the parts. So we'll just look at this and the pieces of the of the prayer will begin with the invocation, then the confidence, and then the defense. So let's take a look at Psalm 5 together to see the unfolding of this truth. And first we see the Messiah invoking, the invocation. You should be familiar with this because this is a lament psalm. Last week we looked at Psalm 139. We went all through different kinds of psalms. so that you can interact more intelligently with the whole Psalter. Now we're going back, and for the rest of the summer we're going to only look at Lament Psalms. Because the sun is out, and I figured it's better to lament when the sun is out than when it's winter. It could just be too much for us. So let's see, we'll do the lament psalms in the summertime. And that's what we're doing now. And the lament psalm begins with an invocation. It starts with, oh Lord! Give ear to my words, O Lord. Consider my meditation. Give heed to the voice of my cry, my king and my God, for to you I will pray. It's a kind of introduction. You you I hope you heard the word invocation. this morning as we started the service. We invoked the Lord to be present with us. And I appealed to him to help us to worship. And David is the same. This lament psalm begins with an invocation. An invocation is a summons or call upon a higher authority to give their attention to your arguments. And this is exactly what David is doing. He calls for Yahweh to consider the upcoming meditation. That's what he means when he says, consider my meditation. He means please listen to me in verses 3 and following. That is an argument that I will place before you. He invokes Yahweh, specifically calling him king and God in 2B. My king and my God, for to you I pray, and no word is lost in a psalm. Why does he appeal to him as king and God? If you were a common citizen and you had a legal problem, you would invoke the earthly king in his court. If you were David, to whom would you go? You would go to the king of heaven. You would go to your heavenly father and his heavenly court if you had a legal problem, and you would invoke him directly as the anointed one of Yahweh. The invocation here you can see is being fleshed out in verse 3 in that it takes place in the morning. My voice you shall hear in the morning, O Lord. I want you to notice, just looking back at Psalm 4, verse 8, I will both lie down in peace and sleep. For you alone, O Lord, make me dwell in safety. Our tradition says that Psalm 4 is a song of the night, and that this is a morning psalm. Or night prayers and morning prayer. And so David here is in the morning before his God, invoking him. The court took place in the morning, which is why he does this. You can read in different scriptures. Scriptures that there are judges waiting at the gates in the morning for the legal problems of the people, and that's why David shows up at first light. 8 a. m. David is at court before that. He's waiting at the door to be the first on the docket. To bring his case before Yahweh for judgment. He needs his case not only to be before court in the morning, he wants it to be in the full light of day. Things should not be rendered at night. Symbolically, they were rendered in the morning that the full light of justice would enter in. And so the picture, therefore, is of David showing up at first light, verse 3. His case is on the first dot is the first on the docket before the king who brings light to darkness and justice to injustice. David will watch and wait, anticipating Yahweh's judgment. That's what it's He means there when he says, I will look up. I will look for your judgment. I'll depend on no other. I'm going to watch and I'm going to wait as you respond to my argument and my appeal to you Last week we observed how David did not approach God's attributes like a professional theologian. Do you remember that? How he never used the word incommunicable and communicable And David could have been scientific and categorized God, but that was not how David related to God. We learn a lot from watching David's relationship with God. I call it reading the scriptures relationally. It happens even in this invocation. Notice that the relationship continues between David and God in this invocation. David is living human life like us. He has something heavy on his heart and on his mind, which we'll reveal here in these next set of verses. In fact, in verses 1 and 2, I want you to notice one more thing before we move on. In verses 1 and 2, NKJV is translating meditation and cry. You could translate these words Groan. Consider my groan. Give heed to the voice of my cry for help. Those are legitimate ways to translate that. David, like us, had the threat of life, the heat of life beating down on him. Now we've had a nice day today, and the weather was nice yesterday, but do you remember what it was like the day before that? And the reason why all our grass is turning yellow? That's a picture of life. The scriptures use that picture to symbolically represent what it's like to go through life Heat beating down on you in pain and pressure. And that's exactly what we see here. Have you felt the oppression of the heat wave? Not symbolically, but actually. Life like the sun beats down on us. And here's the difference though with David. It is very interesting. Usually, the natural way for a human being to respond to pressure and pain and heat is to run away from And David runs to him. He is the person to whom he goes. He is the person when he writes his journaling or he does his poetry here or he writes his music. Rights to God, not his girlfriend from college or whatever else people are singing about these days. That's the difference. David spent his night, Psalm 4, and arose at sunbreak, Psalm 5, and brought his troubles to God When the heat of this world beats down on you, to whom do you turn? It's another confidence question. In whom do you take confidence? David was a good Messiah, showing his people how to relate to God. Jesus is a better Messiah. And Jesus in teaching us to pray, teaching us how to deal with the pain and pressures of our life, teaching us you to invoke God the Father. First and last petition, here it is. Our Father, deliver us from evil. If you have a poor prayer life, a poor invocation, it's because you need to grow in relationship with your God The good news is that Jesus as your King invokes God daily that you will have the best relationship with your God. It is on him that we place our confidence. It was, and it is comforting to the king to have the king praying or interceding for him. You can see how these people would be comforted that David was praying for them because he had direct access to God, and we are comforted that Jesus prays for us and he gives us direct access to And oftentimes we don't pray or we don't pray well. Through the Spirit, the King is teaching us to do both of those things. And actually, in this next part that we're going to go into in Psalm 5, beginning in verses 4 and following, it's titled Confidence. That's our next point. It goes from invocation to confidence. And we're going to witness why David has such confidence. And he's going to teach us how to relate to God in terms of lament. David not only invokes Yahweh, but he invokes him with confidence. Do you have confidence in your prayers? David does. Let's learn from him. Let's learn about his confidence. David did not just invoke Yahweh. He invoked him in such a way that gave him confidence that Yahweh would hear him. Here's what Spurgeon says. We too often rush into the presence of God without forethought or humility. We are like men who present themselves before a king without a petition. By the way, that's not what you're supposed to do with kings We're not very familiar with kings these days. Spurgeon uses the word petition according to the dictionary definition. A formal appeal or request, and in this case it's a lawsuit. That's really what a lament is, and that's whole. It is a it is a kind of lawsuit. Do you think of your prayers as a preparation for a lawsuit? That you must submit to a most wise and just judge who can see the very soul of what you're saying. And he can very see the very soul of whom you're speaking about, or the situation. He knows all of the facts, all of the information. He has more information than Google itself. If you were to search through God, he would find information that Google could not find. That is how powerful He is. It is to Him that you write. your lament. And that is what laments are. And this portion of Psalm 5, it does not disappoint. Look at how David brings his case For you are not a God who takes pleasure in wickedness, nor shall evil dwell with you. The boastful shall not stand in your sight. And he continues on The psalm structure is set up to where David is appealing to the holiness of Yahweh as God and King. If you want to read this intelligently, you've got to see that the structure alternates. You are aware of alternating structures. You have to glue together verses 4 through 6. And 9 through 10. Do you notice how he is appealing to God's holiness and mentioning the wicked in 4 through 6? And then he breaks and talks about Being in the presence of God and dwelling with him, and then he goes back to the same topic of the wicked in 9 through 10. This is an alternating structure that you're aware of. Four and six have to go together with nine and ten. Now when you look at 4 through 6, you are not a God who takes pleasure in wickedness, nor shall evil dwell with you. You hate all workers of iniquity. Let me ask you this. Do you know that I quoted this from the ESV? In your bulletin when you were praying. When it said in there, and you had to read out loud, that God does not welcome evil people, did you cringe or flinch? Did it hurt a little bit? There's a right way in which it should hurt. Were you a did you feel a tinge of a shame relative to your God's attitude to evil? Maybe you did, and maybe you didn't. Modern people, when they read verses 4 through 6 and 9 through 10, will interpret this: that God is a snobby elitist. What do you mean you're going to exclude people? I thought you would show hospitality and you would be welcoming God. What do you mean they shall not dwell with you? How could you be like that? This is how they would interpret it. I only fellowship with moral superiors. But that's not the right interpretation. That's not what's going on here at all. It's an anachronistic modern reading of what's actually happening. David is appealing to God as the king, and the king is responsible to protect his kingdom. Thus, when evil enters into the kingdom, the king must take care of it, or he is not a good king. If evil were to enter into your home, would you just stay on the couch? No. If an intruder came in and was assaulting the people that you love, would you stay on the couch? That's the argument here. David seeks to arouse his sense as a king that he has subjects for whom he is responsible. Thus, when evil enters into the kingdom, the king should take care of it. Evil is a broad term in this passage. It confades a factual judgment that something is bad. If you look at the scriptures Genesis 4. 13 uses this same term when Joseph interprets the dreams of Pharaoh, and Pharaoh has dreams of evil cows. It means that they're disgusting and deformed. It means bad generally. Or in Jeremiah 24:2, the same word is used for figs. There's evil figs. It's not a personification, it just means they're bad figs. You're not going to want these figs. You wouldn't want to eat them. It's destructive behavior here in Psalm 5. People enter into the community, they are destroying everyone and everything around them, and David comes before God and says, Stop this, you are the head of this community. And that is how we should read this. I was riding after some of the late snows here in Maryland, I'm riding down Benfield Right in front of Clement's hardware, and my back tire goes into a pothole that I thought was going to rip off the axle. And I thought to myself, you know, what are my tax dollars doing? Why are there potholes? And I thought I should write somebody. The State Highway Administration needs to to take care of these potholes and I felt just in the letter and I was working out all of the details. But the next day I went by and they had already been out there with fresh asphalt and they filled in the pothole because that's what they're supposed to do as the state highway administration. Find potholes and fill these things in. One of the things. And that's what's kind of going on here. Verse 4 is appealing to this. God should not allow evil, moral potholes, to dwell in his midst, because it's his kingdom that is in his midst. The evil poetically escalates in these alternative stanzas. You are not a God who takes pleasure in wickedness. You shall no evil shall not dwell with you. The boastful should not stand in your sight. You hate all workers of iniquity, those who speak falsehood, and it's going to get More and more drastic here, bloodthirsty and deceitful, then we jump down to nine. Faithfulness in their no faithfulness in their mouth, inward part is set on destruction, their throat is an open tomb, they flatter with their tongue These are people that, if you were to be reading Proverbs and you looked up the definition of all these terms, these are folks that destroy family and community. And David is raising his voice to God that it wouldn't be so So. The original picture is probably of Absalom's incident, where Absalom and other internal leadership lied plotting the murder of David. And the picture is also, in its fulfillment in Christ, when Jesus physically walked the streets of Jerusalem, was betrayed by Judas, his own, and the leadership of Jerusalem plotted Jesus' death. furthering the death and destruction of that community, trying to keep the Savior Himself from His people. So he's not saying, I only hang out with moral superiors. Not in the way that people interpret it Here's the question when we look at these descriptions. The technical term for these are kind of imprecatory. Denouncements against the wicked. It's difficult to understand these things within the Lament Psalm. That's why I'm spending so much time on them. But here's the question. Would God be a good king on whom you could have confidence if he allowed evil to plague his kingdom? Are you not already somewhat upset that he hasn't removed all evil already? Let me ask this question just going a step further with reference to the Annapolis Gazette shooting. Imagine an office worker seeing what was going on called the police and said, someone is bloodthirsty. They have snuck in. The wicked have taken over the Gazette. Mixing the language here from the Psalm in modern day. Five are already dead. Many more are injured. Please help us. Imagine the police on the other end of that line as the office worker invokes the police. Appealing with confidence that they would arrive. Imagine this response. Well, you know, each person has the freedom to choose who they want to be And what kind of and you know they get to choose what kind of life they want to live. I mean, I'm sorry I can't help. I don't want to impose my morals on another person. Who am I to restrict their freedom? Do you see the absurdity of that? It is absurd. The phone call was the invocation. The requests to the phone call ensured with great confidence that the police would act. The police arrived on the scene in 60 seconds because they heard that evil was present in the kingdom. Metaphorically speaking. And likewise, David's formal request incites God's sense of justice and holiness. He is almost rubbing it in. So that God would rise and He would act. Do you see, God, what's going on down here? You need to act And this is how we should pray our laments. Are you ready for that? This is how you should pray your lament You should bring your suits before God in such a way to challenge his honor in a respectful way, excite his sense of justice. You should seek to move him and to persuade him. I tell you, when you try this, you're first maybe going to try it haphazardly. And this is what you're going to say. Never mind, God. I don't really want you to do that. I didn't know what I was talking about. And your prayer life is going to become much more serious. God will not be moved by your lawsuits that are amiss. You ask and do not receive because you ask amiss. That you may spend it on your own pleasures. Adulterers and adulteresses. Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Whoever therefore wants to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. If you bring a lawsuit to God only focused on your selfish ambitions, then God will find you out and you will be the guilty one standing in the law court. We must go with pure heart as the Lord has taught us to pray. Your kingdom come, your will be done must be the beginning of every prayer. It doesn't have to be those exact words, but it must be in the spirit of those words. Your kingdom come, your will be done. And you can actually see this in verse 7: that this is David's attitude But as for me, I will come into your house in the multitude of your mercy. In fear of you, I will-it says worship in my translation, but here it is. On my face, I will prostrate myself. That's what worship is here. I will get on my face before you, because it is about you and your kingdom, not about me and my kingdom. Destroy my kingdom. And it symbolizes furthermore that David is dwelling with God, which means he is on God's agenda. He's not on the agenda of the wicked. And so far then, Psalm 5 shows the Messiah invoking God. He knows with confidence that God will hear because his suit appeals to God's sense of holiness and justice in his kingdom. But he doesn't just hear. That's this last part of the main teaching of this passage. He doesn't just hear. He arises and he defends. And that's what we see. In the remaining verses in 11 and 12. Defense. God defending the righteous is actually the flip side of the same coin of judgment. When you're asking for judgment on the wicked, you are then going to have the flip side where he's defending the righteous. Malicious liars were seeking to subvert David's kingship. You can read about this in 2 Samuel 15, 1 through 6. David cries out to God. When God defends David, it will mean the destruction and frustration of the plans of the wicked. Two sides of the same coin. That's how it always works. This is the way judgment works. If you are praying that God ends world hunger, If you are praying that God would end poverty, if you would pray that He would be a defense against crime, that He would rise up and be the shield against criminals, then you are praying against corrupt governments who don't feed their populations. Greedy business people who exploit the lower classes and criminals, obviously. And I want you to note one further point about verses 11 and 12. First, in verse 11, but let all those who rejoice put their trust in you. David does use that word trust. That's a very specific word. And this means that the problem, as yet, in leaving the prayer, is not resolved. It is still in the future. However, David is so confident that he is able to experience the peace and the blessing as if it were present and actualized now. That's look- look at that relationship That is him relating to God confidently, that although still in the future, by faith he understands and has peace and rest and confidence Now. What a picture. Paul uses the same logic in Philippians while he's in jail. Peace that passes understanding is in the context of Paul's confidence that God will not leave his servant, but he will rescue him. And that is the confidence that we would have if we understand who our God is. Will He abide evil? Absolutely not. If we truly understood that, we would have full confidence. And as you get to know your God, you would place your trust in him. And you would shout for joy as you know that he will defend you, as you stand on the logic, on the side of the logic of his own right. Righteousness. We, however, think of our futures and we get very, very nervous. And that can be caused for different reasons. It can be caused because we haven't started with God in our present. And when you do start with God in your present, there's a lot of cleaning that has to go because you'll find that your agenda was not His agendas, His agenda. Relate to Him in the now, and He will change how you relate to Him in the future. The shield of God is big enough to cover our past. He is big enough to cover our present, and he is big enough to cover our future. God hears, and God defends his people. For you, O Lord, will bless the righteous. With favor, you will surround them as with a shield. This is the lament psalm. He invokes his God. He has confidence because he relies on the holiness and righteousness of his God. And he has confidence not that just he'll hear the words, but that he will rise and he will defend. The Messiah invokes Yahweh, knowing with confidence that Yahweh will hear and defend. Now we've already done some applications that have to do with dealing with liars, and I prayed a lot about that in my pastoral prayer. I want to just raise almost a sub-point question here. With our prayers of lament, I'm hoping that you can see the structure clearly of these laments. That you can begin to start creating your own, that you can more intelligently go before God in your own prayers. And when you do, you're going to perhaps raise this question, and maybe you've already raised it. Why are my prayers of lament not always answered immediately? The police got to the Capitol Gazette in 60 seconds. Isn't God better than them? Why the delay? First off, God is wise. He leaves a gap so that you don't use him as a vending machine. He will wait. And I just want you to ponder that. He will leave a gap between when you ask and when he answers. So that you do not use him. He knows you very, very well that you would have him serve you instead of you serving him. It is one reason that he leaves a gap in your laments. Secondly, he will use the heat of your life. The reason why you're lamenting is because there's heat. Something is beating down on you. He will use the heat of your life and allow it to remain to forge character. I know that you've heard that before, but have you thought about forging? Have you thought about the process of what it means to forge? To forge means to make or shape, usually a metal object, by heating it in a fire or furnace and beating or hammering it. Not a pleasant process, but the process that God in his sovereign wisdom uses to sanctify his people. The forging place. And you could start saying that, that you're in the forging place. And you could look in the scriptures on how do people, how are people supposed to relate to God when in the forging place? And there are a lot of Psalms that talk about that. How do I relate to you? In fact, next week we're going to look at David and he's in the forging place in Psalm 7. He keeps you in the forging place. So, for example, here's a forging place that someone actually prays for so that they would constantly be sanctified. Here's a prayer, here's a forging place, financial prayer. Are you ready? Give me poverty nor riches. Feed me with the food allotted to me Lest I be fool and deny you and say, who is the Lord? Or lest I be poor and steal and profane the name of my God. That is a prayer from Proverbs 38 through 9. What it reminds me of as he's asking to be in the forging place, it reminds me of terrible workouts that were called six inches. Do you remember these? Have you ever played football or soccer and your coach screams six inches? You have to don't try it right now. But you you have to lay on your back and then you lift up your head six inches and your feet six inches And you have to stay in that spot. Try it after service. We'll have a little spot in the narthex where you can where you can do that. It's gonna burn It's going to burn. And it and it's as if you're doing an app workout and you're doing six inches. God yells, six inches. Now's the time for six inches. You're in your forming your forging place and you keep crying to God, why does this burn? And He's saying Because you're this is an ab workout. An abs burn when you're doing an ab workout. And and praise him for his mercy that we're not always in six inches. But sometimes we are, and he'll put us in that place by waiting to answer the prayer of lament, whether it's finances or whatever. Sometimes God keeps us in the burn zone, is another way to think of it. However, here's the thing: one day the ab workout will be over. And the laments of all the saints will be answered. Every single lament from every single saint from all of the time of history Is remembered by God. And every single one will be answered in accordance to his will. Listen to this. When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain for the word of God and for the testimony of the Which they held. And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, until you judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth. Then a white robe was given to each of them, and it was said to them that they should rest a little while longer, until both the number of their fellow servants and their brethren, who would be killed as they were, was completed I looked when I opened the sixth seal, and behold, there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair. And the moon became like blood, and the stars of heaven fell to the earth as if a fig tree dropped its late figs when it is shaken by a mighty wind Then the sky receded as a scroll when it is rolled up, and every mountain and island was moved out of its place, and the kings of the earth The great men, the rich men, the commanders, the mighty men, every slave and every free man hid themselves in the caves and in the rocks of the mountains and said to the mountains and rocks Fall on us and hide us from the face of him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb, for the great day of his wrath has come, and who is able to stand The bottom line is that God is not late in answering your laments. Sometimes He answers them quickly Sometimes you must stay in the burn zone, but in the end, God hears every single one of them. Why? Why does he hear them? How can we have confidence that he does? Because our Messiah, Jesus Christ, invokes God on our behalf. Knowing with confidence that God will hear and defend everything that he brings before him. Make no mistake, as our last song says, our God reigns. Amen. Please pray with me. No Lord, what a complicated vision of how you're kingdom works out. It demands that we would have wisdom to operate in it and not have evil thoughts of you. Oh Lord, but for now, as things are clear, we ask that we would just praise your name and that we would have confidence in this last song that you truly do reign. That you reign and that you will answer all the laments that go up before you like incense, all the cries of your saints, all the martyrs We depend on it. We have confidence. We trust in you. You are our shield. In the name of Christ. Amen.