Me to the gospel according to Matthew. I'm going to ask you to stand while I read verses 18 through chapter 223. As we consider the nativity of the Christ this morning, we'll be doing that a couple times throughout the Advent season. Matthew chapter one, beginning in verse eighteen. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. After his mother Mary was betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Spirit. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man and not wanting to make her a public example, was minded to put her away secretly. But while he thought about these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary your wife For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit, and she will bring forth a Son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. So all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophets, saying, Behold, the virgin shall be with child and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated, God with us. Then Joseph, being aroused from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and he took to him his wife, and did not know her till she had brought forth her firstborn son, and he called his name. Jesus. Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem saying Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east and have come to worship him. When Herod the king heard this he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him And when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. So they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it was written by the prophet But you, Bethlehem, and the land of Judah, are not the least among the rulers of Judah, for out of you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. Then Herod, when he had secretly called the wise men, determined from them what time the star had appeared. And he sent to Bethlehem and said, Go and search carefully for the young child. And when you have found him, bring back word to me that I may come and worship him also. When they heard when they heard the king, they departed. And behold, the star which they had seen in the east went before them till it came and stood over where the young child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy. And when they had come into the house they saw the young child with Mary his mother, and fell down and worshipped him. And when they opened their treasures, they presented gifts to him, gold, frankincense, and myrrh. Then, being divinely warned in a dream that they should not return to Herod, they departed for their own country another way. Now, when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise Take the young child and his mother, flee to Egypt, and stay there until I bring you word. For Herod will seek the young child to destroy him. When he arose, he took the young child and his mother by night and departed for Egypt, and was there until the death of Herod, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the lords of the prophets, saying, Out of Egypt I called my son. Then Herod, when he saw that he was deceived by the wise men, was exceedingly angry, and he sent forth and put to death all the male children who were in Bethlehem and in all its districts. For two years old and under from two years old and under, according to the time which he had determined from the wise men. Then was fulfilled what was spoken by Jeremiah the prophet, saying, A voice was heard in Ramah Lamentation, weeping, and great mourning. Rachel weeping for her children, refusing to be comforted, because they are no more. Now, when Herod was dead, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, saying, Arise, take the young child and his mother, and go to the land of Israel. For those who sought the young child's life are dead. Then he arose, took the young child and his mother, and came into the land of Israel. But when he heard that Archilius was reigning over Judea instead of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. And being warned by God in a dream, he turned aside into the region of Galilee. And he came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth, that it might be fulfilled what was spoken by the prophets, he shall be called a Nazarene. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for revealing these things to us, for having them not only revealed To those present within this passage, but also enscripturated, that we, your church, might benefit from them. We pray for your second coming, and we pray that as we wait for you, that these Scriptures you've given would bring us great hope. In the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. I'm going to bring out several aspects of the nativity that we don't usually focus upon. We'll have some coming up in the the upcoming weeks of our Advent. For this morning, I just wonder if you noticed. That this nativity is supposed to be about Christ But really, he's the least active in the whole, if you were to think of it as a play and a stage, he's the least active on the stage. He's like that in our own nativities also. There's all this hustle and bustle in the nativities that you may see at the fire department or in someone's yard. And yet the least hustle and bustle is the main character. It's curious to me, and I wonder what you think of that. I wonder why you think that is the case. I mean, you have the wise men, they're traveling, apparently they've done some astrology for some time now, or astronomy, or whatever. It's for some time now trying to recognize this star that was predicted. Men from the East, and they're coming to bring their gifts that they have prepared. The shepherds are in another account in Luke, and they're visiting the manger. You have Joseph and Mary, who are actively caring for the child. And yet it's not about them, really. The interesting thing too, though, is we know that it's not about them. And so if you were to look in someone's yard who has or in the front of a church who has the nativity scene, the spotlight that's placed in the lawn, it's always on the child. So we know that although all the activity around is the most active, that there's a different emphasis. Why is the spotlight on the least active person on the stage? What is it about? This child that was born. That's what I want to look at this morning. I want us to use the Advent season As an opportunity for our Lord's Day worship to really focus on who is Jesus the Christ? And I want to do that from this nativity scene that we have here by looking at the different characters that are a part of the scene. I want to look at Joseph. How many times do we stop and Consider him and his role within this passage. I want to look at Herod, and then I want us to lead all of that because that's what the scene does. It leads us to the spotlight, just like we see on our lawn. The spotlight is on Jesus, and we'll leave him for last to try to understand him. But we're going to understand him through Joseph and through Herod. We're going to see these players on the stage And better understand who the Christ is. So let's begin with Joseph together in this beginning in 18 and 19. We see this story kicking off with the birth of Jesus Christ, and Matthew records that it was as follows. You know, you have these hallmark cards of the Nativity, and you don't ever see the kind of conflict and drama on them. I wonder what that card would look like. We should have a card contest to include after his mother Mary was betrothed to Joseph before they came together, she was found to be a ch with child of the Holy Spirit. Well, then takes us into 19, where we see if Matthew were holding a camera, and that's how I really want you to see this, imagine him being the cameraman. And who does he focus on to be able to tell the story? We see this wide shot. That's what cameramen do to orient you to the situation. It's like every movie. You have a wide shot or a drone shot to give you the situation And then it's look at what it we zoom in on. It zooms in on Joseph. It goes from Mary and Joseph and the whole scene to a sh a zoom shot on just Joseph. And you have to just stop for a moment and think about this. In a passage that includes Jesus the Christ, the miraculous conception in the womb of the Virgin Mary. We now have the camera moving away from that to Joseph. If the attention is off the wonder of the Christ and the miracle of the conception, then Joseph has to play some important lead or supporting actor role. And therefore, we should pay attention to any description that is given to him. And I wonder if you've done that in the past. Just what is Joseph going through? How does he play on the stage here? Well, we see in verse 19 some uh the first thing that's said of him. It says first that Joseph was Mary's husband, but then it goes on, look in verse 19 with me. Then Joseph, her husband. And then it's got this this little a positive, this little statement about him thrown in there. Being a just man Now, isn't that interesting? I hope you've been uh uh studying the scriptures long enough that when you see those little remarks, they're really important. This little participle here means everything He was a righteous man. Now, if you were Jewish in this time period, what would that mean to you? The import of being a righteous man means that you follow the Torah. Which we've been studying. It means that you follow and you live your life around the Ten Commandments as understood through the case laws, right? Righteousness only righteousness? The term comes forward. You have to remember that phrase, righteousness only, righteousness, would be ringing in their ears as we see this little participle that's given. Joseph is described as righteous, being a just man, verse 19. And then it goes on to give you the example of the kind of righteousness that he demonstrates here. It says that he's the just man, and then it continues to describe: well, how do we know that he's just? Not wanting to make her a public example, was minded to put her away secretly. Joseph did not want to make a public example, and therefore he put her away in a way that would not do so. In other words, Joseph knew the case laws of Deuteronomy and the importance of retaining the dignity, the protection, and the nurture of the woman. Joseph is confronted with a wife who is pregnant not by him And Matthew spends most of verse 19 describing Joseph's tour of righteousness and something else here. He's not only righteous, that's not the only thing that we see about Joseph. In this passage. But that is very important. That whole context of Torah and righteousness only righteousness should be in your mind when you hear about Joseph. The second thing we hear about Joseph, though, is beyond that is that he heard from the angel of the Lord. And he heard from the angel of the Lord twice, and that's very important. Whenever the angel of the Lord shows up, you have to pay attention. In chapter 2 now, in verse 13, you want to look at that with me. Now, when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared. To Joseph in a dream, and this is what he says: he says, Arise, take the child and his mother, flee to Egypt and stay. Now we're going to see the angel of the Lord show up again in chapter 2, verse 19. So take a look, because this is also going to help us. This is the second one. Joseph again is addressed in 2. 19, and it says, The angel of the Lord appears to Joseph in a dream and says, Arise. Take the young child and his mother and go to the land of Israel. Do you see what happened? There was a going in and now there is a going out. And so I just want to start gluing the pieces together. I hope that you see it already. We we won't be the first to see it. It's seen by many, many scholars. But I want to summarize and see if you can pick up the pattern. So let's get this straight. Joseph is righteousness only righteousness. He's a man after the Torah. He receives a dream from an angel to go to Egypt, and then he receives another dream from an angel to bring his son out of Egypt. Those three parts should make you see what the character of Joseph is here within this account, that he is a kind of Moses. Joseph's of playing out the familiar narrative and the character of Moses. So take, for example, let's go to Moses now. And the angel of the Lord appeared. Did you realize that? It was the angel of the Lord in the bush, the flaming bush. And the angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire from the midst of a bush. So he looked, and behold, the bush was burning with fire, but the bush was not consumed. And now the Lord said to Moses and Midian, Go, return to Egypt, for all the men who sought your life are dead. And then, of course, Moses, we know this story quite well. The Lord is re is speaking to him throughout his course of time within Egypt as he deals with Pharaoh. And he says, for him to take his son, Israel. And to release them from Pharaoh's slavery through the Red Sea, headed towards the promised land, which is Israel. I mean, you've got to pick up on these things because that is what Matthew was doing. And so that's Joseph. If the beginning of Matthew is turning into another Exodus story, which is the main argument here, you can see in your bulletin, this is the title of the sermon, it's called A New Exodus. And Joseph is the Moses. Well then we have to ask this question: where's Pharaoh? And this brings in our next character, who is Herod. We're going to continue to see and unfold the meaning of this nativity here. Herod shows up in verse 3 of um I'm sorry. Herod shows up here in this next part of our passage. And we notice that he is the king or ruler and is greatly concerned about the news that Christ is born. So he calls the wise men to himself. He gathers them together to find out where the Christ is. And we know that even though it looks like, you know that little phrase, so that I might worship him, we know that this is a devilish plot. I mean you can feel it, even if you haven't read the verses afterward. You know that he's up to no good. He wants the wise men really to tell him where the Christ is in order to kill the Christ. Herod's plans are subverted in our passage here. And because the wise men are warned in a dream, they don't go back and report to Herod where the Christ may be found, although they did relay to him the prophecy. That he would be where he would be born. We then see in verse 16 of chapter 2 the actions of Herod. Then Herod, when he saw that he was deceived by the wise man. was exceedingly angry. And he sent forth and put to death, and I don't know if you've ever noticed this, the drama that's a part of this nativity. I would love to do, I haven't had the opportunity to confirm the actual numbers. But how many children did Herod kill? It was from a whole district. All the males, two years and under, were slaughtered. If it were just the district of Anna Renault County, how many would be killed that are two years and under? If it were just Pasadena or just Saverna Park, how many two-year-olds? And yet we don't often focus on what's actually happening here within this activity, but when we focus on these characters and we see the Moses, and then we start to see Herod perhaps as a kind of Pharaoh Because of what he has done here and seeking for the Christ not to come to rule All the male children who were born in Bethlehem and in all its districts from two years old and under, according to the time which he had determined from the wise men. Matthew chapter 2, verse 16. Now tell me that that is not a Pharaoh-like action. Then the king of Egypt, Pharaoh, spoke to the Hebrew midwives, of whom the name of one was Shifrah, and the other was Puah, and he said When you do the duties of a midwife for the Hebrew women and see them on the birth stools, if it is a son, then you shall kill him. But if it is a daughter, then she shall live. Exodus one verses fifteen through sixteen. So you have these two obvious characters here present within the Nativity. We have an Exodus theme by Gali. Joseph is the Moses of the law, the Torah, the just man, and Herod is the infant-killing Pharaoh And now you can see that although there has not been much activity by the Christ Himself, the spotlight is truly on him because the supporting characters are leading us to ask: who is this Jesus? In this narrative overlay of the Exodus, who is this Jesus? Well, there's several names that are given to Jesus as we move into this point about him. There's several names with interpretations that are given. We see, for example, in verse chapter one, verse twenty-one. It says, and she shall bring forth a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. And then we see in verse 23 another name given, and then the interpretation. Behold, the virgin shall be with child and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated God with us. Now, if you go over into chapter 2, you're going to see in verse 2 that Jesus is also called the King of the Jews. So he's quite the significant figure. And looking at these characters of Joseph and Herod has brought us to this, to see, yeah, these kinds of names make sense when we start to see the Exodus overlay. This is already a lot to process about Jesus, but the apex of the whole story really is in chapter 2, verse 15. And it's confirmatory also of this Exodus overlay. Look at verse 15. And was there until the death of Herod that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophets, saying, Out of Egypt I called my son. It's the Exodus story applied to Jesus or overlaid on his nativity. In other words, what I've been trying to say when we what really what Matthew is bringing out here for us is that we're back to an Exodus account or a new Exodus Joseph is Moses, Herod is the Pharaoh, and do you see what Jesus then is? Israel. Jesus is Israel, God's son. And this is going to continue in upcoming chapters, by the way. If you just want to keep reading through Matthew today, you have lots of time on your hands For example, Jesus says Israel will be tempted for 40 days in the wilderness, as the Ezra of old was tempted for 40 years in the wilderness, and yet Jesus will be without sin. Through the careful observation of three characters, therefore, that we see within this sermon and within this text, we see that Matthew overlays the familiar nativity story with the story of the Exodus. Because we have Joseph as Moses, Herod as the Pharaoh, and Jesus as the Israel. And now you have got, when you reach this apex, when you stand on top of that mountain and you see who Jesus is, you know what your next question has to be. What does it mean that Jesus is Israel? What is the significance of that? And we can answer that in two ways. The significance really of the whole nativity is to find out that Jesus is Israel. And you want to say, well, what is the significance of that? And you can answer that in two main ways. Here's the first way you can answer. What is the significance of Jesus being or called Israel? Israel, the group of people. Now I'm talking about that that group of people. They were called by God, if you remember in Deuteronomy, to be a blessing to the world. The world had devolved into chaos, and Israel, through her new law, would raise the earth back up into moral order. In other words, Israel would be a light to the world, bringing great glory to the one God and three persons. Israel would shine as they are taught the world, while they teach the world of the grace of God through their sacrifices. Up from their temple would smoke would rise for the whole world to see. What God is providing through His grace. Israel, in addition, would shine as they have been taught from the mouth of God Himself what it means to be human again. And as they are placed in a kind of Eden called the Promised Land, or Canaan flowing with milk and honey. A picture of the original garden They themselves would radiate out in the presence of God to bring paradise to the whole world. But that's not how the story goes. The people of God would instead, after being placed within paradise, they would become part of the problem. The very group that was meant to bring grace and revelation to the whole earth would become a problem just like the rest of the earth. They took the paradise of the promised land and they acted just like Adam and Eve. It was a kind of recapitulation, a kind of it. They disregarded the law and they thus became more chaos amongst chaos. They added to it They were supposed to defend the world, to bring compassion and nurture and protection from the great dragon that exists from the deep, seeking to swallow the world in chaos. But instead, they become Friends with the dragon, they start to devour themselves, exploiting people for financial gain. The interesting thing is that their collapse into this moral chaos, adding more chaos to chaos, we discover in God's revelation that it was always a part of his plan. This is the second way that we have to answer the question. What is the significance of Jesus being called Israel? Well, it reminds us of what Israel was always meant to be. But it also tells us that there was some kind of overarching plan that God had always had where He was going to permit them to devolve into chaos because it was just a shadow of His real plan God knew that Israel, the nation, would break the covenant. It's actually in Deuteronomy that he would that they would do so. It was always a part of his plan. What Israel, the nation, was supposed to be, came to realization only in Jesus, the true Israel and his people. Only in Jesus will all of those things come to fruition. Jesus we find out as we move past the nativity, but also in the nativity itself. Jesus is the sacrifices of Israel. Matthew 1, 21, he shall be called Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. Jesus is the great king. Jesus is the great prophet of Israel. Both of those offices were always meant to establish and embody the law across the land, bringing life. And fruit trees out of deserts. But they did not with the people. It was just a foreshadow of the one Christ, who is Israel, who would bring all of those things to be. In other words, let me put it this way, as a summary of the whole sermon. The meaning of the nativity must be read in light of the whole history. And the whole history consummates in this. Jesus is Israel, and he will bring to be all that Israel was predicated of Israel. As a shadow. And he will be the reality and is the reality. Or let me put it this way from the mouth of Charles Spurgeon. Some of you really like him. Listen up. That God might be manifested in the Christ, it may even be that sin was permitted. Assuredly, there could have been no sacrifice on Calvary if there had not first of all been sin in Eden. The whole scheme, the whole of God's decrees and acts worked up to the consummation of an atoning Savior. It was never to be located within Israel. It was only to be a sh there was only a sign and a symbol of the true Israel that would come and those who are united with him. And that is what we discover within the Nativity as we look through Joseph, as we look through Herod, and we land with the spotlight on Jesus, that his name is Jesus. And that he is Emmanuel, we see this consummation that the true Israel has arrived and he is the atoning Savior. We do have one more question that we have to ask. And we're going to do this at the Lord's Supper, but I'm going to give you the question. We know that Joseph is the Moses, and we know that Herod is the Pharaoh. And we know that Jesus is the Israel. But I'm going to ask you this: who are you in the story? What character do you play? And I'm asking you, not just as an individual, but as a group of people called the church. of the living God. Let's consider that together and find the answer in the Lord's Supper. Please pray with me, and then we'll stand and we'll sing our invitational hymn and the elders will prepare the table Father, we thank you for this revelation that you've given to us that Christ is Israel. We understand that in this Exodus overlay. And we pray that you would help us as we see Him to turn our hopes to Him, not to a people that are biologically related to Abraham. But the one that comes forth from Abraham, that is gathering all those, whether biologically related or not, whom you elect. In the name of Christ. Amen. Amen.