Mark chapter two, verses eighteen through twenty two The disciples of John and of the Pharisees were fasting. Then they came and said to him, Why do the disciples of John and of the Pharisees fast? But your disciples do not fast. And Jesus said to them, Can the friends of the bridegroom fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast. But the days will come, when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then they will fast in those days. No one sews a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, or else the new piece pulls away from the old, and the tear is made worse And no one puts new wine into old wineskins, or else the new wine bursts, the wineskins. The wine is spilled, and the wineskins are ruined. But new wine must be put into new wineskins. God's holy word for God's holy people. Please pray with me. Almighty God Please use your word to transform our hearts and our understanding, that you would make us more like Jesus. And I pray, God, that you will let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. I wonder, well actually, in this crowd, it's probably a good deal of you who know the Puritan term for fasting. Anyone know the Puritan term for fasting? The Puritans called it soul fattening. I just love that term. I think it's very appropriate. And the Puritans used that term, soul fattening, because they understood what fasting is really doing. They really understood the purpose that fasting serves. When we fast, we are building up our spirit by denying our flesh. And fasting has been an important part of the expression of the faith of God's people for a long time. There are many instances of godly people denying themselves the comfort of food. to more fully focus on the Lord God. In Ezra chapter 9, we see Ezra fasting in astonishment at the sin of God's people. In Nehemiah, we read that he went into a period of fasting and prayer when he heard of the destruction of Jerusalem. In Psalm 35, verse 13 tells us that fasting is a way of humbling ourselves before God. Joel 2. 12 says that fasting is an activity which turns our hearts to God. But as with many expressions of faith, the idea of fasting had been disordered into something that it was never intended to be. And this is why Mark Has recorded this gospel to show us that Jesus is the Son of God and the perfect Son of Man. He is the spotless Lamb come to take away the sin of the world, and He is reordering All that sin has disordered. He proved his power to deal with sin when he forgave the paralyzed man's sins, and he healed the paralyzed man's body And last week's passage from Mark 2, verses 13 to 17, Jesus showed that no sinner, no sin, no disorder is beyond the reach of the gospel. And he showed this when he called Levi out of a life of sin and greed as a tax collector. The critical and self-righteous scribes and Pharisees thought that there was no hope for the disorder of being a tax collector. And tonight, in our passage, they show once again that they just don't understand who Jesus is and what he has come to accomplish. Here in Mark 2, verses 18 through 22, I hope that we will see that Jesus reorders how God's people express their faith In the new reality of the gospel. Jesus reorders how you and I express our faith In the new reality of the gospel. And we're going to look at this in two divisions tonight. We'll first look at verses 18 through 20, in which we will see the reordered expression of faith. And then we will look at verses 21 through 22, and we will see the new reality of the gospel. So let's look now at verses 18 through 20 in our first section, in which we see that Jesus reorders. The expression of our faith. And we see this first in a question about expressing faith. We see it in verse 18. The disciples of John and of the Pharisees were fasting. And they came and said to him, Why do the disciples of John and of the Pharisees fast? But your disciples do not fast. Personally, I take this as a very sincere question. I don't see this as something that is being asked just trying to catch Jesus in a trap. And the reason I think that is because we have John's disciples mentioned here. Obviously, this is John the Baptizer And we know about John. He was the last Old Testament prophet. He was sent by God to prepare God's people to receive the Messiah. And we know that John took very seriously God's glory. He was an ascetic. He In many ways, he was a Nazirite, and he lived a life of denying the flesh. We're told that because he worked camel's hair and he ate wild locusts and wild honey as his food. And so it's reasonable for us to think that the disciples of John the Baptizer, they wouldn't have been slackers. They weren't the ones going off and feasting every chance they got. They would have lived in a way very much like their mentor, John. Now, fasting as a command had been twisted over the centuries. And even though that had happened, there's no reason for us to think that John's disciples were doing something inherently or absolutely wrong by keeping traditional fasts. The only fasting which could be understood as a command by God was on the Day of Atonement. And we see that in Leviticus chapter 16. It says that this is a day in which the people will afflict their souls because they are sinners in need of atonement. You may recognize that phrase afflicting their souls from the reading that we had from Isaiah 58. And by Jesus' day, the religious leaps one's soul. It's a time to celebrate. It's a time to rejoice that God is making a new thing, a new creation, a new household and family. The friends of the bridegroom, interestingly in the Greek it's the sons of the bridegroom, but it's just all to indicate this is basically the wedding party. Right? These are the ones who are there. They have a job to do. And I can promise you, their job was not to be a buzzkill at the wedding feast. Their job was to lead the celebration, to be examples of celebrating. It is not appropriate. They cannot. They cannot. They don't have the ability to fast at that time while the wedding, the celebration is going on. If they're fasting at the wedding, not celebrating but mourning, then are they really friends of the bridegroom? Shouldn't they be happy for him and happy for that day? But Jesus does not chastise them He doesn't chastise the disciples of John and the Pharisees for simply fasting. His answer points out that they don't understand what is happening. But there will come a time when Jesus' disciples will fast It will be appropriate for them to afflict their souls. He says in verse 20, But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then they will fast in those days. And I think this is the first reference. That Jesus makes to his own future, to the suffering and the death of the cross that he will endure. This word taken is a word that indicates that the disciples won't have a choice. Remember, Jesus has taught in many other places, though we haven't seen it yet in Mark, but he teaches that where he's going, they won't be able to follow him. They won't be able to go with him This is where we are. Christ is our groom. He has ascended into heaven and he's seated at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. We mourn and grieve for his physical absence. We long for his glorious return. We are required to endure sin and misery for just a little while longer. And this is these are all appropriate reasons for fasting, mourning, waiting, enduring. These are appropriate reasons for afflicting our souls. Fasting can be an appropriate expression of our faith, but it won't be an appropriate expression of our faith when he returns. That will be a day of limitless joy, limitless rejoicing. Jesus' disciples were right. in not fasting. Their understanding of what was going on had been reordered by Christ. He had called them from their old lives to follow him, and he has led them into new and better lives. How could they fast The Messiah is there with them. They're watching the salvation of God's people happening in real time all around them. He's preaching the gospel. He's healing people of their afflictions. But we need to ask ourselves, why did John's disciples and the Pharisees not see it this way? Why were they still disordered in the expression of faith that is fasting? And so Jesus clarifies this answer with two illustrations, which show that they were still living in an old reality. Jesus' disciples were living in the new reality of the gospel. And let's look at that together in verses 21 and 22. We see first in verse 21 that the gospel does not fix what is lacking in the old reality. It is not a patch. Look at verse 21. No one sews a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, or else the new piece pulls away from the old, and the tear is made worse. Brothers and sisters, Jesus didn't come to offer little tweaks or minor adjustments to the way that God's people experienced and understood reality. The old garment or the old reality cannot handle the good news of reconciliation to God the Father through the Son. It cannot handle that like a patch because the gospel doesn't function that way. It's exactly what the Judaizers were trying to do If you recall, they were trying to have the Gentiles follow the old system of regulations, the old signs They wanted them to become circumcised and follow all the dietary restrictions that were in the Torah, as if the good news of Jesus Christ was just another thing to be added to all those other things, the way that humans earn their salvation. But Jesus teaches that the gospel is a new reality. Look at verse 22. And no one puts new wine into old wineskins, or else the new wine bursts the wineskins. The wine is spilled and the wineskins are ruined. But new wine must be put into new wineskins. The gospel is incompatible with the old structures and the old understanding, or we could think of it as the old reality. The gospel's new. It's a new reality. It's new wine. It is a new hope. It's a new joy. It's a new peace with God. I don't know if you're familiar with this. I'm not big on making my own wine, so I didn't know if this was real or not. I had to look into it. But wine, while it's fermenting It apparently lets off a whole lot of different gases. It goes through a lot of changes. And there's a lot of stretching that needs to happen. So whatever is containing that wine must be capable of being flexible, of stretching. Well, the old wineskins have already done all their stretching, they don't have any room to stretch. Only new wineskins could flex and stretch, and so only new wineskins are fit to have new wine. That's why they made new wineskins, otherwise, they'd always be old wineskins. But if you put the old wineskin, old wine into or the new wine, sorry, into an old wineskin, not only is it useless, but it can be harmful. The new wine is going to go through the process that it's designed to go through, the fermentation. It's going to happen. There's no way to stop it. And once it starts to stretch, the old wineskin does what? It bursts. And you've lost two things now. You've lost the old wineskin and you've lost the wine. Now I suppose you could put old wine into new wineskins. But that doesn't really make sense either. If that's not what new wineskins were made for. They are made for new wine. And if the old wine keeps getting put in the new wineskins, you'll never be able to make any new wine, and then eventually you run out of wine. Jesus reorders how we express our faith in the new reality that is the gospel. And of course, there are a lot of similarities between the old wine and the new wine. Still why? Old wineskins are very similar to the new wineskins. They're still wineskins But you can't treat the new wine and the new wineskins exactly as you did the old. And this is where it gets really challenging. Our flesh has a really bad way of trying to deal with sin. I'm sure this is similar for you as it is for me. Whenever we become aware of our sin, there's two things. At least I'll just speak for myself, and you can put yourself in it if you want. Whenever I become aware of my sin, there are two things I try to do right away. The first, I try to minimize it. I try to make it as small as is humanly possible. Sure, I messed up, but it's not that big of a deal, right? Not that big. Could be worse. Worse, it could always be worse. It's very problematic. Especially when your sin affects other people. Because if your sin is affecting someone else's life. And all you can think to do, your you know, that knee-jerk reaction is to minimize your sin, well you've also minimized their suffering. You've minimize the harm that it's caused them The second thing I do is probably worse than minimizing my sin. I don't know if you guys do it either. I try to make up for it. I try to make up for my mistakes. Try to work harder. Or do more. Have you ever had this situation? You're forced to miss church in the morning. Or maybe you were a little less than forced. And then you say to yourself, I know what I'll do. I'll make up for it. All this afternoon I'm going to do nothing but listen to John MacArthur or David Jeremiah or whoever you want. I don't know why I mentioned two dispensationalists, we can talk about that later. I am not one. Or perhaps he said, I know I missed the morning service. I will make up for it. And I'll go to the evening service. It's not the right attitude, it's not the right idea, it's not the right expression of our faith. Because we're trying to take the new wine of the gospel, the new reality, trying to put it into some old way of being and doing. We cannot do anything to earn forgiveness. You can't make up for sin by doing something good. Doesn't work that way. The old structure that God gave to his people was it was always pointing to something that was better than what that was. It was a sacrificial system. It was a very bloody time in the Old Testament. But it established the way that God would forgive our sins. It established substitutionary atonement. Now I know those are Big words. So kids, you know what a substitute is, right? Maybe you've had substitute teachers. It's not your teacher. It's someone who steps in and takes the place of your teacher. That's a substitute. That's substitutionary. Something else steps in and takes the place. And atonement is when we are made one with God. When the thing that separated us is taken away and we are reunited. Substitutionary atonement is that there would be a substitute which would take away the problem. In the old system, in the old wine, it was a bunch of lambs and goats and bulls. There were sacrifices in the morning and sacrifices in the evening, and they had to be offered. Otherwise, the people's sin would not be atoned for. That's why the Day of Atonement is so important, Yom Kippur. That's why there's a fast commanded. Because it's at that time when it is most appropriate to mourn sin, to mourn what it is that God will have to do because you have sinned. But when Christ has come, when the answer from God for sin is here, it's no longer appropriate to mourn. He who takes away your sin is here and is with you. And so when you fast, if you're going to fast now or express your faith in terms of a fast, You've got to do it with the right kind of understanding. Let it be reordered under the new reality. You're not going to earn something from God by fasting, but there can be a great benefit And if you don't understand what I mean, let me put it into something that's probably a little simpler. Bible reading. I don't think any of us would disagree that we should read our Bibles. It is something God wants us to do. He wants us to know his word. He wants us to be in it. We could even say that it's commanded of us. But do you earn anything when you do your Bible reading? Unfortunately, in my household, we've established a pattern that our children, if they do their Bible reading, they earn a coin. And the coin can be redeemed for video game time. I think I might have to stop that. Because I don't want that to be something like a chore. It's not a chore. It's not something that they have to do in order to earn a reward. It is its own reward. Reading your Bible, being close to God, learning what He expects of you and what He is doing for you, that is its own reward Let's think about prayer. Prayer is commanded. We're commanded to pray. But do you pray because you have to pray in order to earn the answer to the prayer? No. You can't ever earn the answer to your prayers, even if you could pray nonstop all day, every day. It's always at God's mercy. Sometimes we do this with service or sacrifice or fill in the blank. Maybe we tell ourselves, you know, it's not that bad that I've been a jerk to my parents. I serve at the pop-up pantry. Maybe it's not that bad that I'm disrespectful to my teachers. I pray every morning in the prayer group at school. We minimize. We try to make up. What we need to do, brothers and sisters Because we need to recognize that the only way we can be fitting receptacles for the new wine is if God has made us one of those new wineskins. He has to completely reorder how we think about sin and salvation. We can't earn our forgiveness We can't earn our salvation. And I've got to point out to you that this is new. It's a new reality, not just for the Jews. But for the entire world, every human being, every human religion and system of belief has always had one thing in common. It was people doing what they could to make themselves right Some religions said, you know what we have to do? We've got to sacrifice ten thousand people on this giant pyramid for the sun to return Some people said what we have to do is we have to always, always, always on the Sabbath, never walk more than a thousand steps. There are all these ways in which humans are trying to make themselves better and deal with sin on their own, and that's the old reality. The new reality is that someone has dealt with your sin for you. And you are to love him, to rejoice in him, and to thank him with all of your heart and soul. Well, if you've been made into a new wineskin and God has filled you with the new wine, I hope you are ready for it. It's going to be a lot of fermenting going on, a lot of stretching. But that's it, brothers and sisters. You can't change yourself as a wineskin. It's the wine that changes you. And he puts it in you and will stretch you and shape you and mold you. By the gospel that is put in your heart. All those things that I mentioned before: Bible study, prayer, sacrifice serving, they are the result. of the new wine. They do not earn the new wine. Brothers and sisters, may our gracious God bless us by reordering How we express our faith according to the new gospel reality. The new reality that we've been saved by the mercy of Jesus Christ for the glory of God the Father. Please pray.