Proverbs 27, 21, and I'll be reading the NIV, but you'll also benefit from the ESV. The NKJV is a little narrow. uh according to the Hebrew that I was reading. And it will be misleading. So um twenty seven twenty-one from the NIV, the crucible for silver and the furnace for gold But people are tested by their praise. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you. You are The Lord of all wisdom. We read in the scriptures that you have preserved, that you, our eternal Christ, were present there in the beginning And it is by your wisdom that the worlds were formed. And that if we have any wisdom, it is because you have decided to give it to us. And that's what we ask for now. Would you help us to grow, to be wise for the sake of love? We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. If you need to, if you don't have one of those translations, you can write down just the second part is different. The first part is pretty much the same, the crucible for silver and the furnace for gold. It's the second part that needs to be just a little broader than the NKGV, if that's a translation that you use. And it's just, but people are tested by their praise. But people are tested by their praise. It's important because the proverb here is playing with words that it remain that general. But people are tested by their praise. That's the scripture verse. I imagine that some of you have heard of land surveyors. I had some friends after graduating uh high school and college, they went into a family business where they surveyed land and you see those guys out there sometimes with orange jackets putting spikes into the ground so that they can locate property corners. But have you ever heard of a boat surveyor? Anybody out there? A boat surveyor? A boat surveyor is someone that you would call if you were going to invest in a boat, and you would have them take a look at the boat and determine its seaworthiness and value. Do you know why you would need someone like a professional boat surveyor to do such a thing? It is because oftentimes within a boat uh its true value is um hidden. If you look on the outside, they could have used bleach and soft scrub and And they could have uh made everything look real shiny, uh waxing it and buffing it. And then you would think, oh, this is the perfect boat, and then um lo and behold There are some people who have experience buying a boat like that, getting out on the water, and the back of the boat falls off with the engine. And it's because underneath of all the shine there is rotten wood. Rotten stringers that are supporting the deck, and the boat is just about to fall apart, but you can't see it because it is hidden And you will call a boat surveyor because they have certain tests that they can use to be able to determine the water content of the hole, for example. the main body of the boat. They have a moisture meter. The older guys, I've seen boat surveyors who are a bit older, they just have a little hammer and they tap around the boat. And they have an ear for what rot sounds like versus a healthy boat sounds like. And that is uh that's the boat surveyor. Well I give you that example this evening because that's similar to our life. It's a good thing for us to ask: who are we really? And in terms of who we are really, are there things that are hiding below the surface? Wherein we can really even deceive ourselves as to who we really are. You may, for example, think in your mind that you're punctual, but everyone around you knows you're always late. There's something about the way our minds can work where we can deceive ourselves in those ways. And not only are we hidden to ourselves, but other people can be hidden to us. Someone could look pristine on the outside, only to find out later that there's something going on different in the inside. Well there if you were dealing with a boat, you would call a boat surveyor and he would have certain tests to be able to deal with that, the seaworthiness and the the value. But what if you're dealing with human beings who are like that? Is there any test That the Lord Jesus Christ gives to us to have the kind of wisdom to know who people are, does Christ give us a kind of moisture meter for human beings? Does Christ give us a kind of tapping hammer for evaluating ourselves and others? The answer is yes. And we find it here within the Proverbs. It's extremely handy. Inviting someone into the fine china of your life without knowing who they are is quite dangerous. Imagine doing the same, inviting them into the life of your children. Well Christ wants better than that for us and provides tests. For us to be able to find out what people are really made of. It may surprise you, but the Holy Spirit teaches here in this proverb such a test. And it is this. The praise that people give and the praise that people receive reveal who they are. Let me say it again. This is a general principle that can be applied to many, many different situations. That's the nature of a proverb. The Holy Spirit Spirit teaches us that the praise people give And the praise people receive reveals who they are, generally speaking. Proverbs don't deal in absolutes Now let me try to explain this a little bit, just in terms of the proverb itself. I gave you a boat server analogy, but we really didn't even need that because there is a simile or an analogy present here in the proverb itself, and it's taken from the domain of uh of purifying and evaluating metal. We are taught this, this principle about the praise that people give and the praise that people receive revealing who they are. We're taught this by a comparison To evaluating the quality of different metals in this proverb in verse 21. Imagine that someone brings you a gold bar or a bar of silver. It could be solid gold or solid silver or and you can't really tell this in the beginning, it may have a lot of impurities. Let's say you were to put it on a scale at first and it each weighed five pounds and you thought, man, I'm going to be able to pay off my mortgage. But then, after being tested, you may find that it had so many impurities that it was really only half a pound. The way to test that purity for either metal, whether silver or gold, is to subject it to heat. That's a known practice. This culture, it's still used basically today, just a little bit different technology. The heat brings the dross to the surface, and you're able to scrape it off, and then you're able to see what is pure and what was impure What was this thing really made of? It is a test. And what is left is the real silver, and what is left is the real gold. Well, in the same way The proverbist is pointing out to us a test that we might use in testing who people really are. We can see who you or others are by two main tests. The first test is this. What is it that you praise? You can think of that more generally than praising as in worship and praise. What is it that you are always talking about? What is it that you celebrate? And the second test is What praise do you receive, or this is another way of talking about, what is your social reputation? What does the community to which you belong have to say about you? These are two tests that Christ gives us here in Proverbs to help us to understand what a person is really made of. On the outside, something may look like gold, but when subjected to heat, its real nature is revealed. And similarly, you may think of yourself a certain way. Or you may have an impression of someone, but to know who the real person is is revealed by what they praise and their social reputation. Of course, we're not dealing in absolutes. There's qualifications to all of this. Judeans at the time of the of crucifying Christ held a certain reputation of Jesus that was not true. They got it all wrong. But generally speaking, this is still true, and it is wisdom that Christ gives to us. I wonder if this sounds a bit strange to you to have such tests to figure out who people really are. Does it sound strange to you to have such a test? Does it seem too bold? Well, if it does feel or if you do think that way, I encourage you to reconsider because this isn't the only place where the test is given to us Within the Holy Scriptures. It's not just an Old Testament thing, it's a New Testament thing. Can you think of a passage in the New Testament where the same test is applied into getting to know who someone really is? Well, you could find it in 1 Timothy 3, verse 7, in a passage that has to do with testing to find out if a person should be an elder or officer within the church. It says this in verse 7, moreover, he must have a good reputation among those who are outside. There it is. You want to know if they really are what they what people say they should be or what they say they should be You'd have to have confirmation with an outside testimony of their reputation. I had a friend, uh well I still have a friend, just one though. No, I have uh I have a very good friend who's a uh pastor, and I remember w watching him uh use this principle and the determination of who is eligible in the church in order to be able to protect the congregants. I remember uh one time there was an elder candidate who had come forward and they didn't know the person very well. They had attended the church for a long time They always wore a button-down shirt and a nice uh blazer with no tie and khakis and brown shoes, in other words, the Annapolitan outfit And on the surface, everything looked fine, but they he and others decided that they wanted to take First Timothy 3. 7 seriously, and so they decided to look into the outside reputation of this person. They spoke to a contractor that was working on their house and to some other employees. And the reports they got back from the contractor and other employees were that this person was cruel, rigorous, unfair, and unjust. And the pastors decided to not recommend him in order to be an officer within the church. It went beyond just the contractor and to other parts of the community and each report came back like a letter in their mailbox and they would read it, so to speak, and each report was a reporting that this person was sour. And it acted like a test. Just like the Proverbs said that it should, just like 1 Timothy 3. 7 said that it should, it acted like a test which my friend used to protect God's people. And I'm glad that he did, so that the cruelty didn't show up in the privacy of a hotel room or uh uh hospital room, excuse me, uh hospital room, or the privacy of a person's home Surely this is wisdom that Christ has given to us. Now, the other test, besides hearing of a reputation within a healthy community, is what is it that that person praises themselves? It starts to reveal what's on their heart, what's on their mind, what makes them tick, what motivates them, what are their intentions, what do they get excited about An example I have of this is what other people praise as the other test is something that we were taught in seminary right off the bat in our counseling courses. We were taught in seminary that you can tell much about what a man or a woman is like by listening to them talk about their interests. What we were taught, you need to ask the following questions. What is it that they are praising when you remain silent and just let them keep talking? What do they express love for? What do they spend their time and their money on? We are taught as seminarians to listen and to learn about who you really are. It's kind of scary, huh? Probably won't be talking to me much. No, I'm just I'm just kidding. We were taught to listen and to learn. And those are the two tests that we Both were taught in seminary, and that we are taught also in the scriptures of 1 Timothy 3. 7, and we see the same tests in Proverbs, and you can see them elsewhere in the Scriptures. Christ is so gracious. To give us tests to determine the real metal of ourselves and of others. We are subjected to self-deception And we are subjected to others deceiving us. It's nice that we have a test such as this that in general is accurate. Let me ask you, do you have an accurate view of yourself? Perhaps now is a good time for you to take this proverb seriously and listen to the healthy Christian community around you and what they have to say about you. You could begin, perhaps, by just speaking with your family. What do they think about you? Do you have an accurate view of others? And this is very important, isn't it? Do you have an accurate view of others in whom you will put your trust? Do you have to hire someone? Do you have an accurate view of others to whom you will entrust others? Like your children, your family, your wife, or your grandmother? To know, according to the Proverbs, at least from one perspective, now is the time to know what they praise and what others say about them in the community. This is a long-standing test that the Lord Jesus Christ has given to us, and it is summarized in this wonderful little proverb: the crucible for silver. And the furnace is for gold. But people are tested by their praise. Amen. Please join me in prayer.