If you take the time now to open your scriptures, we're looking at the Gospel of Luke, the first chapter. We're going to look at verses 5 through 25. If you need a copy of Scripture, please put your hand up and We'll we'll have somebody bring you a copy. Do you need a copy? Yes. Ryan, would you mind mind grabbing a Bible? Just put your hand up so they know where to take it. Luke chapter one. Our entire Advent Season celebration is going to become from the the book of Luke, and it's it's just gonna be marvelous. We're gonna see all of the different Events around this one singular event of Christ's birth. And today we get we get the uh the preamble, if you will, the prelude. I'm reading from the New King James Version. It might be a little different if you're using ESV or the NASB or the NIV. IV, but it is all God's word for God's people. Follow along with me. Luke chapter one, starting in verse five. There was in the days of Herod, the king of Judea, a certain priest named Zacharias, of the division of Abijah. His wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth And they were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord blameless. But they had no child, because Elizabeth was barren, and they were both well advanced in years. So it was that while he was serving as priest before God in the order of his division, according to the custom of the priesthood, his lot fell to burn incense when he went into the temple of the Lord. And the whole multitude of the people was praying outside at the hour of incense. Then an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing on the right side of the altar of incense. And when Zacharias saw him, he was troubled, and fear fell upon him. But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zacharias. For your prayer is heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John. And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth. For he will be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink. He will also be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb And he will turn away many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. He will also go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready a peace. Prepared for the Lord. And Zacharias said to the angel, How shall I know this? For I am an old man, and my wife is well advanced in years. And the angel answered and said to him, I am Gabriel, who stands in the presence of God and was sent to speak to you and bring you these glad tidings. But behold, you will be mute and not able to speak until the day these things take place, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their own time. And the people waited for Zacharias and marveled that he lingered so long in the temple. But when he came out He could not speak to them, and they perceived that he had seen a vision in the temple, for he beckoned to them and remained speechless. So it was, as soon as the days of his service were completed, that he departed to his own house Now, after those days, his wife Elizabeth conceived, and she hid herself five months, saying, Thus the Lord has dealt with me in the days when he looked on me to take away my reproach. Among people. This is the word of the Lord for the people of the Lord. May God add his blessing to the reading and understanding of his word. As I said before in our confession of sin, we're dealing with hope, not with subjective desires, not with just wants. But we are dealing with a hope that is based in trust. We see the difference in hope, right? It's not the same kind of hope as I hope the Ravens win the Super Bowl. Or I hope I get a new transformer for Christmas. Right? Not that kind of hope. Instead, this is the kind of hope that we'll be willing to put our very lives on the line. Because we trust in the one in whom we have hope. Now trust Is defined as a belief in the reliability, truth, ability, and strength of someone or something. So in order for our hope to be a true hope It must be in the reliability, truth, ability, and strength of someone or something which can never let us down, something which cannot fail us. Otherwise, it's not true hope For then it has the possibility of failure. Now that doesn't leave us with very many options, does it? Is there one who never fails to deliver on his word? Is there one who cannot be overpowered or coerced, whose will cannot be subjugated? The great creator God, Jehovah, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, is the only being, the only one in whom we can have true hope He has promised and delivered from the very first promise that from the seed of the woman would come one to crush the serpent, all the way to the very last chapter. Of the very last book in the English Old Testament. If you look in your Bibles, what's that last book? It's the book of Malachi. And in that last chapter, he says, he will send Elijah A very special prophet before the great and dreadful day of the Lord. Every promise God has ever made has been fulfilled. And we can see it before our very eyes in this passage. We will see, brothers and sisters, in this passage, that the people of God have hope. True hope. Because God proves He can be trusted by keeping His promises. In this passage this morning, I want us to see, brothers and sisters That the people of God can have hope because God proves he can be trusted by keeping his promises. I want to look at this in three ways. We'll see the people of hope. We will see the proof of hope. And finally, we will see the fulfillment of hope. Now, if we turn our attention to the scripture, to verse 5, I want you to take notice here that the very first thing we're told is that there was in the days of Herod the king of Judea. We are talking about a specific period in history. It's important for us to remember that. God works in human history. He's not working outside of it. And I want you to notice that Herod here is the king of Judea. That is very different than the king of the Jews, isn't it? Judea is a Roman province. Herod was a guy who grabbed some Roman soldiers and took over this area. He brought peace to it, and so he was given the right to rule it. He called himself king. He put it on himself. Well, we're talking about God's promises. We're talking about the way that they are fulfilled. I wonder if you remember one of God's promises through the prophetic dying words of Jacob in Genesis 49, verse 10. It's here that Jacob says that the scepter of ruling will not pass from Judah until You remember the until? Until Shiloh comes. Now Shiloh is taken to be a for signification of the Messiah. Literally, the name means the one whom it belongs. The one to whom it belongs. So when it's saying that the scepter will not pass from Judah until the one to whom that ruling scepter belongs comes, it's saying that there will be a king in the line of Judah. Until the true king, the Messiah, the son of David, arrives. We see that Herod, being the king of Judea, there is no king of the Jews We see that the scepter has been removed. That means someone's coming. That means Shiloh is coming. Coming. And so we're going to look now at the people of hope, the people who were expecting Shiloh to come when that scepter was removed. And what we're going to see first is that the people of hope are children of God. We see here that this character is a true priest. Zacharias. His name literally means remembered of the Lord, remembered of Yahweh. He's of the order of Abijah And if you are familiar with the Book of Chronicles, in the 24th chapter of the first book of Chronicles, David organizes the priesthood. There were so such blessings of fruitfulness to the people of the tribe of the Levites that they had to order all the priests. There were so many priests. So he divided them up into eight different orders, and they served in the priests according to their division, as it says right here. Well, at the point of the Babylonian captivity, when they were taken away from their land, that priesthood kind of dissolved. There was nothing to do. There was no temple. There was no services to be performed. But in his great mercy, when they're brought back into the land, The priesthood divisions are recreated. And we can see in Nehemiah chapter 12 that Abijah is a representative of those that returned to Judah with Zerubbabel the son of Sheeltiel. This is a true priest, a true Levite, a true covenant son of God. But it's not just him that's involved in this story, is it? It's also his wife, Elizabeth. Coincidentally, it's the same name that Aaron's wife had that we're told in the book of Exodus. Her name means oath of God. Which is very fitting when we're talking about trusting God to remember the oath of God, the promises He has made. They're both Levites, they're both invested in this covenant that God has made with His people I believe we could call them equally yoked. And you'll see later on in this chapter that they are in full agreement about some things that uh other Jews thought was a little strange, namely the the naming of this special child we're going to find. Out about. But it doesn't just tell us that they're Levites. The Holy Spirit tells us that they are walking in the commandments of God and all of the righteous good works of God, they walk in them blameless. Now obviously the the scripture is not trying to tell us That Elizabeth and Zacharias were without sin. We know that that's not possible. All have fallen short of the glory of God. But what it does tell us here is that conduct matters That how we behave, how we worship and trust the Lord matters. And for them to tell us, for the Holy Spirit to tell us through the Apostle Luke, or through the Gospel writer Luke. He's telling us that these are some good, trustworthy people, people of the covenant, people of hope. And the last thing we're told about these people of hope, these children of God, is that they were childless. Elizabeth was barren. Now there's a there's a sad side to this. Barrenness could be seen as a sign of reproach Especially among the people of the Jews, it's actually listed as one of the curses in Deuteronomy that would happen for those who fall away from the covenant. I think that's why the Holy Spirit tells us that they're blameless, so that we would not have that kind of assumption when it tells us that they were without child. They were without child, not because of their sin. Now, a barren womb may be a terrible thing to us, but it's small work to the Creator. He who makes all things of nothing, he has and can open barren wounds. And he's done it many times in the past. He did it for Sarah to bring about Isaac. He opened the womb of Rachel to bring into the world Joseph. He did the same for Hannah to bring Samuel. Do you see these special people? God opens a barren womb to bring into the world someone very, very special. And that's what we can be expecting from this. Now we see also, not only are they children of God, true Levites in covenant, relationship with the Lord, but they are servants of God, and they're ordinary servants. There are a lot of priests. And Zacharias is one of many, many, many priests. Now I understand that it may be difficult for us to think of the priest as being an ordinary servant. But if we think about it, we are all priests. Peter tells us we have been we are priests of the living God, having been purified by the blood of Jesus Christ. So when I say ordinary, I don't mean unimportant. Certainly it is important, the service of the priesthood, but it is ordinary. There are so many priests. There's lots and lots of them. And in these different divisions, they didn't all serve in the temple at once. There'd be nowhere to move around. Instead, they took turns and they would serve for two weeks at a time within the temple, carrying out all the ritual sacrifices, carrying out all the duties, and they did it all in exactly the same way. This is the entire life calling. Now, there are lots of priests and lots of priests that do everything by lots They cast lots as to when they were going to serve in the temple. They cast lots as to what they would do once they got there, who would get to do which parts of the service. In a way, they are showing their trust in God when you cast the lot in this way. They were leaving it up to Him to determine who would serve when and who would do what. Well, the ordinary service of this ordinary servant was that the lot to burn incense fell for Zacharias. Are you familiar with the incense offering? It was something that was offered every single day, twice a day It would be offered in the morning and at the evening, basically, at sunup and at sundown, incense would be burnt on the altar of incense in the temple. Now the altar of incense is important for us to remember, though it is out in the temple itself. We remember the uh the structure of the temple, we have the holy of holies, the holy place, and then the outer court. The altar of incense was in the holy place, but it actually belonged to the Holy of Holies. And this is significant. It was the altar of incense that stood before the veil. It was the cloud of the incense smoke that would protect the priests as they were in the holy place from the glory of God that dwelled in the mercy seat in the holy place. Holy of Holies. It's a very important thing to do. It was such a great honor for your lot to be to burn the incense. It was such a great honor that it could only happen to a person once in their lifetime. To give you some idea. So Zacharias in his old age, the lot has fallen to him to be the man who burns the incense on the altar of the Lord in the temple. Of the Lord. What an incredible blessing for him. According to historians and to the Jewish Talmudic tradition, it wasn't just The privilege of offering the incense on the altar, in reality, that was a very small part of what they would do. He would take the incense, pour it on the coals, the coals that came from the altar. And they would burn and the smoke would happen and the fragrance would rise. But that wasn't all he did. In that duty, he was given the task of praying for Israel. Praying for the peace of Israel, praying for God's blessing upon Israel, praying that God would honor their hope And keep his promises that he had made to Israel. And after that, after saying the prayers, burning the incense, he would come out and he would pronounce the benediction upon the people that were with him. It was a very great honor and a great duty. And uh as you see in this chapter, there there are people there gathered, and that was that was common. There was ordinary. There was an ordinary attendance of people, all the multitude gathered there at that time, the times of the offering of the incense And they weren't just sitting around waiting to be blessed. They were there praying. Because incense, as you can see in Psalm 141, incense is connected with prayer. That the prayers of the saints lift up to the Lord's nostrils like pleasing incense. But it's also connected with purification. With reconciliation. And these people are seeking communion with their God, and they're seeking it through the ordinary processes He has ordained. They go to the temple at these times. to pray. Can you see the hope present here? We see the hope in the children of God This godly couple, their entire lives engaged in serving God, so much so that they are said by the Holy Spirit in his word that they walk blamelessly, keeping all of his commandments and righteous deeds. Yet their life situation is less than ideal, isn't it? Just being childless itself would be a great struggle for a husband and a wife. And I know that there are some in this room who are keenly aware of what that feels like. I can't fully imagine that. But we can imagine a similar kind of heartbreak When the things that we desire, the good things we desire, like a child, like having children. When that desire that is so strong within us and voiced to God over and over and over again goes unanswered We don't quite know how to react. We feel heartbroken. Zacharias and Elizabeth, they knew what this was like. To wait their whole lives for answered prayer. And for the answer to that prayer not to be that which they wanted. Yet what did they do? Despite their heartbreak, they walked blamelessly before God. They worshiped him to the best of their abilities. They did not allow the pain of their circumstances to paralyze their service to God. Brothers and sisters, I encourage you to do the same, regardless of what heartbreak you are suffering or the difficulty of your circumstance. When God is giving you the answer you would want. Do not allow that to paralyze your service. Continue in hope. Because Zacharias and Elizabeth, they didn't just deal with this for a very short time. It's not like they recently got married. The scripture tells us that they were, as the way it puts it, very much added in their days. It means that they they had seen quite a bit of life. I don't think it's disrespectful to call them old or elderly. At this point in their lives, the point of the story that we come in contact with, they didn't have a hope for a child anymore. It's not that they didn't trust God to answer his promises. They had moved on. What is it that they would hope for now if they were no longer hoping for a child? Well, their hope was manifested in a true living trust of God. They trusted the Almighty Lord. They served him in their calling and they served him faithfully And I ask you, friends, does this excite you? Does it excite you to think of your life as being one of ordinary service to God? Does it excite you to think that you may never accomplish anything of true special significance according to the world? Yet, if you are faithful to your God who has redeemed you, you have performed a great act in your life. Perhaps another way to think about this is the term contentment. Are you content in your life? Has the Holy Spirit given you blessed hindsight in which you can see every moment leading you to now? Every single event of your life leading you to this point where you can trust And hope in God, even in the tiny things, the insignificant and ordinary things. Are you able to see the simple joy and the abiding pleasure in living for God? Especially in the work of gospel ministry. Do Zacharias and Elizabeth strike you as people who are longing for their younger days. They're longing for the influence they had as priests and the wife of a priest Or longing for the days of yearning for a child. Now, I don't get that impression here. Instead, I see a family, a little family. And they're content to serve God to the best of their ability. They are content to seek only his glory, that he would receive praise and honor And let's not forget the people that are gathered in prayer. These people are praying at the same time that the priest is inside the temple offering the incense and making his prayer. And I ask you, brothers and sisters, is this the attitude of your lives? Are you entering into the ministry of this particular church? Now, I don't want you to misunderstand me. I'm not saying that you should uh park yourself in the parking lot every single day just to see if something's happening going on. Here at the church. And just be out there waiting at eight o'clock in the morning and whenever the door is open, come inside and and get yourself involved. That's not exactly what I'm talking about. But what I'm saying is that these people of Israel at this time, in the passage we're looking at, what they did is something we can do. Do you pray regularly for the officers of this church? Do you pray for our elders and for their guidance? Do you pray for Pastor Jesse as he's preparing his sermons each week? Do you pray that God will prepare your heart to receive the message He is bringing? Do you pray for the people who are volunteering right now, at this very second, so that we can have children's church, so that our little ones can get something out of their Sunday morning worship? And do you pray throughout the week for our nursery volunteers so that the families with young children can put their kids in the nursery and trust that they're going to be cared for and protected. I guess I should start by asking, is prayer a regular part of your life at all? If not, let's talk. Let's get together and have breakfast or something. If it is, I I want to ask you if in your regular prayers is the work and ministry of this church and of the church universally? Something that takes up a lot of that prayer time. Or is it just packed on at the end in that whole thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven kind of thing? Is this something that the hope you have in God, the trust you have in Jehovah, the trust that He is who He says he is, and He does what He says he will do Does that hope energize you to serve him in prayer? And the way that it moved these people to be there at the temple at the hours of incense? Even if that service and that prayer begins to feel ordinary, even if your service to this church begins to feel ordinary, remember, brothers and sisters Have hope in God. Trust that He is pleased with your regular, serious, and sincere devotion to Him. Trust that that pleases Him. That you don't need to write books about theology for God to be pleased with you. And you don't need to have blogs that turn people away from their folly in order for God to be pleased with you. Regular, serious, sincere devotion to Him. And it's a passage like this one that reminds us that our hope is indeed well placed when our hope is in God. We see this looking at verse 11, and we'll see that the proof of hope Here we see an extraordinary encounter. Verse 11 says, Then an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing on the right side of the altar of incense. That's something else, isn't it? Well as I said before, the altar stands right before the Holy of Holies. So if you imagine Zacharias is Um the way that the incense would be, there's a certain measuring that they would have. And uh from the research I'd done it said that they would go in with some uh some attendance because it was a really bad thing to spill any of this incense. So they didn't worry about spilling it. He would have one of his uh attendants would scoop the incense, a very special incense. We can talk about that later when we get there in the in our series through Exodus And he would scoop it into the hands of the priests. And the priests would basically be holding his hands over the coals so that as the the incense was scooped in, if any of it fell, it would still fall on the fire, so that none of it would fall onto the ground And then he would just let it drop, and the smoke would rise. And imagine that Zacharias has done it. He's let the it drop the scent, the fragrance the servant has left. It's it's not his duty to be in there and offer these prayers. Zacharias closes his eyes, he prays for the peace of Israel. He prays for God to fulfill his covenant promises to his chosen people, and as soon as he opens his eyes, there's an angel. Right next to the entrance to the Holy of Holies. There's really only two ways to respond to that, isn't there? Right? You're either rejoicing to see an angel of God. Or fear will fall upon you. And that's exactly what happened to Zacharias. This vision of this angel at this specific time is either a sign of God's pleasure or a sign of God's wrath. And Zacharias is troubled because he doesn't know which yet. Now, we're familiar with the violations of the burning of the incense, aren't we? From Leviticus chapter 10. You better believe Zacharias knew the names Nadab and Abihu. You better believe he reread that chapter about a hundred thousand times when he found out his lot was to do the altar, the offering of the incense. He probably read in the book of Numbers about Korah and his rebellion and what happened when wrongly, when this offering of incense was done wrongly. You can imagine the trembling. Because there's an angel now standing next to him, and he's probably wondering, what did I do? Poor Elizabeth. He's got to finish this life without me. I want you to take note of the splendor of this visitation. And I want you to take note because in this time of the year, there are a lot of pictures of angels. There's angels everywhere. And unfortunately they're they're pretty neutered, aren't they? They're little cutesy Angels with their tiny tiny wings and their horns and stuff? No. I'm sorry. This is what it looks like when an angel of the Lord appears to someone So I encourage you, not only when you see those little cutesy angels, remind yourself actively that it's far more terrifying than that in person, and remind yourself that you should be You should be skeptical of anyone who claims to have an encounter with an angel of the Lord, and there is no component of this kind of fear when we The creature, the sinful creature, come into contact with a perfect servant of God, there will be fear. There's no way to avoid it. So if somebody tells you, oh well you know this angel was with me in the car and we just had a lovely conversation on the way to work, that's not an angel I'm sorry. And you can look through all of scripture and you can see every instance where an angel appears to a person, and you don't get warm and fuzzies. You get You get the trembling and the goosebumps, and you get the troubling that we see in Zacharias. Well, the angel The proof of the hope that we have in God is not just in this extraordinary encounter, but it's in this beautiful message, this good news that comes from the angel. And it's first a message of comfort. He says, fear not, Zacharias. Remember, Zacharias's name means remembered of God. Fear not, remembered of God. That would be encouraging. It should strengthen him. He's saying that his prayer is heard. The words of the angel are specifically right here. Do not be afraid, Zacharias, for your prayer is heard. Your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John. The prayer was heard? Was it the prayer he just made? The prayer for peace for Israel and blessing and the fulfilling of his covenant promises? Or was it a prayer from the past, a prayer for a child? Some people think it was a prayer from the past because the answer is in a sun. But we know that God answers in strange ways sometimes, doesn't he? If his prayer was that the Lord would send his Messiah, that he would grant the true peace and reconciliation to Israel that has been promised. And an angel shows up and says, Your prayer has been answered. That is indeed a special time. And we know it's a special time because he says that Elizabeth, who is barren, is going to have a child, and remember, God opens. the the barren womb to bring about someone special. But beyond that, God gives him a name. In the Jewish tradition, it was a great right and responsibility for the father to name the child. You'll see that in a couple weeks when uh when Pastor Jesse addresses the birth of this baby. It was the father who had the right to give him the name. Yet by choosing the name for him before he's even conceived, God is showing that this child is He is taking responsibility for him. This is his child. This is one who belongs to him And the angel gives this incredible promise of joy. Not only is it the joy that comes from the child being born, and the child being born to the childless couple. But it's a greater joy than just a child being born brings. Many will rejoice. The people will rejoice. It is incontrovertible evidence of the divine calling on this bead. Even from his mother's womb, it is going to be evident that he has a great calling. Now, this message of comfort turns into a message of great mercy. To turn away from sin. Brothers and sisters, pay attention to this The ability to turn away from sin is an act of God's mercy. That anyone in this room is able to say no to any sin is an act of God's miraculous mercy And when he says, the angel says, of what this boy is going to do, and he talks about his calling, and he says he's going to turn the hearts of the people back to the fathers. He's going to turn these Israelites Back to God. This is a message of great mercy. God will be merciful to his people in bringing them back to him. It says, the angel says that he's going to be the one who goes before the Lord, the forerunner to the Messiah. Not just that. in the spirit and power of Elijah. Exactly as that last chapter of Malachi says, that Elijah would come before the great and dreadful day of Elijah. the Lord. He will be like Elijah. Do you guys remember Elijah? Golly, if you've got time this afternoon, which you probably do, it's a Sunday. Look in 1 Kings. Just read 1 Kings, maybe, or at least the first 20 chapters. When you get to what Elijah does If you don't get the hair standing up on the back of your necks, you need to check your pulse. Because if you remember at Mount Carmel when he calls down the fire, when God answers his prayer. And he slaughters four hundred priests of Baal. And all of Israel who has been following these false gods and making these false idols, do you remember what they do when this happens? When the fire is called down and they see the fire consuming the sacrifice, all the people of Israel there say, Oh, there is no God like our God. Their hearts are immediately turned back to the Lord. This is what this baby is going to do. His purpose is to bring people into covenant repentance. His purpose is to return the hearts of the children to their fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, to Jacob. Their heart. Abraham loved God. And this baby is going to bring about a change in the heart of the people of Israel, that they would turn and remember their God and love him. And it will be also a return to their senses, the wisdom which they should already have known, they will return to. In humility, they will confess their sins. They will be prepared for the Messiah. And we know because we know what John the Baptist eventually does, we know who this child is. We know that he will baptize them into repentance Proclaiming the Lamb of God come into the world. He is the herald of the Christ. Now, do you realize what's going on here? The angels just told Zacharias he's going to be a father. And the son that he is going to father is going to be the herald of the Messiah, the long-awaited Messiah. It's the first message of good news delivered in 400 years to these people. It's actually the word that's used here later when Gabriel says what he's doing is the word evangelize, young. He is bringing the good news. It's the first statement of the gospel. And you wonder, wow, having heard this and knowing all this, shouldn't there be joy? Shouldn't Zacharias be overcome with praising and rejoicing? Well, that'll come. Zachary Ice will get his chance. But it doesn't happen until about nine months later. Instead, right now, he's having a hard time. He's having a hard time not leaning on his own understanding. He's having a hard time not putting God's way before his own reason. And he answers in a way that could be characterized as hopeless. He answers in hopelessness. And the angel rebukes that hopelessness, doesn't he? He rebukes Zacharias for his misplaced trust. Zacharias says, he says here in verse 18, How shall I know this? For I'm an old man, and my wife is well advanced in years. He cannot escape the fact of the physiology. The fact that he is old, and that he cannot have a child. By his own understanding, this is ludicrous. They're beyond that point in their lives. They can't have children now. But what does the angel say? God is sovereign over space and time. God is sovereign. He tells him who he is. He says, I am Gabriel, who stands in the presence of God. Who was sent to speak to you and to bring you this gospel, these glad tidings. Now Gabriel showing up and identifying himself. If you need to, just take a second, shake out the tiredness, and wake up because this is going to be important. Gabriel, when was the last time we saw Gabriel on the scene? It's in the book of Daniel. Gabriel, by identifying himself and saying he's been sent now to Zacharias, We have to remember that he was once sent to Daniel. And when he was sent to Daniel, he explained that the visions that Daniel had had been commanded into reality. That the time that needed to pass until the Messiah would come had begun at that moment. And now Gabriel is there bringing the good news: that time is done. Zacharias is rebuked in hope because of his hopelessness. And I'll explain what I mean by that. He is literally dumbstruck in accord with Gabriel's words. Gabriel says to him, I am who I am. I am in the presence of God. I'm standing here before you, and you're going to ask: how can a bunch of old people have a baby? And he says to him, Because of this, because you could not believe the words which will be fulfilled, you're going to be mute. Do you get what's happening here? He says, You don't believe the words that come out of my mouth. You don't believe that these are true and from God. Well, guess what? Now you're mute, and he was. So I believe that this very last message from Gabriel was received loud and clear. It's the last thing he received loud and clear for nine months. And I I say that he was rebuked in hope because, brothers and sisters, just ponder this. At this point in time in this story, Zacharias was the most hopeful man on the entire planet. Though he could not speak, and he was probably deaf, later on in verse 62 it says that people had to make signs in order to communicate with him. So he's deaf and he's dumb, yet he is the most hopeful man on the planet because he knows what he has been told by Gabriel, and he knows it's true. Right? Because he said, according to my words, these that will be fulfilled that you don't believe, you be mute, and now you're mute, and there's no doubt in his mind. He trusts and he knows that all that has been said about this boy John will come to pass. And so he has no reason to doubt anything else Well, friends, do you find yourself in a similar situation? Do you find yourself having a hard time believing the difficult and challenging statements of God's Word? Is it possible that you're trying to understand God's Word only with your own intellect and your own reason? Is your first response to the challenging sections, well, that's. You know, this is the difference between me, 21st century AD man and 15th century BC man. We're just never going to understand these things. They're never going to gel. Or, when you come to the challenging parts of Scripture, do you submit yourself to the Word and to the authority of the Word itself? Do you humble yourself and declare your own inadequacy to argue with God? Do you allow the Spirit to break your high view of your own understanding? And lastly, do you put in the time and the effort that's required to properly understand God's Word? No. Zacharias You see what happens to him when he tries to focus on his own understanding and his own reason, he misses the encouragement and the joy that should come from God's words. And the same thing can happen to us. Now, maybe he didn't miss entirely that this was going to be a marvelous thing, that the promises about John would be incredible. Maybe he didn't miss them, but he certainly didn't give them the weight that they needed. He didn't give them the importance that they deserved. In fact, he didn't give them more importance than the physical impossibility of having a child at his old age. And when we fail to submit to God's word, not only will we fail to receive the joy and encouragement as Zechariah said, but we will miss The most important parts of God's Word. We will make ourselves the judge of what's important, and we'll end up focusing on the wrong things. We'll end up making mountains out of molehills, and we end up making enemies of Christian brothers and sisters simply because we think our own understanding is the best. Now, this is something that in our tradition, in the Calvinist tradition, is very common. That we think we know it all, and we argue as such. So I want to encourage all of you to trust in God. It's his authority. Submit to his word. Submit to him. Trust His Word. Trust it more than your own mind. Trust it more than your own thoughts. Trust God. Now, how do we do this? How can you trust God like this? How can you trust God even when his words seem to contradict our own understanding of reality and how the universe works? Well, we can do this because over and over and over again, God proves that He's to be trusted. He proves it by absolutely keeping His word. He keeps his promises. He vindicates our hope in him, because in him is the fulfillment of all hope. And in this fulfillment, we see a response from God. Looking at verses 21. There is something marvelous happening here, something incredible going on. And when I say incredible, I really mean incredible. It's almost unbelievable. The people that are out there, the the typical typically the priest would go in, do the altar, say the prayers, come out, pronounce the benediction. It was not a very long and drawn-out process. But they knew that something extraordinary was going on here because he didn't come right back out. And they were also aware of the dangers of serving as a priest before Yahweh. So they were expecting something. The text says that they marveled, wondering what could have kept him so long. Well, when he comes out, he shares with them in whatever way he could that he had received a vision. It was probably pretty obvious to them. He was mute. He was his facial expression was probably noticeable. But it wasn't just a vision. He received a vision with a bonus, didn't he? He couldn't speak. So he couldn't tell them exactly what he had heard, exactly what he had learned. This was an amazing thing to them. Because even though even though Zacharias and the people might have been a little disappointed. That he was not able to pronounce the benediction as he common as the priest commonly would have. The fact that he wasn't dead was surely a good sign, wasn't it? The fact that the priest was in there offering the incense and he has a vision from God and he's not consumed, that's gotta be a good sign. And so we see that God has kept his promises. The people have received some good news, some of their hope being vindicated. And Zacharias and Elizabeth, the promise made to them is kept. Zecharias finishes his time of service in the temple. He then goes home and promptly engages in another act of service to God And I don't want to gloss over this because this is important. I'm given to understand that with the passing of time and the increase of age The mechanics of conception become inherently difficult. There are things that just don't work the way they used to. And yet Zacharias goes home to his elderly wife, and he does just that. He engages in this act of service to God, and his wife conceives. And this very special child in her womb is there. And Elizabeth finally has her hope in God vindicated, doesn't she? She mentions that the reproach is gone from among her. It says that she hides herself for five months, but this is just a a time of Of general seclusion, waiting, because uh in those days uh uh a pregnancy was a little bit more dangerous, probably, than it is now. So she hides herself, she recognizes this incredible blessing this child is going to be. And maybe she thinks to herself, what more could this child do? What more could happen? Well, here we are, brothers and sisters. Thousands of years after these events, we have all of the New Testament explaining to us How it works, explaining the significance so that we can understand exactly what is going on here. And I ask you, does this stir up your hope in our God? Does it stir up your trust in Him? Right now we're celebrating the Advent season. We remember the events surrounding the incarnation of the Son of God. Is it hope that characterizes all of our lives? Or is it just in this time? Are we only hopeful from December 1st to the 25th? There's a lot of people out there that it seems that way. No, it is hope which should influence our outlook on the future. Is it hope that keeps you from sinking into despair even after just a few moments' contemplation of what's going on in the world today? The current events of our own country are enough to make any of us depressed. But it's hope that should characterize the Christian life. This prophesied babe is going to grow up to be that voice crying out in the wilderness, make way Make straight the ways of the Lord. He's going to announce the coming of the Messiah, that which we are celebrating this time. Jesus calls him the greatest born among women in Matthew 11:11. But he also says that the least in the kingdom of heaven are greater than this special prophesied baby. That's you, Christians. You are more special than the one whose birth was foretold by an angel in the temple of Almighty God. You have a greater hope than John the Baptist could ever have. You have a greater hope than Zacharias could ever have. You have the hope of the Lamb of God having been slain for your sin. Of the atoning work of Jesus Christ, cleansing you and reconciling you to God. You are filled by the Holy Spirit, baptized by the Holy Spirit. Baptized into the covenant of God, adopted into his family, given all the privileges that that means of being a child of God. Where is your hope, Christian? Do you really believe it? Do you really trust that these things are true Do you really trust that your sins have been forgiven? Do you really trust that the power of sin is no longer the dominant power of your life? Do you really trust that you've been brought from darkness into light by the saving work of Christ? Our God has given us the ultimate hope. So what are you waiting for, Christians? See God's answered promises before you. Flip through any book in this Bible, and you will see God's promises answered. Can you, when you think about God's promises, can you recall them to your mind? Do they all come up in a list? Oh yeah, this one. Great nation Seed of the woman, conquering the serpent. Did it come up in your mind? If not, take up this book and read it. Can you Can you recall the ways that God has been faithful to his people throughout the history of his people? If not, take up this book and read it. Get yourself in the word so that you are aware of these things and they can bring you the encouragement and strengthen your hope, especially in this time. Don't let yourself get excited about your traditional celebrations before you get excited about the hope that the people of God can have in him because he proves that he's worthy of being trusted. Because he keeps his promises. Don't be more excited about Christmas trees than you are about the fact that God can be trusted because he keeps his promises to his people. It's way more important. Especially now. Prepare yourselves for hopes. Prepare yourselves for hope. Just as John's calling to the people of Israel was to prepare them, see that you are the people prepared in hope. Trust in Jehovah and the fulfillment of his promises in the redeeming work of Jesus Christ. Christ, the living Son of God. Even now, as we embark upon meeting with Him, as we embark upon this blessed sacrament of the Lord's Supper, trust that the ordinary grace in this sacrament is effective and beneficial in your sanctification. Trust that this sacrament, these simple ordinary elements which are going to be set aside for a new use, that they can convey to you the grace of God. Hope that through it all, through the good and the bad of your life, our God is working out his covenant promises to you through Jesus Christ. Christ through the fulfilled promises of God. Our God in heaven, holy, holy, holy is your name. Your people Are constantly in need of being reminded that we can trust you, that your promises are kept, that you honor your word We've seen in this event here how your people were in the ordinary acts of their lives serving you, loving you, and trusting you. And you proved that their hope was in the right place. You gave a great message, a message of mercy, an encouraging message of hope, that the hearts of the people will be turned back to you. You know, God, as we continue in this act of worship, as we hold bread in our hands and we smell it, as our mouths water in anticipation of the the bittersweet wine. We pray, Father, that you will move within our hearts, that we will examine our hope, and that our hope rests in you alone. And we pray, Father, that you will meet with us now in answering of your promises. We know that you keep your promises. You've proven yourself to be the God in whom we can hope, the only God that we can trust. Help us now, Lord, to live lives of hope, to be a people prepared in hope as we embark on this Advent season. We love you, our great God, and we seek your blessing in Christ's name. Amen. We are now going to uh engage in the act of worship. of the s in in uh the administration of the sacraments. Now I ask that you would please stand. We will sing our invitation to the table of God, the hymn Behold the Lamb.