Well brothers and sisters, have you ever heard someone say you can be whatever you want to be? If you've ever seen any episode of children's television, you know that it's full of things like that And most of us have heard something like this, usually from someone who's trying to motivate us to make a change. You can be whatever you want. Now it is true. We can be whatever we want to be. The problem is that what we want to be is most often not what God wants us to be. So that statement has to be changed for the Christian. It must be changed to you can be whatever God wants you. Now most of the time what God wants us to be seems impossible for us to achieve. So maybe we should Change it again. If we really think about it, the Christian version of this statement needs to say: you can be whatever God makes you. To be. You see, no matter who you are, there is no way for you to change yourself into the person that God wants you to be, the person that God has made you. To be. Every one of us is completely dependent on Him to change us. We are completely dependent on God to transform us into that which He designed. Well, thank you, God, for giving us Psalm 119. This Psalm is full of truths for us to help us understand this. And oh in truth that guide us in how we should pray to our God that we can be whomever or whatever He has made us. Now remember, this is one long prayer that's focused on our desperate need for God's Word, our desperate need to know it, to keep it, to love it, and to be trans The first stanza, the Olive stanza, shows us that God loves us and He's given His word to us that we can know Him, that we can be blessed by Him, that we could please Him by keeping His So we pray, along with the psalmist in his prayer, that God will give us his word and enable us to keep it. And the second stanza, the bet stanza, we learned that the only way to live a pure and holy life is to is to live a life that is defined as it is in God's Word. And that life involves keeping all which God has commanded to us. So we pray, confessing to God our need for His The third stanza dealt with our pride, the pride in ourselves and the pride of the world that can often get in the way of us living a life of obedience. A life that keeps God's word. And so we pray, along with the psalmist, as he prayed, that the Lord will enable us to hold true to his word, which teaches us God's greatness and our humility. The fourth stanza, which we looked at not last month, but two months ago We saw that we desperately need God's word because this world is not our home. And all the world is against God and against his people. So we pray for God to give us hearts. We pray that God would make us love his word, and that by his grace we will endure the difficulties of living the life that he has defined us. And this brings us to tonight. This brings us to this passage, to the fifth stanza, the hey stanza, from which I hope we will learn that to persevere In the Christian life, we must beg God to transform us according to His Word. Psalm 119, verses 33 through 40. Will teach us that to persevere in the Christian life, we must beg God to transform us according to His Word. We're going to look at this in four headings. The first heading is very simple and it comes from the whole psalm: We must beg God. And we will look at verses thirty three through thirty-four and see that we must beg him to transform our minds. Beg him to transform our will. And we'll see together in verses 38 through 40 that we must beg God to transform our will. Identity. The very first thing that we have to recognize in this stanza, these verses, is that we must beg God. We beg Jehovah. We beg the true and living God. It's to him that we go in prayer. Now, this passage that we're looking at tonight is full of imperatives. Teach. Turn away, revive. Do you see those Words. All of these verbs are in the imperative, the commanding tense. But we should not be mistaken. Mistaken. And we should not think that the psalmist is here commanding something of God. We've seen this many times so far in the first four stanzas. And we'll see it again in this psalm, in this poem. We m Must remember that the use of an imperative when praying to God draws an emphasis on our absolute dependence upon God. We need God to do these things, for there is no hope that we can do this for ourselves. These are supplications, submissive prayers, and these are prayers that we can Can and should emulate. Everything asked here is something that we all need to be praying for every single day. We all need to pray for transformation. So we can use this prayer as a guide to us as we beseech our Lord to transform us according to His will. Now here is the first area of transformation for which we need to be praying. We must beg God to transform our minds. Look at verses 33 and 34, but 33 first. We beg God to transform us, to transform our minds by teaching us. He says, Teach me, O Lord, the way of your statutes, and I shall keep it to the end. We beg for transformation according to God's word, according to his statutes. And the specific word here translated statutes is used for the things which are prescribed. To not do these things is to sin against God. Well, we also beg for a transformation in our minds for a very particular purpose. We beg God to teach us for a purpose, and that purpose is That I shall keep it to the end. It's not just for knowing. It isn't good enough to know and recite the Ten Commandments. Just like for the Israelites in Jesus' name Day. They couldn't claim their heritage as sons of Abraham to escape the judgment of God. It wasn't enough to just be a son of Abraham. We must ask the Lord to teach us what duties he requires of us. And he does this through his word and through the gifts that he gives to his church, through teachers and preachers. And I want you to take a special notice that this obedience, this keeping, is to the end. This is how we know that the psalmist here is talking about our perseverance. It is for our perseverance that we must be transferred. Transformed. Without it, how can we endure the race? Without being transformed into God's image, how can we reach out and seize the prize? How can we be holy as He is? Holy. If we want to persevere, we must beg the Lord to teach us what He prescribes for us. We must know His His word. Next, we beg God to transform our minds by giving us understanding. Look at verse 34. He says, Give me understanding, and I shall keep your law. Indeed, I shall observe it with my whole heart. Now some translations bring out the causal aspect of this much better. The New American Standard says, of that I shall keep your law. I ask you, can we truly keep God's way if we do not understand what it is that He expects of us? The psalmist also shows us that this transformed mind is not merely concerned with outward obedience. He says, indeed, I shall observe it with my whole heart. It is much more than simply observing the ritual or keeping the letters of the law, it is a transformed attitude. Regarding God's word, because of his teaching and the understanding that it brings. So the psalmist teaches us that we must beg God to transform us according to his word, and that starts with a transform. Mind. But it does not end there. As many of you have probably experienced, there are times in our lives when our brains don't win the battle. There are times when we know we should do something, and we know that it's good for us to do it, and we know that it displeases God if we don't do it. And yet we still just don't do it. It's a question of our will. And that is why In following the psalmist's example, we must beg God to transform our will. And we see this in verses thirty-five through thirty-five. In verse 35, we see that we must beg God to transform this aspect of our will. He must transform what we do. He says, Make me walk in the path of your commandments. For I delight in it. To walk in a path is basically a way of saying how we live our lives or what we do throughout our lives. The Christian should live the life that the Lord puts before them, walking the path that He makes. plain through his commandments. But it isn't just what we do which is important. Again, like in verse 34, we are reminded that it is the innermost being, the heart of man Wherein God's transforming grace is most evident. Now, there are many people who have gone to a church service today. There might be many people who are going to two. This is something which God has commanded and something which brings him great pleasure. But if we are only going through the motions, we're only showing up because our parents have forced us to and we're not legal Or if we are only coming because we don't want the people at church to think that we're playing hooky or that we We are that something's something's wrong in us. We're only showing up to keep up appearances. This is not obedience. Does that sound like someone who delights in the path that God has put them them on. This is why it is so important that we not only beg God to transform the aspect of our will that is doing. But we also pray that He will transform what we desire. We see this in verse 36. The psalmist says, Incline my heart to your testimonies, and not to covetousness. Now, you've probably seen this. People tend to do the things that they want to do. And often when we're doing something that we want to do, it takes little or no effort for us to do it. It takes little or no effort because our heart If you love playing golf, then a beautiful sunny Saturday can easily be spent enjoying that activity. It can easily be something that you you plan for And you spend money on because your heart's behind it. It's something that you love to do. Well, I've got news for you. If you don't love playing golf and somebody takes you to play golf, that's a long day That's why they call it a long walk spoiled. Well, that same day, with the same weather and the same number of minutes and the same seconds, everything's exactly the same. Is not going to be enjoyable if your path is to dig a 30-foot-long trench that's three feet deep and three feet wide, unless, of course, you absolutely love digging trenches I think I've made the point, right? When we want to do something, it's easy for us to do it. If we don't want to do it, it's nigh on impossible. Possible. So we must notice that this isn't just a prayer for the Lord to transform our will by adding to it a desire to do what he wants us to do, which is something that we need. We need to ask him Bent. It has a connotation of force to it, right? To be bent to do God's will. No, this is a prayer that the Lord would replace our desire Get that? It's not just addition. We are praying for God to change us and to bend us to His will and bend us to want what He wants. But it's not just that. We are also praying that He would replace our unholy desires, taking away those things toward which we uh we choose to incline ourselves and instead inclining us to the The idea of covetousness here is this idea of wrongful gain. And the best way that I could understand this is that we are not to take shortcuts in our sanctification. We are to be inclined towards God's word and his testimonies, and not to gaining the things that God promised us Through any other means, through these wrongful gains. We need God to transform our will in what we do and what we desire. And now the psalmist is going to show us Then we must also pray that He will transform the aspect of our will, which is our pursuits, or that which we pursue. He says in verse 37, turn away my eyes from looking at worthless things, and revive me in your way. This is very similar to the previous verse. It is dealing with an aspect of the will. Our eyes are often drawn to the things which we desire. The things that we're looking for. And our actions coincide with our desires. We do what we want to do to achieve the things that our eyes are looking for. And the transformation that we need is a transformation of the Holy Spirit, who rearranges the entire focus of our lives from our own selfish path to God's way. We beg God to transform our pursuits from those things that are worthless to those things which In short, God turns our eyes from ourselves on the And this is something we should be praying for. Now it is no small feat to have our mind and our will transformed. As any person whose Christian testimony includes the abuse of drugs or alcohol. In that person's life, I guarantee it, there was a time when that person really wanted to do those things or to inject Those things. But another guarantee I'll give you is that at some point in their life, they wanted to stop. And they no longer wanted those things, yet they still did that. It's like Paul says in Romans 7. 15, for what I will to do, that I do not practice, but what I hate, that I do not practice. Now it may be more pronounced or visible in the life of someone who's suffering with addiction, but the principle is the same in every one of us. Our lives. We want to do good and obey God, but sometimes it just doesn't happen. Yet the thing we wish we could stop doing because we know it displeases God and we hate it. Remains a part of our life. We need God to intervene. We need his miraculous transforming power. And so far in this stanza, we've seen that we must pray for God to transform our minds, and we've seen that we need Him to transform our will, and here we see that we must begin God to transform our very identity. And we see this in verses 38 and 40. He says in verse 38, Establish your word to your servant. Who is devoted to fearing you? We must beg God to transform our identity to ourselves However, we may have conceived of ourselves or identified ourselves in the past, we as Christians converted by God can no longer ignore what the Word of God teaches us about ourselves. At the very least, we must now identify as servants to a master. We are servants of the living God. God. We are slaves to Jehovah. And he has graciously turned us into his children. We are praying that God would establish His word. See what He says there in 38? Establish. Your word. What we want is we want God to make His Word true to us. We want our identity to be in God's Word. We want to believe His Word. We want to believe what it says about us and what it says about him. We want to believe his word and to have our whole lives established. Established on it, founded on it, built up by it. And there is another aspect to this transformation of our identity. We are not alone, and so we can no longer identify As one on our own. Even if we're not married, even if we're single, we're not in this alone. We are servants of God, but we're not the only ones. The Lord establishes his word to his servants who are devoted to fearing him. Surely you don't think that you're the only person who fears the Lord Jehovah, are you? He has made many, and he has knit us together in Christ as his church. He transforms us into servants who worship and serve him with great reverence. We are characterized by our fear of God. We really live like God is real. And there are millions upon millions. millions of us on this planet. After this transformation of the way we identify ourselves to ourselves, there is another transformation Look at verse thirty-nine. Turn away my reproach, which I dread, for your judgment Judgments are good. My reproach here refers to the way that the world views and treats the faithful servant of God. There are those who are speaking against this servant. We've seen this in the stanzas past. We're going to see it in stances to come. Because these people are speaking against the servant of God because he loves and he serves the Lord. And one aspect of this prayer is asking God to put an end to the harassment from the unbelievers that are seeking to put us true believers. But another aspect is that of God transforming our identity in such that we no longer care what the world sees in us. We no longer care what the world says about us. Us. It is only Jehovah's judgments that should concern us now, especially now that we have been transformed in our mind and our will by His Holy Spirit. In our prayer, we must beg God to transform our identity from belonging to the world, which is what causes us to feel like we should be concerned with what the world thinks, to belonging solely to Him. And so it is only his judgments which concern us. And he has taught us, through the transformation of our minds and the giving of understanding, that his judgments are good. And so, brothers and sisters, lastly, as we look at verse forty, we must pray that God would transform our identity before Him Himself. See what he says? Behold, I long for your precepts. Revive me in your righteousness. Now many of us struggle with our Christian walk. We're not confident in it. We're anxious about our status, how we're doing. As Christians. And sometimes, and I'll be honest with you, when we are in a period of disobedience, we wonder if we're even Christians at all. In your prayers, brothers and sisters, when you come to this point, beg the Lord to transform how you conceive of yourself, how you identify Before Him. Has God given you a longing for His Word? Do you want to know His Word? Do the other prayers of the stanza, are they resonating with you? Do you want God to transform your mind and your will? Do you want to be different? To do things differently, to believe differently than the world Well, it is God's word which shows us that having this kind of faith is a gift from Him. It is a gift from Him It is a gift from our Lord. We must beg God to continually show us that our righteousness comes from Him. Him, and that our life comes from the righteousness of Christ which is given to us. So in this prayer, we must beg the Lord to cause us to live or revive us in his righteousness. Righteousness, to give us life in his righteousness. And this is the greatest transformation that we can ask for: to be given life And his Son. This is exactly what Jesus Christ accomplished. We are no longer children of wrath, but children of grace by the imputed righteousness of Christ given to us Us. Our identity before God is no longer the sinner in need of destruction. We are given the everlasting life of Christ. We are given his perfect Obedience. And it's counted as our own. When the Lord looks at you, he sees his son's blood that was shed to purify you and to cleanse you from your unrighteousness. It is almost too amazing to even ponder that God would do such a marvelous work of transformation in our lives. Yet this is what He does. Do you remember when you were first converted? Did any of you think that Christian conversion was just a one-time deal? That it was a choice you made Perhaps you thought that you could simply uh weigh all the options that are presented to you in the world and you can say, you know what? I'll be a Christian. Brothers and sisters, this very psalm was written by a man of God, a true believer, and yet he records for all time this prayer. Which nowhere in this psalm, in this poem, gives us any reason to suspect that man can become something that pleases God by his own strength or his own intellect. Or his own will. Instead, we see prayer. We see intense, purposeful, particular prayer. Prayer for transformation to be wrought. In our lives by God Himself. Do you understand your conversion to be at God's hands alone and not anyone else's, especially not your own? Do you see God at work in prayer? Do you see Him answering your prayer? And so do you pray that God would transform your mind? If you don't, perhaps you're not rightly understanding that your mind still needs to be transformed. Transformed. Do you try to read your Bible because it's a delight to you? Do you truly want to know what God has Or do your thoughts about God's Word revolve around the butts? I know I should read but. Do you have a look I know I should read the Word, but there's just not enough time. I know I should study God's Word, but I I'm just not smart enough I know I should read the Word of God, but I just don't like how it talks about this subject. Makes me very uncomfortable. Brothers and sisters, when was the last time that you, as the psalmist did, begged God to teach you from his word? Or begged God to give you understanding as you look at his word? Do you pray it Every time you open your Bible? How often in your prayers do you promise to God, as the psalmist does, that you will keep his word to the end? Do you are you even willing to And make those kinds of promises to God in your prayers. Well, what about your will, brothers and sisters? This is your life, your decisions, your choices, your pursuits. No one can really change this except you or God You know there's a word to describe us if we only listen to ourselves and we are the only ones that we uh allow our wills to be controlled by? You know what that word is Stubborn. It's been applied to me my whole life. God does not want us to be stubborn. He does not want us to try to do this on our own. He wants us to cry out to him in prayer and to beg him to transform our will. What we will to do must be transformed if we are ever to do that which pleases God. What we will to desire must be transformed if we are ever to desire that which pleases God. What we choose to pursue as our life's goal and our life's purpose must be transformed by God. God to be directed toward all that He wants us to pursue. And that's all found in His Word. Now, lastly, what about your identity? Brothers and sisters, we desperately need God to transform our identity. Has someone somewhere taught you that you are the master of your own fate? Have you bought into the lie that you are free to define yourself and free to define for yourself what is right and what is wrong? Are you free even to define who you are? To yourself? Do you have trouble identifying yourself as a servant of God? Does that make you feel oppressed To think of yourself as anything but an autonomous, self-determining little mini-god who has the liberty to do whatever you want. When you think about yourself and your identity, who you are, what your life is, what your future holds, all of that, do you identify yourself as a Part of anything? Or are you a tribe of one? Are you a nation unto yourself? Are you a church all by yourself? It's easier for some of us, isn't it? Not to get caught up in this individualism. For parents, it's really easy because a million times a day you hear daddy, daddy, daddy, daddy, mommy, mom Mommy reminds you that you are in a relationship and a unit with them that is not just yourself, but even them Then, when we're part of a family unit, is that the most important part of our lives? Is that the most important group to which we are identified? Do you conceive of yourself primarily? Do you identify yourself primarily as a member of the church? Of Jesus Christ, as a part of the body of Christ. Where on the priority scale of your identity does that fit? Is it more or less important than your identity as a teacher? Or a doctor or a nurse or a mom or a dad. Brothers and sisters, from the moment that God's Spirit works in us to convince us that we are heinous sinners, deserving the misery of this world, our idea Identity is transformed. The Holy Spirit transforms our mind and enlightens us in the knowledge of Christ. He transforms our will, renewing it, and in so doing, persuading and enabling us to embrace his way, his path of righteousness, the Lord Jesus Christ, who is freely offered to us in the gospel. God transforms us into his sons and his daughters by applying to us the righteousness of Christ, his perfect obedience. Brothers and sisters, is that important to you? Does it matter? Is your identity in Christ? Or is Jesus merely a facet of who you are? Is it just a peace? Brothers and sisters, we must beg our Holy Father in heaven for transformation according to his word. May our Lord bless us with transformed minds. Lines, with transformed wills that match our transformed identities. May we live as true Christians, wholly dependent on the work of Jesus Christ, to make us fit for the transforming grace. Of the Holy Spirit. Please pray with me.