And tonight I'll be reading uh verses seven to the end, verse eighteen. We'll finish our book of Colossians this evening. Let's stand for the reading of God's word from Colossians four, seven through eighteen. Titicus, a beloved brother, faithful minister, and fellow servant in the Lord, will tell you all the news about me. I am sending him to you for this very purpose that he may know your circumstances. And comfort your heart with Anisimus, a faithful and beloved brother who is one of you. Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, greets you These are my only fellow workers for the kingdom of God who are of the circumcision. They have proved to be a comfort to me. Epaphras, who is one of you, a bondservant of Christ. Greet you, always laboring fervently for you in prayers, that you may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God. For I bear witness that He has a great zeal for you, and those who are in Laodicea and those in Heropolis. Luke, the beloved physician in Damascus, greets you. Greet the brethren who are in Laodicea and Nymphos, and the church that is in his house Now, when this epistle is read among you, see that it is also read in the church of the Laodiceans, and that you likewise read the epistle from the Laodicea, from Laodicea. And say to Arcippus, take heed to the ministry which you have received in the Lord, that you may fulfill it. The salutation by my own hand, Paul, remember my chains. Grace be with you. Amen. Let's pray. Father, this is such a personal farewell in this letter, although he had never personally met Them. And it reflects a heart that we long to imitate, a heart that had been shaped by you, Lord Jesus Christ. We ask that as a result of this word tonight that our hearts would be shaped. We would imitate your servant Paul as he imitated you. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Maybe seated. If you really enjoy a movie After the movie is over, you will scroll down and you'll start to try to find the bloopers or the extra scenes or the behind the scenes, particularly with some of the momentous movies when they first came out like Lord of the Rings. You wanted to see all of the extended versions and uh all the behind the scenes as to what was going on, how did they do the makeup, etc. Uh it was a part of the the the movie experience. It it helped you to go uh under the hood, so to speak, so you could see how the engine of that movie ran, which a lot of people have found fascinating Fascinating. There's something like that that we are able to see within these final verses of the letter of Colossians. There is a kind of behind the scenes or a look under the hood at the ministry of And I want to look at several observations about his ministry, but before I do so, I do feel the responsibility to say That I'm going to make observations that are not necessarily his main purpose within this text. All of them, all the observations I'm going to show you where they are in the text. But his main purpose here is quite simply to say goodbye, to close the letter, to tidy up and tell them what will be coming next It's a letter to a group of people that he's continuing to minister to. There are all kinds of people. But when he reveals that, when he reveals his plans for them and what he's seeking to do amongst that church He reveals under the hood. He shows us the behind the scenes of what it's like to be a part of a ministry in a church And that's what we've wanted all along. If you think of the very first sermon that went to Colossians, I'm sure you all remember that one. I stated up front that the purpose of this letter is that they would become mature in the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, I think that's in the front of the bulletin, maturity in Christ. That's been Paul's purpose the whole time. He wrote to them because of specific things that were happening to them so that they could become mature in the midst of those things. What is under the hood? What are the behind the scenes when you want to help other people mature. Well we find that in these final verses and we can benefit from it. It's basically three things. It's a target. He has something that Aim at it's a team approach. He's not working just as an individual, and there is specific teaching. We must imitate Paul in his target. We must imitate Paul in his team approach. We must imitate Paul in his teaching. It'll help us to continue to mature as we move past the letter to Colossians, at least as a sermon series. We'll never move past it in our our life really. And uh we must imitate Paul and his target, his team, and his approach to his teaching. So let's start with the target. Paul had a target or a goal for his calling. As any executive or in any leadership book, you will find them saying, you cannot be a leader if you have no idea where you're going. And people won't follow you if you don't have any direction. And Paul is certainly a leader because he certainly had a direction. He certainly had a target and he certainly had a goal. I'm sure you've read these before in 1 Corinthians 9 26. He says, Therefore I run like this, not aimlessly. And this is how I fight. I fight as not as someone who beats the air. He's using athletic analogies and saying that whether you are a runner or you're a boxer, you must know your finish line, you must know the target that you're trying to punch and knock out. Seeing Paul's target is important for you because Paul is not just an ordinary teacher. He is an apostle and he sets an example for you in a way that other people don't. We can't copy everything that Paul does, but there are many things that we can. And in fact, he says in 1 Corinthians 11:1, imitate me, Jeremiah. Christ as I also imitate Christ. And the question comes in at the end of this letter, with the things I'm getting ready to share with you, can we imitate him in these things? Or were they particular to him as an apostle? And the answer is that we surely can. We can definitely imitate him in his target or his call because the target and the goal that he states in these concluding verses is a restatement of the Great Commission. Which was given to all Christians. The target is expressed in the constant prayers of Epaphorus and of Paul. Take a look at verse 12 with me. Epaphoros, who is one of you, that's the church planner. A bondservant of Christ, he's mentioned in chapter 1, his love for the Colossians, greets you, always laboring fervently for you in prayers, that you may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God. There's a target there. That is a headline top-level vision statement for leadership and for a target and for a goal. Paul prays the same thing in chapter 1, verses 9 and 10. He says, For this reason we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease And now compare those two statements, both from chapter 4 and chapter 1, with the Great Commission. And you see that it's a restatement. And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Amen. The Great Commission has two parts: you gather and you disciple. Those are the two parts. The previous passage that we heard two weeks in a row on was us learning to pray that doors would be opened, that God would gather people into his church. And here in these verses, we are seeing the second part of the Great Commission, which is once they're here, they need to be taught to obey everything that the Lord has. commanded. And that's called discipleship. And that's Paul's target. Paul's target was always with every church to teach them to observe and obey all that Christ has commanded. Now that's the high-level statement that he gives as he records in his prayers and in the prayers of Epaphras. But he gives a very particular instruction in verse 8, and he shows specifically how this target is accomplished. Take a look at this with me. Tichicus, a beloved brother, faithful minister, and fellow servant in the Lord, will tell you all the news about me. I am sending him to you for this very purpose. Here's the purpose. statement, the goal or the target. That he may know your circumstances, number one, and that he may comfort your hearts, number two. And so here we start to see the target worked out. And it makes sense what's going on here. Titicus is to know their circumstances and to comfort their hearts. As I look at those two, I had to ask myself, and I'll go ahead and ask you, which of those in your ministry to each other do you know Neglect. Which of those are on your radar and do you fulfill? Being aware of one another's circumstances, and in the midst of those circumstances, strengthening and comforting Hearts. Do we or do we not know what's going on in each other's lives? Do we or do we not comfort once we find The word comfort is derived from the Latin meaning not give a person fuzzy feelings. That's not what it says in the dictionary. And the translation here is Trying to capture a kind of exhortation to move someone along. It can have a sense of giving consolation to a person, but that's just a subset. The main idea is that a person would be strengthened Have you ever heard this isn't not my forte? That's the idea here with comfort. The idea is that this person would go to this church and he would strengthen them. You can be strengthened through Consolation, you can be strengthened through encouragement, you can be strengthened through exhortation. Whatever however a group of people are strengthened, that's what Paul sent them to do It includes anything that makes a person stronger or mature in the Lord. And you would need to know a person's circumstances to do that. And thus the target is hit. By knowing the actual and real-time circumstances of the person or people and strengthening them to serve Christ in those particular circumstances. Circumstances. It is exactly what the letter of Colossians does for that particular group of people, and it is exactly what that messenger from Paul will do when he arrives there at that time. Church. And so ask yourself as we look at this and see that this is not just something that Paul did. It is a restatement of the Great Commission. There is a particular target that we have. Are you neglecting the target? As it's specifically communicated. Do you take the time to know the people that are around you, their actual circumstances, or do you just know them As caricatures or as stereotypes. When you see suffering or sin, what do you do? When you do stop to find out the circumstances of a person and they tell you they're suffering or they're sinning, how do you respond? Do you seek to strengthen them? Or do you not really know them and so you don't know how to strengthen them? But this new idea came to your mind that you saw online and so you share it immediately, not knowing if it's helpful or not Or do you avoid that person? Or do you just offer platitudes? Can I just let you know platitudes don't strengthen? Well that's the target. Paul is working out the Great Commission, and really it's not just Paul, it's his whole team. There is a team behind this work. Did you notice that as I was reading through all of the Greek names that I mispronounced? It's instructive actually in this point to observe that this section has a list of names. When you think of Paul, I have this one story in my mind when I think of him. Him where he was proclaiming the gospel in a particular city. They didn't like what he was saying. They didn't like the results of it, so they stoned him. He lied like a dead person on the ground after the stoning The crowd or mob departed. Paul popped up and said, Let's go to the next city. In my mind, he's kind of like a Christian Rambo, first blood. But yet when we turn to the scriptures, he's uh he delegates and he has a team. That strong of a leader still has a team. Look at this list with me, verse number seven, Tichicus. Verse number 9, Anisimus. Verse 10, Aristarchus. Verse 10, Mark. Verse 10, Barnabas. Verse 11, Hustus or Justus. Verse 12, Epaphras. Verse 14, Luke. Verse 14, Demas. Verse 15, Nymphus. Verse 17, Architis And then verse 18, Paul himself. There's twelve people accompanying him that he just mentions. And if you were to turn to some of his other letters, in his farewells and greetings, you would see lists longer than this of people participating. In his ministry. Women, men, all helping out, a team. Twelve people are listed here that form a team seeking to accomplish the great target. And that was not a coincidence. It is what Jesus Christ has planned all along. When Paul sets up churches, as we see in the letters of Titus and Timothy, he sets up a divinely ordained team of officers. Deacons with one job description, elders with another. And then when you continue to look throughout his letters, in addition to officers, everyone was enlisted to help with the task I've mentioned to you this before, but there are over 100 New Testament passages that include the words one another, help one another, share with one another, exhort one another, admonish one another. There is a personal responsibility within the Christian life that we have because we're a team. Make no mistake, if you want to hit the target of the Great Commission And then it will take the involvement of the whole team. And isn't that the teaching that we receive whenever Paul talks about the body as a metaphor for the community of Jesus Christ? Ephesians 4, 15 through 16. But speaking the truth in love, may grow up in all things that to him who is the head, Christ, from whom the whole body of believers joined and knit together by whatever joint supplies according to the effect of working by which every part does its share, causes growth of the body for the edifying of itself in love. And you could go to First Corinthians twelve also when he has this body discussion, how everyone must contribute and the different gifts are given from Christ to each individual member. And that if one individual member were to drop out, there is a weakness within the body. There is a call to be a team. We mentioned in the confession that your vow to sever and run is informed by the scriptures. I promise to support the church and its work and its worship. The work is the Great Commission. To gather and to disciple. That's the target. It will take you knowing the people around you and seeking to strengthen them in the Lord And it will also take a team. It will need to be more than you. We cannot do this alone. We must act as a body and as a team This is behind the scenes stuff here. We're looking under the hood at what how Paul managed his household, which was the Church of the Living God. And that should be our desire also. Our last point that he brings out here is the teaching. You can observe this in verses 16 through 18. We have the target. We have a team. And the team isn't empty-handed. They have teachers. Let me read this to you again, and maybe as you hear the word teaching, maybe some words will be highlighted to you that you didn't notice before. Now, when this epistle is read among you, see that it is read also in the church of the Laodiceans. And that you likewise read the epistle from Laodicea, and say to Arcippus, Take heed to the ministry which you have received in the Lord, that you may fulfill it. This salutation by my own hand, Paul, remember my change. Grace be with you. Amen. You can observe a few things in these verses. Let me just make a couple observations. Number one, did you notice that Paul wrote more than one letter Of course he did, but did you notice that he mentions them specifically here? Two letters. There is the letter to the Colossians. We just studied that together over these. past months, but he mentions another letter to the Laodiceans. Some speculate that that is a letter that we have known as to the Ephesians. All of these letters, this is the most important point, whether it's to the Ephesians or not. There's these two letters, and he said that these letters. All of these letters are the result of Paul hearing of the circumstances and seeking to strengthen in the congregations, and then he writes these letters to act as circular letters. Now do you know what a circular letter is? A circular letter means that this letter that was written to the Laodiceans could circularize and go to the other churches. And he also says that the letter that we just read to the Colossians could circularize and go to the other churches. Now, do you understand the implication of that? I think it's uh not fascinating but uh exciting. In other words, even though a letter was written personally to a specific church, whether Laodiceans or the Colossians The teaching was applicable to more than just one church. And that is the basis for our study and the Content that we would have as we seek to go out and to make disciples of Christ as a team. Sure, there are specifics in the scriptures that don't cross cultures and they don't cross timelines. However, there is much that is timeless. That's the whole point of the circular letter, whether you lived in Laodicea or you lived in Colossae. Even if there were specifics that didn't apply to you, there was much that did. The scriptures, although written long ago, in other words, this is the implication. Are still for you, modern Christian, meant to circularize to this church at Severn Run because the truths there are timeless and timely for you even with your technology. The scriptures, although written long ago, are both timeless and timely for modern people. 2 Timothy 3, 16 and 17 is a universally applicable statement across all times. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. That the man of God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work. Now that was specifically said to Timothy as he sought to prepare to plant this church and to take leadership within it. But it is true for you also, because it is the nature of the scripture itself. It is what we bring to the situation. When you get to know a person and their circumstances That's not enough. You could be the greatest observationist in all of the world. You could be the best listener in all the world and hear all of the heart cries. of every human being. You may be able to delve into their spirit. They may say to you, they may say to you, I've never had anyone as such a good listener to me. But if you have nothing to say to them that is of value, you leave them hanging. And I can't think of anything that would be of any more value than you to tell them what God thinks about their circumstances. In my counseling courses and seminary and app Afterward, we summarize the whole task of discipleship in two ways. You need to know the person, not the stereotypes or the characters of people. they think about things, but you need to know one other thing. You need to know what God says to them. And for that you must equally, if not more, observe and study your scriptures. And know what God says. And that's what Paul sought to do here. He sought to do that with his ministers that he would send to this church. He sought to do it with his letters. And this gives us the full picture for Christian ministry. Because even though we're done this part of our sermon series with Colossians, seeking Christian maturity is still our target. Like Paul, we have the Great Commission still before us, and we can hit that target through God's grace as a team, strengthening each other with the scriptures. Here is the point that you shouldn't leave without. We must imitate Paul here at Severn Run. We must imitate him and the target that he has, which is the Greek. We must imitate him in his team approach. One another. This is how we're going to do it as a team. Scriptures to bear on all of life, because they are good for all of life and sufficient. we'll have our final hymn. Let's take these things and if you'd like, you can think back through all of Colossians. And all of I hope that you've grown in maturity since the beginning. Uh you can think of those uh particularly in chapter three, your life within the church, your life within the home, your life within the workplace, those who are outside of the church. Our ultimate goal for the kingdom and the Great Commission, as we heard of tonight, the team that we need here at Severn Run if this is going to work