And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that there was a certain Levite staying in the remote mountains of Ephraim. He took for himself a concubine from Bethlehem and Judah, but his concubine flayed the harlot against him and went away from him to her father's house at Bethlehem in Judah, and was there four whole months Then her husband arose and went after her to speak kindly to her and bring her back, having his servant and a couple of donkeys with him. So she brought him into her father's house, and when the father of the young woman saw him, he was glad to meet him. Now his father in law, the young woman's father, detained him, and he stayed with him three days, so they ate and drank and lodged there Then it came to pass on the fourth day that they arose early in the morning, and he stood to depart. But the young woman's father said to his son-in-law, Refresh your heart with a morsel of bread, and afterward go your way. So they sat down, and the two of them ate and drank together. Then the young woman's father said to the man, Please be content to stay all night, and let your heart be merry. And when the man stood to depart, his father in law urged him, so he lodged there again. Then he arose early in the morning on the fifth day to depart, but the young woman's father said, Please refresh your hearts. So they delayed until afternoon, and both of them ate. And when the man stood to depart, he and his concubine and servant, his father in law, the young woman's father, said to him, Look, the day is now drawing toward evening. Please spend the night. See, the day is coming to an end Lodge here that your heart may be merry. To morrow go your way early, so that you may get home. However, the man was not willing to spend that night. So he rose and departed, and came opposite Jabus, that is Jerusalem With him were two saddled donkeys. His concubine was also with him. They were near Jaivus, and the day was far spent. And the servant said to his master, Come, please, let us turn aside into the city of the Jebusites and lodge in it. But his master said to him, We will not turn aside here into a city of foreigners who are not of the children of Israel. We will go on to Gibeah. So he said uh he said to his servant, Come, let us draw near to one of these places and spend the night in Gibeah or in Ramah. And they passed by and went their way, and the sun went down on them near Gibeah, which belongs to Benjamin. They turned aside there to go in to lodge in Gibeah. And when he went in, he sat down in the open square of the city, for no one could take them into his house to spend the night. But just then an old man came in from work in the field at evening, who also was from the mountains of Ephraim He was staying in Gibeah, whereas the men of the place were Benjamites. And when he raised his eyes he saw the traveler in the open square of the city, and the old man said, Where are you going? And where do you come from? So he said to him, We are passing from Bethlehem and Judah toward the mountain remote mountains of Ephraim. I am from there. I went to Bethlehem and Judah. Now I'm going to the house of the Lord. But there is no one who will take me into his house, although we have both straw and fodder for our donkeys, and bread and wine for myself, for your female servant, and for the young man who is with your servant. There is no lack of anything. And the old man said, Peace be with you. However, let all your needs be my responsibility. Only do not spend the night in the open square. So he brought him into his house, and gave fodder to the donkeys, and they washed their feet, and ate and drank. And they were enjoying themselves, but suddenly certain men of the city, perverted men surrounded the house and beat on the door. And they spoke to the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring out the man who came to your house that we may know him carnally. But the man, the master of the house, went out to them and said to them, No, my brethren, I beg you, do not act so wickedly, seeing this man has come into my house. Do not commit this outrage Look, here is my virgin daughter, and the man's concubine. Let me bring them out now. Humble them, and do with them as you please. But to this man do not do so that's a vile thing But the men would not heed him. So the man took his concubine and brought her out to them, and they knew her and abused her all night until morning. And when the day began to break, they let her go Then the woman came as the day was dawning, and fell down at the door of the man's house where her master was, till it was light. When her master arose in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went out to go his way There was his concubine falling at the door of the house with her hands on the threshold. And he said to her, Get up and let's be going. But there was no answer. So the man lifted her unto the donkey, and the man got up and went to his place. When he entered his house he took a knife, laid hold of his concubine, and divided her into twelve pieces. Limb by limb, and sent her throughout all the territory of Israel. And so it was that all who saw it said, No such deed has been done or seen. From the day that the children of Israel came up from the land of Egypt until this day. Consider it, confer, and speak up. Let us pray. Christ, we have reached the climax of the book of Judges. We are in hell. There has been a long spiral. Lord, we know that a civil war awaits the next chapter. We pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would help us to take your word seriously this morning. We pray, Lord, that you would help us to open our hearts and our minds. And that we would do so for you, and that we would do so for the abused in this world. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Well, we have this sermon and uh perhaps two others to complete our Judges Sermon series, and then we'll be moving on. But just as a way of reminder, since we've been in our Advent series, I want you to remember that Judges is a cautionary tale. It is certainly historically accurate and true, but there are theological purposes behind the writing of this book. It is to help us in every age to take lessons We are to take lessons from the church's past in hopes that we would not repeat her errors in the present or the future. So just keep that in mind as we continue with the rest of the series. This week is quite grievous, is it not? I'd like to make a few observations, and I will try not to be graphic. I don't think it's necessary. It's graphic enough. But let's make a few observations and then consider this as a church ourselves. I want you to notice first, take a look at these scriptures with me. I want you to notice first. That verse 1 begins with the priest. It's a Levite who takes center stage. And this should be reminiscent of the last priest that we met. It is intentional and it is alerting us to the role which he plays in this account. We have not met a good priest for some time, and you will not meet one in this man. You should know right off the bat he is not good. I'm sure you recognize this since you have seen the end of the story. Her hand on the threshold, and all he has to say to her is You must, however, see that he is evil from the beginning, and you have to use it as a lens to understand all of the words. For example, what you see here or what you heard in the NKJV is one of the most popular translations which interprets the woman's actions in verse 2 as she was playing the harlot. Or prostitute. That is a possible way to translate the Hebrew here, but the foremost Hebrew scholar and commentator on the book of Judges says that it is not the best possible way to translate it. There's actually a unique thing happening here. The context and the manuscripts themselves lead us to view the woman leaving her husband because she is angry with him. Not because she has been morally condemned as a prostitute and is running away for nefarious reasons. Why is she angry? Well, from the other evidence in the passage, including that hand on the threshold, there's something going on here where he is not treating her well. Some kind of cruelty is present within the relationship. And this is part of the point of where the wife heads. She goes back to a man that has always taken care of her in verse number two, and that is her father. She, in other words, returns to a safe and a hospitable place. That's the first thing I want you to notice. All of these things are setting up contrasts and building the drama of the story. Now, here's the second thing I want you to notice. The narrator spends a great good deal of time establishing the father as hospitable in an oriental fashion. Uh this what you saw here with the repetition of him getting to stay, them to stay, if we did that in America, people may hate you. You would come off as p they would say, Don't visit his house, he's pushy But that's not what's going on here. This is a supposed to show his lavish love and generosity towards this family. The husband, after four months, seeks his wife at her girlhood home. The father-in-law repeatedly offers to host them in a continual feast. wherein their hearts are merry and content. And you can see that in this cycle of repeat, this repetition in verses 4 through 9. And that is strange to us. But it is meant to demonstrate the love and the care and the safety maintained by the Father for his children. And what you really should have in your mind is The same way in which Abraham showed hospitality to the angel of the Lord, so too is this father showing it to his daughter and to his son-in-law. That's the actually direct analogy that is being drawn by this author. And you'll see that in just a moment. And here is observation number three. As we move into the rest of the account, The hospitality offered by the father is now set as a foil for how the husband will act. He has no real care or forethought for his wife He decides to travel, for example, at evening, putting them all into the dangers of the night. Even the servant along the way, as the night is falling, says, Let's stop in here before it turns night He even has a kind of practicality about him that the husband refuses to acknowledge. The sun eventually goes down in verse 10, and they make it to an Israelite city in verse 15. Now here's the next thing I want you to observe. I'm wondering, as we get to verse 15 and forward, did it sound like we were reading a different story? Did it sound like I messed up and jumped from Judges back into Genesis? And that's what it's supposed to sound like. And that's how I got the Abraham entertaining the angel of the Lord, is that these are meant to be mapped over of what happened in Sodom and Gomorrah. At this point, you should recognize the major lens that the narrator offers us to see the main point clearly. He actually wants you to experience a kind of deja vu. We have seen this scene in Genesis when the angels visited Sodom and Gomorrah, and therefore the suspense should be building for us, as they too are in the town square. We should be asking questions like, will the same thing happen? Will they eventually find a place to sleep and be brought into safety? When they get there, will evil men bang on the door looking to fulfill their evil desires? And as we read, the nightmare becomes true. But it's a worse nightmare than Sodom and Gomorrah because there are no angels present. At this point, we move beyond the evil of that place that was turned to salt, so to speak, and to a more evil place. The angels are not there to stop the madness and to strike the evil men blind. And what we end up witnessing here on the pages of Scripture are Israelite citizens from the tribe of Benjamin. Permitted to commit the greatest horrors ever heard among them. That's what he says at the end of the account. There has not been anything as horrible as this that has happened since the Exodus. And this brings me to my one of my last observations. And that is that we have a bit more to observe than the obvious acts of evil. She is abused all night, but there is more going on here. It is the point about the Levite husband and the men of that time that is the horror. In verse 21, I want you to look at that closely. I want you to notice that he came from the field to help and to finally bring them in and to show them hospitality, but notice that he does not mention the woman. Though she is brought in, she is being treated here like she is not to be named. He brought him into the house In verse 24, I assure you noticed and you were appalled in absurdity that the women were offered instead of the men. In verse 27, this is key. Look at how the narrator no longer calls him her husband, but her master. In verse 28, he shows no sympathy, but treats her like an injured animal, like packing out an elk from the wilderness, throws her over the horse or the dog Donkey. And in verse 29, it is often commented that he treats her like an animal carcass. You can see a very similar act, actually, in 1 Samuel 11:7 with an animal. There are so many lessons to take from this passage. Almost at every turn, we could consider layer upon layer. The fact that he's a priest. What does this say that we should learn about teachers? And those who are pastors. But the narrator wants us to really focus in on something first before we would take any other lessons. And that is verse 30. He really captures it for us here. He doesn't want us to have to guess. And so it was that all who saw it said, No such deed has been done or seen from the day that the children of Israel came up from the land of Egypt until this day And here is the imperative. You need to consider this. You need to talk about this among yourselves. And you need to say something. You need to speak up. Well, they'll erupt into civil war, which we can talk about that another time. But here it is. In fact, many who have interpreted this passage and done a lot of work in the Hebrew think that the narrator Is stopping the quote from uh the the Levites at the after the word day. So it would say, land of Egypt until this day, end quote, and then the narrator is directly speaking to his audience. Consider it, confer, and speak up. And actually, let me just tell you one more translation decision Many of them say the most accurate way to put the first imperative is this. Consider her. Consider her. Talk about her with each other. Speak up about what has happened to her Now the doctrine that I'd like to gather up from this is this In every age, the church should remember what happened in Israel that day. In every age, we should remember this woman. In every age we should remember her. I have a couple uses that I'd like to bring out here. It is the memory, an analogy, and another reality. So let me say this again. In every age, the church should remember what happened in Israel that day. In every age, we should remember this woman Let's begin with the title of the first point, which is A Memory. Remembering, this idea of remembering is really not new to the church. Before the resurrection of Jesus Christ, God marked out an entire year of calendar days wherein the church would remember his faithful acts. Even to this day, we have a day of remembrance called the Christian Sabbath or the Lord's Day. We are to remember Him today, and you'll hear in the sacraments. Do this in remembrance of me. The fourth command itself instructs us to remember certain realities on that day. And we are familiar with that kind of remembrance. We are familiar with remembering the good things of the past. Renewing our faith, renewing our hope, renewing our love in God. Remembering the Exodus, for example, we look and we see him split the Red Sea and splendor and power and they go marching through to their salvation singing songs of joy. We know how to remember things like that. It involves around here a lot of cupcakes. A lot of cupcakes. But this passage is different. In this passage we are, in fact, likewise instructed to remember, but we are instructed to remember not a good memory. I want to ask you, before we shift into my second application point, why do you think we should remember this scene? In some sense, if we're going to take this seriously, in each of your homes, the story at some point should be told to your children. That we would remember what happened. Why do you think we would be encouraged to do so? Why should we have imprinted on our minds this woman ravaged with her hands on the threshold looking for hospitality? Can you see the picture? Why are we supposed to keep the picture alive? Well this brings us to the next point of application, and here is an analogy for you that maybe we can understand a little bit. On how important it is to remember things like this. The most obvious analogy to remembering bad memories is the commemoration of the Holocaust. I want you to ask yourself something. Why have the Jewish people in concert with much of the world Why have they preserved instead of torn down Nazi death camps? Wouldn't you just want to eradicate it and not have it around anymore? Push it out of memory? But they didn't do that. Why do we have Holocaust museums housing the memory of Nazism? Why all the pictures and all the names? Why all the artifacts? Why aren't they thrown away. Why are they preserved? Why has the international community established, I don't know if you all know this. It's actually coming up January 27th. It's International Holocaust Remembrance Day. Why would we ever want to do such a thing Perhaps a description from the website will help to answer that question. This is what it says here. Those who are promoting International Holocaust Remembrance Day on January 27th, they say this on the website. The United Nations General Assembly designated January 27th, the anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz, as International Holocaust Remembrance Day. On this annual day of commemoration, the UN urges every member state to honor the six million Jewish victims of the Holocaust. And millions of other victims of Nazaism, and to develop educational programs to help prevent future genocides. Now that makes sense. Surely, therefore, we remember the Holocaust for many reasons, and one of which Is quite simply that it would never happen again, that the darkness that is present within the heart of humanity would remain in the box. And not let out. And we are to remember this woman for the same kinds of reasons. Though this passage is historical, it is far more than just a history lesson. The woman lies there, ravaged. with her hands on the threshold, longing for hospitality in a home, as a great symbol of what can happen in the church. Remember, this is a letter to the church, a book to the church. That is the great analogy. But we come now to another reality. There is another reality that must be remembered alongside of this vision. We must remember that since Christ has been given all authority in heaven and earth, the church now has the power to move away from this curse and to promote life instead of death. In other words, the commemoration of this woman is also a charge to you to maintain a certain quality of life among ourselves as a community. Jesus summarized it this way. They will know you by your love. They will not know you By you leaving your women outside of the door, grasping the threshold. May it never be We read of images like this and the kind of work that Jesus Christ does. We have read and are greatly encouraged that the lion will lay down with the lamb. We are greatly encouraged that the child will play with the cobra. But I'm telling you right now that that is easy compared to the reconciliation of woman and man Of wife and husband particularly. It is easy. And yet, that is what Christ is doing He is reversing the curse that was spoken to Eve in Genesis three. He is re-establishing by his Holy Spirit healthy human relationships. He is killing the Hitler that resides in each of your hearts. While remembering our ravaged woman, I'd like you, it's just a prime opportunity for us to consider for the first time again. Ephesians chapter 5, which was written in your bulletin, but I'll read it again. And listen to Ephesians 5 in light of this remembering her. Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for her. That he might sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of water by the word, that he might present her to himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing But that she should be holy and without blemish. So husbands ought to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself, for no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes it and cherishes it, just as the Lord does the church For we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones Do you see the difference, in other words, between our great high priest and husband Jesus Christ and the priest from judges? In the morning, he told her to get up. And then he cut her into twelve pieces. But Jesus Christ, the great high priest, he gives himself for us. He nourishes us. He cherishes us You do realize that instead of us, Jesus Christ was ravaged all night long, so to speak. Since we are united to him, and he is restoring us in his image. We, as we are saved by him and his sacrifice, we are also to walk like him. Christian men today, and of course there can be broader application to that, but there's an obvious application in the passage to Christian husbands. Christian husbands today are progressively empowered to move beyond treating their wives and their children as if they were livestock. That's the whole point, is that the spiral twisted down so deep, the church became so worldly. The image of the canonization of the church was that those who could have physical power turned everyone else into animals and made them work for them. That is the definition of to treat someone inhumanely. And there is a track record among the human race of women being treated like dogs. Even in the church. But Jesus Christ has come To change all of that and to take it seriously. He instead is making men into the kind of men, and like I said, there's broader application, but I want to focus especially on what the passage is doing. making men into the kind of men that instead bring life, who have aspirations of love and nurture and cherishing the women in their life, who, because they are present, women have greater liberty. Women exist in joy. They have a good life because of the men in their life. That's what Jesus Christ is doing. I would encourage you, perhaps even on this Sabbath day, to just look at Jesus Christ interacting with women Look at how lovely he is towards them. Look at how he often has to step out in front of them and say, You don't know what you're talking about. She's the one that is getting it. You're messed up in your head. She's preparing me for burial. You remember that scene? Do you remember the scene where the Pharisee wanted to boot this one woman out of his house She knelt down and washed the feet of Jesus Christ with her tears and her hair because she had been loved much. That is the love of our Christ, who is the husband of the church. I'm going to ask a series of really difficult questions, but I'm not asking them to embarrass you or to make you feel bad about yourself. I actually am asking them Because I want to remind you of what you have been called to, especially as a man. And I'll broaden it out now to not just husbands but m men or boys because I see how boys treat their moms and their sisters sometimes I want to know if you have been treating the women in your life like they were animals Here's one way that that can happen. You do not reason with them. You coerce them with your physical stature and your voice. You do not work on their conscience by way of of the Word of God. You have a kind of sword in the way that you handle things in the home. You're sharp with your sister. Your tongue is like a knife. She already feels insecure. And you just make it worse. Do you treat your wife and your children as if they were dogs? Are your decisions this one is uh this one is a little bit more realistic. And I'm thinking of the initial act of the husband and leaving at night to put his whole family in trouble. Are your decisions careless, making everyone nervous instead of feeling secure under your responsibility? If you answer yes to that, and every man in here has to answer yes to that, because you have a man problem, every man in here has to answer yes to that to some degree And I just want to let you know that that then that makes you similar to the Levite who is in this passage. And I'm just trying to awaken you so that you would take this seriously and start moving towards life. That you would recognize your responsibility and your place with regard to the women that are in your life. You are to love them like Christ loved the church. Now is the time to put those old things away. And honestly, I can't think of a more a better way to remember this woman than to make sure that your heart is not a breeding ground of the same things that have happened to her. You know what that's also going to mean is that you're going to need to put away pornography Because it is not good for those women who are on those screens, and it's not good for the women in your life that you're engaging in those things, learning how to objectify them as if you're just gonna put your feelings all over them and they're there for you just for your sexual desires. Now is the time to turn to life. Not just in remembrance of the woman. There's actually someone that we have to remember even more than her. And that's Jesus Christ and what he is doing, what he has given to you If you were to continue reading in Ephesians 5, you will find that he will then relate the relationship of the man to children, who can be treated like dogs doing your chores. Nothing wrong with chores, but sometimes we can begin to treat them like that. Like animals. In every age, the church should remember what happened in Israel that day. And in every age, we should remember this woman. In every age, we should remember more than her. So that we can understand our trajectory and destiny as the people of God. We in every age, therefore, must look to Christ and to his hospitality. making sure that our women are never outside that door. If there is someone outside the door, it is us protecting Judges 1930 tells us this much. And so it was that all who saw it said No such deed has been done or seen from the day that the children of Israel came up from the land of Egypt until this day. Oh Christian, consider her. Would you please talk about her? Would you please say something? Amen