I'd ask that you would turn with me now to the scripture that will be preached this morning. It's Hebrews 11 and it's verses 27 through 29. And this takes us to the end of the section on Moses and you can find within your bulletin the big idea and the outline for you to be able to take notes as well as the scriptures. themselves. It makes me happy to hear the shuffling of scriptural pages in here this morning. This is verses 27 through 29. By faith he, Moses, forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king. for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. By faith he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of blood, lest he who destroyed the firstborn should touch them And by faith they passed through passed through the Red Sea as by dry land, whereas the Egyptians attempting to do so were drowned. Please pray with me. Christ, this is your word that you have given to us by your Holy Spirit and the pen of men that you have chosen to inspire through your spirit and guide them And we ask that you would take these words to our heart, that it would instruct us, and that it would move our faith to a greater glory. And that we really, Father, ask that by the The end of the sermon that you would work in us on the spot, that we would be obedient to you, that we would show our love by obeying your commands and never giving up on your promises because of our trust in you. We ask these things in your name. Amen. I want to jump right in, and I want to start with a review of what we've been doing within the letter to Hebrews. The author wrote this letter to a house church consisting perhaps entirely of Jewish converts to Christianity. That's the picture that you should have as you read this letter in terms of the audience. Now you could ask yourself, what kind of letter is this? Is this a love letter? And you would ultimately have to say no, although there's love contained in it. Is it a letter that's in for an information letter for information purposes only? No, although it is informative. Instead, you'd see now that we're in chapter 11, if you had to categorize it, you would say this is a letter of warning and of promise. Two sides of the same coin. And this makes sense. The author is rightly concerned that his house church will turn their backs on Jesus the Messiah. You could picture the pastor over this congregation wringing his hands. wondering if his congregation would make it or if they would fail under temptation, if they would renounce Christ. What is that issue here is called apostasy. And so he warns them, as a good pastor would do, he, with an exclamation point, he says, Don't turn back. Don't do it, no matter what they say, don't turn back. He reminds them, therefore, of the promise: don't turn back if you just keep your eyes on the heavenly city. Endure listening to the word of God. Keep marching forward, even though it's tough. Your God is faithful to you. That's what he would be saying. All of the parts of the letter of Hebrews serve that one single purpose, that they would finish the race. Single purpose for the whole letter that they would finish the race. The temptation is to turn back, but the author pleads with them to march forward. And naturally, he therefore shows them and us. That what they left behind is small and it's less, and that Jesus is greater And that his kingdom is greater, and that his covenant is greater than everything that was in their past. Everything that is up on the hill in Jerusalem is small and weaker than what is being given to them within the covenant of grace. That's a summary of the whole letter. You could imagine the pastor speaking with his session, talking about the struggles of his congregation. Or you could imagine the pastor over at a dinner table with his wife. Letting out some of his stressors that have been happening during the week with his congregation here called the Hebrews, this little house church. Can you see it with him uh maybe having a nice dinner and him just kind of poking at his food and worried about it And saying, I just don't know what I'm going to do. I'm not sure that these folks are going to make it. There's so much great temptation and so much pain that they're going through They'd have to leave behind this whole doctrine that has been taught to them about angels, and they'd have to realize that angels are just messengers and that Jesus is superior to angels. And then you'd wonder if he would, you know what, that would be good to write to them. Well, there's chapters one and two. Be respectful, but move beyond Moses. Would you Moses himself look to Jesus? And there's chapter three, verses one. Now and I understand that you love your religion and the liturgy, the smell and the bells, but Aaron, the tabernacle, and the ministry all pointed to Jesus. That's chapters eight, verse one through ten, verse eighteen. And therefore I plead with you, don't return to Judaism, but press on as the followers of Jesus. Chapter ten, verse nineteen through chapter twelve. Verse 29. That's what he's doing. Can you see it? See how he would have to talk to his friends or his wife or his session about that? And of course, 11 is falling right in the midst of that last demarcation that I gave you. It's the pastor writing still this letter, and he wants his congregation to push on. Press on. Keep going in the race. They were under severe oppression, confiscation of property and physical pain. Removal from family, dishonor, and shame. Chapter 11 then becomes a picture book of those who ran the race before them. Every when you're younger, you maybe would flip through baseball cards looking up to uh Reggie Jackson or whoever it was for you But here he's giving you a set of cards that you would look up to on those who have endured the race And he shows us that it's only done by keeping faith. They show us how the race should be run, and it is by faith. And now last Sunday There's a very clear example of the picture of Moses and that his race was by faith. Moses is a clear example. If you remember, Moses had choices. He had alternatives. He could stay in his royal family, verse 24. Enjoying the pleasures and treasures of Egypt, or he could answer God's call on his life, our story is too easily fit within that grid. Pleasures and treasures, or God's call. You can imagine again the pastor at the dinner table with his wife. Oh, I pray that the congregation would be like Moses. It were the same temptations. I pray that they would not turn back for the pleasures and the treasure treasures that Jerusalem offers. I pray that they would endure and march on, choosing instead loyalty to Jesus, and that they would side with his people. The question for us becomes: moving away from last week and into this week, how did Moses become re how did his how did he remain so strong against such strong currents? Giving up an entire life and a whole mindset, and the answer, of course, was by faith. Faith kept Moses from temptation to these worldly pleasures and Treasures. That brings us all the way up to today. It's a further picture of Moses. It's not only true that by faith you would avoid the temptation of returning because of the motivation of pleasures and treasures. But it's also true for dangers that you would face. It's not only good things that are offered to you, but bad things that are set against you. Dangers. Here's the big idea: faith keeps the church through the greatest dangers. You, Christian, need to know this. You are faced with many toils and snares and dangers in their own way, different temptations. And we're going to look through this in some basic ways, but I want to give you the context a little bit more, and I want to look at the whole passage so you can see exactly what's going on here within the scriptures. So please go ahead and take your eyes down. And we're going to look at verses 27 through 29. As a whole, and it's very simple to follow the structure. You need the structure first to be able to understand. Look at 27 through 29, and you'll see three great dangers Each gets its own verse. In each verse, Moses and the people of God are faced with dangers. In verse 27, it is the danger of the wrath of the king. Do you see that there? In verse 28, it is the danger of the destroyer, the judgment of God on the firstborn of Egypt and on Israel, if they don't follow his instructions. And then lastly, there is a double danger, really, of on one side you have the rage of a nation and the pursuit of Pharaoh, and on the other side a Red Sea. They're not sure how they're going to cross So those are the three dangers, and that is the structure that we have, and we want to look at each one of the dangers today and learn for them and have life principles for us as Christians. Christians, learning what the Holy Spirit teaches us through the scriptures. The house church that this to whom this was originally written must have read these words and had an incredible connection. To what was happening here on these pages between their experience and the experience of past saints, and you were to have a similar connection. They must have noticed, however, not just a connection, but a disconnection. Do you notice that you can't just put your story into that structure? Just as the first century church, the Hebrew congregation, wouldn't be able to take everything away from it, the life of Moses and the event of the Exodus were exceptional events. We will be able to deal with aspects of them. The Hebrews certainly did not have an angel of death threatening to kill all their firstborn in the wilderness or in Jerusalem. And nor were they posed with the problem of having an Egyptian army chase them and having to cross the Red Sea. And you will not face that either. And yet there are important points here for us to gain. The disconnection is actually the point. The original readers and Christians, such as us, are to realize this. I want you to see that those are exceptional dangers. Pharaoh, a Red Sea, the rage of the nation. A killing, destroying angel. And this is what the author wants you to see. If God by faith could get his people through such exceptional dangers, how much more will he get you through your life by faith, which is pretty normal. That's really the main point and what he's trying to do. So let's take a look at each individual danger and understand how faith kept Moses and can keep us. the church. Close look at danger one, the wrath of kings, and you really could expand that out into the wrath of authorities. Verse 20 twenty seven. By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. The danger is obviously the wrath of the king. This is no small danger We look on ancient nations with smug pride. But if you were to to kind of go back, if you could take a time traveling adventure You would see that that's entirely inappropriate. The Egyptian Empire was immense, wealthy, and powerful. And therefore the king of Egypt had every resource at his fingertip to destroy you if you defied him. This is a major danger. A major danger. Defying the king was no small task. And yet Moses chooses to ally himself with the Hebrew people and thus forsakes, or it says here, forsook Egypt. Now I want you to pay attention to the verb forsook. The verb forsook refers not only to a physical leaving, but also to loyalty of heart. This is the way to say it. Moses defected from his country. He was a deserter. And now we know how deserters are treated. Notice the familiar pattern emerging again within the scripture as we consider this: him forsaking and what it took. Moses had a choice. Would he march forward or would he turn back? Remember, the pastor at the dinner table with his wife, that's the focus. Would Moses march forward or would he turn back? The temptation would be it's easier to just be within the gracious Attitude of the king as opposed to making him angry. That would be easier, but, and he reasons through this. If you take a look at verse 25, which is not a part of our present passage, But last week, he it says there that uh he um basically weighed the options. If you take a look at verse 25, it says choosing rather to suffer affliction. The verb there or the participle choosing has to do with weighing options. Maybe Moses was sitting by the Nile flipping stones into the water. You could picture him. Hey, you know, he's like us, weighing options, maybe putting together a pro and con list. And he says, well, if I stay loyal to my Egyptian family, then I won't have to deal with the king's anger, I won't be treasonous, I won't have a governmental threat, I won't be violating national security. Those are all good things. And they sure would be easier for my life and my family. I'll still get the top reservations at restaurants. But we know what Moses ended up deciding. Sitting next to the Nile, he had another thought that was inspired by the Holy Spirit. And he said, But Moses, what about the invisible God that has spoken to you? What about the call that he has placed on your life? Can you resist him? No, his grace is irresistible. So he says, I will endure and I will follow him. By the grace of the Holy Spirit, that's the choice that Moses made. Now, I want you to bear with me for a moment because I want to take and bring something out from this passage so that you can deal with it even more successfully than we already have. The text says That Moses endured by seeing him who is invisible. This is really, really important for you to take away as a life principle as a Christian. He it tells you right away, Moses is for your benefit. This is not just written for the Hebrew congregation, it's for your benefit and them And it says that he endured, and then he tells us how that he endured by seeing him who is invisible. Now, what does that mean? On the surface, honestly, it doesn't seem to make much sense. Because it says that he endured by seeing him who is invisible, but that's not possible because, well, he's invisible So what is going on here? Well, there's a couple different things. I suspect that this is referring to Yahweh, the invisible one, revealing himself by way of the burning bush. But, no pun intended, I still think we're beating around the bush if we say that. I actually think that what motivated Moses to endure was the fact that God was invisible. But the one thing is that he could hear him. What ended up allowing Moses to endure, what is at the heart of this example, is not the flaming bush, although I'm sure that contributed to the certainty of his faith and to established him. I believe that Moses remembered the words of God and the Holy Spirit allowed those words to see deep within his heart, and he wouldn't That God had promised to Moses that He, through Moses, would release his people from slavery. Example in chapter 11. That a group of people are making it because they're choosing to have faith in what God says and not what the world says. But that's how this entire letter starts off. If you want to flip back to chapter one, it's very helpful for you to see and remember how this all starts. God, who at various times and in various ways spoke. In time past to the fathers by the prophets, he has in these last days spoken to us by his son. The whole key to endurance for you as a Christian, no matter what danger that you face, is that you have your eyes locked on the invisible God by having your ears tuned in to the words that He has spoken. That's the key. It completes the picture. Moses did not go back to Egypt, but kept running the race by trusting or having more faith. and what God said than what the king of Egypt would say, or what his own fears in the in his heart would say. He would even ignore his emotions. And all the sacrifice that he was going to have to make. That's really the picture. And the Hebrew house church connected to this example just as we can connect. Think of the power during the first century, during the days of Christ and thereafter. Think of the power of the rulers that were set against that group of people: Herod, Pontius Pilate. Were those men that you could trust? What kinds of things did they do to people that defied them and that were treasonous? Shouldn't the house church here have said If they could have crucified Jesus our Lord by God, what could they do to us? That had to be a thought. At least I imagine it to be so. The pressure to return to normal Jewish religion and society must have been almost unbearable But it is by God's grace his word grew wings and flew into their hearts. And as allowing them to endure. The pastor of the Hebrews writes this letter saying, I don't deny the power of the authorities, but I still urge you to listen to the invisible God, just as Moses did Do not abandon the words of Jesus as they are given to you from the apostles and the prophets. And we are to connect with this passage in the same way. When we think of it that way, we certainly have a connection. Now I want to draw out a very specific connection. I've already shown to you we can't make every connection. You have to be careful. I'm not so sure that many of you are running into a fear of the king or the wrath of authorities. Maybe some of you are struggling with that. situation and it's much more easily to connect that. But I do think that we could go ahead and abstract one more ladder ring and we could say that we all face fear And that the key to being able to get through fear of certain dangers that enter into our lives is to listen to God and not those fears, or the faces that pour forth the fear. or the emails that give us the fear. Now I just want to focus on two examples of where fear shows up and I want to focus on college students If you are attending college and you take biology and you are the only one who denies evolution, I know that you face fear. If you were to raise your hand and give what you honestly think, you will be laughed at and ridiculed. Some professors actually become exceptionally angry and do not invite you back to their class. class. That is a fear. Or, and this one's very real, if you take a literature class, even at Anorona Community College, you will have to write an essay on homosexual relationships. And if you're the only student who denounces homosexuality, then I know you will in fact deal with fear. Because everyone else in your class, just about, will say that there's nothing wrong with it. And you will become ostracized and removed from the community at some level. And they will become vehement that you're not flying the rainbow flag. That's a kind of nation and culture in the same way that they had to deal with Egypt. And the temptation, remember the context here, the pastor sitting at the dinner table, is what the fear suggests to you. The fear suggests a choice. When you raise your hand in biology class, Or you turn in the paper in literature course, this is the choice. I could totally water down this paper and not have to deal with any of the ramifications of my faith But I'm going to ask you, and I'm going to plead with you as the as he was pleading here with the congregation that if you're in any of these compromising positions, that you would believe what God has said That he created the world in the way that he did, and that there are there is a design to sexual relationships, and homosexuality does not fit into that design. And that you would hold the line, that you would endure, and to do so you're going to have to trust God and that He will vindicate you, and that He will fulfill His promises, and that on the last day Of all those people within your literature or your biology class, you will stand before him through Jesus Christ unashamed, and they will be the joke. But that's going to take toe in the line. It's going to be difficult. You're going to have to have faith in His Word. You could feel less awkward and fit in in your life by giving up Christ right now. Easy. Or you could face dangers by keep believing by continuing to believe in God. And I urge all of you, not just students, To keep faith in God's word, whatever your situation. God has spoken to you through his scriptures. Believe him. He's totally worth it. He does not lie Now, fear of physical harm or of cultural shame, the things that we see within our colleges, the things that we face at work, they're countered by faith in what our invisible God has said, what he's promised. That's danger number one. That's the first danger that you can see here, and I've abstracted something out. Now let's take a look at danger number two. But I'm and that's in the next verse, but I'm not going to deal with it at length because I want to bring it to the Lord's Supper. It's obviously t talking about the The Lord's Supper in the Old Testament allusion to it. So I'll bring it there, but I do want to mention a couple things, just so you have a little exposition on the verse. So we've seen danger one, which is the wrath of kings or authorities. And the fear that we can face in our culture, even. And now we move to danger number two, which is the judgment of God, really, by way of a destroying angel, as you can see in verse 28. But even in the midst of that, he kept, by faith, he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of blood, lest he who destroyed the firstborn should touch them. The danger is the destroyer. And the destroyer was the angel of death. Now, this is already odd and outside of our experience. You'd have to have faith to even hear something like this, let alone rewire all your family's actions. To prepare for an angel of death that's going to show up this evening. Can you imagine saying that to your family? Well, listen, this is what we've got to do. We've got to have unleavened bread Can't be leavened. And we've got to kill a lamb and then we've got to dip hyssop in the blood and wipe it above the doors. Normal, right? I'm not crazy. There's gonna, oh wait, I forgot to tell you, an angel of death is going to come. You could see how crazy this would look to some people, and yet how is it that he would endure such a thing? It's actually going to be quite serious when not only the firstborn children of all of Egypt, but all of their cattle Will die when the destroyer passes. It won't be a joke then. Those who listen to God will be the ones that had endured. Do you see how the theme continues here? That the danger, you make it through the danger by listening. Not by your experiences from the past or what's familiar or normalized for you or what your culture says. The point is that if Moses and the people of God did not simply do what God told them in relation to what he promised, Then massive death would have occurred to them, would have happened to them. God promised that He would not judge them if they followed the simple instructions. They had faith in what God said. They did it. By the power of the Holy Spirit, they did it. They baked unleavened bread and they wiped blood above their doors. And they therefore, by faith, kept the Passover and the sprinkling of flood as it said, and by faith, in God's word, they survived the danger. Now that's the whole point of that. And that's quite remarkable. An instance of that faith is following the words and instructions of God as a rule for life and godliness. There it is again, the key for endurance. But let's move on to danger three, and we'll pick up danger two in the Lord's Supper Danger three is in verse 29. It's the raging nations. It's a double danger or a dilemma. That's what a dilemma is. It's a double danger. At the rear, we have the raging nation headed up by Pharaoh and his wrath, and in front is a cold and deep sea. How will they make it? How will the promise be fulfilled? No one could see it with their eyes. By faith, though, it says that they pass through the Red Sea. Who would have guessed that option? By dry land, whereas the Egyptians attempting to do so were drowned. Is that what you would have guessed? Oh, I know what he'll do. He'll go ahead and and And split all the water on either side so that we could pass through. That's what will happen. Happens all the time. No, they couldn't guess that. No one could see where it was a bolt out of a blue sky Pharaoh told Moses to take his people and go. I want to rehearse this story a little bit. It's fascinating. Made me smile this morning. Not surprisingly, the Pharaoh changed his mind and pursued with military force the people. At one point of the story, you can feel the tension. The Hebrews could hear the approaching thunder of the Egyptian chariots. The marching and the glimmer of their armor. In verse 10, Exodus 14, Pharaoh approached. The people of Israel looked up and panicked when they saw the Egyptians overtaking them. You can imagine And here, this is their response. So much for faith. Exodus 14, they cried out to the Lord, meaning they complained. We're going to have a long history of this. And they said to Moses, why listen to this. I mean this is great. Why did you bring us out here to die in the wilderness, Moses? Weren't there enough graves for us in Egypt? I love the rhetorical question. What have you done to us? Why did you make us leave Egypt? Didn't we tell you this would happen while we were still in Egypt? We said, leave us alone. Let us be slaves to the Egyptians. It's better to be a slave in Egypt than a corpse in the wilderness. Tell me that the choice isn't present right there: to either go forward or go back. It's exactly what the pastor wants you to see who's writing the letter to the Hebrews. If you examine their cries in the context and the purpose of this letter, the danger of the raging nation did not just make them terrified. That's not the point. The point is it made them want to turn back. That is the case. It is the temptation with all dangers. And that is why the author uses the example. He's speaking to people that want to return, who do in fact have a military force on their tail, who have been kicked out and have no citizenship, no legal rights. Those dislocated from Jerusalem during the time of Jesus were forced into the wilderness, and they began saying to themselves, Did we follow Jesus to die in the wilderness? Wouldn't it have been better to remain a Jew and to have a life? I imagine that's what they said. The only solution for any Christian is to keep believing what God said. And he's reminding them through this letter. In fact, that's what happens. Moses just kept believing God's word. That's what happens in the account. That's why it says, by faith, Moses. He kept believing. They were complaining, and he was believing. Here, from Exodus 14, verses 13 through 14. But Moses told the people: don't be afraid. Now listen to this. This is excellent. Imagine him saying this to you. Don't be afraid. Just stand still and watch the Lord rescue you. The Egyptians, you see, today today you will never see again. The Lord Himself will fight for you. And here it is, this is the ending. A little bit of a paraphrase. Just stay calm. He did not say shut up. Just stay calm. So then at that point within the narrative, God separates the two camps. the Israelites from the Egyptians and begins confusing the Egyptians and having all the wheels on their chariots fall off. They get the point that they're in trouble Now it was like a cloud. Have you ever been in a plane and you're underneath of the cloud and it's dark and stormy and there's lightning? But then when you come through the clouds, it's as if the sun has always been shining. And that's what the cloud was like. On the left-hand side of the cloud, so to speak, it was dark and they could barely see, but on the right was the light of the Lord taking his people forward because he was going to fulfill the promise These are all images for you to gather as a Christian. Apparently, the faith of those fleeing from Egypt kicked in at that moment. God said, Stop complaining, get moving, and it says right there in the text, they got up and they went. They got moving. The Egyptian army was on their back, however, and the sea was still in the front, and no one knew exactly how this was still going to work out. But they were at least moving now, and that's how we feel we feel like that sometimes, don't we? A friend can just say, just keep having faith, and you find yourself, okay, I will, I'll do. I don't understand yet, but I'm going to keep moving. That's a part of the Christian life, too, and what a blessing. Don't look down on that Apparently, he continues, and God tells Moses the most obvious thing that should happen in order for them to be saved. He says, wave your staff. And they all go, of course, that's what should happen. He should wave his staff. That'll save us God Moses lifts his staff and there is a parting of the seed. I want you to picture this though because this is very important. When you see the parting of the seed, do you picture a trick stream and you walk through it. Like you could put boulders on either either side so that there's not much water coming through and you could walk through That's not the picture that you should have. In Exodus chapter 12, verse 37, it says that 600,000 men besides children evacuated Egypt. Now that changes the whole picture on the kind of water that needs to be moved for these people to pass through. Let me just try to give you a couple pictures. If you have seen pictures of Sandy Point polar bear plunge, that's about a hundred people All right, I'm talking about 600,000. Maybe that's not helpful. Let me try this. For a U2 concert, 85,000 people filled Raven Stadium. Raven Stadium. Doesn't touch 600,000. Okay, we have these pictures of Washington, D. C. with the monument in the back and the crowd stretching all the way back and hearing the speaker Let's just say it's Martin Luther King Jr. giving his I Have a Dream speech. That would be a pretty popular one to attend. Well guess how many people were there? 250,000. Not 600,000. Do you see the kind of water that would need to be parted in order for this group of people to be able to go through? The kind of miracle that was going to go before them, and he says, wave a sap? It's gonna be by faith. He's just gonna have to be obedient, he's just gonna have to move his staff, and then they're gonna have to see what happens Exodus 14, 21 through 22 says, Then Moses raised his hand over the sea, and the Lord opened up a path through the water with a strong east wind. The wind blew all that night, turning the seabed into dry land. So the people of Israel walk through the middle of the sea on the dry ground with walls of water on either side because to get six hundred thousand people through besides children, that's a lot of water that's got to pile up to make that kind of space. And the promise is fulfilled, because all the Egyptians in chasing the church meet all those who persecute the church and don't repent. They drown They are dealt with by God in judgment. And so here's the question: How were Moses and the Israelites kept from the danger of Egyptian soldiers on their rear and the sea in front of them? There was no human power going on. It was just a man, Moses, by the power of the Holy Spirit, deciding to say, I'm just going to listen to what he says. He said, raise the staff or the hand, and that's what I'm going to do. And I trust that God will take care of it. Faith in God's word. God kept giving commands to reinforce his promises, and eventually they kept obeying. That's the story of the three dangers. That's the story of Moses and how we can begin to benefit from that. As Christians, dangers make us want to turn back, to go back to Egypt. Danger of the king, danger of judgments, danger of nations, danger of the Red Sea. And the point that I'm trying to bring out from this text is that you are kept through danger by obeying God's word. That's the Christian life. That is the life of faith. The Exodus story, I don't want to leave just yet, and then we're going to go to the Lord's Supper, but I do want to bring out some of the applications from that last part with the sea. Very encouraging to our faith, Christian. The Exodus story inspires us with a stronger, yet perhaps more frightening Christianity than you knew you were involved in. And yet it's simpler. Notice that nobody, not even Moses, knew until the last moments how God would keep his promise. They did not know the mechanisms at work. There was no how answer. It is not that the people were taking a blind leap in the dark. That's not what was going on. They were being pushed to truly trust in the truthfulness and the reliability of their God. His proven character is what made them stand. That is not the kind of relationship with which we are comfortable as Christians. If you were there, this is what I would suspect, and this is what I would expect would come out of my mouth also. If you were there, you would have complained. And when you saw the Red Sea, you would have said, Well, how's that going to work? And then until somebody explained to you the mechanism by which it was going to work, And they did so on your own terms, until that point you would have just been fretting and anxious, and you would have been paralyzed and unable to move Never once in the story is anybody told how this is done. It says a strong east wind, it says the waving of a staff. Hardly. A full explanation of how. Moses is saying to the Christians that are in this letter, Moses is saying to you as a Christian, it doesn't matter how. That's not faith. It matters who. That's faith. Will you put your trust in what he has clearly told you for all the promises of your life? I don't know how, Moses would say. I'm just going to wave my staff and I'm going to watch the sea part. And they, if they had faith, they'd say, well then wave it. And we're going to watch the sea part. And nobody's going to know how this is being done, but we're going to be saved. That's our Christian life in a nutshell. All you have to do is do what he said and put one foot in front of the other and walk across your life. Walk across the means that He provides and He has promised to you. The Christian life could be summarized in this: just follow his words. Well, you say that doesn't cover salvation. Yes, it does, because he says you can only be saved in this way. Well, follow that way that he communicated to you. It's still always by his word. Just obey his commands. Just walk in his promises. So that's the question for you. Has that been your understanding of the Christian faith? Or has somebody out there who hasn't been reading much scripture confused you? You. That's really what's going on. Don't just be hearers of the word. Be doers. James summarizes it for us The point is love. The point is obedience. Hear what God says in his scriptures and obey. When dangers come, the temptation will be to turn back. Because you cannot see how this will work out. And I am pleading with you this morning, Christian. Brothers and sisters, I I plead with you that you would not focus on the how. That's the wrong question, that the question is who. Remember who is with you, who you're walking with. If God has promised, He will keep that promise. Obey His words and endure. Because here's the big idea: faith keeps the church Through the greatest dangers. Amen? Amen. Let's pray.