Psalm ninety one, one of my favorite Psalms. I'm going to be reading the ESV version. There's a slightly differ slight difference in the words from the text that you have. Here now the word of the Lord, Psalm 91. He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will abide in the shadow of the Almighty. I will say to the Lord, My refuge and my fortress, my God in whom I trust. For he will deliver you from the snare of the fowler and from the deadly pestilence. He will cover you with his pinions, and under his wings you will find refuge. His faithfulness is a shield and buckler. You will not fear the terror of the night, nor the arrow that flies by day, nor the pestilence that stalks in darkness nor the destruction that wastes at noonday. A thousand may fall at your side, ten thousand at your right hand But it will not come near you. You will only look with your eyes and see the recompense of the wicked. Because you have made the Lord Your dwelling place, the Most High, who is my refuge. No evil shall be allowed to befall you. No plague come near your tent For he will command his angels concerning you to guard you in all your ways. On their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone. You will tread on the lion and the adder, the young lion and the serpent, you will trample underfoot Because he holds fast to me in love, I will deliver him. I will he calls to me, I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble. I will rescue him and honor him. With long life I will satisfy him and show him my salvation. Please be seated. Have you ever been on the water in a small boat in a thunderstorm? Anybody? Oh, okay. I see a few hands. Well, for those that know me, I've I spent my life spending my summers in Ocean City. My parents have a place down there And I love fishing, spent many, many hours fishing in the bay behind Ocean City. It's about a ten mile uh trip The fifty bridge. So I spent many a many a morning there and sometimes you see a storm coming in the distance. When you see lightning We hightail it out of there. So it's about a forty-five minute boat ride. You have to slow down for part of it. And we have a pretty small boat. It's a thirteen foot Boston Wheeler with a forty horse, but it goes pretty fast, about thirty miles an hour. Anyway A few times we didn't quite make it back and it was very nervous, you know, getting getting getting home through a thunderstorm. But we always made it back. So another another story on the water happened to my uh my boys, now young men Uh we always visit my my wife's parents at Flor in Florida and one of the favorite things we typically do is rent a canoe and go on the Peace River. It's a very peaceful uh river. Uh no put no pun intended. Anyway, one trip I wasn't there. I stayed home to work. So my grandparents uh and my and the boys, they had two canoes, grandparents in the first one, the boys in the second one They're going down the river. It's it's you know it's like a four hour cruise. Anyway, they got a little separated and in Florida you pretty much get in the summertime daily afternoon thunderstorms. One of them came through and uh they really the They wouldn't you know they they were caught off guard, so they were in an aluminum canoe. Sometimes there's cliffs, well not cliffs, but you there's rarely beaches you can you can dock on. Anyway, so they they got stuck in a thunderstorm. They were able to beach the canoe and make uh a little shelter with palm fronds. And this is just themselves, you know, the grandparents were down the river somewhere. Anyway, they made it they were terrified, but uh but they made it through. So that's that's one example of uh of a literal a literal storm So I've titled this devotional talk, A Shelter in the Storm. So we live in a dangerous world. Obviously the danger of the moment. is is what's happening over in Ukraine where we have a nuclear power uh attacking a uh sovereign state. It's really the first time in my lifetime, I guess since the invasion of Afghanistan in nineteen seventy nine that a nuclear power has been involved in a war like that. So there these are scary times. Don't know what's gonna happen. I pray that we're not we're not looking at the beginning of World War III Anyway, we all face storms. I faced a storm in my life five years ago when I had a heart attack out of the blue. And just this past Tuesday something very unusual happened. I left my house uh after a session meeting where we interviewed the Lynhums and Jack. Got home, couldn't get into my communities. There's all kinds of emergency vehicles. Uh they had just got there. They were just putting in the barriers. So I I I I stopped. I couldn't I I couldn't go anywhere. And I asked a group of guys that were uh huddled next to me, what happened? And one guy said, A tree fell on my house. Uh so didn't know what's going on. A lot a lot of things are happening emergency vehicles. I finally get around and and the neighbors are huddling and I see that guy. He's a neighbor of mine. I don't know him well, but I see him when I'm walking my dogs. And he found out later that day his wife was tragically killed by the tree that fell on her house You might have read about it in the news. She went to bed about 8 45. They had a second store uh second story bedroom and literally The tree just hit a bit a little corner of the house, but that corner of the house was the bedroom. So horrible situation. A man lost uh his wife and uh mother of two fifteen year old twins So I've been praying praying for that family. Anyway, we all we all face storms. I like that song that you picked, uh Brad. It talked about being protected from the storms of life. And the ultimate storm we all face is death. It's not a subject we like to talk about, but uh this psalm is written to for our protection. and safety in a dangerous world. I don't know of no any other psalm that's just the whole psalm is one promise after another. So before we get into the psalm, I wanted to I wanted to say this psalm is misused a lot. It's a popular psalm for the Word Faith movement, for the people like Benny Hinn, if you know who he is. It's a popular psalm for uh the the health and wealth uh preachers that uh you know that you you can read the psalm and think okay God will protect me from all sickness, from all pain, from all trouble. Is that really uh what the message of this psalm is Before we get into the psalm, I want to consider this this is unique. This is the only psalm that the devil actually quoted. So we're going to look at that real quickly in Matthew 4. Satan himself, in the temptation of Jesus, quoted this psalm, just a couple of verses, in Matthew 4, verse 5, the second temptation of Jesus in the wilderness. Then the devil took him to the holy city and set him on the pinnacle of the temple and said to him, If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written And he quotes verses eleven and twelve here. He will command his angels concerning you, and on their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone. Jesus said to him, Again, it is written, you shall not put the Lord your God to the test. So here you know we know that we know that Satan and the demons have a have a solid theology. They they know the word of God Uh well so what's the issue here? Satan is is quoting the scripture correctly. Obviously, he's using the scripture as he's presuming on God. And he's saying the scripture says the angels are going to save you, so jump, let the angels save you. Is that is that the way we should use the scriptures? Obviously not. The biggest thing is that Satan does not have a heart of faith And we the scriptures are only useful to those that have a heart of faith. Anyway, I wanted to cover this psalm briefly in three sections. The first section is verse one and two. Which is a promise from the psalmist. We're not really sure who wrote this psalm. It might be King David. I tend to think it might be King David with verses like verse seven, a thousand may fall at your side, ten thousand at your right hand. That reminds me of the passage I don't know if it's in Kings about, you know, Saul slayed his thousands, David his ten thousands. Don't know. Don't know. But uh let's look at verse one and two. Really poetic. He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will abide in the shadow of the Almighty. I will say to the Lord, My refuge and my fortress, my God in whom I trust There's four different terms for God in there. He starts off with saying a conditional promise This is really the whole psalm. He who dwells in the shelter, some verses might say the secret place of the Most High. The Most High is a pretty common reference for God. It talks about God as literally being above everything. He's not just above the earth. He's above all the false idols that people create, and he is so far above us. You know, he's superior to anything we can possibly imagine. And it's and and and the person who dwells, who lives in the shelter of the Most High will abide In the shadow of the Almighty. That reminds me of John 15, when Jesus says, If you abide in me, you will bear much fruit. Apart from me, you can do nothing. Will abide in the shadow of the Almighty. The Almighty here is a term for God. El Shaddai, the all-sufficient one. God is all sufficient. He not only He not only creates us He knows us better than we know ourselves, and he has providentially ordained our whole lives And then now the the psalmist gets personal. I will say to the Lord, the Lord, Yahweh, Jehovah, the personal name for the God of the covenant, the great I am, the one, the self-existent one. I will say to the Lord, my refuge, my refuge and my fortress. He is speaking from a lifetime of experience that God has protected him and has been his refuge through all kinds of trials. If this was whether who whoever this is, King David or not, you can see he now gets into the list of all his trials, some of his trials, and God has protected him and been there and been his refuge So the bulk of the Psalm, verses 3 to 13, are just a whole litany of promises of deliverance. Not going to go over all of them. Discuss a few of them, starting with verse 3. For he will deliver you from the snare of the fowler and from the deadly pestilence. I had to look up some of these terms. You know, a fowler. Back then they used to catch birds like using a birdcage. They put a baby bird in a cage. And uh that would be the snare and the fowler is just the guy who's who's catching those birds. Uh but so God will deliver us from the snare of the devil and from the deadly pestilence. In some cases he delivers you. In other cases, he covers you. Verse 4, he will cover you with his pinions. Pinions is the outer part of a wing. And under his wings you will find refuge. So this is a picture of, you know, God is a is basically a mother bird. And he's protecting those, he's covering those from all these evils, from all these threats. And his faithfulness is a shield and a buckler. That's a key part of this psalm, that his faithfulness is our shield, not our faithfulness. His faithfulness. A buckler is a is like a shield that goes on your forearm if you're in like hand-to-hand combat. So the shield the shield of faith, which is his faith. And then he gets into verses five and six, all kinds of different threats. You will not fear the terror of the night, the arrow that flies by day, the pestilence that stalks in darkness, the destruction that wastes at noonday. And it goes on and on later on. It talks about lions and adders, which is a poisonous snake. So there's this is just an encapsulation of it sounds like he was a warrior, the the psalmist. And God has protected him in battles where many fall by the side, night, day, pestilence. This was a very popular psalm the last two years with COVID, needless to say. There's been uh horrible, horrible pestilences in history. In the Black Death in Europe, and between thirty and sixty percent of Europeans died. And if you got it, you were dead in a week. That's something truly to be seen. scared of. Anyway, you see here that got this this the these verses, they basically give a picture, a picture of total comprehensive protection Of whatever happens, the Lord here is protecting the psalmists. Look at verse 9, kind of summarizes 1 and 2 again. Because you have made the Lord your dwelling place, the Most High, there it is again, who is my refuge, no evil shall be allowed to befall you, no plague come near your tent, no evil shall befall you. you. No play near your tent. And then the verse that Satan misquoted, that the angels, Pastor Jesse mentioned, the angels may have been with us this morning. Who knows if they're with us now? But that they are there to protect God's people. So you see this comprehensive picture of protection through these verses. That's what the Psalm says. It's easy to misuse. So I'll get to the whole point of it in a bit. But I wanna I want to go to the end of it, because verses fourteen and sixteen, the psalmist switches from second person, you, he, to first person. And now he speaks for God himself. The Lord God is speaking. And he says, he says, six I wills in the last three verses. I will deliver him. I will protect him. I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble. I will rescue him and honor him. I will satisfy him with long life and show him my salvation. That's a lot of promises right there Think about that. That is a lot of good promises. And who were these promises made to? There's three conditions here The one who holds fast to me in love, the one who knows my name And the one who calls on me, holds fast to me in love, knows my name, and calls on me. What is that a picture of? Who are those that hold fast to the Lord God in love? Who are those who know his name? And who are those who call to me? And who pray to me, is that not a picture of a living, abiding faith in Jesus? That's what the picture is. Those who w hold fast to me in love, it's not a get-out-of-jail free card faith It's a true faith. It's an abiding faith. This psalm is a call to a deeper, a deeper love of Jesus It's a call to a deeper knowledge of Jesus and His Word, and it's a call to a deeper prayer life that we may abide in the shelter. of the Most High and be under the protection of the shadow of the Almighty. So what do we do with all this? Does this really mean That we will have total security and safety in this life. Is that what this psalm is teaching? No, it's not teaching that. We know it's not teaching that. There are so many examples in the scriptures where we see What happens to saints who suffer. You can look at the Old Testament's prophets, pick one. Jeremiah, Ezekiel. You can look at the You can look at the uh the Hall of Fame chapter, Hebrews eleven. You can look at verse Romans 5, which we just read about tribulation and suffering leading to hope I think of Paul. What happened to Paul when he uh he pleaded with the Lord three times for this thorn in the flesh? Whatever it was, it was very bothersome. What was the Lord's answer? My grace is sufficient for thee, for my power is made perfect in weakness. And most importantly, we must look to the Lord on this. What did he say in John 16? In this world you will have tribulation, but take heart, I have overcome the world. What did he say his disciples are gonna, what should his disciples do? deny themselves, take up their cross, and follow me. So this that's not a this is not a life of uh of no no no troubles, no security. Well what does this psalm what does this psalm do? You tell me what does it do then? It just gives us a a a complete picture of God's protection. What it is is think of the covenant. Think of the covenant. Fear not, for I am with you. Be not dismayed, for I am your God. I will uphold you, I will strengthen you with my righteous right hand. God promises over and over and over again in the covenant, starting with Abraham, that he will be with his people. He truly will be with them through the fire, through the storm. That is what we struggle with. That is what I struggle with. There's a knowledge of God, and then there's a personal experience of truly trusting Him with your deepest fears. It's something that we all struggle with, I think. This psalm teaches us that we are truly safe. Genuinely safe in the final analysis, in the final, in eternally. We are in a world where we are. Aliens? The scripture says we're aliens. Do we live like we're aliens and strangers? No, we live like this is this is the world that we want I'm convinced we're all too attached to this world. God needs to teach us lessons here that we need to be attached to Him and not the things of this world. In terms of lessons learned from this, think about, well, there's a couple other scriptures that come to mind. Psalm 34, 19 says, Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivers them. from them delivers us from them all. We can face the storms of life with a true faith in Jesus Christ. God gives us faith, courage. He gives us fellow believers when we're weak to be strong, to bear each to bear our burdens. And he even gives us faith and courage to faith the ultimate challenge, which is death, either death of our loved ones and ultimately our own death, to faith our own death with courage and faith, knowing that truly it is far better. Who's the thing that we have to do? Love him. First Corinthians. So this is a wonderful psalm to strengthen our faith and devotion in the Lord, to encourage us To go deeper and to know that he indeed is the Most High, the Almighty. And we can trust him with every storm of life. I will close with one of my favorite Proverbs, Proverbs 18, 10. The name of the Lord is a strong tower. The righteous man runs into him and is safe. Let's pray.