In the scripture, behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, elect, precious, and he who believes on him will by no means be put to shame. Therefore, to you who believe, he is precious, but to those who are disobedient, the stone which the builders rejected has become the chief corner of the And a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. They stumble, being disobedient to the word, to which they also were appointed. But you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, his own special people, that you may proclaim the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light who once were not a people but are now the people of God who had not obtained mercy but now have obtained mercy please pray with me God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we ask that these words would take root, that they would be like seeds spread on good soil, and the roots would go down deep. That the sun, the birds or sun or or anything, nothing may may take it away. We pray that you would show us the great privilege we have in being gathered as Members of your church. In the name of Christ, Amen. What are the traditions that you have within your family? Some have a tradition wherein after the birth of a child, they have their family over for an introduction. Uncle Frank, Aunt Donna, Cousin Matthew, Mom, Dad, we introduce you to our new baby boy fill in the like. That would be the tradition. I like that tradition. The more I grow older, and I'm still a young whippersnapper, But the older I get, I the more I like that tradition. It shows that a child is born not into an individual Individuality totally separate and autonomous from others around him or her, but rather that they are born into a community, that they are born into a society, that the child was born into a family. Do you like that tradition? Is that how you think of human life? That you would gain That they would gain their meaning from who their family is. And their sense of destiny from who their cousins are, or who their father or their mother are. Is this a tradition that you would support? I think the Apostle Peter would support this tradition. In the passage we studied a few weeks ago, 1 Peter 1, 22 through 23, and you're welcome to look at these verses as I'm speaking about them. them. It's just right above the one that we're looking at tonight. In 1 Peter 1, 22 through 23, Peter emphasized the being born part. He pointed out, and really he's been doing so through the whole letter, that God the Father, through Jesus Christ and the Spirit, using the Word, have given us room. He actually says in chapter 2, verse 1, that we, or at least them at that time, and we can think of ourselves and say some way like this, that we are newborn babes. That's what he's the language that he uses there in 2. 1. Our passage this evening In verses 4 through 10 show us that we are not just newborn babes born into an individuality. But that we are newborn babes born into a family called the church. The very tradition that I was talking to you about is the is the same kind of message that the apostles Apostle Peter gives us here this tonight. Now he gives us this message in three main ways. I want to start again with an overarching image, just as I did Did this morning. And those of you who were here this morning for this sermon, there is almost an entire overlap in the ideas. Those of you who were not here this morning for this sermon, our Our sermons are recorded both on our YouTube channel and on our website, and I'd encourage you to listen to them or watch them so that you can not only have this message but the one from this morning. They go together well. These passages go the passages go together very well. And the first part is the overarching image. But then Peter presents us with an overarching problem. And in the very end We get to see our overarching purpose. So that's the way that he's going to develop this as he introduces newborn babes into the family culture. So let's begin with the overarching image. It's uh all over the place, really. It's not here only, but also in the letters or the epistles of Paul. And you can see in in and starting in verse 4, what this image is Let me let's look at it together. Coming to him as to a living stone, rejected indeed by men, but chosen by God and precious. And you can see the language that's being used. Peter is beginning by reminding Christians that they have joined or that they have come to Jesus Christ as a living stone Peter will give other descriptors to Jesus, which I still think are talking about Jesus as a stone. He says that Jesus is chosen, and he says that Jesus is precious. Do you see all that language there in the verse? That makes Jesus the living, chosen, and precious stone. He's inviting you to use your imagination. And this kind of language, when you use your imagination, particularly when it's informed by the scriptures, should not be confusing to you. If it is, just know that this is language that's used elsewhere in the scriptures for the building of temples. Let me give you a reference and you may want to write this down so that you can read this on your own later. But I have a reference from 1 Kings chapter 5, verses 17 and 18 to help you understand this language of precious stone that he's calling Jesus. And the king commanded them to quarry large stones, costly stones, and hewn stones. This is Solomon, the king. Commanded them to go to the quarry, large stones, costly stones, and hewn stones, to lay the foundation of the temple. So Solomon's builders, Hiram's builders, and the Gibbelites quarried them And they prepared timber and stones to build the temple. You see the language that's being picked up by Peter here. It's also the same language that we see in Isaiah 28, verse 16. which says this, therefore, thus says the Lord God, Behold, I lay in Zion a stone for a foundation. A tried stone, a precious cornerstone, a sure foundation. Whoever believes will not act hastily And thus what you see Peter doing here is picking up on this imagery that is a part of his community and has been for thousands of years, at least hundreds of years at this point. point, his point, what Peter is doing is showing that God has made Jesus the foundation or cornerstone of the new family or the house or the new temple. of God. And I really do encourage you to listen to the sermon from this morning. You can see all the concepts are starting to come together like two hands holding each other. Do you know what the what a cornerstone is? Do you know what a foundation stone is? I'm sure there's more to it than what I'm going to tell you tonight, but it is the stone, obviously, that goes at the corner. I'm glad we talked about that. Let's move on. No. It's the stone that you put on the corner of a building, and that stone is responsible, if any of your fathers or if you even you yourself was uh worked with laying brick or uh laying block for a family. Foundations, you know this stuff. They build it differently now. But it's placed in the corner, and that stone is responsible for the straightness and the stability of all the stones in the walls. Nowadays we are a little more familiar with a different um different building terminology called the Ridge Beam. And the Ridge Beam does a very similar thing. A ridge beam is would be directly above us if this thing should Sanctuary were not built with trusses, there would be a beam that runs all the way down, and all of the rafters would come up and sit on it If you were to remove the ridge beam, all of the rafters would fall and the whole roof of the building would collapse. It's the same thing with the cornerstone, it's just a different culture and different building techniques. because they were working with stone. This is what is being said about Jesus. Hear what the Spirit is teaching us. Hear what the Spirit is teaching us. That Jesus Christ is this foundation stone It is in him that we all stay together, that we all have the right rule and have a level line And that we do not collapse. That's how important he is. Can you think of anybody in your life that is that important? Where if you were to remove them, everything would collapse. You can see why he's so precious. Jesus Christ is considered the cornerstone, and we are the living stones on those walls. He upholds us And this is what the Spirit is teaching us, that you are reborn, and you have become a member, member of Jesus, with Jesus and of his family, like stones are the members of a temple with Jesus as the temple. Chief cornerstone. He's just providing you an image for your imagination to understand what you're a part of. That's the overarching image that's given to us here. We are like stones mortared together with Jesus, the precious stone. But this is not true apparently for everyone. It's with grief that we move to the next point where some people have a real problem with Jesus. and him being the cornerstone. They're so repulsed by him, deep down, that they would rather be a part of another building altogether And so the overarching problem, our second point. You can see the overarching problem in a quotation in verse 7. Therefore, to you who believe he is precious. And do you see the switch in tone here, but to those who are disobedient, the stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone, and a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. Very different. He quotes Psalm 118. Psalm 118 gives a picture of the Messiah surrounded by enemies. I just read it to you in your bulletin. through, and that the s and that the sense is that the enemies are both near to the Messiah and they're far away. If Psalm 118 is about David, then the neighboring nations were against David and they threatened his life. Happened all the time. But it would also have been David's friends and his family turning against him. Him. Sometimes we see within the stories even his own son sought out his life. Of course, Peter isn't primarily concerned with David the Messiah, but rather Jesus the Messiah. That's what this whole letter is. And when we look at Jesus the Messiah, we see that he was surrounded in a similar but more severe way. The entire nation of Rome turned against Jesus. The nation of Israel turned against Jesus. Jesus. And even those close to Jesus would turn against him. You had to wonder how Peter was reading this section of the scriptures, or when he was writing this section of the scriptures. When it talked about rejecting him, you wonder if Peter remembered when he denied three times, and he was humbled once again before his Lord, remembering the grace that it would take to make him a true discipline. disciple. Or if you don't want to think of Peter, you can think of Judas and how he would sell Jesus out for the sil the silver. But you can see that the problem still you can see what the problem is. That's going on there. And you know that today the problem still stands. It's your everyday experience Even though God the Father has clearly chosen that Jesus is the great God and world ruler and deserves complete obedience That he has been in fact chosen as the cornerstone, that God has quarried him out for that very task. Despite that, many, many people reject Jesus. Jesus is the truly precious stone, but the world views him as a stone that just gets in the way, verse 8, and is offensive. And here's where I want you to participate with me. Rather than diligent listening, I also want you to answer this question inside your own head. And I want you to be honest with yourself. This is a very important moment. And I think it's one of the reasons why this is here in the scriptures. Is Jesus and his church precious? to you? More precious than rubies and other precious stones? Or is Jesus and his church a rock in your shoe? You know the difference? You ever had a rock in your shoe? Is that what Jesus is like to you? That's an overarching problem if it is. And I'd like The good news is that some of you are answering the question and you're saying, By God's grace, I see that I am a stone that belongs to the building of Christ, and I consider Christ. Christ precious. I say, I believe, but help my unbelief. That's my confession about what Peter is saying here. Well, if that's your discovery. Then we need to move now. Since you have confirmed even in your own mind that you are a part of the church, you need to know what your overarching purpose is, which is our final And that's what Peter ends on in verse nine. He says here, but you are a chosen generation. You see the contrast between the two different communities? You can be stones in one community that rejects the stone of Christ, or you can be stones in Christ's community that consider him precious. And we now move into that part of the community In verse 9, you can see that Peter discovers the truth for his congregation. But you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, his own special people. They are the true church. He uses all of the lists of attributes that were a part of ancient Israel, and he applies them to those who were a part of the dispersion. All different kinds of nations at this point. showing that God has gathered in and created a church from every tongue and tribe and nation. And then I want you to look in 9B. Look at what he builds up to here. He says that you are a chosen generation, and then when he gets to the last comma, after his own special people, he says The purpose. This is a purpose clause. That you may proclaim the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His marvelous light. Who were once not a people, but are now the people of God, who have not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. Do you see the continuation of the temple theme? He's He's asked you to enter into your imagination and consider yourself a part of a large building. And now he's telling you the purpose of the building, which is the same purpose that was for the temple. I mean, what happens at a temple? A worship service. And we have been gathered together to proclaim the praises of God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Do you know what that means? It means that we're back at the beginning of the letter. Do you remember what I kept repeating at the beginning of the letter? Praise to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. It's what we've arrived at as our very identity. The community that you are a part of is telling you what your purpose is in life. Have you ever wondered what you're supposed to do? You know, our culture says if you want to know what you're supposed to do, look at all of your individual talents and then go off and do them in your individuality. But this passage is telling you something different. It's saying if you want to know who you truly are, figure out which community you belong to. And here's the truth about you, Christian: Christ has persuaded you. you and called you into his community, which gives you a very specific identity. And that identity The purpose of it is for you to give praise. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has given us new life to be living stones through our resurrection. Since we are reborn through the living stone of Jesus Christ and his resurrection. That's the beginning, really, if you were to mash these two passages together from the first chapter and this second chapter. And this isn't only true for Sunday public worship and weekday private worship, but really it extends into all of life. You are now going to see in the rest of the sermons that From First Peter, the unfolding of what it means to give praise to God. I want you to notice in the rest of First Peter, if you decide to read through it, how many times he says to glorify God. Look at how the rest of the letter continues, listing the acts of praise that you are to be doing as a member of this building called the temple or the house of God. You are to c have a specific kind of conduct in your public life, starting in verse 13. Therefore submit to yourselves yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake. Then he goes on to the workplace, whether you're an employee or an employer in verse 18. And then he will, when we get to chapter 3, he's going to talk to you wives and what it looks like to give praise as a member of Christ's household in your marriage, and the same thing with husbands. And what we're going to find is that in chapter 3, verse 13, we see that even in our suffering, we have the opportunity to glorify our God and give Him praise. There is nothing that we can't give praise in now because we are now a part of, we are stones in a temple, and it is the purpose of the temple to give praise. Do you see how your identity just got sucked up into this? All of life becomes a chance to glorify God. Not even a chance. It's not even wishful thinking because Christ is going to make sense. Certain of it. Every good deed done by the power of the Spirit will be like a burning sacrifice coming up from the temple of God's family. Can you see it? If you were to stand out front when we move into prayer time and you were to use, be able to see with spiritual eyes, perhaps you'd see our prayers going up with something like incense. All done by the stoking and work of Christ and His Spirit. That's what we've become. Can you see why I said that Peter would like the tradition? the tradition of presenting a newborn child to the family. I said that because that's what he's trying to he's trying to get you to to see that He's taking you as a newborn, and he's saying, look, if you want to know who you are, look at the community that I have borne you into. Look at your mothers and your fathers that are at Severn Run. Look at your sisters and your brothers that are at Severn Run. This is where your real meaning comes from. That's what Peter's doing. He's doing that tradition. He takes us as newborns and he introduces us to our new family that gives us meaning. And the name of our family overall is the church. And we're all living stones. I'm gonna point one more thing out to you that just puts the cherry on the top. Peter's nickname is Cephas, which means rock. And did you notice that he keeps calling Jesus the rock? Isn't that interesting to you? Don't you know that Peter is saying, hey, I know my nickname is the rock, but let me tell you who the real rock is. It's Jesus. We all depend on him. But the temple has many stones. None of us are as precious as Jesus. But there's many stones in the temple. Look around. Look at the stones that are next to you. And start figuring out how together we and our children will be giving unending formal and practical Praise to our God. That is our true meaning. That's our purpose. And we find that out by Peter introducing us newborn babes. Into our true community. So now we're going to go into a time of prayer. And we do have some good deeds to do here. I mentioned to you the horrible shootings that have happened in El Paso. I've mentioned the more recent ones in Dayton, Ohio, and I know there's other things that you want to pray about. And you get to do that because of the work of Jesus Christ. And his spirit. You as a community can now enter into a way of glorifying God by entering into a time of prayer. We're going to do exactly what Peter just said as a family. As the temple of God. What more could be done there than prayer? So let's go before Him now and let's remember these things.