I'm gonna need some light up here. There we go. Thank you. Very good. Very good. Thank you, Bradley. Our reading tonight will continue our Advent series uh sermon series, and we'll be looking at Luke chapter two. I uh do understand that you're Sitting in the dark basically. If you don't have a phone, you won't be able to follow along unless you have a a book lamp. We're going to be looking at two twenty-one through forty and I'll do my best to read out these sentences in full as I go along through the sermon. So it's as if you're following. This is chapter 2. We've already heard the word preached this morning on the birth and the announcement and the response of Jesus. And now we move into the eighth day in verse 21 of chapter 2 of Luke. And when eight days were completed for the circumcision of the child, his name was called Jesus. The name given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb. Now, when the days of her purification, according to the law of Moses, were completed, they brought him to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord. As it is written in the law of the Lord, every male who opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord. And to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves, or two young pigeons And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon, and this man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him. And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. So he came by the Spirit into the temple. And when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him according to the custom of the law, he took him up in his arms and blessed God and said, Lord Now you are letting your servant depart in peace according to your word. For my eyes have seen your salvation, which you have prepared before the face of all peoples. A light to bring revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of your people Israel. And Joseph and his mother marveled at those things which were spoken of him. Then Simeon blessed them and said to Mary, his mother, Behold, this child is destined for the fall and rising of many in Israel. And for a sign which will be spoken against. Yes, a sword will pierce through your own soul also, that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. Please pray with me Father, this is a very sobering passage that you give to us this evening. We ask that you would give us perspective tonight, perspective on the true meaning of the birth, life, resurrection, ascension, and glorification of your Son. We pray, Father, that your word would go out, that it would renew, that it would awaken, that it would change right here on the spot. That would be the best Christmas present we could ever receive. In the name of Christ. Amen. I've noticed there's a number of faces that haven't been here for the whole sermon series. I look forward to seeing you next Sunday. assume you're going to attend full time now. That's excellent. Glad to see the congregation growing so quickly. The w we're in a sermon series where, quite honestly Here at Severn Run, we are tired of listening to people here on earth. They all have different opinions, and most of them are nonsense. And it's getting worse and worse. So what we've decided to do is to tune our ear to what heaven is saying. So we've been making observations from the accounts given to us in Luke of Songs from heaven, angels telling us the significance of who Jesus is. Prophets filled with the Holy Spirit from heaven telling us the significance of Jesus. Each Sunday, we have seen the significance of Jesus relative to these Advent candles. We've seen that He is our hope, that He is our joy, that He is our peace, that He Is love and that he is the expression of God the Father's love. That in fact light is appropriate because Jesus, the Christ, through God the Father, by the Spirit, is the cause of all light Without our Trinity, no one could see. We'd all be blinded. But He has acted, and therefore, at least some of us have sight now, and He invites all to have sight Our last text in the series that we see tonight is from Simeon. And I want you to notice, and I'll just bring it to your attention since you can't really see that Simeon follows our theme quite well. It mentions right away in 26 and 27 and 25 that he is one who is speaking from heaven. It mentions, and behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon, and this man was just and devout, already a sign of someone who's from But even more it says that the Holy Spirit was upon him, which is a a dead giveaway that this person is going to be speaking words from heaven itself. It even says in verse 26, and it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. And so he came by the Spirit into the temple He's totally directed by heaven at this point. He has complete credentials and God behind his back. The Holy Spirit is mentioned. three times here relative to Simeon. Simeon then gave a prophecy filled with the Spirit from heaven in verses 29 through 32. And the content of these verses I'll not get into tonight because they're pretty well covered in the other Advent sermons. But please allow me to read them to you. They're verses 29 through 32. It's a beautiful hymn, actually. It's a song Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace according to your word. For my eyes have seen your salvation. Which you have prepared before the face of all peoples, a light to bring revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of your people, Israel. For my eyes have seen your salvation. This is speaking, as we mentioned formerly in this sermon series, that Jesus is our salvation. That he is the horn of salvation, the very tip and explosive power of salvation, as Zacharias prophesied. Jesus will accomplish redemption through the new exodus of his people. Jesus, our Passover, leads us through death, and as the new Moses, pioneers the journey from slavery to sin. Now we see in verse 31 that he has prepared a way for all people, a light to bring revelation to the Gentiles, a universal gospel. This Exodus began with the Jews. As Gabriel told Mary, and from the Jews to the Gentiles, Jesus therefore organized and revitalized the Jewish church So that they could from experience tell the Gentiles of the mission of Jesus at the behest of the love of God the Father And so we've heard these glorious words from heaven in the previous messages, the nature of who Jesus is, conceived in the womb of the Virgin Mary, the God-man. However, Simeon in a blessing in verse 28, he gives us more information that we haven't considered yet. Notice he is still filled with the Holy Spirit in verse 28. There's actually a parallel here where there's going to be a blessing to the parents, and then he'll give a blessing later also, of Jesus and then of the family in verse 34. And he's going to say two main things here. Beginning in verse 33. And Joseph and his mother marveled at those things which were spoken of him. Then Simeon blessed them and said to Mary his mother, the focus is on Mary now Behold, this is the information that we haven't had this Advent season. This child is destined for the fall and rising of many in Israel and for a sign which will be spoken against. Yes, a sword will pierce through your soul also, that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. There's two main points that he has here about Jesus. So once again, we're not hearing from earth, we're hearing from heaven on who Jesus is. And it says here that Jesus is a stone and Jesus is a sign. Those are the two things that we'll look at in the passage tonight. So, first, Jesus is a stone. What does that mean, and where do we get that from? The prophecies concerning John the Baptist given at his birth in chapter 1, verses 68 through 79. Are now paralleled by prophecies concerning Jesus at his presentation in the temple on the eighth day for circumcision. Jesus will cause the cause the rising and the falling. He's referring to two separate groups, one of which is going to fall, obviously, and guess what? One of which will Thus there's a double significance to Jesus' ministry. That's really important for you to hear. There's a double significance to his ministry. For the humble and the poor in spirit, it is positive and will result in salvation. For the haughty and the rich Those who think they need nothing, no doctor, because I'm not sick, it will be negative and it will be judgment, and the one person will bring both. This twofold aspect of the coming Messiah is expressed throughout scriptures. Perhaps you've heard it's spoken this way: He is a stone. That twofold aspect is brought out in Jesus being a stone. For example, in Isaiah 8:14 through 15, these are great Christmas passages that are announced all the time in Isaiah, it says that Jesus will be a sanctuary. Think of a sanctuary as built up with stones, a place of refuge. But then it goes on to say that he will also be a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense to both the houses of his Israel as a trap and a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem. You see, he's fulfilling both of those things at the same time. A double sided coin A flame that can light and bring light, but that also can devour. In Daniel 2, 34 through 34, I'll not read that whole thing, I'll just read little snippets, but Daniel mentions Jesus has And this is very important because in Daniel is the last time we saw until Luke the angel Gabriel. In Daniel 2, he says, You watched while a stone was cut out without hands. These other nations, Greece and Persia and Rome, were cut out by hand. They were stones, or at least had parts of stones, but here's a stone not cut with hands, one not made with the other creation. Which struck the image on its feet of iron and clay and broke them in pieces. And here we see a picture of Jesus and his role as aspect of coming as the Son of Man for salvation, but also the stone not cut by human hand, destroying all other nations that rise up. Psalm 118 is a very famous one where Jesus is called the stone which the bilbers rejected, and he has become the chief cornerstone. In summary, then, Jesus as a stone can either be your refuge or he can be your ruin. That is what is announced here at the birth of Jesus. In a Christmas passage. Now we've got to wonder about that, and I'll get to that a little bit later. Why that in a Christmas passage? I want to go on though and show you that Jesus spoke of himself also as A stone. He self-identified. He spoke of this twofold aspect of a refuge or a ruin. He says this later in this gospel. He says, For whoever desires to save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake will save it. You see, the salvation that he brings if you're if you're of faith and faithful, have faith and are faithful to him. For what profit is it to a man if he gains the whole world and him sell is himself destroyed or lost? And here's the other side, though. For whoever is ashamed of me in my words, of him the Son of Man will be ashamed when he comes in his own glory and in his fathers and of the holy angels. Here we have presented to us a stone who may offer you salvation or be your very destruction. The twofold aspect of Jesus the stone, this is actually quite shocking for people to hear today. Nevertheless, the fact that it's being spoken of in a Christmas message. Hearing this about Jesus. It shouldn't be shocking because this passage has been with us for over 2,000 years now. But it is shocking, and I think it's shocking because the identity of Jesus as a stone has been lost because he has been watered down by cultural depictions. Everybody wants Jesus on their team. So they strip him away at their convenience to figure out a way to make him accommodating to what they have going on in their life And that's really true. That's really what we have done as a culture. Every word of Jesus, every action Every characteristic of his being has been misrepresented and re-narrativized into a story that is not the Christian story. And with such a prevalent deception, I fear that myself or my children or your children or the church at large could truly lose the identity of Jesus. Because here, for the first time, perhaps, you are hearing that Jesus is a stone. He's rock hard. He's not compromising. He is not accommodating. Anything else that runs up against him breaks That's who he is. It's not as the world would portray him. Let me just ask you a question, and I want to ask particularly those of you who consider yourself Christians or church Let's do a little test on whether or not you know the identity of Jesus. From the first point, and him being the stone, when you speak about Jesus, The way that you talk about him with those, particularly that don't consider themselves to be Christians, aren't interested in that or have gone on to other things. Do they hear Jesus as a rock? Now the way to test that is, in other words, when you speak about Jesus, remember what the rock does. Do people rise or fall? Do they end up humbling themselves in repentance before God, recognizing that Jesus Christ is the King of the cosmos? Or do they become furious with what you're announcing? Or is there no change? There can be no change for different reasons, but one of the reasons is because you have not presented. You haven't told them about the true Jesus. Does your audience remain the same or is there no change? Now I've got to give a caveat because we're at Severn Run. If any of you all know people at Severn Run, we are honri. We can be difficult. So if I'm telling Severn Run congregation to to cause people to rise or to fall. They could really take that the wrong way and use that as an excuse for curse words. Just joking. So when I'm saying this about Jesus being a rock for your refuge or for your ruin, I'm not saying that your words should be like gravel thrown in somebody's face. This is not an excuse to be conversationally brash or unintelligent. The message here is that Jesus is a stone, not you, and not Your inattention to detail or awkward social skills. Jesus is the stone. It should be his person and his work that would cause the fall and the rise, not your careless communication habits. And you have got to be very, very careful about that. Particularly during this time of Christmas as we seek to share the love of God the Father. It is Jesus and his person and his work that people would be ashamed of. as we read in the passage earlier. But you must present it in whole, knowing that there will either be a rise Or there will be a fall. You must present him as he has been presented here from heaven within these scriptures, that he is the God-man, that he is God and man conjoined together. This is the message of Christmas from heaven that we're receiving. Simeon, filled with the Holy Spirit, tells us that Jesus is a stone. He will cause the rise or the fall of many. And if understood correctly, if you're catching the drift of this passage, there is no neutrality. He is not accommodating. If you were to walk into your workplace and you were to announce to all of your workplace and say, look at Jesus' altruism. Look at his philanthropy. Look, he's like an organic food-eating carpenter out of Denver. Look how cool he is. No one is going to argue with you But if you tell those, if you announce amongst your co-workers that he is an atonement for their sins, and that he denounces Immoral sexual behavior and homosexuality in the entire LGBT community. Well now I'm probably already offending some of you. But these are the words of Christ, and you can be ashamed of them or not. You can rise or you can fall. That'll be up to you. But he as a rock will not budge. There is no neutrality. This is Jesus as a stone, but he is also a sign. A sign now is an object, event, or person whose presence indicates the occurrence of something else. Let me say that again. A sign is an object, event, or person whose presence indicates the occurrence of something else. So the presence of Jesus indicates the occurrence of what? The presence of what else? We've already met a sign in the passage. The angels gave the shepherd a sign. Do you remember what the sign was to the shepherds? It was the swaddling clothes and the manger. The manger was unimportant except for being a sign, in fact. It was pointing the shepherds to the child with whom they were to share this news. And later in Luke, Jesus himself Speaks of himself as a sign that he is assigned just as Jonah was assigned to Nineveh. A sign of salvation if they're repentant and a sign of judgment if they persist in their sin. He and Jonah were also signs. Jesus' presence was a sign of the promised salvation or the judgment of God. So being a rock was in fact a sign of salvation. The Gospel of Luke is filled with the supernatural activity and the fulfillment of God's promises, showing that God's salvation and Jesus the Messiah had arrived. It had arrived at this time, and it has been going on for thousands of years now. Tongue and nation being brought in and gathered by him. This is the interesting thing, though To his own people, he came first. The ones who were entrusted with biblical knowledge for thousands of years. He came as a sign of salvation. It was the one group Primarily, that could not see it. Tell me that's not scary. For most of Israel, it would in fact be a rock of ruin and judgment. Particularly in 70 AD, the collapse of Jerusalem and the temple. Jesus is a sign spoken against quite literally. It reads here in this passage that Jesus is a sign Sign opposed. It doesn't just say that he's a sign. It says, and for a sign which will be spoken against. The parenthetical thought that happens after that about Mary And piercing her own soul confirms that Jesus will be a sign that is spoken against, particularly in relationship to his own people, the church. Although hearing of Jesus as the one who brings salvation, she's heard it from Elizabeth and Zacharias and from the angel and from Simeon She's heard this from so many different people, yet this prophecy says to Mary that she will watch her son, the sign, meet much conflict, and eventually will she look up to him as he hangs on a cross. Being crucified as a criminal. Emotional anguish like a sword will pierce her own soul. That is the level of opposition. Jesus, as recorded in Luke 19, 41, ends up capturing this perfectly. He says Now, as he drew near, this is what it is recorded, that Luke records now, as Jesus drew near to Jerusalem, the church, Jesus stopped, he saw the city, and he went. And this is what he said. If you had known, even you, especially in this your day of visitation The things that make for your peace, but now they are hidden from your eyes. He says, in other words, if you would have known about the Advent The advent of salvation and of your Lord, if you could have just seen me, I would have given you peace and hope and joy. I was the sign of salvation, but you neglected and you opposed the sign. Jesus, salvation himself, stood before their very eyes, and many in the church of that day could not see him. Him. And I'll say once again, what a frightening thought is given to us this Christmas. I think it's entirely appropriate for Christmas, because it is this season I've heard the least about Jesus amongst our culture. He's been almost entirely replaced. Why is it I mean I'm not making these things up. Here you have Jesus being born And the Holy Spirit filling Simeon, knowing later what the church will do during the Advent series, and that somebody's going to have to preach this text on this night, of all nights, where it's supposed to be Joyful and snowfall and merriment and glittering pure gold ornaments And yet the Holy Spirit sees fit to give us this on Christmas. I think it's because He wants us to have some perspective Whether you're churched or not churched, today is the day of perspective. Now I read this cute little letter from a college student. You might have heard this. It's going around and it's been going around. For a couple years now, I think, helps us with this idea of perspective. Let me read this to you. It's not too long. It's cute. Dear mom and dad, this is from a college student. It has now been three months since I left for college. I am sorry for my thoughtlessness and not having written before. I will bring you up to date, but before you read on, you better sit down, okay? I'm getting along pretty well now. The skull fracture and concussion I got when I jumped out of my apartment window when it caught fire after my arrival here is pretty well healed I only spent two weeks in the hospital and now I can see almost normally and only get these sick headaches once a day. Fortunately the fire and my jump were witnessed by Roger in attendant at the gas station And he was the one who called the fire department. He also visited me in the hospital, and since I had nowhere to live, he was kind enough to invite me to share his apartment with him. He is a very fine man, by the way. This is a young woman right now He's a very fine man, and we are planning to get married. We haven't set the date yet, but it will be before my pregnancy begins to show. His divorce is final now, and he shares custody of his three children. The reason for the delay in our marriage is that Roger has a minor infection which prevents us from passing our premarital blood tests, and I carelessly called it from him. This will soon clear up with the penicillin injections I'm taking daily. Now that I've brought you up to date, I want to tell you there was no fire. I don't have a concussion or a scroll fracture. I'm not in the hospital, I'm not pregnant, I'm not engaged None of these things are true. He's not divorced. However, I am getting a D in art and an F in biology. I wanted you to see these marks in their proper perspective. Your loving daughter, Jane Now that's cute, but I think the point can be taken that especially during Christmas time In the state of our world today, we are a group of people, whether you are churched or you are unchurched, I'm telling you right now, you need some perspective on life and what truly matters. You have been inundated with Amazon Prime and Amazon Now of consumerism to the full extent and have forgotten what the world is all about. We're here speaking of ancient artifacts to our culture of hope and peace and love and joy, and someone named the Christ and the Messiah. But this is the time for you to regain perspective. I believe that's why the Holy Spirit has this here during this time of Christmas, of the birth of Jesus Christ, of his advent, his first advent, is that we need some perspective And these two difficult points of Jesus during Christmas time gives us the perspective that we need. The Holy Spirit reveals nonetheless from heaven. I'm not talking about what people say on earth I'm saying what comes from heaven, this is what it has said: that Jesus, at the birth of Jesus, at Christmas, that Jesus is a stone And you need to decide how you will relate to him because you will either rise or you will fall. There is no third option. And that he is a sign. And he will either be a sign of salvation to you or you will oppose him. Is Jesus your rock this Christmas? This is the question that you must consider Is Jesus your rock? Or will he be your ruin? Pledge allegiance to him and you will rise. Deny him and you will fall. It is a foregone conclusion. And the decision now lies within your hand this night There's no third option. Is Jesus a sign pointing to your salvation? I know the world opposes the sign. I know that you know something interesting. It says that he's a sign opposed. Do you see any? other signs opposed in our culture besides the Christian one? I see the Jesus fish turned into the Darwin fish. I see coexistence Jesus is the sign opposed. I know that's what the world says. But I would plead with you. That although he is the sign of salvation still opposed, that you would consider this sermon in the sermon series, that you would stop listening to things on earth. And you would start listening to angels and the Holy Spirit who has spoken to you from heaven. He has told you, they have told you the true nature of this Jesus. And he can be your salvation today if you do not oppose him. Please join me in prayer. Father, we thank you for this message that you have given to us. This is very difficult on Christmas. It strikes against what we've tried to make Christmas into. But you know better. You're such a good father to us in seeing that we need some perspective I pray, Father, that you would give us all perspective here tonight. And that we would join you, that we would give, that we would pledge our allegiance to what you have announced from heaven And that you would save us from this rubbish here on earth. I pray, Father, that your salvation would go out this Christmas and that your son would not be smothered by consumerism or apatheism, but instead that he would be glorified. I pray, Father, that you would fill all our hearts with your love and that the light of Jesus Christ would go out in Anorento County and throughout our nation. And Father, that you would be glorified. That your name would be held up high for what you have done and shedding your love abroad. We pray these things for your glory and for the sake of your bride, the church. Amen. Amen.