Chapter eight today, and I'll be reading from verses twenty six through forty. This is the word of the Lord. Now an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying, Arise and go toward the south along the road which goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza. This is desert or desolate place. So he arose and went, and behold, a man of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority, under Cannes, the queen of the Ethiopians. who had charge of all her treasury and had come to Jerusalem to worship, was return was returning and sitting in his chariot. He was reading Isaiah the prophet. Then the Spirit said to Philip, Go near and overtake this chariot. So Philip ran to him and heard him reading the prophet Isaiah and said, Do you understand what you're reading? And he said, How can I, unless someone guides me? And he asked Philip to come up and sit with him. The place in the scripture which he read was this He was led as a sheep to the slaughter, and as a lamb before its sheer is silent, so he opened not his mouth In his humiliation, his justice was taken away, and who will declare his generation? His life is taken from the earth So the eunuch answered Philip and said, I ask you, of whom does the prophet say this? Of himself or some other man? Then Philip opened his mouth and beginning at this scripture, preached Jesus to him Now, as they went down the road, they came to some water, and the eunuch said, See, here's water. What hinders me from being baptized? Then Philip said, If you believe with all your heart, you may. And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. So he commanded the chariot to stand still, and both Philip and the eunuch went down into the water, and he baptized him. Now, when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught Philip away, so that the eunuch saw him no more, and he went on his way, rejoicing. But Philip was found at Azatus, which is Ashdoslah, and passing through he preached in all the cities till he came to Caesarea. Let us pray. Oh Lord Jesus Christ, may your name be magnified in your word. May we understand how you rule your kingdom. And may we see your power, that you have the power of electing those whom you will and cleansing them. We ask, Lord, that we would obey your word and not just hear it. In the name of Christ. Amen. You maybe see it. We now move beyond the record of Simon from Samaria. But as we move forward, I ask that we do not forget that Jesus Christ, by his Spirit and the messengers that he sent, bound Satan in those Samaritan towns. And took from his own house captives. Christ was overcoming, as we said, as we saw the Samaritans give heed to Philip instead of to Simon That this was nothing less than Christ overcoming the principalities and powers of demonic darkness. As we saw Luke recount in chapter 8, verse 7, for unclean spirits crying with a loud voice came out of many who were possessed. Gives us a good picture of what is actually happening in the preaching and the heating of God's Word. Well, I don't want you to forget that because it carries on now into this new account. I want you to remember those principalities and powers and what's going on, because this morning's passage is another example of the same work of Christ, but in a different location. I want you to notice a few things that lead to this, and they are geographical markers. This whole account, by the way, should be reminding you of the conquest of Joshua because that is what is happening here. These geographical markers of Gaza in verse 26, Azatus or Ashdod in verse 20, and then we see a desert or a desolate place in verse 26. If you were to do a little bit of study on these, you would find that Gaza and Azatus were cities of the Philistine enemies, two of the five that remained unconquered during Joshua's reign. And then the desert or a desolate place was often the haunt of demons, as we can see in Luke chapter 8, verse 29. Those geographical markers should alert us that the angel in verse 26 has sent Philip into enemy territory. Where principalities and powers would certainly rule, and where they would reign in disorder. Now If you're unfamiliar with the conquest of Joshua, or you don't buy into the geographical markers, if you think that Luke is just trying to create some kind of atlas here Then perhaps, and I would uh assume that you would take his word for it when he brings up that there is a eunuch in that spot. If you're not convinced by the geography, then at least look at the most obvious evidence that Philip has moved into dis the area of disorder and the area of the enemy, because right there in that desolate place is a eunuch. And do you know what a eunuch is? So unfortunately, I'm going to tell you. A eunuch most often refers to a male who around, and this is during their time, who around the age of fury Had their testicles removed so as to be infertile. That is the situation that he finds himself in here. In the Hebrew mind, you've got to understand how they viewed this. Eunuchs were associated with death because they were infertile, with uncleanness, because of what is stated in the scriptures, and as a symbol for all other traits of that demonic realm. So when you start to put these things together, you can really see what's happening. This is why eunuchs were kept from gathering even for worship with God's people. They were not permitted in the assembly, according to Deuteronomy 23:1. And it is why no priests could have a similar deformity as we see in Leviticus 21. 20. And nevertheless, this did not prevent the eunuchs from attending annual Israelite holidays, as you can see in verse 27. This eunuch was coming from worship at Jerusalem. I'm wondering if it was in the month of May, and if it was, then it was the Feast of Weeks. If it was in the later summer months, then it's going to be a different festival But no matter what, it was a pilgrimage festival where he would have traveled from Ethiopia and he would be going to give thanks to Elohim The God of heaven and earth for the grains that they had harvested and asking for his blessing on the upcoming year But even when he was attending that worship service, make no mistake, it was marked out for him, even in the architecture of the building That he is not one of God's people like other people were a part of God's people. He knew that he would have to stay on the outer circle of the temple, signifying his uncleanness. And then he was unritually clean. He was ritually unclean. And so when you start to put those two together, even if you only accept one, Between the geography and the eunuch, Luke is emphasizing that the angel, and then later the spirit, has sent Philip to a place associated with the enemies of God, to the demons, and to the ritually unclean. It is like the conquest of Joshua. Christ is sending his people out into a kind of unclean realm like Canaan. Like you see in Joshua and amongst the Canaanites, and Christ is conquering, but not with weapons that you would normally think of in conquering. That's what's happening here. But as you can see within the passage, there are really big changes that are getting ready to happen for this eunuch Just as there were really big changes that just happened in that Samaritan town, even amongst the sorcerer. God is changing all of that. If you were to think of cleanness as concentric circles where you have the Holy of Holies moving out, the eunuch being on the outside, we're getting ready to watch a movement where God is going to take him and put him at the It is a cosmic act that God had planned before the foundations of the earth. And that is the point of the Isaiah passage being quoted here. In our passage, Isaiah 53 is talking about the servant of the Lord who will accomplish all of this. He is the one that will cleanse the earth of its uncleanness. And if you were to move three chapters ahead of Isaiah chapter 53, which is quoted here, do you know what figure you will find? The eunuch. And I encourage you to read that section on your Lord's Day. But there, eunuchs are lamenting that they are separated from God and unclean. But God admonishes the eunuchs and says that in a certain time the Lord will not separate them from his people. That instead Yahweh has plans to make the outcast, to make the unclean, and even the enemies, to give them, and this is right from Isaiah chapter 56, verse 5, he will give them a place in his house. You see The significance of that when we're talking about concentric circles working out in the temple? He will give him a place in his house and within his walls, and listen to this: better than that of sons and daughters So all of a sudden, there's something happening in the cosmos where those who are considered unclean will all of a sudden have more rights by way of adoption than those who are biologically related to Abraham. And we'll learn about this in Romans as we see that it is by faith that one is Israel. And it is a certain kind of circumcision that Christ gives us. Well, that's what we see here. And therefore, this is the main point as we've come to this kind of climax and consummation. And pulling all of these pieces together is that God is gathering to himself, as he said in John chapter 4, worshipers who will worship in spirit and in truth God is gathering to himself worshipers, those who will order all of their life to his glory, and here is the big surprise He's going to do that even with his former enemies and those whom the people of God have considered unclean. That's the big news If you wanted to put it in a short and as memorable way as possible, what's really being declared here is that salvation one day may even be offered to Nancy Pelosi. Isn't that surprising? Yeah, I think it's surprising. You all don't look that surprised, but that's because you trust in God Christ is cleansing those whom the Father gives to him. And they are surprising. Which is why I use her name as an example. Now there are some lessons that we have to take from this in what God is deciding to do with His kingdom and not our kingdom. And those lessons are in the form of three P's that I want to bring out for us today. Lesson number one will be on the prudence that we have to exercise in light of this truth. We have to recognize the power in light of this truth and the positivity. So prudence, power, and positivity. God is gathering to Himself worshipers, those who will order all of their life to his glory. Some of them will be our former enemies and those we consider unclean. Prudence, power, positivity. Let's start with prudence. Now I say that we need to have prudence when we hear a truth like this Because of where we are as a culture relative to where that culture was. Luke is recording this message in part. Because the first audience to which he is writing is tempted to keep the walls up no matter what, and to never open the door, especially to eunuchs. You will see this struggle as we get into later chapters of Acts where they're refusing to still sit down and have dinner with Gentiles. There is a similar temptation here in approaching this man from Ethiopia. So Luke records this and showing in very in all of these authoritative ways, whether it's an angel speaking or the Spirit himself. That no, Christ is cleansing even these people. That culture wanted to keep the walls up. Now, you cannot say the same thing about our culture today Which is why we have got to enter into this truth about what God is doing in His kingdom with the unclean with prudence. The church today can take this message and collapse all walls all barriers to the outside world. We can just say, you look at this passage, open the door. Open door policy for everybody. And that is not prudent. It only takes into account one thing that God has revealed to us and not all of the things that God has revealed to us. We must remember that even in the face of this truth, those who are outside of the kingdom are still enemies of the kingdom until they are not. And that is a prudent declaration. Since I already mentioned one politician's name, just let me keep going. Okay? Just let me keep going this morning. I'm not saying this in disrespect at all. I'm just seeking to give specific application to things. So for example, I think Stuart Pittman is a good example for us this morning Because we tend to lend our hearts to him as if we can just have an open door policy. But we have to declare that he is in fact our enemy. So Jesus tells us to pray for him, like Mark said, that he would receive salvation. And if we are to bring blessing to him because you are, in a sense, to love your enemies in a very specific way. But it would be prudent for you to remember, even in the light of what has been told to us in this passage, would it not be prudent for you to remember that he still supports the killing of babies at the Planned Parenthood on West Street I saw him at the ribbon cutting in the newspaper. And he is the one who still commended the decision for transvestites to read to our children stories in the local library. So I just want you to to take a look at this and say this is a situation you have to actually live within. So how are you supposed to apply what Christ has told us here in Acts 8 to this specific situation. You just want an open door policy? You just want to send all your kids to the library? Not on that day. So the bottom line is that Pittman is an enemy, and the way that the scriptures talk about him is that he's a wolf or he's a fox like Herod. Because fox, they know how to get into the chicken coop, they're wise. And that is in their nature. You know what a wolf is like? You know what a fox is like? Do you know what they like? They like to eat sheep. Guess what you are? Well, this brings in our main point of the passage. But it takes it within a context of prudence. Christ has the freedom. Here it is, right here. This is similar to what's going on for this original audience. Christ has the freedom to make Pittman a sheep. He has the freedom to wash him and cleanse him as he repents from his sins It will all of the ways in which he has ruled to contribute to the death of babies at Planned Parenthood, or all of the damage that he has done by putting transvestites in a position of leadership. Will be, if Christ chooses to, they will be cleansed from him. He will be taken from a place of disorder and made ordered, and you will be in a position where you will need to call him my brother. Now that is Christ's prerogative. But here's where prudence comes in. In the meantime, he's still a fox. And you can go ahead, I'm giving you a specific example, and you can generalize that out to other people within your life, and each relationship needs to be taken case by case. case and you need to use wisdom and not a pancake recipe. But I think even in the light of this truth, we must keep prudence in mind. Now that's pretty that's prudential. Now let's move into power. It connects very easily with what I've already said. Briefly, in preparation for next week, when we see Saul turn to Paul. I want you to notice also in this passage that God has all power to choose whoever he wants to cleanse and to adopt It should just be right in front of your face that this is not an example of someone voluntarily entering the kingdom in the way that you and I think about voluntary You and I think about taking voluntary actions in like, well, do I want the uh 1080p version of the Netflix subscription, or would I like the 4K Netflix? subscription. I'm going to voluntarily enter into one of those contracts this week. Well that's not happening here. If you look at verse 26, it is Christ who sends the angel, if it is not Christ himself. In verse 29, it is Spirit. It is the Spirit who tells Philip what to do. Philip is not coming up. He's not following a rule book. He doesn't know what to do. He's receiving direct commands. The eunuch cannot understand what's going on in verse 31. And so Philip, by Christ's grace, must be his guide. And it is Christ alone who is going to add any kind of understanding from Isaiah 53 to the faith that he has obviously poured out onto this man. The whole thing is one demonstration after another of the sovereign power of God and choosing whom he will to be cleansed by his Son. Christ decided when and who and where he was going to bring to this man, to bring this man to the inside. God decides our status. That's why the first point works, because if God decides the status of anybody, even if it's Stuart Pittman, you must submit to God's declaration And that's how these two things go together. As the passage in Isaiah would teach, God the Father would give the elect to the Son, and the Son will cleanse them with his own blood, or the offering of his soul as it says. Therefore, if Christ chose you and he cleansed you, then you better realize what your purpose is in the realm of this light. And we'll get into this next week. You think that you have a voluntary exercise of your agency in what you're going to do. But I'm telling you right now, when Christ chooses you and cleanses you, it means you're his and you're going to do what he says. That's the other thing that comes out of here with the exercise of his power, as you can see within Philip, following his orders one after the other, and the eunuch even obeying the command that Christ gave in Matthew 28 to be baptized. If you don't know how to order your life, then Christ will teach you, and we'll get into that next week. But that is all within his sovereign power. And then lastly, the last P is positivity, which I hate that word because it sounds new age. What I mean by it though is optimism. That's the third thing that we have to take and observe here from this passage, based on the truth of what God is doing. We need to practice optimism. If God is gathering the unclean enemies of every language, tribe, and nation, and he is If he is gathering even those who have been sexually modified, like the eunuch, and he is, then we need to approach the future with optimism. Optimism. It is never a doomsday for the kingdom of Jesus Christ. There is victory in Jesus. It's why it's our song to remind us of the truth. If Christ, let me just ask you, if Christ is the one that cleanses Who is it that would be so dirty that they could not be cleaned? The optimism that we should have should not be a general optimism. It should be specific because God has written in his book of life specific people. Who in N Runnell County will receive a message from a preacher that whether it is in these exact words or a kind of paraphrase where God will send them like Philip was sent Who will receive? Come now, and let us reason together, says the Lord. Though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be white as snow. Isaiah 1. 18 Because of his great mercy, we should expect that God will call many to himself Because he is merciful. And it says he does not delight in the torment of any. So we enter in with optimism. And that really is the great news that is supposed to always be preached. There's always supposed to be an optimistic tone to the people of God, especially on a day like today where we're celebrating the resurrection. The resurrection is optimism. It is letting you know that the victory has been won. With God the Father giving the Son a physical body which is continuous with this creation, it lets us know that this creation, in fact, has a future. God is not going to throw this earth into the dustbin or allow orcs to overtake it It says, in fact, in Matthew chapter 5, Blessed are the meek, for they shall be the ones that inherit the earth. And so we arrive at the question, is Antaronto County a part of the earth? Then the future of Antaron County is the glory of God. And you could do that with every town and municipality across the face of the world, because his glory will cover the face of the world as the water covers the oceans. We have every reason to be optimistic and to practice positivity. As it says in 1 Corinthians 15, verse 58, know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Well, those are the three. The truth is, God is gathering to himself worshipers, those who will order all of their life to his glory. Some of them will be our former enemies and those that we consider unclean. We must be prudent. A fox is a fox until God makes the fox a sheep We must acknowledge God's power to choose who He wants. If chosen, we must acknowledge that we now live for God's purposes and not the purposes of the darkness. We are also called to the positivity or optimism, and we must believe our confession, which is that every knee shall bow, even those knees that reside in Anoron County. And I end with 1 Timothy 6, 15 and 16. To him who is the blessed and only potentate the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, who alone has immortality, dwelling in unapproachable light, whom no man has seen or can see, to whom be honor and everlasting power. Amen. Let us pray.