First Timothy four, one through five. Now the Spirit expressly says that in latter times some will depart from the faith. giving heed to deceiving spirits and doctrines of demons, speaking lies and hypocrisy, having their own conscience seared with a hot iron Forbidding to marry and commanding to abstain from foods which God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth. For every creature of God is good, and nothing is to be refused if it's received with thanksgiving. For it is sanctified by the word of God and prayer. Let us pray. Lord, we are uh your creation, and you are showing us our place. You're showing us who we are and our place within your world. Pray that you would do that here in this passage. And And Lord, I pray that your congregation would take your warnings seriously in those influences that seek to take us off from your way of doing things. Ask these things in your name, Amen. You may be seated. Two weeks ago, we looked at the final passage in chapter three of First Timothy, and we saw yet another feature of the healthy church. The healthy church lives in light of its dignity and its duty. Its dignity is captured in that it is known as the household of God. Now there can be a temptation for us to not dignify the church because sometimes among her is scandal and she does dumb things sometimes. But I encouraged you to not bury the church before she's dead. Follow Christ's lead. When Christ pronounces the church dead, then you can believe it. But he always seems to bring her from the ashes and to retain her life. He preserves her uh even as we confessed this morning. So don't bury the church before she's dead. Instead seek to maintain her dignity, even the d the the one that is professed from God Himself. But there is also a duty that attends being the household of God We are the pillar and the foundation of the truth, and therefore we must carefully follow the apostolic teaching in heart and hand. And we must be willing to defend the treasures of the Lord, especially those that have been handed down to us about Jesus Christ Himself. You see a little song at the end of chapter 3 about Christ and what God is accomplishing through him. And may we defend such a confession and other confessions that we see from the apostles. Well, we continue on in looking at another feature of the healthy church, which I'll announce in just a bit. But before I do, let's just make a few observations about our passage. The first thing I want you to notice in chapter 4, verse 1, Is that this whole section is a warning. In verses one through five, it's going to be a warning to Timothy of what will happen more largely in the church. And then in six and following, all the way down into verse into chapter five, it will be a uh many warnings to Timothy himself and how he should conduct himself And the measures he should take to make sure he doesn't become corrupt. You can see in verse 1, now the Spirit expressly says that in latter times some will depart from the faith. Now that is a warning And then he is going to go he's going to go further into teaching exactly what's a part of this warning. For example, let's just ask the question, why will they depart from the faith? Why will they at one time be followers of Jesus Christ and then at another time turn their back on Jesus Christ and no longer profess him? to be who the apostles say that he is. Well you can see some of the answers surfacing in verse 1. And perhaps the answer is surprising to you. It says here that they will give heed to deceiving spirits and the doctrines of demons. Now I wonder if you knew you were going to show up to church this morning and hear that one way in which people leave the faith is because of a demonic influence. I wonder if you have that uh in your tool bag that you're aware that there are such things as deceiving spirits. But that's not all that he says here. Let's call that the ultimate cause of deception That Satan stands behind with his legions of rebel angels in a great deception across the face of the earth. Let's go ahead and admit that for the moment. What does he do more approximately? How does he influence people on the regular day-to-day? I mean, we don't often see the devil just showing up in our living room. I have yet to see that. I hope you have not. But more regularly, there's a point he makes here in verse 2 saying that This will take place by means of. Now, if you look at the original language, it's very clear here with the preposition that by means of liars And hypocrites, his deceptions and those doctrines of demons will become persuasive and will form cultures and deceive people and entire institutions. You can see this hands down all the way through the book of Revelation, by the way. It's it's pictured as the the whore of Babylon who deceives the nations. with her speech and the way that she looks and how she presents herself. And then if you look at the approximate way in which those things happen, it's just like local university professors, the local university professors joining together and professing a particular doctrine by way of the power of the university Being a part of the Big Ten and having a great football team legitimates them. And slowly they start to gain influence within the culture. But back behind it is Satan himself. They will be, in other words, those who have left the faith here on the day-to-day. They were misled by uh individuals that they ran into who were persuasive. They they were misled by a bunch of insta individuals who formed together into an institution and they lied. And they presented themselves in such a way to where they looked credible, but it was just a cloak in order to move them into darkness. That's the first thing I want you to notice is that there is this warning that some will depart, and with the warning he's showing us these two ways or two main influences in our life. Ultimately, the devil, and then more proximately, those whom he has influenced who are going to influence you, like an uncle. Now the second observation is this. Paul gives a correction to those lying and deceiving in his day This teaching that was going on in Ephesus must have been pretty serious and leading to further consequences because Paul decides to go ahead and give Timothy an idea of how you would correct this. Do you see in the passage what they were teaching that was wrong? Look in verse 3. They're forbidding people absolutely to marry. Now Paul says there's nothing wrong with marriage. He also says there's nothing wrong with singleness, and that actually if you're single, there's a ton of time to serve the Lord and your neighbor. But here they're forbidding marriage, and they're commanding people not to have certain foods within their diets. And Paul decides to go ahead and correct them right on the spot. It must have been doing a real number on the church for him to do so. But he corrects these two lies. Now, when you look at this passage, how does he correct them? And do you recognize how he does so? Take a look in verse number four. For every creature of God. And then at the end of verse number three, look, it says, which God created. Now, isn't that interesting that here we have again Paul returning to the creation account To correct these people and the wrong teachings that they're giving. We have seen this throughout the whole letter that Paul likes to correct the lies of these particular people. by returning to the creation account to get things straight as to how God truly purposes or designs the things that He or what He intends. God created verse 3, marriage and food to be received with thanksgiving, not for you to abstain or to feel bad if you are married or you're eating certain things. You're supposed to give thanks because it is literally a gift to you, whether seafood or meat or vegetables Verse 4, God created all creatures for our appropriate usage. And We should receive the creation as a gift and in a spirit of thanksgiving. That's the basic message here. Not as a curse or something that we need to avoid, like these teachers were giving. And he goes to the creation account for that. Now, here's the uh the last observation that I want to give you here, and I'll think well I think we've covered this pretty well, just these first six verses. The final phrase here Sanctified by the Word of God in prayer. Now that seems just like a super mysterious phrase, but it is just a summary of the argument that has been given throughout this passage. Sanctified here just means that it's been set apart for an appropriate or an intended usage. You don't have to over-spiritualize this text. God has set aside his creatures that they would be used in a particular way. So, God has arranged or set aside his creation to be enjoyed by human beings. When I have a Maryland crab, I do not feel bad about it. And Paul confirms this for me. He actually confirms it. That final little phrase within our passage is that this is proven By the word of God, that's what he says, is sanctified, or this is set aside aside, and we know that these things are hit all creatures are for our pleasure in the in the biblical sense of that That this is proven from the Word of God, especially the creation account, since that's what he used throughout this, and we should respond in prayer in prayers of thanksgiving. Somebody comes up to you and they don't really know God's intentions for his world and they lie to you. If you were in Ephesus, Paul would be equipping you and warning you and saying, relook at the creation account and look that he has blessed you with all creatures. You do not need to abstain from marriage and you do not need to abstain from certain foods. It makes you wonder if there was a Gentile issue here. You remember when Peter himself had to be convinced that certain foods were all these foods were okay. I wonder if something like that was going on there. And Paul was pointing back to the creation account showing, look, God intends all of this for you, and guess what? It's a gift. And you know what you do when someone gives you a gift? You say thank you. And you are thankful. So that brings us here to our doctrine. A healthy church has another feature here. And I'm gonna choose the broadest part here. But a healthy church takes scriptural warnings seriously. A healthy church takes scriptural warnings seriously. Here we're meeting with a warning, perhaps for the first time. And a healthy church is a one that takes those warnings seriously. Now, this is going to be easy this morning because I'm going to go ahead and divide up the application into two parts, and it's warning one. and warning two. Warning one and warning two. And we're just going to take the take seriously these particular warnings that he has given to us. So the first warning I want to look at is the deceiving spirits and the demons. We can't get into everything, but uh maybe you don't know this, but the Reformed faith has a robust, what we call angelology, if you'd ever like to do a study on what the Bible says about these rational beings. But we're going to look at deceiving spirits and demons, and then in um and then we'll look at the second warning in a little bit later, and that's titled Disorder. Deceiving Spirits and Disorder. Now, starting with warning number one, I we have have to be honest that if you just showed up at your workplace and somebody was having problems. And they asked you, what do you think is wrong? And you said, It's probably demons. Depending on what your workplace is Like if you worked in the government you might lose your security clearance. So so you are uh so you gotta uh Admit that it is strange to receive and to take seriously a warning about deceiving spirits and demon demons. If you were to do a survey on the street However, and you uh and you ask somebody the question, do you believe in evil? I do think that almost 100% of the time they would say yes. That's my sense of it. But if you ask them, but what is the source or what are the sources of evil? I think that these days most people would limit that source to nurture. In the whole nurture-nature debate, I don't think most people would be willing to say that people are born by nature Evil. I don't think they'd be willing to admit that babies aren't just innocent, for example But they would definitely say that nurture or through some kind of cultural or familial formation, people become evil. As Christians, we can agree with them on this, in part. They say that evil comes from bad parenting. That evil can come from tragic past experiences and that evil can come from poor choices, especially with poor company corrupts character. Those things are true, but we go further than saying that that's the only source. We don't say that you can just be nurtured or formed into evil choices. We agree that external influences shape and mold us and are therefore a contributing source to evil, but we also confess not only external sources the world But internal sources of evil ourselves, or what we call the flesh, but also a special external force, the devil. And you can see this in the literature of the Apostle John, where he says that what we face is the flesh and the world and the devil. And that really captures it well as to the reality of human experience. Now, this ends up being surprising to modern people, but I would remind you That that's actually modern Western people. Because if you were to look at the surveys, especially from third world countries They still have a regular profession and belief of demonic influence on culture But whether they did or not, however, Christians still need to take seriously what God reveals from this word from heaven. In the Gospels, we end up witnessing many demonic possessions. They may not, if you were to go ahead and have a conversation over time, you may not reduce those to just schizophrenia Or epilepsy or something along those lines. There's a real demonic presence. And even in other New Testament letters, the devil is a major source of problems, and it's not a metaphor. Take for example 1 Peter 5. 8. Listen to this. Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. Or consider uh 2 Timothy. Um the second letter to Timothy, which we'll go over after 1 Timothy, and it says this. And a servant of the Lord must not quarrel, but be gentle to all, able to teach, patient, in humility, correcting those who are in opposition. If God perhaps will grant them repentance, so that they may know the truth, and that they may come to their senses and escape the snare of the devil. having been taken captive by him to do his will. So there you're starting to get a description of a sentient being who's rational, who has a will, who can ensnare and trap other people. And that those people are not able to be unsnared or to escape unless God chooses to allow them to be so. That's how bad the blindness can be. Now, I think a question that we could ask is, what are we supposed to do with that kind of knowledge? Well, there's a ton of answers to that. How should we respond to the fact that the devil, demons, and deceiving spirits are influential in this world for evil? Do we tie garlic around our necks? Do we put a crucifix above every door? What do we do? Do we keep holy water inside of our thermoses? What is it that we do? Well, you would see all of that in the movies, where you'd have some kind of uh superstitious response to this, but when we look to the teaching of especially Paul We see some very basic responses to the reality of demonic evil. For example, if you just went back to those passages that I just read, for example, from 1 Peter 5. 8 What does Paul think you should do with the reality of the devil? You should be sober and you should be vigilant in how you conduct your life. That's what he says. We should, in other words, be watchful with our lives. What should we do, knowing that the devil snares people and holds them captive to his will? Paul says that there are a number of things that you should do, especially as a leader in the church, because he's addressing Timothy. You need to be gentle. You need to correct them. You need to have hope that God will grant them repentance, which implies that you should be praying that God would act and do so. There is no exorcism recommended for us. There's just these basic activities that revolve or tend to revolve around teaching and correcting people and being patient with them. So let me ask you, under this first observation, are you watchful and sober about demonic realities? Do you watch, this is what Paul will say to Timothy later, do you watch your life and your doctrine closely? Or do you put yourself in situations where it's very easy to slide over into bad places? Are you vigilant with staying on the path of righteousness? Do you pray asking God to deliver you and others? from the evil one. Those are some major questions that you need to consider. Are you watchful and sober about demonic realities Do you pray asking God to deliver you and others from the evil one, which is a part of the Lord's Prayer? There are so many things that we must be watchful about, and it depends on who you are as a person and the season that you're in. I've noticed that if you're young you have a certain set of things that you need to be watchful about that are not necessarily requiring the same level of watchfulness as to when you get ol when you get older. And it's the same thing when you move into even older than that. There are different things that you have to be watchful for. Some of the things that go span the entire all the transitions all the way through human life is I have not seen human beings do well. If they do not watch themselves with alcohol and prescription drugs. One of the first things that I like to do if we're going to meet to talk about why you're having such a hard time in life is ask you. How much are you drinking and are you taking prescription drugs? Because they can have such a profound effect on you neurologically and spiritually that I find that the devil takes takes advantage of that just over and over and over again where you have a hard time seeing any reality at all. So I'll just give that to you as one example. I wonder what other examples you've experienced in your life where you get you know that you don't want to do that because it gives a foothold to the devil. And if you know those things about yourself, I encourage you to be watchful. Now that's the first warning. Deceiving spirits and demons are an ultimate cause of people believing lies and leaving the faith And yes, they actually do work through alcohol and prescription drugs, for sure. Yeah, I'll just stop there. I have a lot to say though. Okay, but warning number two is disorder. So we've seen the ultimate reality, we've talked about it being a scriptural reality that's communicated to us And that most third world countries still believe that. It's the modern Western mind that's deciding to narrow down evil as only being nurture. And that's foolish. It's another way in which Western culture is just foolish. That's great. But here with warning number two, we're going to start to see the disorder that they c that the demons seek to cause by way of people that are in your normal life. Moms, dads, uncles, aunts, teachers, university professors, your mechanic, whatever it is This is the way in which those demons deceive. They deceive, as we saw within the passage, by way of, or in, or through liars, who twist especially the scriptures. And they disorder the thought and the life of Christians, which is directly against what Christ is seeking to do. Which is captured in Psalm 8, where Christ, standing as the one who's been given all authority, puts all of creation into order under the authority of God. You can read about this in 1 Corinthians 15 also. I want to point out a passage to you from a little book, if you want to turn there, it's called Jude. There's just one chapter. But this passage can enlighten us because it mentions about it mentions the fallen angels And it can help us to start to see and infer how they operate and how they like to cause disorder in your life. Now this is from Jude verse 3. Beloved, while I was very diligent to write to you concerning our common salvation. I found it necessary to write to you exhorting you to contend earnestly for the faith which was once for all delivered to the saints. You see, it's the same issue. In 1 Timothy chapter 4, people had been delivered the faith, and now they're falling away from it. And here Jude brings it up and he's saying, Yes, you've been delivered the faith, and I need you to contend for it. It's the same kind of situation going on here. Look at ver and then if you have it open, but if you don't then listen. Verse 4, for certain men have crept in unnoticed. who long ago were marked out for this condemnation, ungodly men who turn the grace of our God into lewdness and deny the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. They're denying that Him In chapter 3 of 1 Timothy, about Jesus Christ being the Messiah. So we've got the same kind of problem here. Now, here's a question when you're reading Jude. Are there other examples throughout sacred history where people have turned away from the faith and have turned others away from the faith? And that's what Jude starts to do. In his letter, he starts to then list others who have likewise rebelled, just like these ungodly men He lists, number one, the generation which was saved from Egypt, but then became unfaithful to the Lord, and then confined them to the desert for 40 years. Then he lists which is what prat preoccupies our imagination today. He lists the angels Who rejected their place in God's economy and became rebelling angels, or what we would call demons. He then lists Sodom and Gomorrah. Now, when he lists the rebel angels, he says that they left the order to which God had assigned them. And that gives us insight into how they operate when we look at the second warning. Demons like to take the order which God intends and then disorder it. and to get you to be the forerunners in creating the disorder. So God publishes a plan for what it looks like to be a mother or a father or a grandmother or a widow And then the demons and doctrines of demons like to come in and to twist the truth of the scriptures or do whatever is going to persuade you so that you would twist those things and you would make your life the life around you, lives around you and this earth a living hell, so that you too would leave your place and your proper domain just as they have done. Now, let's ask the question, what is God's intent for humans? Let's ask the question, what is your proper end? And let's Ask the question: Are those angels deceiving you into departing from that vision? They will work on you incrementally, getting you to accept little piece by tiny piece. Like a person who poisons you, but you could never taste the poison, because they only give you a drop a day, and then they hide your body in the attic. I think that's a novel or some kind of story. Now we saw this earlier in Timothy. We saw that these influences of liars and hypocrites were showing up from the beginning of this letter. What are all of the ways that you remember that Paul needs to instruct Timothy to make sure that he is aware of what people are doing in disordering God's intended purposes? Can you remember some? Were they not using the law against the proper way in which God had planned for his law to be used? What about the relation of men and women in the church? Couldn't that be why he brought that up? And what about marriage, like we see within this passage, its rightful place within human life? What about something as basic as food? What you eat and what you're not allowed to eat, and then does it make you a second-class citizen if you if you eat anything but tofu? Or vice versa? Does it make you a second class citizen if you do eat tofu? Or tofuki or whatever? All of those things have come up so far within this letter. And we can see that one way in which demons love to operate through people and institutions in our lives is to distort the proper good order that God has intended for his creation. This warning, therefore, would require at least one thing from you that you would know what in the world God intended. I think that's often why Paul spends so much time in the creation account. Because there it is. But you would need to know not just what things are, in the sense of the fact of their physical existence, but what they're for How are they supposed to relate to the other things within our life, according to God? And that, my friends, would make you truly wise. The wise person knows the interrelationship between things according to God's intent. This may be known through observation of the natural world. This may be known by the dictates of conscience, but it is especially made clear through the divine revelation which God has given to us from the prophets and the apostles. That we would know what things are and the purpose God has for them and that we would maintain that order and not be dragged into hell This may seem funny to you, but I think that perhaps a good way to remember all of this is to remember or recall the story of Pinocchio. Now, I would like to talk about the modern story of Pinocchio and not the older version of the story. In the older version of the story, which was an Italian folk tale, in the end, Pinocchio is hung by a bird and a cat and he just dies. That's it. Because he rebelled against Geppetto, and that's what happened to people that rebel against their maker, they die. That was what you would have heard then if you were in a little Italian kid. But we have a different version, and Pinocchio makes it to the end. And I think that can be helpful just because uh the mov it looks to me like those movie makers have something analogous in mind here as to the metaphysical realities we see in chapter four of First Timothy. I'll just remind you of it in case you haven't seen it for a while or flipped through a book. In the movie, it chronicles the adventures of a wooden puppet whose lonely maker Geppetto wishes that that puppet was a real boy. Now in part, if you remember, his wish is granted. The boy, Pinocchio, which just means like um Some people translate it as pine nut or it's really just pine branch or he's made out of pine. That's the point. He's brought to life, but he's not really real yet. There's something that he has to go through uh the fires of Mordor, if you will, in order to kind of get to the end and and be as mature as he could be, to reach his glorification. There's some kind of a maturity process. Now, in order to help him, Pinocchio has a conscience in the form of a cricket, or a grasshopper, or whatnot, it's Jiminy Cricket. Yep. And uh he also has an external conscience in that if he lies, his nose grows. That's brilliant, by the way. This whole story is brilliant. Now if he starts to violate that standard, right? Right on out. But interestingly, in the story, you find that Pinocchio himself in the modern story Pinocchio himself is the least of his problems. Mostly in the in the modern story, he's just kind of naive and gullible. The real problem is the world and the devil are against Pinocchio. And I would encourage you to go back and watch that cartoon movie and watch people turn into the devil Right in front of your face. I'm telling you, some of the characters become bright red and horns start to come up, those who are seeking to deceive Pinocchio. There's a lot going on with this movie. This is controlled by a main henchman, and he represents the devil, and he sends out other people who are to deceive him, and mainly by way of a fox. The fox deceives Pinocchio and he convinces Pinocchio that he should go to Pleasure Island. Here, as Pinocchio lives in a lie and seeks to find happiness by indulging in every animal appetite. Pinocchio and the other boys start to become animals. There's a scene where one cocky young man who's too young to drink has got a beer and a pool stick and a cigar. And he he says, uh what do I look like? Some kind of uh jackass? And then whoop and he grows a donkey tail. And Pinocchio says, Well yes, you look just like a donkey And then as Pinocchio is saying that, he's noticing that he's growing ears himself, that they have turned into what they have been practicing. The ultimate plan is that the devil himself using the deceiving fox, if you watch this movie, his ultimate plan, you can hear the henchman and his plan and what he's up to. His ultimate plan is to use liars and hypocrites to deceive the young children while they're gullible, to turn them into animals that he will just enslave for his own use and his own purposes. They will all be cargoed up and shipped out as slaves. Now interestingly, Pinocchio and Jiminy Cricket realize this and they run down a stony path and have to jump off a cliff. into the waters of his baptism, I'll say. And he is being cleansed of these lies. And now he may truly be able to progress toward being fully human. And Geppetto will no longer be lonely. He will progress toward being fully human and he will progress away from Pleasure Island where the only thing that was really happening was that you were losing your dignity. You were becoming an animal. And you were made for more than that. Now, perhaps all of us should re-watch the movie with 1 Timothy 4 in mind Both this passage and the movie are seeking to communicate foundational realities about the way life really is. That's what the Bible does. It tells you how life really is. As Christians, God is moving us toward being really real. Sometimes We are, as Christians, God is moving us toward being really real. We are on a pathway to maturity and glorification by the power of Christ's Spirit. But what Timothy is pointing out, or what Paul is pointing out to Timothy here, is that we have enemies We have the flesh, the world, and the devil. And he ends up focusing here in this passage particularly on the devil and those who work for him. And those end up being the people that are around you sometimes. We uh let me just ask you: hearing this story about Pinocchio and hearing about these realities, these foundational realities about human existence Who are the foxes in your life? Wouldn't it be funny if when they started spewing the same old lies, trying to convince you of the same old stuff that you just started to picture them as a fox or uh maybe as a jackass and then maybe you could laugh a little bit at them instead of taking them seriously as they try to ruin your life Do not do this with me. The deceiving fox, we have to remember, even though something different is coming off of his lips, he is seeking to enslave you. Sometimes we are invited to Pleasure Island. That's an example of what human beings fall for. Sometimes the lie is something else. But my main point, and more importantly, Paul's main point inferred from this passage is that all lies are a distortion of God's design. Now here's the problem. Your nose will not grow if you lie. If it did, it would make my life so much easier as your pastor. And it would make your life easier in knowing if I were lying, but it doesn't work that way. Your nose will not grow to indicate if you are on the path to happiness or on the path of deception, but you do have a conscience. And you do have a healthy church community. And both of them are formed and shaped by the words which God has delivered to us once for all by the prophets and the apostles. I am not sure what you are facing on your way to becoming really real. But you have been warned of the pitfalls which lie ahead, and that's the main point, right? That's our doctrine this morning. That's how this kind of passage is meant to be used. And may we be healthy people, and may we be a healthy church who take scriptural warnings like this quite seriously. May we really believe. That there is evil in this world, that there are foxes, and that they intend to destroy you.