So the churches were strengthened in the faith and increased in number daily. Now, when they had gone to Figria and the region of Galatia, they were forbidden by the Holy Spirit to preach the word in Asia After they had come to Mycia. They returned to Bethanya, but the Spirit did not permit them. So passing Mysia they came to Troas, and a vision appeared to Paul in the night A man of Macedonia stood and pleaded with him, saying, Come over to Macedonia and help us. Now after he had seen the vision, immediately we sought to go to Macedonia, concluding that the Lord had called us to preach the gospel to them. Therefore, sailing from Troas we ran straight to Samithras, and the next day came Geniopolis, and from there to Philippi, which is the foremost city of that part of Macedonia, a colony And we were staying in that city for some days. And on the Sabbath day we went out of the city to the riverside, where prayer was customarily made. And we sat down and spoke to the women who met there. Now a certain woman named Lydia heard us. She was a seller of purple from the city of Thyatira, or Thyatira, who worshipped God. The Lord opened her heart to heed the things spoken by Paul, and when she and her household were baptized, she begged us, saying, If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come to my house and stay. So she persuaded us. Now it happened, as we went into prayer, that a certain slave girl possessed with a spirit of divination met us who brought her masters much profit by fortune telling. This girl followed Paul and us, and cried out, saying, These men are the servants of the Most High God, who proclaim to us the way of salvation And this she did for many days. But Paul, greatly annoyed, turned and said to the Spirit, I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her And he came out that very hour. But when her master saw that their hope of profit was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace to the authorities And they brought them to the magistrates and said, These men, being Jews, exceedingly trouble our city, and they teach customs which are not lawful for us, being Romans, to receive or observe Then the multitude rose up together against them, and the magistrates tore off their clothes and commanded them to be beaten with rods. And when they had laid many stripes on them, they threw them into prison commanding the jailer to keep them securely. Having received such a charge, he put them into the inner prison and fastened their feet in the stocks. But at midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them. Suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken And immediately all the doors were opened, and every one's chains were loosed, and the keeper of the prison, awaking from sleep and seeing the prison doors open, supposing the prisoners had fled, drew his sword and was about to kill himself. But Paul called with a loud voice, saying, Do yourself no harm, for we are all here. Then he called for a light, ran in, and fell down trembling before Paul and Silas. And he brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? So they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved, you and your household. Then they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house. And he took them the same hour of the night and washed their stripes. And immediately he and his family were baptized Now, when he had brought them into his house and set food before them, and he rejoiced, having believed in God with all his household And when it was day the magistrate sent the officers, saying, Let those men go. So the keeper of the prison reported these words to Paul, saying, The magistrates have sent to let you go. Now therefore depart and go in peace. But Paul said to them, They have beaten us openly, uncondemned Romans, and have thrown us into prison. And now do they put us out secretly? No, indeed. Let them come themselves and get us out And the officers told these words to the magistrates, and they were afraid when they heard that they were Romans. Then they came and pleaded with them and brought them out and asked them to depart from the city So they went out of the prison and entered the house of Lydia. And when they had seen the brethren, they encouraged them and departed. Let us pray. Father is so much here. We thank you for all of the wisdom that you give to us that is a mark once again of how good you are as a shepherd to us. We pray, Lord, that you would help us know more and more what it means to be the church, what it means to live the Christian life that you have given to us. especially as we see Lydia. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated Last week we witnessed this wisdom of a church council. Over several years, through experience and the study of God's Word, the church grew in wisdom. They came to realize what Christ was doing in their time and place, and they made the commitments and the sacrifices necessary to join Christ in his work. And it is no different today. The church is growing in the same kind of wisdom, and Christ will call his people to walk alongside of him and his work that he's doing in our generation. That included sacrifices for them, like Timothy's sacrifice of circumcision, and though we did not look at the passage directly the sacrifice made when Paul and Barnabas went in different directions, one with Silas and the other with John Mark. When Paul and Barnabas parted ways, surely, despite their dissension, for that moment, they were informed by the Christian wisdom which Christ had been building in them both. Let's do what it takes to spread the gospel. And so they went their ways. This week We look at another important and instructive example, and we're really going to focus. There was a lot of detail in all that I read to you, many different things that we could focus upon, but we're just going to look at Lydia She starts us off in the beginning there, and she ends us. She's a kind of bookmark, and bookends, and she is in contrast to the slave girl who made her master's prophet. So we're just going to focus on her this morning. I want you to notice a few details as we arrive at robust scriptural teaching from observing Lydia. I want you to remember first a lesson that we learn over and over again as we read the scriptures. We must remember that the general statement that Paul gives about all of Scripture tells us how to read this scripture also. It tells us that we are to that the scriptures are meant to instruct us, to reprove us, to admonish us, all of the scriptures, even the stories, even the Old Testament stories. And when we learn that that's how the scriptures are to be used, as we read in the letters to Timothy, we can begin to see that certain biblical characters. are not just historical, though they are historical, they are also paradigms for instruction as to what Christ is doing and what he requires of us to do. For example, do you remember Tabitha from chapter 9, starting in verse 36? Her other name was Dorcas, but Tabitha we used to connect her to what Christ was doing. She is an example of all believers, to all believers as to the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. She was an example of his grace to her local community at that time. Her death meant a great deal of tragedy for the widows in the area. For example, because she gave them so much. Tabitha was a source of life for the widows, and therefore became a threat to the lives of many. Christ raised her from the dead for the sake of that community, and as a general instruction to us all, that our rebirth or resurrection from the dead Is for the sake of Christ's glory in how we help each other in community. That was her example. Well, you have another one in front of you, and her name is Lydia. She is not just a historical example. She is not less than that, though. She is a paradigm for all Christians. That's the first observation that Lydia, don't just glance right over her. She's very important. Christ wants you to see her as an example and paradigm. Number two, second observation. You can see the kind of paradigm Lydia is by paying attention to the similarities between her and other scripture references. She is a paradigm just like many other women in the scriptures are paradigms. Notice the connection, for example, between Lydia and Proverbs chapter 31. Lydia is a seller of purple, which means that she is essentially a small businesswoman within the infrastructure of the household, because that's how the economy worked in that day. Her business success permits her household to thrive and her husband to rule the city in righteousness if she has one. If not, it just allows other people, if she's a widow, then it allows other people around her to thrive because of her success. You can see in Acts chapter 16, verse 14, she's a seller of purple. And then when we get into Proverbs chapter 31, verses 22 through 25, we find that there is the same kind of occupation by the woman there. She makes tapestry for herself. Her clothing is fine linen and purple. Her husband is known in the gates when he sits among the elders of the land. Strength and honor are her clothing, she shall rejoice in time to come. Even if Lydia does not have a physical husband right there on the spot during that prayer meeting or back at the house Her husband certainly is, after her faithful receiving of the words of Paul, her husband has become Christ and shall be fruitful for him in her city and town, in the same way that we see here with Proverbs 31. And again, this is in contrast to the slave girl who is fruitful or profitable for a different group of people. You can see two different visions of life going on here. Well, it mentions also in Acts chapter sixteen, verse forty, so they went out of the prison and entered the house of Lydia And when they had seen the brethren, they encouraged them and departed. And this is very similar to the woman that we see in Proverbs 31. She extends her hand to the poor. Yes, she reaches out her hands to the needy. Now, if you were to go ahead and start studying the scriptures and looking at all of the different women which are commended, you would see quite clearly that Lydia does not just stick with similarities to the woman in Proverbs. But to all of those women. They all have essentially the same marks. We could continue connecting, in other words, Lydiot to Eve We could connect her to Ruth. We could connect her to Rachel. We could connect her to Sarah. We could connect her to so many examples. That's what's going on here. You need to see her as a type of woman who is like those women who are commended for their godliness and profitableness. That's the second observation. Third, Luke really just drops the whole thing on your lap. By summarizing what Lydia is and what all Christians should endeavor to be in verses 14 through 15. It says this. The Lord opened her heart to heed the things spoken by Paul. And when she and her household were baptized, she begged us, saying, If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come to my house and stay. And so she persuaded us. Those words are so much bigger than the space the sentences take up. The Lord opened her heart to receive Paul's message by faith. Her faith is immediately expressed in faithfulness in the form of hospitality. for the household of faith, and will continue that way when they are released from prison. She will become a center, and her home will be a center of profit and life for the church. Her faithfulness, in other words, ends up being fruitfulness for the advance of Christ's kingdom This really is what Luke is portraying to us. And if you had to boil it all down, that summary that he gives us there at the end of her. It would be this. Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ results in faithfulness, and faithfulness is fruitfulness. There is insight that he gives us this morning, our Lord Jesus Christ, into what it means to be the church and what it means to be individuals in the church. Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ results in faithfulness, and faithfulness is fruitfulness. Well, what I would like to do is I want to first develop this a little bit more in seeing that women have always been a picture of the fruitfulness of the church. And then, did I get an amen already on that? That's great. And then I want you to see that uh it's not just about women, but that women end up being a a a symbol for the whole church. Therefore, we are all called to fruitfulness. Let's begin, though, by just looking and re-establishing this first truth. Woman is a picture of fruitfulness. The church is to learn from her. The woman has always been a picture of fruitfulness. The body of the woman, as presented in Leviticus, for example, is meant to symbolize what God intends for human life. And I would love to get into that with you sometime. You'll have to leave your middle school humor at home. But there is a great deal of rich scriptural teaching in just looking at the symbolism of the woman's body. The difference in a w differences in a woman's body from a man's are meant to communicate fruitfulness and the giving of life, which is why Eve, for example, is called the mother of the living, and the glory of man. The scriptures don't downplay beauty. There are plenty of remarks in the scriptures about physical beauty. If you were to read the Song of Songs, you will blush at the beauty. And the sensuality. But that is not the total picture. The total picture is one of fruitfulness. And actually, if we look at the scriptures, fruitfulness ends up being more glorious. than physical beauty alone. This is quite counter-cultural, but listen, for example, to the wisdom the scriptures give us. on seeing the meaning and the glory and the fruitfulness of woman as exemplary. Do not let your adornment be merely outward arranging the hair, wearing gold, or putting on fine apparel. Rather, let it be the hidden person of the heart, with the incorruptible beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is very precious in the sight of God. Here is another picture. This is a picture of how woman symbolizes in her body and in her fruitfulness the very end of all of creation in the church. This is from Revelation 19, 7 through 8. Let us be glad and rejoice and give him glory. For the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his wife has made herself Ready. Picture the bride. The door is swinging open, and we see her in her beauty. And the bl and the sentence continues. And to her it was granted to be arrayed in fine linen, clean and bright. For the fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints. And that, of course, it is summarized at the end of Proverbs chapter 31. Charm is deceitful, and beauty is passing, but a woman who fears the Lord shall be praised. And those are bookends in the book of Proverbs, by the way, and their book ends in Proverbs 31 itself, where we see what it looks like to fear the Lord in her industriousness. Her profitability, her usefulness, her success overflowing to the community. She buys a field, which means she knows how to invest on her own. She doesn't even text her husband to ask permission She didn't have to take out a mortgage because she saved. That's what it would mean in that case. Between her and her husband, they are great trees giving fruit to the whole land. She surely fears the Lord, and surely that is held up as glorious, even more so, as you can see the comparison, than physical beauty. Recently, we got a chance to see, my family and I got a chance to see a great contrast between the vision of woman. And what it means for society versus another vision of woman in a different society because we traveled to an Amish community to pick up our little Australian Shepherd puppy. Which is why if I've been looking tired, that's what's going on. We have a baby again. We saw a contrast though between the women that were there and the women that we would see within our culture And it wasn't just on the outside. You could see that there were two different visions of reality of what life is meant to be. They did not try to find importance and glory through emphasizing their sensuality, for example. Though in the right context, I'm sure that that too is their glory. This is what we saw. There were men out in the field cutting corn. And she would go pick up the corn and take it to the farm. But you wouldn't believe what she was using to pick up the corn. It was a large wooden platform, probably 30 feet long, maybe longer, by 20 feet long, maybe 15 feet long. on wagon wheels that they had themselves made. She was standing there holding three leather straps, or six, because there was two on each of the three horses And she was controlling, and these horses were as large, if not larger, than Clydesdale's. She would pick up the corn and then turn the horses and take it back to the farm, and another group of people would offload it. She was truly a woman. There were others where we picked up our puppy, had small children, older children, some playing when they were younger, some were working. What we ended up seeing there is I just looked out at the how well kept the farms were, at all of the work that was being done by just her simple presence. In the community. She truly was a mother of the life there. Everywhere you looked, the fruit of her body was subduing the earth. Now I'm of course not encouraging us to be Amish. I'd like them to become Christian. But it was a great contrast. It was great enough for me to say, hey girls, because the girls were sitting there. Hey girls, that's a real woman right there. One of my goals is for my girls to be so strong in the Lord, and so strong in how they can subdue the earth that no weak man would dare ever approach them. They would be intimidated Well, that's a good contrast for us in seeing a different vision for a woman because our culture does not show a woman's glory and honor usually in that way. It is narrowed down just to the sensual and the pornographic. The scriptures, however, say that a woman's honor and glory should primarily be her fruitfulness in community. I read you the verses. Our world says that you are valuable as an object of lust. And the question that you have to ask this morning, just as we start off with the vision of woman, that we could get to the vision of the church and what everyone is supposed to do, because that's how you do it. Which vision do you really support? What vision do you support? And the way that you view and present yourself as a woman. Some of you can answer that with a very clear conscience, and you can say. I support biblical reality. Through the grace of Jesus Christ, he has made me as a woman to be very fruitful. And I see myself becoming more and more fruitful in Christ every year. And I say yes and amen. I see it also. And so I say this to you: those of you who aren't struggling with supporting the biblical reality Who do, in fact, have a desire to be fruitful for Christ, and you're working it out, and we can see it all in the fruit and labors of your hands. I say this to you: please be careful that you do not overdo it. Please be careful that you do not overdo it. That woman in the Amish community didn't put all the corn on her back. She used three horses. Do not overdo it. I planted some peach trees this past year in my COVID stupor And I read in a book I bought in my COVID stupor that I should only let two peaches come to maturity on each branch of the peach tree. The reason being is because a tree can only produce so much at certain stages within its life and during certain seasons. So if you would actually like to have mature fruit that is delicious, you can't just let all the fruit grow on the tree. You've got to prune. So what this ends up meaning is that I had to prune about five different peaches per branch. It broke my heart But again, the promise was that when I do, the two that are left on each branch can grow into delicious mature fruit. And I'm being realistic because the tree honestly cannot support more than that. Well, women, you are the peach tree. In other words, you are called not to save the world, but to just work within your means. And I would encourage you to those of you who are already dedicated to Christ's vision for fruitfulness. That you would settle for a little fruit on each branch of your life, and that you would be thankful. Well, that's the first picture that we get when we look throughout the rest of the scriptures to develop this idea that we see here from Luke. That woman is a picture of fruitfulness. If you want to know what the Christian life looks like, look at the biblical themes of woman. And now we can start to move into that having a picture. Is that woman is a picture not just of fruitfulness, but the fruitfulness of the whole church. This is not a sermon, in other words, just to women today. You can especially see what I just stated in the Revelation passage that I quoted earlier, that the picture of the woman is not just for women. It is a picture of the whole church. Her fine linens are the good works of all of the saints, male and female. In other words, we are all the bride of Christ. The bride of Christ are those through faith who have been forgiven and counted among the number of God's people, just like Lydia. Those of faith are faithful, and those faithful are fruitful for the Lord, each in their own ways in their different seasons. Now, what I would like to do is I'd like to talk about that to us as a whole church under the heading of conscience. We're talking about that word a lot more recently, and that's on purpose. It's very helpful to us in the life of the church. It is a gift from God to start thinking of things in terms of the conscience. When someone preaches to you and gives you a truth, like I'm doing this morning, what are you supposed to do? How are you supposed to engage with the truth? Are you just supposed to compare it and contrast it? To other things that are in your life? Maybe, but that would only be an intellectual endeavor. You must engage with the truth by way of your conscience and teach your children to do the same Conscience takes the truth and compares it to who you actually are. Not just do I understand the sentence. But it compares it to who you are, what you have done, and what your imagination is for the future. Conscience takes that truth and he holds it up against you. Conscience combines forces with your memory. They hold hands and they both look at you. Using memory to survey your whole life and how you conduct yourself. And then conscience, based on the information that memory has given, either excuses you this morning or accuses you this morning. If it is an accusation, then searching through and surveying your whole life by way of your memory, your conscience says, you say that you're a Christian, but you are lazy. You are not fruitful. Or if it excuses you, it shows you how this past week The Lord had graciously given you the good works that you had always longed for in submitting to his will and being fruitful. And our lives are a mix, are they not? They are a mix when we are in Christ. It is wrong to say that our lives are just bad deeds. It doesn't give credit to where credit is due, because Christ is doing good things through us, though they be imperfect. And it's not right to say that we do everything perfect because we still wrestle with the old person. So both of those things the conscience will bring to us, but that's how we must engage with truth. And here was the truth from the beginning. Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ results in faithfulness, and faithfulness is fruitfulness. So do the work of conscience. Do you profess to have faith? Do you present yourself to the world as a Christian? Let your memory join hands with conscience. How have you been presenting yourself to the world? And if you do present yourself as a Christian, and Christians are showing themselves in faithfulness, and faithfulness is in fruitfulness, then do you see fruitfulness? Are you fruitful for Christ? It is never enough for you to have some kind of intellectual assent or understanding of what is being said from this pulpit. You must always engage these truths with your conscience. If your conscience accuses you this morning, as you hear the truth about Lydia, As she stands there and your conscience accuses you and says, I've given you so many opportunities to be like her and you're not. And I would not let that run you into the ground to destroy all of your motivation and you collapse into a depression. That's not why Christ reveals our sins to us while we are in Him. He wants you to acknowledge the sin, however. He wants you to acknowledge that you have been hypocritical because you said you were one thing, but you are not. Confess your sins, and then as you realize the mercy that is poured down on you in Jesus Christ Begin to give thanks that you are not condemned and you will never see the punishment of your sins because of Jesus Christ And that he's not going to leave you in fruitlessness, but will lead you out by the hand to be like him. who accomplishes all things. There is no one more fruitful than our apple tree, who is Christ. Now we get to be thankful that He will never abandon us. We can seek repentance, asking the Spirit to give us repentance, to turn from our old ways in order to become fruitful And then you're going to want to start to ask some questions. Where, when, and how are you going to get started? And there is a number One question that must follow that. Who are you going to ask to help you? Because you cannot do this on your own. That's what it would look like for you to engage in that truth this morning by way of your conscience in terms of fruitfulness. Now, if your conscience excuses you, then go to the Lord and be encouraged. Give thanks that though you are still imperfect, he is making you into his image. Open your hymnal and sing him a song. Because he's making his promises come true right before your eyes, that you shall be brought to glory. This all has to do with Luke and his portrayal of Lydia before us. Lydia is not less than historical, but she is more. She embodies the image of the church. She embodies a robust reality. Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, we are to learn from her by way of Luke, results in faithfulness, and faithfulness is fruitfulness. We see in the woman herself throughout the scriptures just what the church is to be: fruitful and fine linens of good works And therefore, we are all under the teaching of the Lord today, not just women. And may he, Christ, who opened our hearts, just as he did Lydias, and judged us faithful, just as he did Lydia May we demonstrate this and faithfulness, just like Lydia, and may our faithfulness, just like Lydia, be fruitfulness to the Lord. Let us pray.