Would be in our midst by way of your spirit. We look forward to the day when we will be with you uh physically But we are thankful that you did not leave us as orphans now and that you are with us by your Spirit. We pray, Lord, that this certainly would be a holy communion. And we ask these things in your name. Amen. Let's stand for the call to worship, and then we'll sing our first hymn. Let everything that has breath praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Let's sing, sing praise to the Lord. Say praise to the Lord, praise him with the life, bring always name his word, the angels of God. You have an ill birthday, and you're shall be for the Christmas. Save praise to the Lord, praise the bigger, internal, and stay on the birth. Praise him who has brought you, praise, praise God, God, Lord, praise him who has brought you to sing of his life To make praise to the Lord, all things that is found means to the ground. Now or gets his glory towards his door, and stop his dog, story of God. Show me praise to the Lord and spare baby and start to give me help for all day so long For love, we send for the race, forest cross thou face the same praise. Amen. Our reading tonight leading into a confession of sin is from Matthew 5, 27 through 30. You have heard that it was said to those of old, You shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that whoever looks at a woman to lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart If your right eye causes you to sin, pluck it out and cast it from you. For it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than for your whole body to be cast into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and cast it from you, for it is more profitable for you that one of your members perish than for your whole body to be cast into hell. You may be seated. Please join me now in a time of confession. Lord, we know from your goodness and from viewing this verse within the total collection of your scriptures that you are not telling us to cut off our hands and pluck out our eyes here. But Lord, you are instructing us to take seriously the corruption that can enter into our hearts. And Lord, in addition, we know that just knowing who you are, you're not telling us these things to be a joy-kill. You're telling us because you want us to have life and that to the fullness. And those kinds of things bring death. We thank you, Lord, also, that you have given us this instruction so we don't make some kind of legalistic mistake, thinking adultery is only this one thing, and we ought not worry about our thoughts or our emotions, but rather your calling us heart, soul, and strength to you. Lord, this is also, given all of those things still being true, your love, How to correctly understand this, the purity to which you call us. Lord, this passage also is quite convicting for us. As creatures who love to run beyond the bounds of what you have established, especially in our sexuality Or even adulterating ourselves in loving things more than you in any domain. Lord, this is difficult. To hear, and we find ourselves all convicted by it. I pray, Lord, that you would be with your congregation now as they bring their sins to you particularly. different ways in which they have been adulterous to you. I pray, Lord, that it would be a time where we would become stronger and not weaker, as we are honest with you about our sins. Please hear your congregation now. We thank you, Lord, that we can freely come to you, knowing that as we are honest with you, you do not intend for our confession to be turned against us in horror, but rather to be used to bring us life. That is to say, you intend to bring about repentance from the dark and into the light. We thank you for this and for your heart, for your love. We therefore confess these things to you in your name. Amen. Our assurance of pardon tonight is from John 10. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. And I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall anyone snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of my Father's hand. I and my Father are one. Amen. Let's stand and sing together how deep the Father's love for us. To make correct measurement of great the wing of the God turns this place away as both which my God chose no Bring, bring the sons to glory to the whole man of one cross My sin apart with strokers a shame, I hear my heart before. I'm killing God. It's like that's what we might I know that the most killing things No gifts, no, no, gifts, the most game Jesus Christ. It's with mental correction. Why should I come in call? Is who make stone why should I be from his people My hand I give answer. My kids I know my heart. Amen. Let's open our scriptures together. to Proverbs chapter six. Our reading tonight is twenty through thirty-five. Proverbs six, twenty through thirty-five. My son, keep your father's command, and do not forsake the law of your mother. Bind them continually upon your heart. Tie them around your neck When you roam, they will lead you. When you sleep, they will keep you. And when you awake, they will speak with you. For the commandment is a lamp, and the law a light. Reproofs of instruction are the way of life To keep you from the evil woman, from the flattering tongue of a seductress. Do not lust after her beauty in your heart, nor let her allure you with her eyelids. For by means of a harlot a man is reduced to a crust of bread, and an adulteress will prey upon his precious life. Can a man take fire to his bosom, and his clothes not be burned? Can one walk on hot coals and his feet not be seared? So is he who goes into his neighbor's wife. Whoever touches her shall not be innocent. People do not despise a thief if he steals to satisfy himself when he is starving. Yet when he is found, he must restore sevenfold. He may have to give up all the substance of his house Whoever commits adultery with a woman lacks understanding. He who does so destroys his own soul. Wounds and dishonor he will give. And his reproach reproach will not be wiped away. For jealousy is a husband's fury. Therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance. He will accept no recompense. Nor will he be appeased that you though you give many gifts. Let us pray Christ, I pray that we would be hearers of your words, but not hearers only. We pray that you would make us doers. Again, you give us the mirror of your word. May we pay diligent attention. And may we, when we turn from it tonight, have embraced it. In Christ's name, Amen. You may be seated. Last week we were introduced to the final worthless person, the one who causes great trouble within community, and it was the uh the one who is most antisocial uh and we we saw that it was the troublemaker excuse me Christ gave us the portrait of the troublemaker, we were taught, for the benefit of his community. I actually got the opportunity to watch at least some of the Batman series, and I have decided that Joker is the troublemaker. That's the same picture. He wants the society destroyed. Tonight we have uh well you can see we go back to the uh topic of adultery. And so I'd like to make a few observations tonight, and then we'll have a brief application and we'll go into our time of prayer, and then we'll get Natalie some spaghetti. Well, please notice a few things with me. This is a pretty long reading, but I think you can see some pretty obvious sections here in the teaching. You can notice in verses 20 through 23 that the parents are doing what we've seen in each one of these lectures. This is lecture number nine. in the beginning of Proverbs. We have a few more left before we get to Proverbs as we usually think of them. Here the parents are doing what they normally do. They're urging their children to live within the reality of the fifth commandment. And now when we say that, we're talking about a thick sense of the fifth commandment, like you've heard from me before. It is the way in which we carry forward the sacred way of life. Given to us by God. He mentions in verse 20, for example, keep your father's command. And I love here that he also mentions, and don't leave behind or forsake your mother's teaching. Bind both of them to your heart. What a lovely picture of a household. Why? Because the truth is, we see here in these verses, if the child is attentive and it does take their attention. You can't just have the voice of the parents. There actually has to be a reception in the child. Because if the child is attentive, wisdom will act as the child's protector. Actor, giving them life. They are words that work. The words of the parents are words that work. He mentions, for example, in verse 22, when you roam, they will lead you. When you sleep, they will keep you. And when you awake, they will speak with you. In fact, the assumption in verse 23 is that life is like walking a narrow path at night. Full of potholes and ditches you can fall in. But the parental divine traditions of wisdom act like a light, verse 23, to keep children from falling off the cliff to their death. That's how serious they take their own instruction, and it's how serious we should take our instruction, both as those who are giving instruction and those who are receiving. Protect. That brings us to the second observation. The specific wisdom they plead for the son to accept is the wisdom which keeps him from the evil woman. Verse 24. You can see that's the main focus. He's very concerned about a youthful sexuality and the poor choices that can be made. Choices that will change the rest of your life. You can see that the evil woman is evil. If you look at verse 29, the greatest difficulty of this is that she is married. But she is seducing the young man to go home with her. in verse 24. And that's really the root of the problem here specifically. This is a dangerous path which leads to death. That's really The whole point of this proverb, this will kill you. Look at the images associated with the path. Verse 26. Take a look at that with me. A man is reduced to a crust of bread. That is talking about financial ruin on the horizon. Sometimes we hear in our culture, I'm going to take him for everything he's got, or I'm going to take her for everything she's got. Same thing is still present with us. You also see in verse 27 images that show the danger here. And essentially what he's saying here in verse 27 is, can you light your clothes on fire and not get burned? Answer: No. Then in 28 he does the same a similar image. Can you walk on hot coals and not sear your feet? Nope. So is he who goes into his neighbor's wife. Verse 29. Whoever touches her And it mentions here the word innocent, but the idea is whoever touches her shall not go away unpunished. Just like if you were to touch a hot stove. It's that basic of a lesson. That's the second observation is uh the specific wisdom that the parents are seeking to give and its danger. Then this third thing I'd like you to notice, perhaps we could think that they won't go unpunished Some sins actually, even though we sin, it invites sympathy from the society that is around us. And we don't actually have to suffer under it for very long. But this proverb instructs us that this sin is different. Take stealing, for example. It mentions in verse 30, a thief who steals to feed their starving family will gain much sympathy from his society. We actually see in Lay Mizerab the same kind of idea. But he nevertheless still has consequences for his actions as a thief. It mentions that he'll receive complete justice. That's the idea of sevenfold here. in this proverb. And the underlying question that is being raised with this picture of the thief is this, in light of the adultery, how many more consequences Will the adulterer have since society has no sympathy for someone who takes his neighbor's wife or husband? Even if society was sympathetic, it goes on essentially, this is the line of reasoning in Proverbs, moving into verses 34 and 35. Even if society was sympathetic, the husband will not be. For jealousy is a husband's fury. Therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance. He will accept no recompense, nor will he be appeased, though you give many gifts. This is all coming from the mouth of the parents warning the son to not go down that path, but instead to have the path, the true path. Uh lit up into walked down that one, not down the path, uh that this woman is calling him down. You know, a question you can ask when you hear a proverb like this is why do the parents give ins this kind of instruction to their child? If we were to ask some who are receiving the instruction, let's say in their teenage years or in their college years, they may say, at least with their body language, because my parents are annoying and cruel. But let me ask you here, at least in this case, where do the warnings come from? What is it in the parents that are causing them to warn their children? Is it cruelty or over micromanagement? Is it a mean spirit or is it actually a loving heart? The whole point of this section, actually, is that the parents want life for their child and they're willing to fight for it They don't want the child to give up the blessings of a good life for passing pleasures. That's the message here. In fact, our doctrine is this tonight: Christ loves his bride, the church. He does not want her to give up the blessings of their sacred love together for the passing pleasures of this seductive world That's really the heart that is behind this proverb. And the reason why I say that, it seems like I'm starting to launch off and kind of step away from the specificity of this passage. But the reason why I put the doctrine like this, Christ loves his bride, he does not want her to give up the blessings of their sacred love for the passing pleasures of this seductive world, is because I believe that Paul is using this passage in 2 Corinthians chapter 11 verses 2 through 4 to frame and talk to the congregation about their love for God. So will you Will you do me a favor? And as we go into a brief application, will you flip there in your scriptures with me and just take a look? I'm going to read it to you. We're actually a little ahead of time, so I'll read that. We can read that together. I'll read it to you. But I'd like you to follow along in the scriptures so you can hold on to this. This has become a dear passage to me. Yeah, thanks so much, Mandy. 2 Corinthians 11, 2 through 4. 2 Corinthians 11, 2 through 4. I'll go ahead and read it for you. I want you to try to see all the similarities right away. It happens, it happens immediately. For I am jealous for you with godly jealousy. For I have betrothed you to one husband, that I may present you as a chaste virgin to Christ. But I fear lest somehow as the serpent deceived Eve by his craftiness So your minds may be corrupted from the simplicity that is in Christ. For he who comes preaches another Jesus, whom we have not preached Or if you receive a different spirit which you have not received, or a different gospel, which you have not accepted, you may well put up with it. Notice in this passage that Paul acts as a parent. And look at verse number two there. Paul imagines himself as a you see the image? Isn't it beautiful? You see Paul is imagining himself as a father and the church at Corinth is his daughter. Isn't that lovely? The context is therefore a wedding, or at least an upcoming wedding, because Paul has betrothed his daughter in marriage to Christ. That's what it says. And Paul is looking forward to walking down the aisle and placing her hand in the hand of Christ. That's the picture. What a lovely picture. And therefore Paul is working diligently to keep his daughter the church pure. Well, what does that mean? It means that he does not want her running off with other men. And this is a real possible possibility. You see what it said there in the passage. Paul points out that the Corinthians are acting. like another bride in the history of the church, Eve, where the servant spoke to Eve. Same here with the Corinthians, false teachers have crept in and they're speaking to Notice the language there. A different Christ, a different spirit, a different gospel. It is a different seducing voice calling the church down a different path as opposed to the path that Paul the parent wants his daughter to go down. You can start to see how easily this overlays with Proverbs 6. False teachers speak to the Corinthians and both Eve and the Corinthians, verse 4, you'll notice the very last part of this passage. They are entertaining the thought and even letting them have sway. You could hear the daughter perhaps say to Paul, I don't know, I really like them. That kind of idea. And this is just like the parents in Proverbs 6. They don't want their son running off with another woman. The great danger, though, is that he would begin to listen. Both are happening here. Now here this ends up being there there's a several questions that end up coming out of this when we can see these two things going on, both in Proverbs 6 and in 2 Corinthians 11, 2 through 4. Let me just ask you again, is Paul saying these things to the Corinthians because he's cruel? Does he want to ruin everything for his daughter, the Corinthians? No He wants life for them, and he knows that the best life possible is for them to remain in love and to be loved by Jesus Christ. And that is the same heart that we see present within Proverbs. Verb 6. Paul wants the best for his little girl. He wants her to be eternally wedded to Christ. The question that we have to start asking once we see this is that what passing pleasures are tempting us to the path of curse instead of blessing? There's always these two paths. That's part of the what is given to us in Proverbs, whether it's a path that leads in the death of adultery, or any of the other paths that have been mentioned throughout Proverbs. Scholars of Proverbs say that the path is the controlling metaphor of the entire book, that it organizes all other pictures that are present. And I think that must be why the Pilgrim's Progress is really just on a path. They picked up on the same kind of thing. But there always ends up being these two paths with these two destinations just over the horizon, these two houses. And it occurs, it seems, like in our experience, we're more tempted down the path of the false teacher or the serpent or the seductive Oh neighbor's wife, because we believe that they want our good and they love us, and we don't believe the same thing about Christ or about Paul or about the apostles. managers. But we're actually witnessing the opposite here. Paul wants the best for his little girl. And it's the same thing we see with the parents. What passing pleasures tempt you to the path of cursing instead of blessing? And is it for the reasons that I just mentioned that you don't think Christ Christ really knows what's good for you. What seductions or whisperings of the serpent call for you to enter their path? I wonder specifically right now, what is it? It would be good for us, in the power and grace of the Holy Spirit, to resolve, to have love for our children. And their love for Christ as Paul did for the Corinthians, for us to be as jealous for them as he was for his church. For us to be jealous about our love for Christ as much as Christ is jealous for his love for us. That's really what you end up having here. It is a picture of lovers. Does it embarrass you to think that Christ is jealous for your love? Do you have the right picture in your mind when we talk about it this way? He is the loving husband who loves his wife dearly and wants them to have an excellent relationship. But you can see the problems that we can run into based on the warnings. The seduction and the serpent end up leading to death, and he's seeking to spare us from that. Christ and his call leads to life and he wants us to embrace him. Christ loves the bride, his bride, the church. He does not want her to give up the blessings of their sacred love for each other for the passing pleasures of this seductive world. Let us pray. Christ, we have many images from our experiences that really need to be changed because they are inaccurate about you. Lord, when we use the word jealousy within our culture, we tend to think of it as a vice. But that's a different kind of jealousy that's going on here. This is the jealousy of a loving husband and a loving wife, that they are devoted to each other. They're devoted so much that if one were to cheat on the other, it's actually quite upsetting. Oh Lord, that we would take our love for you and your love for us more seriously. I pray, Lord, that we would do so by becoming more attentive. To the words that you give to us, especially through these parents. I pray that you would help us to avoid adulterating ourselves with the idols of this world. I pray that you would even protect our us from adultery, period. I ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. Let's respond to our Lord's love by fittingly singing, Great is Thy Faithfulness. Let's stand. Today is why your blessings for Oklahoma Yeah. So I want to go every day into everyone so into the same thing. Stand stars in their voice. So I couldn't. Born in the wide warning, through Dharma sees I see. Oh, I want to go with a little bit. The library sound the ten thousand design. So I and Bangalore. Amen. And now receive the Lord's benediction. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. Amen. Please be seated