This Advent will be taking selections from the Gospel of John, the fourth Gospel, and so I'd ask that you would turn there. We'll be looking at John chapter 1. The preaching will, or the selection will come from the prologue of John, which is verses 1 through 18, but I'll just be looking at certain parts of that prologue for the sake of celebrating our hope and our God. This morning. Our services here consummate, in a sense, in our Christmas Eve service. It's a great opportunity for you to prepare to start inviting your family here. Children, I have already ordered your Christmas ornament, and I can't wait to give it to you. So please listen with me, John 1, 1 through 18. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him nothing was made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. And the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. This man came for a witness to bear witness of the light, that all through him might believe. He was not that light, but was sent to bear witness of that light. That was the true light, which gives light to every man coming into the world. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, and the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own did not receive him. But as many as received him, to them he gave the right to become children of God. To those who believe in his name, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. John bore witness of him and cried out, saying, This was he of whom I said, He who comes after me is preferred before me, for he was before me. And of his fullness we have all received, and grace for grace. For the law was given through Moses, but grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has seen God at any time. The only begotten Son who is in the bosom of the Father, he has declared him. Amen. Please pray with me. Lord Christ, I pray that you would glorify yourself. I pray that you would glorify the Father. Spirit, I pray that you would bring glory to yourself. That you would be known here on earth as in as is in heaven, I pray that those who have not received you or believed in your name that they would That they would become children of God. I ask these things in your name. Amen. Someone recently told me that one of their neigh the one of the neighborhood children was visiting And when they came into the home, they saw a Bible on their coffee table. And they asked, What is that book? And the the person who was hosting this This family said, Well, that's a Bible. And the young child responded and said, Oh, I've never looked at that book before. Which can be a bit of a surprise for us. Especially if you've uh been around for a little bit. That would have not been the response if someone visited your home. But it goes along with what the polls are saying. Right in that moment, the polls were seeing what to be true, and what they have been predicting as statistics are teaching that America has moved past Christianity. It was illustrated right in that moment that finally a statistic was true. And yet, when we drive around We see it seems like at least in every neighborhood, one family has some kind of nativity set out there. And so the story hasn't vanished from public. Life. We see remnants of it. Nativity scenes are displayed in most front yards. We find animals there. We find Mary and Joseph all beckoning to a story, a narrative that used to be known by the American culture that is no longer known. The book is not even recognized. And right in the center, right in the center of that nativity scene is Jesus. A name that is still recognized in our culture, but has long lost its meaning. And so, whether you are churched or you're unchurched here in this Advent season, on this Advent Sunday, we're going to ask two questions while looking at this Gospel of John. We are going to ask: who is Jesus? You may only know him from glimpses of nativity scenes or have heard of him. And what is he doing? Now, if your church that's been around for a little while, is Good for you to remember who Jesus is and what he's doing, also. And so this is for you. Those are the two questions that we see John is actually addressing. Who is Jesus and what is he doing? Let's first look at who Jesus is. One way to really understand someone's identity is to understand their past, which I think is why Ancestry. com is uh through the roof in terms. I understood Holly better, and perhaps you understood the people around you better after you understood their past. After I understood how Holly was raised, the schools that she attended Where her parents were raised and the schools that they attended. It all started to come together for me to understand a little bit more as to who Holly was Understanding her past. And apparently the same thing can be applied to Jesus if we want to understand who he is. During this season, Jesus's history will be read about in just about every church Christmas song. It's not about Santa Claus, but actually what's going on with Christmas. And so whether it's in uh scripture readings or pictorial displays or songs, all are relying on Jesus' history. to better understand who he is. And we gain those histories of who he is from Matthew and Luke primarily. Mary, a virgin, conceived By the power of the Holy Spirit. We had a reading this morning of Zacharias and what was going on with him and Elizabeth and John the Baptist preparing the way. We're familiar with all of these stories so that we can better understand But it's interesting, although no different in the Gospel of John, we do need to understand Jesus' past to understand who he is. John does Not begin his gospel in those typical Christmas stories that you would hear, or like the reading that you had within your bulletin. Glance down at the first sentence. It does not begin with a genealogy like Matthew would, and then go into the regular Christmas story. It does not begin with uh John the Baptist or Zacharias or angels or the regular Christmas story as you would see within In Mark, he begins really with John the Baptist preparing the way and then the baptism of Jesus, jumping late into Jesus' life. It doesn't begin that way either. It begins quite uniquely as the fourth gospel. He wants us to understand Jesus through his past. That's for sure. We understand people better through their past, and yet John begins well into the past. He begins actually before the Christmas story. Which is quite unique. And that's what we see in verses 1 and 2 here in the Gospel of John. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. That's John verses 1, 1, and 2 John does not develop. He only states these truths briefly, but he says that the word was God. Since the word is God and God is eternal, then the word or son is eternal. These are things that John just states, he proclaims them, he doesn't develop them. I'm not going to do that either. I'm just going to Going to state these things for you. They'll start to develop as we look at other selections from John. But that's the first thing that we see here from this past in order to bet to be able to understand Jesus is that he does eternal Eternal, because he is God. In verse 3, he says, John continues with more of Jesus' past. He says, all things were made through him, and without him nothing was made that was made. And we're starting to get a picture of this past. Have you ever heard those phrases together? Let me read verse 3 again, because that happened all real fast, didn't it? Here it is All things were made through him, and without him nothing was made that was made. And remember, verse 1: in the beginning. Have you ever heard those phrases together before? Have you ever heard in the beginning he made or created? Now, if you're familiar with your scriptures, Genesis immediately comes to mind. And that is what's going on here. John is writing with Genesis on his mind. It's perhaps more profound than that he's just thinking of Genesis. To understand who Jesus is, you must realize, you must turn back to the pages of Genesis with John's insight in mind and reread the account. To understand who Jesus is, you must realize He is the eternal Word who was present and active at the creation of all things. All things were made through him, verse 3. Without him, nothing was made that was made. Genesis characterizes the beginning as a swirling universe of dark chaos. The Spirit hovering over the face of the deep. And with this insight here, we're able to see with John that God the Father, through the Son, begins to create. Let there be light. And there was light. They called the light day and the darkness night. That's the first day And we know that this is part of Jesus' history. Let there be heaven, let there be the seas and the oceans on the second day Let there be land. Let us call it earth. Let there be grass and herbs and fruit on the land. The third day. You're beginning to to hear in words what you can see all around you if we knock down these walls. All of the trees and all of the grass. All of the livestock, if it were in the area. Let there be sun and moon and the stars on the fourth day. He filled the sea with creatures and the sky with birds on the fifth day, and he filled the earth with every kind of Jesus is by understanding his past. It goes beyond the Christmas story and back to the origin and creation of the universe itself. This is quite the finding in this version of Ancestry. com. You see what John is saying. You see what he's saying so far. He does not begin with the nativity He does not begin with the Christmas story. He begins before the world began. And he teaches us that if you want to know who Jesus is, if you don't know what that thing is, sitting on the coffee table If you don't know who that person really is in the center of the nativity, then you must start way before the Christmas stories of Matthew and Luke. Of course, we shouldn't forget the Christmas story. The Christmas story is obviously important because it's in the other gospels. John adds more for us, but he doesn't forget the Christmas story either. Keeping all that we have in mind about the creation of the universe through Christ, through the Son of God, through the Word, now read verse 14. That same word that we read about in verse 14 becomes flesh and dwells among us. This is the great mystery of God Of the Christian faith. Whether you know what's on the coffee table or you have rehearsed a thousand times the contents of the book, if you know all of the characters in the nativity scene, you do not comprehend the incarnation. You can profess it and you can declare it, but you'll never fully understand it. You can study it all the lived-long day, and you'll never be able to draw a circle around it. So John goes before the Christmas story, but he doesn't forget the Christmas story. He brings it up very quickly in verse 14, tying the past. His eternity to the present and the taking on of flesh. And the word becomes flesh and dwells among us. That is the incarnation. The creative agent of the universe took upon himself human nature, and his name is Jesus. That's the story of Christianity. That is our message. It comes off actually quite well in some of our Christmas songs. Consider Hark the Herald Angels Sing. I don't know why I just said that Christ by highest heaven adored, Christ the everlasting Lord, late in time, behold him come offspring of a virgin's womb, veiled in flesh, the Godhead see, hail the incarnate deity, pleased as man with man to dwell, Jesus our Emmanuel Now there's a lot more to say about who Jesus is, but this is what John says here in this prologue. We understand Jesus by remembering the Nativity But John takes us further back. He takes us to the beginning. When we ask who is Jesus, we of course answer in the same way that Matthew and Luke would answer. He was born in a manger by Mary, a virgin, conceived by the Holy Spirit. Yet, if we receive what John says, we add to that. We must also say that Jesus is the eternal Word of God who created all things: God in the flesh. Amen. And may that mystery remain with you during this Christmas season. But it's not just who he is, it's what he's doing. In fact, the taking on of flesh God taking on human nature is all for a purpose. Rob has already mentioned that the word will go forth and he will accomplish what he purposes. And so that's our second question here for John, as we consider hope on this Lord's Day. What is Jesus doing According to this prologue, John answers this question in verses 4 and 5. This is really high-level stuff here. This is the big picture that John gives us in the beginning. This is what it says in four and five when we look for what Jesus is doing. In him was life, and the life was the light of men, and the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend or overcome it. It's John 1, 4, and 5. Now here's the question that you have to ask when you get to these verses. Is John still talking about the creation as recorded in Genesis or not? Is it just a continuation of speaking about who the Son of God is in the Genesis account as the creative agent of the universe? Or has he moved on to talk about what he is doing now, not what he has done in the past or continues to sustain? What is he doing? Which would you put it with? The answer is actually yes and no. And that's the beauty of this with John. With the left hand, John is thinking of the word creating in the beginning. But in the right hand, John is thinking about this same creative power entering our world today in the incarnation. You see, we've already established that he's the creator. It's that the creator takes on flesh and brings all of his creative power to bring on whatever he is doing. Which is bringing light and life to this world. In this context, light and life have an obvious connection to the word Past or in the creation of the universe. He's taking Jesus as creator and making us look through the creator lens at his present ministry in the incarnation, which is fascinating. John is showing what Jesus is doing, and he wants us to understand the purpose and work of Jesus through the lens, the framework, and the paradigm of Jesus as the eternal creator. Now, like I told you, this is high-level stuff. This is the big, big picture. This draws a circle around everything. If we understand the work of Jesus in light of creating, if you took the creation account and you understood who he is as the eternal creator and you bring it into his work today, what would that sound like? That's what the Gospel of John does. And so we'll start to hear what it sounds like in the stories of Nicodemus, or him being the eternal bread of life, or uh many other stories. that we'll see. But here are some ways that it might sound. I'd be interested to see what you come up with. I'd like you to quote scripture if you could. God the Father, through the Son, created the heavens and the earth, right? Well, here's the lens. God the Father, through the incarnate Son of God, Jesus, is recreating and establishing the new heaven. And the new earth. You see that? That's what's happening here all through the Gospel of John, and especially in the prologue, as a summary of the entire Gospel. The Son was the creative agent in Genesis. We learn that That. Jesus, the Son, is the creative agent in the re-genesis of the world. When we read the creation account in Genesis, God speaks, and through the word, all is created. In the new creation, God through his Son is speaking again. And he speaks not into the darkness of the void, but into the darkness of the lives of men and women and children. And when his speaking is received, the darkness passes away, and light is born in each of us. In fact, John later, in one of his three letters, in first John two eight, says this The darkness is passing away, and the true light is already shining. I still think he's thinking about the creation and the new creation. In the beginning, the Spirit hovered over the face of the deep In the new beginning, Jesus sends his Spirit to hover over every nation, giving light and life where there was only pagan darkness before, or a corrupt church. Now, I want you to take a look very quickly at verses 12 and 13 as we think about this lens of looking at Christ the Creator and His work and what He is doing. I don't want you to be fooled by verses twelve and thirteen. But as many as received him, to them he gave the right to become children of God, to those who believe in his name. Who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. The way that these two verses could fool you is you could say, Jesse, this is way too highfalutin philosophical stuff But when I look at 12 and 13, all I see Jesus doing is he wants altar calls. That's it. Well, that would be a misunderstanding, and reading those verses outside of context. I still don't know if Jesus wants altar calls, but I do know that Jesus is seeking conversion within people. That he is actually making them from one type of creation to a new type of creation. That's very true in 12 through 13. And that he's doing that through his spirit That those who receive him will receive eternal life. They become children of God. All of that is true. But read it within the larger context. If you read those verses out of context, you'll miss the big picture of what Jesus is doing. Regeneration, which we see in 12 through 13, is just one sample or instance of the larger giant regenesis that Jesus. Is accomplishing. And don't forget that. You'll lose yourself and the individual, and you'll lose sight of the corporate and universal nature of salvation that is happening. When I say universal, I mean he's created new heavens and new earth. He, of course, does regenerate and give all those who receive him a second birth And yet that is just one part of his creative plan. He is beginning his new creation by recreating people. He is taking that heart of stone and recreating it into a heart of flesh. Who else has the power to create a heart of flesh? The new creation will have no tears, because the people of his new creation will be recreated in his image of love, joy, and peace. When those things are present, there are no tears. The new creation will have no death, which causes a great deal of suffering and tears. But this is or the old creation has death and the new creation will have no death. Paul says it this way. The trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. For this corruptible must put on incorruption And this mortal must put on immortality. It's first Corinthians fifteen, fifty two, and fifty three. On the second advent, when Christ returns to complete the new heavens and the new earth, we too shall be changed. from mortal to immortal. Just another example of the re-genesis that God is doing through Christ. Regeneration, regeneris regenesis, create the creation of the new heavens and the new earth. This is all what Jesus is up to and what he is doing. This is who Jesus is. It's what he's doing. In John's prologue, this is what it teaches us. Jesus is the eternal word, become flesh. That's one. Jesus is the creator not only of creation, but of the new creation. That is what he is doing. And that covers everything within our life And it justifies what we have done this morning, which is to light a candle of hope. If this teaching were any different, we would never be able to light the candle. Crack the candles in half. I would never even show up to church if this stuff wasn't true. There would be no hope if Jesus Christ did not have this power. If Jesus Christ did not have the ability from the Father to bring in the new heavens and the new earth, there would be no hope. It is only through God that we would be able to light such a candle and to celebrate hope. And I pray that whether you are a churchgoer or a non-churchgoer, whether you know what the book is on the coffee table or not, or the content Or if you understand the nativity or not, that you would begin this morning to place your hope in Jesus Christ, the light and the life of this world. Light in life is not just some sentimental imagery that our grandparents used to talk about. You can see in John's prologue that he's speaking about a profound identity of Jesus Christ and a profound work that he is doing. I know that you see much darkness on the news. I know that actually you see a lot of darkness in your own life and in the life of your family. I understand that there is a lot of trouble in this world, but Jesus tells us not to fear, and we begin in looking at John's prologue to understand why we don't fear the trouble. If the darkness and the void in the beginning could not stop God the Father through the Sun, then the darkness today will not stop God the Father through the Son in the flesh. That is why we celebrate hope this season. There is a new beginning. Jesus, the eternal word, knows how to overcome the darkness. We must be patient and we must Must persevere as he works out his plan. But it is for certain that he knows how to overtake the darkness. This is what it will take. When the trumpet sounds, he will say, Let there be light. And it's that simple. There will be light. Not the light of the original sun, but the light of God shining from day to day as his glory covers the earth. For in the new heavens and the new earth there is no more sun Because God dwells with us continually. Behold, I saw a new heaven and a new earth, John says in another letter that he wrote, Revelation. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. Then he who sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new Oh no. Let's fresh. Father, we ask that we would take these words about the Word, these truths about who your son is and what he is up to, what you are up to through him, what he is up to through his spirit. We ask that you'd help us to take these things to heart Heart that you would help us through tangible means of the sacrament. We pray now that we would see by faith the Word of God. Incarnate, as we by faith behold him in the bread and the wine. We ask that your spirit would be with us, that your son would be with us Glorified, that you would be glorified. We ask, Lord, that you would bring a new creation by faith. Amen.