Chapter four. And now we'll read to uh verses one through twenty-six. Therefore, when the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that the first time, That Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John, though Jesus himself did not baptize but his disciples. He left Judea and departed again to Galilee. But he needed to go through Samaria So he came to a city of Samaria, which is called Sikar, near the plot of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus, therefore, being weary from his journey, sat thus by the well. It was about the sixth hour. A woman of Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give me a drink. For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. Then the woman of Samaria said to him, How is it that you, being a Jew, ask a drink from me, a Samaritan woman? For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. Jesus answered and said to her, If you knew the gift of God and who it is who says to you, Give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. The woman said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where then do you get that living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob who gave us gave us the well and drank from it himself as well as his sons and his livestock? Jesus answered and said to her, Whoever drinks of this water will thirst again. But whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him will never thirst. But the water that I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water springing up into everlasting life. The woman said to him, Sir, give me this water, that I might not thirst, nor come here to draw. Jesus said to her, Go, call your husband and come here. The woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said to her, You have well said, I have no husband, for you have had five husbands, and the one whom you now have is not your husband. In that you spoke truly. The woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, and you Jews say that in Jerusalem is the place where one ought to worship. Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when you will neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem worship the Father You worship what you do not know. We know what we worship, for salvation is of the Jews. But the hour is coming, and now is when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. For the Father is seeking such to worship him. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth. The woman said to him, I know that Messiah is coming who is called Christ. When he comes, he will tell us all things. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He. Amen. Please join me in prayer. O Lord Jesus Christ, each of us sit with you at the well in some sense like this woman. We pray that you would give us ears to hear and eyes to see. Let us not just be hearers of your word, but let us be doers. Lord Jesus Christ, if there's anyone in here who is not listening to you, I pray that you would press your voice upon them in a way that is irresistible. I ask these things in your name. Amen. Of all people, Christians have hope That's why we lit the candle this morning, because their Savior is the eternal God become flesh. That was the first sermon in this Advent series, John 1. Any person or people may have peace from the sting of this world, from the great serpent of old, if they look up in faith to Jesus Christ the crucified. Look, look, look. That was the second sermon. And now we move to joy. Even the unhappiest, the most miserable of the human race. may have joy in Jesus Christ. That's the purpose of our passage this morning. I actually have four parts for you here as we look at this conversation This interview between Jesus and the Samaritan woman, a sobering transition, an appetite wedded, water in the face, and water for the unlikely. And I'll announce those again as we go through, just so you can follow along. It's just a way to divide up the conversation that he's having, to bring this woman to joy in himself. And so first there's a sobering transition in these first couple verses. Take a look with me at chapter 4, verses 1 and 2. Therefore, when the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John, and then it continues, it's a historical note, an editorial comment from John himself, but it is more than just a historical fact. There's a sobering transition that's taking place here. If you were to look back in the paragraph before in chapter 3, verse 25, it alerts us that the Jews were disputing with John, John the Baptist. And his disciples over ceremonial washing. If you look at the other gospels, the Pharisees are quite antagonistic to what's going on with John, and they are growing in their antagonism in regards to Jesus. That's the point of this. It's not just a historical fact as to what's going on. The other gospels portray this. And so the Apostle John gives verse 1 as an editorial comment. On the providence of God the Father in the ministry of Jesus. It is through this antagonism that Jesus transitions. He moves, or as it says in the verse, he leaves Judea. Jesus became aware of the hostile Pharisees. They focused their gaze upon his ministry, and it is not time for Jesus to Received too much antagonism. It's early on. He's not to go to the cross yet. And so Jesus moves or transitions from Judea to Galilee, and he has to pass through Samaria and particularly a little town called Sikar. Actually, if you notice, I use the word move or transition, but in verse 3, notice the verb. It doesn't say move or transition or transition in the NKJV. It says Jesus left. There's actually perhaps some significance to the choice of that verb. And so that's why I'm saying this is a sobering transition. Listen to one commentator on this verb, left. The general idea which it conveys seems to be that of leaving anything to itself, to its own wishes, to its own ways. and to its own fate. John's word for left, another commentator says, is unusual in the sense of leaving a place. In other words, there's another verb that you usually use for leaving a geographical location. It often has the meaning, in this case, of to abandon. You see it again in verse 28 of the same chapter when the with the woman's water pot. And there may be something of that same meaning Here, that Jesus has moved on from those who have chosen not to listen, but to argue with him, the one who has the authoritative words of God. as an eyewitness himself coming from heaven. In other words, those in Judea were largely against Jesus. And so Jesus left them to their own dark thoughts and ways. Now I'm not resting a case just on a single verb. That is a major theme that runs through the Gospel of John. And you saw that even in the last conversation with Nicodemus, with Nicodemus creeping over in the dark in order to talk about what Jesus Jesus says, that is to say, to hear something of the light. And that becomes a sobering thought for us. It becomes a sobering thought when you think of Jesus leaving a place Especially when you understand leaving in this sense. Our culture does not popularly depict Jesus leaving anything Seems like they let Jesus join in whatever they're involved in in their lives, but in fact Jesus left. You could ask about this nationally, for example. Ask yourself, has Jesus left America? That's a sobering question Has he transitioned from the borders of the United States of America onto the borders of some other country Has the United States closed its ears long enough and been antagonistic long enough that Christ and his Spirit has left? It's actually not a silly question. When you start to look at statistics, for example, there's a Penn State University professor who has written a I don't remember the name of the book, but he quotes some statistics and he says uh uh if you just listen to the the growth in other countries as opposed to america in nineteen hundred there were approximately ten million christians in africa And by the year 2000, there were 360 million. Do you see the same kind of growth in the church in America? In 2018. In 2025, conservative estim conservative estimates see that number rising to six hundred and thirty-three million And those same estimates put the number of Christians in Latin America in 2025 at six hundred and forty million and in Asia at four hundred and sixty million. He goes on to write as to you're going to need to change the picture in your mind that you have of Christians. It will not be of an American tradition or an American culture. It will be South American and their culture because it's becoming so thin and rare within the borders of our country. America may hold the smallest percentage of Christians of all countries in the world. And you can see this not only nationally but personally. And I'm just asking the question: has Jesus left? Because no one's listening. Whereas young men and women in other countries are devoting their lives, are giving their lives in order to follow Jesus Christ, what are our young people doing as they rise up in the generation? It is rare to see any young person place Christ as number one. They are more concerned about their Netflix series. It's a sobering question for you. It's a sobering question whether you're young. It's a sobering question if you're old. As you live within this country, and as you think about the fact that Jesus could leave It's a sobering question, it's a sobering transition. Has Christ been pleading with you for allegiance? And have you largely ignored him? So move away from nationally, think personally. Has he been pleading with you for years and years and years and you have just stopped up to your ears over and over again? And now you starting to notice you don't hear the voice anymore. Is Jesus leaving your own life? The point, of course, in asking the question is to not take him for granted. And what if he decided to leave you as he left Judea? It's meant to sober you up if you're drunk on your own thoughts as to how God operates, and that it's his job to forgive and he'll do so But I do ask, as we're asking these questions, that you don't give up on America or me or yourself too quickly. Interestingly, if you were to keep looking at statistics, God sent. 32,400 missionaries to our country in the year 2010. So God has Americans on his mind. He's sending people from other countries to bring salvation to us. And the message of salvation. Does that astound you that there are missionaries sent to America? Did you know that? Most people don't realize that. Did you know that most of them are from Brazil? And South Korea and the one of the top numbering nations for sending missionaries to the US is Palestine now? Oh how things have changed. Apparently, you and your children are the unreached people It's different to think about it that way, but praise God that he hasn't left. And he's still sending the spirit evidence by there being a preacher in front of you today, telling you about a conversation that Jesus has. with this woman at the well, getting you to perhaps sober up and to start listening to Christ himself. That's what he's communicating here in this transition. Jesus by his spirit transitions If he he can move from nation to nation, we see his spirit moving into Asia or Africa or back over into the States. He moved here in this story, this historical story, he moved from Judea to Galilee, and on the way to Galilee. He stops to whet the appetite of a Samaritan woman in a little town called Sikar. And that moves us now to our second point To an appetite wedded. To wed an appetite means to intrigue or to induce or to invoke or to stimulate a person towards something. We are very good at this. Do you know who I think might be the best in terms of of food, wetting your appetite for food. Those darn people that know I have four children next to me and I'm just trying to control them in Costco or Sam's Club And then they bring out the samples. Do you know what a sample does? It wets your appetite to buy the entire product. No one needs two hundred and fifty little tiny egg rolls in their house. But that's what they're doing. They're wetting the appetite. They offer those delicious little bites on toothpicks. They offer it to our children. Well the same kind of thing is happening here. Jesus does the same thing with the Samaritan woman in verse seven. A woman of Samaria came to draw water, and Jesus said to her, Give me a drink. He knows what he's doing. He is thirsty. This brings out Jesus' humanity. He's thirsty. He's sat down for a reason. He's tired. But he knows what he's doing here. He is wetting her appetite. That question, if you will, is on a toothpick. Placed right before her. You know, it's it's actually not fair to just call her a woman. It's the Samaritan woman on purpose. The emphasis from the Apostle John is that she is in fact a Samaritan woman. And she brings that out. That's the first level that we have to see in the wedding of her appetite. He begins to speak to someone that He no one in his position would have spoken to. That gets her intrigued to begin with. Look at verse 9. She picks up on this. She sees the same emphasis Then the woman of Samaria said to him, How is it that you, being a Jew, ask a drink from me, a Samaritan woman, not just a woman, but a Samaritan woman For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. Not Jews don't have dealings with women. Jews don't have dealings with Samaritans. That's the problem here. And that is what's got her engaging with him. And she was right. Jews did not have dealings with Samaritans. This would be an ongoing problem if you keep reading your scriptures. The Jews considered the Samaritans an idolatrous half-breed at best, dogs, not worthy of crumbs below the table. The Samaritans, in fact, built a separate worship temple and a separate mountain. If you look at verse 21, Mount Gerizim, there's a little debate in her culture as to where worship is supposed to take place. And this led to great, great animosity and conflict amongst these two cultures. It's one of the reasons why Jesus chose the Samaritan to be the good. Samaritan also to make a point. And yet Jesus does deal with her, and that wets her appetite. It's the toothpick and it intrigues her And it's just the beginning. Notice verse 10. Jesus plays with the idea of thirst and water as he sits on the well, Jacob's well. He tells her that if she knew who was asking, then she would have been asking him for water. He's tying into the idea of getting water and Pushing forward his identity, that she would think about who he is, which is what John has been doing from chapter 1. Who is this Jesus? And he's answered that several times. Nicodemus had to come to terms with it, and now he's bringing it to a Samaritan woman, not the professor of Israel. She says, do you have another well? Because she's not exactly getting what he's doing. Just like Nicodemus didn't exactly get what he was doing. And in verse thirteen, Jesus is essentially saying, Yes, I do. My well has living water and gives everlasting life. Whoever drinks my water will never Now she didn't know exactly what Jesus meant, but he had so wet her appetite that she, I think, with joy in her voice I want that water. It was probably deeper than just an uh, yay, the Raven's one, or whatever. It had to be something that was more meaningful than that. Yes, I want that water. Now that's the perfect evangelistic conversation, isn't it? I want that water. She doesn't know exactly what that water is yet, but she wants that water. Don't you wish people would say that to you when you said the living water of everlasting earth? I want that water. If you were in this conversation, just imagine if you were in this conversation at the well, what would be your next move when someone says, I w want that water. Well, church membership classes are on Sundays from 3 to 4. All you got to do is show up three times. You'll come up front, we'll pray over you, and you're in, man. No problem. That is not what Jesus does. It is very interesting to me in this evangelistic conversation with this woman that he moves from a sobering transition into wetting her appetite and now into water in the face. Not the water of baptism, an immediate entrance into the kingdom of God, but water in the face, cold, living water in the face, which is our next point. Look at verse 16. Jesus is doing two things here. He says, Jesus says to her, go, call your husband and come here. That's water in the face, brothers and sisters. He's doing two things though. First, I suspect that he is inviting her whole family to enjoy the living water because that's what he's like. He works with covenant families. Two, Jesus has supernatural knowledge of people's lives and thoughts. John has already portrayed this to us in the beginning with Nathaniel. Nathaniel was not convinced that anything good could come from Nazareth. Jesus then says, I saw you under the fig tree. And we don't have the details, but that was enough. Enough demonstration of power, so impressive that he believed that he was the Messiah and the Son of God. And he be took and he went ahead and he started following him like the other disciples. Something like that is going on here. Jesus is using his knowledge of her situation and saying, Go home and bring your husband In order for her to take the next step, for there to be this transition from this superficial joy that could have taken place to a judgment that would lead to true joy. The woman says, I have no husband. And here comes the cold water in 17 and 18. Jesus says to her, You have well said, I have no husband. For you have had five husbands, and the one whom you now have is not your husband, in that you have spoken truly. That's water in the face. And it's not often what we would think of doing in an evangelistic conversation, but it is what Jesus does Jesus comes, according to John, as the true light, and he shines his light into the most personal caves and closets of our lives. Randy mentioned that we're like rats or cockroaches when the lights come on. He pulls out the appliances and finds you and continues to shine the light. That's what he's doing here with this woman. His light is a total realism, and therefore it feels like cold water waking us to the reality of our existence. And some, in a matter of fact, as John says, will close the closet door. Some will put the c the appliances back into place and avoid the light entirely. They will make excuses upon excuses upon excuses To never hear a word from Jesus. But then others, and if you read a little bit further, don't cheat, but if you read a little bit further, there were many, many Samaritans. that decided to be honest about who they were under the light. And you know what they did? They repented. And they believed in a little town called Sikar. And that's what's going on here. As he wetted his her appetite, he then moves this water into her face that she would move away from superficial joy to real joy. And that she would start to become honest with herself. And I wonder if, and which of you this morning are under the gaze and the searching light of Jesus Christ? Only you can answer that question But there have been a million voices this week. And I wonder who has brought the voice of Jesus Christ to you? Who has brought his word to you over and over and over again, and you have refused to listen to it It's not light that he's bringing to you because he hates you. He understands that it feels like cold water and you'd like to be warm. But this is what must happen in order for you to enter into the kingdom of God. You must repent and then believe And that's the purpose of it. Has Christ been shining truth into the dark areas of your life? Has Christ been working through your church and your family to expose your darkness? You may say that it hurts. You may say that it feels strange. You may say it takes away the things that I love. Yes, that's all true. And everyone on the pages of these scriptures And those who know Christ have had to go through the same thing and still go through it because repentance is a daily exercise. It is a splash of cold water in the face in order that you would turn to Christ with your need. It is the same pattern that he showed just chapters earlier with the table flipping. He wets the appetite. And then he brings his reality of judgment in order that the true joy of everlasting life is gained. In other words, our icy hearts must first be melted with the judgment of God's truth, and then through repentance and faith comes true joy. And that's what he's seeking to bring here to her. And so that's a there's a sobering transition. He wets the appetite. There's a splash of water in the face. And then it moves into her, his offer to her, and then it eventually will be to her whole town: water for the unlikely. This is actually something I pray that you would ponder for quite some time. This is, as you think about the cultural situation, the fact that he's offering truth and everlasting life to this woman just blows My mind. The fact that he has offered grace to you blows my mind. That's really the whole point of this section. Is that he's going to give living water to those who are unworthy and who are unlikely to drink it? The Samaritan woman sees that Jesus is a prophet, and she decides to ask him about a long-standing debate in her culture in verses 19 and 20. You see, it goes back to that divide there between the Jew and the Samaritan. And Jesus replies to her question. He's still on track. He has a bead on exactly what he's doing. He's going to reply to her in three points, and I'm just going to go through these quickly. Verse 21 is the first point that he makes. The old locations and mountains are irrelevant. Worship of God will not be confined to any any earthly locale. Actually, it will overtake the entire earth. Because it's always meant to be his temple. And so he points that out to her. She can't see that yet. It will be revealed later. The new earth. It's just the beginning of his gospel, however. But he points that out that she's even got the wrong question. It's the wrong debate. Here's the second thing in verse 22. You Samaritans actually are ignorant and wrong as to who God is and what he instructs. Can you believe he said such a thing? Not always to God. Are the right ways. Not all people have true knowledge of God. Actually, some people have no idea what they're talking about. In other words, you, Samaritan woman, like all other non-Jews, are lost and without the knowledge of God, and your existence is in the dark. This is the reality. It's the second way in which he responds to her. And then 23 through 24, here's the grace, here's the kicker, here is the surprise, here is the climax. Of what he says here in the third thing. You are ignorant. You have no idea what you're talking about. You do not have true knowledge of God. You've been doing the wrong thing on Mount Gerizim all along. The Jews have the true knowledge of him, but let me tell you this. The Father is looking to make people like you, people that are confused and ignorant and don't know what you're talking about, people that are in the darkness, he's going to take people like you and he's going to gather you and he's going to make you his worshipers. That's his point. He will give you his spirit. He will give you the truth. You, if you're Irish, can you believe that some of you are the holders of truth for all of the world to see? Before you were only the holders of whiskey and beer and the Irish jig after you drank it. And think of it, just think back on all of your cultures, on what you're actually known for in your natural state. And God gathers you out of that. Some of you have addictions, some of you drink too much. Some of you are abusive with your words, and yet he is going to gather you and change you and make you into people that are holding the truth of the world. That's his point here to her. It's water for the unlikely. The Samaritans, if you could have read this in its original context, the Samaritans will be the holders of the light of God's truth and his true worshippers? Come on! It's no wonder they were asking, are you drunk this early in the morning on Pentecost? Maybe there's something there to that. Man No, they weren't drunk, and I'm not drunk. This is what it says: that Samaritans will be the holders of the light of God's truth and his true worshipers. This is happening so early in John's gospel. You can see this especially in Acts, the unlikely, the untouchables, the ignorant, the immoral, the dirty, the eunuchs. The poor, God would invite and gather the weak things of this world, weak things like the Samaritan woman who had five husbands and was living with another man, He would gather them and make them his people. That is the great climax within this conversation. And they truly this was to be fulfilled. In verse 39, and many of the Samaritans of that city believed in him. Because of the word of the woman who testified, he told me all that I ever did. So when the Samaritans had come to him, they urged him to stay with them, and he stayed there two days. And many more believed because of his own word. Just the beginning of God gathering the weak things of the world. We were a continuation of that, brothers and sisters. We began with a sobering transition as Jesus abandons or leaves Judea to its own ways. On his way to Galilee, through the Father's providence, he He sat and he wet the appetite of a Samaritan woman. The conversation kicked off. Jesus is the light of the world And so, of course, her life needed to be exposed. He needed to tell her everything that she ever did. And that would be one of the motivations for her to speak to the whole town. I'm sure it felt like cold water in the face But Jesus isn't cruel, and he doesn't do that for cruelty purposes. All his words were pushing towards his purpose The Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit are giving living water to the unlikely. That's why he brings it up Living water to the unlikely, like that Samaritan woman. Salvation is offered to the untouchables. That is the one great joy, or one of the great joys, of the Advent season that we must celebrate. And the reason why we selected this passage. To all those who lived in darkness, God the Father, through his Son and His Spirit, will make them His children of light. Do you understand the miracle of that? The grace of that, the intensity of that, that that is your calling, that is your story and narrative. Through the Son of God, we may have forgiveness. We may have light in our life. Through the Son of God, we may have our lives repurposed, recreated, remade. Those of you who have been confused, abused, ashamed, angry, bitter, in toxic relationships like the Samaritan woman, God the Father is seeking people like you. Can you believe that? It is a prerequisite that you would not have your act together. Everyone else in your life expects you to be beautiful, or they do not accept you in some way. They expect you to be smart enough and to be good enough. God the Father is not lowering his standards. He is providing a way for those who are lower than all standards to enter into his kingdom and to be recreated according to the highest standard. That is what he is doing here, and he begins with this woman. Can't you see yourself in this story? Aren't you confused? Aren't you ashamed? God is looking for people like you. And yet there are people like you who are so confused and so ashamed that you do not listen to him and he leaves. But I've already quoted to you, he sent back to you 32,400 missionaries so that you would listen again. Who of you here is not listening? To the words of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. May you listen to him today. I'm gonna leave you with a picture from Acts chapter ten, verse eleven, and the following verses. You're welcome to flip there if you'd like. I think we're all familiar with this story. This is Peter, who had a real hard time with the gospel to the untouchables, had a really hard time believing that the truth and salvation And that the title, Heirs of the Lord and People of God, was going to be placed over the heads of Gentiles. So God worked with him in unique ways. And in Acts chapter 10, verse 11, there is this story of a sheet coming down from the sky, and on the sheet are things that Peter would never partake of. He would never fellowship or eat these things. There were unclean things on the sheet, the food that the Jews could not eat. And he instructs Peter, take up your knife and kill. No, Lord, I would not. Have anything to do with this. Don't call unclean what I am calling clean. Now here's part of the problem is that we look on the sheet and we see dietary items and we think that the only thing that's going on here is that God's talking about food. But when you go on forward, in chapter 10, verse 28, it answers the question for you. The concern was not about food entirely. There was a greater concern In verse 28, Peter goes into Cornelius' house and chooses to have fellowship with the Gentile because of what he saw on the sheet. Through the atoning sacrifice of God, he is gathering all of the unlikely of the world. The point is not about dietary laws at this point in Acts. The point is that Peter should not shun those whom God is gathering. You and me. We are the unlikely ones. You, when the sheet came down, you could have been on the sheet. Your picture, your life. And God says, these are the ones that I'm collecting I pray that you feel the joy of privilege in your heart that He has selected you to be His person, to be His child. God is after you. He is the hound of heaven. And if you have repented and you have had had faith, he's still after you. Because you remember this past week when he shone light in your your life, usually through your wife, and then you just dismiss her words. He's after you. He is shining his light on you right now and and and begging you. With kingly authority, pleading with you is a better word. Give up the darkness. Repent and believe Begin entering into my joy today. Amen. Let's pray together. Please join me. Father, this is our great joy and we thank you for your wisdom in recording through John this conversation with this woman. We greatly need it. We can feel on the outside most of our lives. You have taken the black sheep of the universe, however, and gathered them into the center. We ask that as you continue to speak to us, that we would keep our hearts, our hearts, and our minds and our ears ears open to you. Lord Jesus Christ, just based on who you are, we should hang on every one one of your words. You are the eyewitness of the decrees of the Father. May we bow our knee to you in the Listening to every word of you. Grant this to us here at Severn Run. Give us that joy. And may many others believe As they hear about our Lord Jesus Christ, who told us everything that we had ever done, we ask these things in your name. Amen.