I'd ask that you open your scriptures now to the Gospel of John. We're looking at chapter six this morning. Now I'll be reading twenty-two through fifty-one. John chapter six, verses twenty-two through fifty-one. On the following day, when the people were standing on the other side of the sea, saw that there was no boat there, except that one which his disciples had entered And that Jesus had not entered the boat with his disciples, but his disciples had gone away alone. When the people therefore saw that Jesus was not there, nor his disciples, they also got into boats and came to Capernaum. Seeking Jesus. And when they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, Rabbi, when did you come here? Jesus answered them and said, Most assuredly, I say to you, You seek me not because you saw the signs, but because you ate of the loaves and were filled. But for the food which endures to everlasting life, which the Son of Man will give you, because God the Father has set his seal on him. Then they said to him, What shall we do that we may work the works of God? Jesus answered and said to them This is the work of God, that you believe in Him whom He sent. Therefore they said to Him, What sign will you perform then that we may see it and believe you? What work will you do Our fathers ate the manna in the desert, as it is written, he gave them bread from heaven to eat. Then Jesus said to them, Most assuredly I say to you, Moses did not give you the bread from heaven. Heaven, but my father gives you the true bread from heaven, for the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. Then they said to him, Lord, give us this bread always And Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. He who comes to me shall never hunger, and he who believes in me shall never thirst. But I said to you that you have seen me and yet do not believe. All that the Father gives me Will come to me, and the one who comes to me I will by no means cast out. For I have come down from heaven, not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. This is the will of the Father who sent me, that of all He has given me I should lose nothing but raise it up at the last day. And this is the will of Him who sent me That everyone who sees the Son and believes in him may have everlasting life, and I will raise him up at the last day. The Jews then complained about him because he said, I am the bread which came down from heaven, and they said Is this not Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How is it then that he says, I have come down from heaven? Jesus therefore answered and said to them, Do not murmur among yourselves No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up at the last day. It is written in the prophets, and they shall all be taught by God. Therefore, everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me. Not that anyone has seen the Father except he who is from God. He has seen the Father. Most assuredly I say to you: he who believes in me has everlasting life. I am the bread of life Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness and are dead. This is the bread which comes down from heaven that one may eat of it and not die. I am the living bread which came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I shall give is my flesh, which I shall give for the life of the world. The Jews therefore quarreled among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? And then I'm going to skip 53 there and just read this last verse, because I won't be covering that stuff. section in the sermon, verse 59. These things he said in the synagogue as he taught in Capernaum. Please pray with me. Father, what more can we pray to you this morning, but that you would teach us? Not Jesse Crutchley, but that you would teach us. We ask that you would do this, and that you therefore would be glorified in your election Love. We ask these things in your name. Amen. This season we are celebrating and have celebrated And our first sermon of the series in John, our hope in Christ the Incarnate, who is God and was with God. Saw this in the prologue of John in chapter one. We celebrate our peace with God through Jesus Christ, as we saw with Nicodemus. We celebrate the joy that Jesus is gathering the unworthy, as we saw within the Samaritan woman And this morning we celebrate the love of God, that He first loved us. And now we have been given, through the power of the Holy Spirit, the ability Now I want to set the scene here. There was a a whole section of the chapter that I didn't read to you because it was too long, but there's a scene here. And you've received a small picture of it, but let me just remind you of what's going on here, and then I'll tell you how I'm going to divide up this text. So this is setting the scene. You should remember, and you can look right in your scriptures there at your paragraph headings, that right before the section which you're getting ready to hear exposited, Jesus fed 5,000. From five fish and two fish and five loaves. It was a true miracle. He allowed the his disciples to participate with him When they saw his power, they sought to make him king, and so he withdrew. That's what the text says if you read back through those paragraphs. And so when he withdrew, he decided to cross over the sea, but he didn't take a boat. He walked on water. I think we've heard that. If you haven't, Jesus walked on water. Jesus withdrew to the other side of Galilee, and it was another miracle. There's actually some Happenings that went on in the middle of the sea with the disciples, and you can read about that also. But as he crosses over the sea, he then enters into this conversation with these folks. That's the scene. The scene is a miracle that dealt with bread. That's why there's so much bread conversation in the passage I'm preaching on. And the scene is also take a look at verse 59 After he crosses over the Sea of Galilee, verse 59 says that all of this he taught in the synagogue at Capernaum. So that's the scene, and I want you to be able to picture that. I've actually included a picture in your bulletin for you. This is from the Bible Museum And it is a picture of a synagogue. You could go to G C and you can visit and you can stand in this synagogue. This synagogue in Capernaum, did it look exactly like this? I have no idea Was it bigger, was it smaller? It it looked very similar to this. Kind of stadium seating like that, a person standing there. Did it have people with the same clothes on? No. If you look at that picture. But that's kind of what was going on. In other words, this was quite the intimate dialectic conversation. And so it's only right that we would proceed in the same manner, that we would proceed in a kind of dialectic way with questioning And so I and so as we look at our And that's how I've divided it up. Questions that they're asking, and then we'll look at Jesus' answers. The first question is going to be questions about work. And there's a play on words going on there. They're battling back and forth on work. And then there's questions of where is Jesus from? Or his origins. And Jesus is going to lead them down a line of thought through that one too. So let's first consider the questions about work. And this begins in 22 through 25 of your passage. 22 through 25 is an editorial comment from the crowd in their growing confusion about what they are supposed to do or the work that God has for them. They were there, they were present during Jesus' feeding, and they noticed that Jesus left and went to Capernaum, but they followed him. And you remember that long sentence with all the dashes, at least in my translation. Translation from 22 and 23 and 24 and 25, the crowd follows Jesus, and when they finally find him, they ask in verse 25, Rabbi or teacher, when did you come here? Now it's not as if they had their watches out and they wanted to know exactly when did you arrive on shore. They're not r just asking about the time. If you were to take a look at this question, there's a really a general sense of confusion about them. And so I think within this question, the crowd is Is asking, we just ate and are full of bread and fish, but where did all that come from? How did you get over here? Because we don't understand your boat situation And we wanted to make you king, but then all of a sudden you left. And that was in verse 15 earlier in the chapter. All of this has created a confusion with them, and this gives Jesus to the chance to make things clear. When did you get here? And now Jesus is going to talk to them. Look, you're seeking me for the wrong reasons. Not because of the sign, but because your bellaries were full. And he starts off like he always does when he wants you to listen Truly, truly, or most assuredly, verse 26, he acknowledges their confusion. They want more bread. But the point of the miracle was for not for him to supply an endless demand of food, but for them to realize who Jesus is and how they should relate to him. It's the same thing that everyone is supposed to realize. The Samaritan woman, Nicodemus. Any of the stories. It's all about the identity of Jesus. And that's what he's working for here. But he puts it in terms of work. Take a look at verse 27. Do not labor or work for the food which perishes, but for the food which endures to everlasting life, which the Son of Man will give you, because the Father has set his seal on him. So he puts this in terms of work. Now remember, this is a dialogue in a synagogue. This is a very intimate setting. And so the main question pops up amongst these people in this synagogue setting in verse 29. Labor for the food that does not perish. What would be the question you would ask if you were in synagogue? Well what is this work that you would have us do? What is the work of God? And that's what we sing in Verse 29, and Jesus says, This is the work of God. He gets right to the heart of it. They could have just ended the sermon in the synagogue right then and gone immediately to lunch. At someone's house, not out. Jesus said, This is the work of God, that you believe in Him whom He sent. Same thing he's been saying in all of the other stories, all of the other interviews. And that one work question really hits. The nail on the head. It's the key, really, to this whole first section of the story. It gave Jesus the opportunity to drive home both what he had taught to Nicodemus and what he taught to the Samaritan woman, and he got In fact, it would be worth your time to compare this passage with the Samaritan woman passage. Look at the words thirsty and hungry. Same kind of Nicodemus also needed to learn that since Jesus was with God and was God from eternity. that he alone has eyewitness knowledge as to the will of God. He's not just another rabbi. He's not just another teacher amongst professors. He's not a professor amongst professors. We're talking about God taking on flesh. And the Samaritan woman needed to realize that her duties to God were not lost in some ancient debate between Samaritans and Jews. The Messiah sat with her on the rim of Jacob's well, and he had all of the answers. When the Messiah returns, he'll tell us: I am He to whom you speak. And likewise, with this crowd in Capernaum, in this synagogue, in this intimate setting, the work that they needed to do was to eat up every word that Jesus said. As if he were bread, as if his words were bread. And in other words, outside of the analogy, Jesus is saying the work of God is to believe in him whom God the Father has You know, this question still hangs in the air. It's funny that we're in a church setting in the passage and we're here in a church setting here in the morning. There's not much talk back, which is good this morning. Not much dialogue that hasn't gone well for me in the past. But we're both in church, and in and in church, the question still hangs in the air. Will you hang on every one of Jesus' words? Will you do the work of God and believe in Jesus Christ? Do you listen? Do you eat up his words? It's a good question. You know what you could do when you get home This could be surprising to you. Write down, do not cheat, do not ask for help, don't open your Bible. Write down five things that you think Jesus says. Then find out if he really says that. Then if he does, commit yourself to it. Eat it up. Digest it. Meditate on it. Believe. I'd recommend that you would do that. Let it be off the top of your head. See if you even know five things that Jesus says And see then what difference have those things that Jesus has said, just those five things. And if you can do ten, do ten. What difference have those things made in your life and the life around you? That's a good way to find out if you have put your belief in the words of Jesus and in him. This is all a question of work This is the work that God gives to us. It's the work that He gave to this group and this synagogue. It's the work that He gives us. There was confusion about work in 22 through 25. In verses 26 through 29, Jesus clarified the work. The work of the Father is this: believe in Him whom He sent. And now we come to verse 30. And this is the great problem of work. I hope you see what they're doing. I tried to bring it out in the intonation. And it's not just a problem with an ancient crowd in a synagogue in Capernaum, it is a problem with all of us. Notice the crowd's response. In verse 30, they turn it back on Jesus. And I'm going to accentuate the word that I believe needs to be accentuated. Therefore, they said to him, let me just add that. this in because I just this is a good paraphrase. Oh no no no. What you need to do is you need to work. What work will you perform so that we can get on the business of doing God's work? You see that? What sign will you perform that we may see it and believe you? What? And then it says it, what work will you do? And then verse 31 is supposed to be an example of how Moses proved himself through the giving of bread, but then Jesus in 32 says, Moses didn't give me the bread, my father from heaven did. And so you've got this whole thing messed up, and he's correcting them in the synagogue. But they're trying to put Jesus back on his heels by saying, I'll do God's work if you do your work first. Have you ever said such a thing to Jesus? Have you ever said such a thing to God? Have you ever said, once you show me a sign, then I'll believe? Mark covered that in the confession on purpose. We're all coordinated this morning. Jesus, I will believe you once you show me a sign. The answer to that question, the answer to the problem is not more signs, actually. Actually. Do you know why? It's not because God wants you to take a leap in the dark and have no reasons for your belief. Think of all the signs that have already been done. These are people that just crossed the lake There was five loaves and two fish multiplied, and five thousand people were fed. They know they're calling him rabbi because of the miracles that he has already done. They just saw a miracle. He's not asking for a blind leap. They have the same signs. And we have the same signs. Do you know that they had that miracle happen in a flash? There was bread multiplied and two fish multiplied, and then it was over. And the afternoon continued, and they wondered where Jesus was. You can read of that miracle over and over and over and over and over again in your scriptures. It stands right before you this morning. And all of the other miracles. You could just pour over them. Those original people couldn't do that. It was not written down for them yet. And yet you're able to rehearse it. And those miracles and signs have not really helped one whip in the core problem with why you have chosen not to believe. In fact, when I point out the fact that the miracles are right here in the scriptures, don't you believe history? People always say, well it has to be a miracle directly In front of my eyes. You see the problem? It's always got to be something else. It's always got to be something else. Signs are not the key. I have to see a miracle with my own eyes. Well, then read the scriptures. It's right there. Do you not believe eyewitness account and testimony? Follow that through in the rest of your life. Do you believe George Walker? Did we go to the moon? Some of you don't believe we did. That's not a good example But we know that you're crazy if you think that you haven't gone to the moon. And that's the point. Blessed are those who don't see But hear the eyewitness account of Jesus and his apostles and belief. That's the conclusion at the end of John, when Thomas demands He doesn't commend Thomas. He says, Blessed are those who will not see and yet believe, who will just hear of the And that's the work. The crowds were confused about their work, but Jesus clarified it and said, This is the work that you must do. Believe in him who was sent from the Father. The crowd, however, told Jesus that he had to do some work first. He needed to prove himself. Now, can you believe I mean that would be quite the dialogue to oversee in a synagogue, wouldn't it? Between Jesus and Jesus and these and the the those who were asking questions. And that brings us to this second question. Those were the first questions about work. The second second question is found in verses 41 and 42, and this is the question of origin. As he's continuing in this conversation there up front in the synagogue, they begin to complain or grumble or murmur in 41, because he said, and remember, this is still connected to the 5,000 miracle. And all of the bread talk, he says, I am the bread which came down from heaven. And so they're not only confused, they're complaining about this. Why Because they say, Is not this Jesus the son of Joseph's whose father and mother we know? How is it then that he says, I have come down from heaven? They don't know where Jesus is from. They're confused. They're saying he's from them. How could he be from there? And that's the whole next question that takes place in this synagogue. Sinning. He calls himself the manna. And I wonder, this is just speculation, but I wonder if that was a scripture reading from Exodus, the section about manna. I wonder if that was a scripture reading in the synagogue that day I don't know. I'm not sure. But for but at least because of the miracle that took place, Jesus decided to latch on to the key similarities between himself and the manna incident in A. Exodus. The manna was sent from God to his people to give them life. Jesus the manna was sent from God the Father to His people, from every nation, to give them eternal life. And that's the connection that he's seeking to bring. But the Jews are responding to this with complaining. Jesus says he's from heaven, he comes to his own, and yet his own do not receive his testimony. It is an example of what we have already heard within the prologue. Is this not Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How is it then that he says, I have come down from heaven? Where is Jesus from? That's the question that now hangs in the air. And of course we know the answer because we have seen chapter 1 and 2 and 3. three and four and five of this gospel, and it will continue for the rest of the gospel showing where Jesus is from. Jesus is the eternal God, the Son, who became flesh, being conceived in the womb of the Virgin Mary, by the power of the Holy Spirit. That was chapter one, and it can be seen from any other angle, from other angles in Matthew and Mark. You know this from the Christmas story. You have sang this already in your songs this morning. And here Jesus is telling us that the same truth about the incarnation from the point of view of bread and the manna story. Verses 50 and 51, he answers them outright. Take a look with me He really gets right to it and he answers them exactly what they're asking. This is the bread which comes down from heaven This is the bread which comes down from heaven, that one may eat of it and not die. I am the living bread which came down from heaven. If any one eats of this bread, he will live forever, and the bread that I shall give is my flesh Now there's something that interesting that happens in the dialogue here between them after he reaffirms that he is in fact from heaven. There's an interesting switch that takes place here in verse 42. Notice that after the questions and the grumbling in verse 42. Jesus will eventually answer their question, but only after addressing their reasons for doubts. In other words, Jesus has repeated. With each person and several times in this chapter, where he is from. That's not the real problem. He has said, I am from heaven. I am the bread from heaven. And if you keep reading this chapter, he will say, he'll actually pronounce and say, I am. He will pronounce his divinity, which is the point of him being from heaven. And thus the real question that Jesus brings up in this dialectical conversation is not where is Jesus from? The real question is Why don't you hear what I'm saying to you when I tell you where I am from? I've told you over and over and over again, why can't you see it? And so here's a sub-question under this one. I think it's a very important question. I really want you to listen. Why can't people see the reality of Jesus the Christ? And if you're sitting here this morning and you don't see his reality, or you're apathetic or indifferent toward him, why can't you see the reality of Jesus Christ? That he is God in the flesh. And verse 44 holds the answer. Listen, we're getting ready to go into advanced spirituality here. Verse 44 Do not murmur among yourselves. No one can come to me Unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up at the last day. And then he quotes the Old Testament because he's in a synagogue, To prove to them that this is true, that they would take the testimony of the prophet Isaiah, it is written in the prophets, and they shall all be taught by God. Whoa. They shall all be taught by God. But in verse forty-six he clarifies. This doesn't mean that all will have direct revelation from the Father, for there is only one who has been with the Father, and that is me, and I give you eyewitness account of what have I seen and what I have heard. Heard. That's the whole point. That's why we eat up his words. And if anyone contradicts him, they are liars. He means that God the Father will persuade Those or any as to who Jesus is and where he is from. That's the problem. You must be taught by God To receive the words of Jesus. The astounding thing is that he's in church. He's in the synagogue. And he's essentially saying to them, none of you are being taught by God. Now that's pretty scary. To speak to the church that way, to speak in the synagogue. They could not see who Jesus was. They complained against his heavenly origin. They did not understand or could comprehend or could believe the plausibility. Of an incarnation. They could not believe that Jesus was God because God the Father had not taught them. And this is where we get lost in philosophy. Or where you want to get lost philosophically. I think that you should get lost in the mystery, but not in philosophy. This is a mystery. There's no me standing up here and explaining to you and saying Solving the mystery of free will and divine sovereignty to you this morning. R. C. Sproul couldn't do it, and I can't do it. But it is a mystery But interestingly, when you read through these pages, do you see other people struggling with philosophical confusion? Do you see when it is pronounced in the book of Romans addressed philosophically? I don't see it addressed philosophically I see it addressed by bringing up that the purpose of this was not to confuse people philosophically about election, free will, and divine sovereignty. The purpose of it was for everyone in that church to be humbled and to create jealousy in their hearts for what just happened amongst a bunch of Samaritans in a town called Sikar. Everyone that they considered unworthy, the Father had just taught, and yet he is not teaching those who say and pride themselves on being the people of God. Think about Jesus' audience. This is a group of people who are so arrogant that when Jesus tells them the work of God, then they turn on him and say, No, Jesus, you have work to do. And this is a group of people who believe that they are God's special people because they are inherently special. More special than Samaritans, more special than Greeks, and barbarians and Scythians, and slave and free and woman. They had forgotten God's grace. Usually you bring the law when a person is hardened. Here Jesus brought election So that they would realize the only way to enter into the kingdom of heaven is to be born from above, to be taught by the Father directly. Exactly what he taught. Nicodemus. And therefore, God has structured his kingdom to make arrogant people jealous and to humble them. Now think about it from last week's sermon. A town of Samaritans were just taught by the Father and they gained eternal life. And yet a synagogue in a Capernaum is totally blind. The point is that salvation is by grace. You are nothing. Humble yourself. I want you to think about this also from the Apostle Paul's argument in Romans. You can look in chapter 2 because he brings this argument up there also, but he says this in Romans 11. I say then, have Jews stumbled that they should fall? Certainly not. But through their fall, to provoke them to jealousy, salvation has come to the Gentiles. Do you see what he's saying? That's Romans eleven. It's the question of election. It's the question of free will and divine sovereignty. It arises, and Paul answers in terms of the divine. The reason why the Father taught the Samaritans, but not the Jews in Capernaum, in part, was to make the Jews jealous in order that they would realize that salvation is by grace alone, not by the same thing. Now that's quite the conversation. That's a heated synagogue conversation. Maybe we need to get back to that in church a little bit. Can you imagine having a church service like this one? Woo, man. The crowd came in confused about Jesus' work. Jesus told them that the work of God was to believe in him whom the Father has sent. And yet, like people today, they thought Jesus needed to show more miracles and to do more work so that they could do the work of God. God. The work of believing. Jesus sought to help them believe by revealing his origins over and over and over again. I am from heaven. Listen to me. I know exactly what God thinks. I am God. Yet they could not see the reality of Christ because the Father was not teaching the church, the church-going people of that day. Why? At least here there are other reasons given throughout Scripture that he re Reveals from his divine purposes, some reasons he doesn't give. Here, it's so that they would be humbled in their arrogance. Now, this Advent Sunday, we're celebrating God's love And it ties together quite nicely with remembering God's love. I already announced to you 1 John 4 this morning that He loved us first. That's God's electing love. It says this in John 3:16 about God's love. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting love. Life. But here's the thing that we learn in the synagogue conversation this morning, a morning in church or afternoon in church. We learn that one main reason that people don't accept God's love. And the reason why people don't believe what Jesus says, who he is, the work that he has done, is because God allows them to remain in their arrogance and does not teach them because of their arrogance I'm sure there's other reasons and his divine purposes, but it is at least communicated in Scripture because they are arrogant. And so I get to say to you this morning, if you don't believe the words from Jesus This morning, it may be because you are arrogant. Did you ever think of that? Usually in our culture, you claim agnosticism because you're too humble to believe But I'm turning it on its head and I'm saying, actually it may be because you're too arrogant under the guise and cloak of humility. If you want to know if you're one of the arrogant ones, arrogant specifically in not accepting the words of Jesus, I'm not concerned about all your other arrogant ways. Just do you accept the words of Jesus or not? Ask someone around you that you trust and that you love. Ask them, do I keep refusing to believe Jesus? Ask them and see what they say. Ask them to be, give them permission to be honest with you And please be respectful when you give them the answer. But ask the loved one. What's interesting here, as we read this passage and we read also in Romans, Apparently, God the Father is also drawing people that are arrogant to himself. Because the whole point is that he would make them jealous, that they would drop to their knees and beg for mercy. To realize that it is by grace alone that they would understand the depths of God's heart, that they would be like that woman. You remember the story of the woman Who truly needed to be forgiven versus the Pharisee who didn't think that they really needed forgiveness? Who really knew God's love that day? It's exactly what he's doing here. He makes you jealous that you might be able to have his love. God the Father is teaching people across all the world. Did you know that? I shared with you statistics last Sunday of all of the different people, the millions that the Father is teaching. Isn't that lovely that the Father is doing so? But if you don't believe in Jesus, he's not teaching you. How do you feel about that? Oh, and it's not because they're better than you. A lot of them are drug addicts, a lot of them are prostitutes, a lot of them are white trash, honestly. A lot of them are the disgusting kind of poor, the unworthy kind of poor. Kind of poor that make themselves poor. And some of them are in jail. They've done horrible things, they're criminals, and God is choosing the teach them instead of you. What do you think about that? I guess you're not so special after all. He's not teaching you. You're not good enough for him. Those of you who don't believe the words of Jesus. So this is what I would do if I were you. This is what I pray that everyone would do. If you don't believe in God's love, heard in the words and the works of Jesus, this is what I would do. I would drop too my knees. And I would beg for mercy for God's grace. I would beg God to teach you the reality of Jesus because the fact that Jesus is even in this Conversation means that there is mercy for you. Even though you were arrogant, you too can humble yourself. You too can be taught by the Father. Whether you're church, remember this isn't a church. You can go to church your entire life. And maybe this is what you need to do. Or you can be unchurched. The point is that you would humble yourself before the living God, that you would find out what Jesus says. You would immediately do it, like all the other characters in the scriptures. They drop what they're doing and they follow him. But you would ask God for his grace, for his love that perhaps in your unbelief he would strengthen your belief. I want to pray for you. I want to pray for you who are wrestling to accept the words of Jesus Christ and to receive eternal life. So let me do that now. Lord Jesus Christ, it's always surprising those who Are rebellious to you. We all are in many ways still. But Lord, it's always surprising to find those who don't even realize have a mustard seed of faith. And Lord, this is being published on Facebook. We usually have about 152 more people tuning in for at least for some And so we ask, God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, I ask that you You would give humility, that if there is anyone today that drops to their knees and begs you for forgiveness, begs you for your grace and for your love, That you would look to Jesus Christ and His work, and that you would cover their sins in His sacrament. sacrifice, that you would raise them to new life in his resurrection. That you would make them a new creation as he ushers in his new creation, the new Heaven and the new earth. Oh Father, wherever we are, whether here or wherever we are on Facebook, we ask that you would pour out your grace. And Father, for those of us who have that faith, that mustard seed of faith, but it's still so small, and we're like a candle that's about to go out, would you give us More and more grace. Would you help us to trust you and to humble ourselves and to accept your words, especially during hard times, when we feel angry and confused? Would you give us your mercy? We've gone to counselor after counselor. We've read book after book. What we need is for you, the Father, to teach us. We ask That you would do so, not in any mystical way, but that you would do so through the eyewitness account of your Son Jesus Christ and his apostles. We ask these things in your name.