Let us now turn in our scriptures to James chapter 4. If you need a Bible, if you raise your hand, I'll have one brought to you. And you will need a Bible definitely tonight. We're going to be doing a lot of flipping around to look at some different passages. And I'm just going to read verses eleven and twelve of chapter four. Do not speak evil of one another, brethren. He who speaks evil of a brother and judges his brother speaks evil of the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law, but a judge. There is one lawgiver who is able to save and to destroy. Who are you to judge another? Let's pray. Father, these are deep words. You have warned us in your proverbs that gossip or backbiting is swallowed up by a congregation like tasty morsels. It is exceptionally dangerous. Father, it is the you have taught us that For it to be present in the congregation and to work its way through the whole dough of a congregation will mean the collapse of the congregation. Father, we ask that you would protect us from such a thing by allowing these words To go into our hearts tonight. And I pray, Father, that you would give each person here the wherewithal to guard these words in the name of Christ. Christ. Amen. Now I have a question for the children, although the students you could answer this too. Would you be excited if you could could bring home a puppy tonight. Daniel, you would be? You would like one? Yeah, okay. Well I've got some back Yeah, I would be excited also. Uh puppies can be fun, but they can also be a problem, which is why your parents are A little grieved right now. They can they're a little more realistic. They c they you you buy a d one of the reasons main reasons you could buy a dog is for the camaraderie and The protection, security that you can have in a dog. But when you have a puppy, there's these little teeth that hurt. And when they jump up on you when you first come back home, their claws can hurt. And they leave message. That you have to clean up. That's life with a puppy. Being a part of a church community can be a lot like having a puppy. You're supposed to, in a church community, be protected. And be secure because other people look out for you. But I think if you've been around the church long enough, you realize that we all have little sharp teeth. And we can claw you and we can leave messes. There are times when you become a part of a a church where people will talk behind your back. They will backbite. They will gossip about you. They will laugh mockingly at you. And all of those things are painful and they hurt. And it really shouldn't be that way. It shouldn't be that way with a puppy, although it's more understandable. And it certainly shouldn't be that way with a church. We buy a dog for friendship and security, and we become a part of the flock of Jesus Christ, in part at least, for fellowship and protection, so that we can grow in safety and in sanctuary. This is James' concern in these two verses. In 11 and 12, he wants you to ask yourself a probing question. He wants you to ask, do people feel pricked and clawed by you? Or do they feel protected? The main thing that he wants to assert is a continuation of him speaking about the tongue and about wandering. Ever since chapter one, he's been focused on wandering. Main theme of this or motif of this letter. Hurting each other is just way one way that Christians can wander from God's design. In chapter 1, James taught other ways. James taught us about wandering from the purpose of trials, wandering into double-mindedness, wandering into who's responsible for sin, God or man. In chapter 2, he says that Christians can wander into favoring the rich over the poor. They can neglect the poor. They can misunderstand the nature of true faith being born into good works. In chapter 3, James showed that everyone wanders from the life-giving purposes of speech. And that's what this is a part of, all the way into chapter 4 from 3 In chapter 4, 1 through 10, James gave us the cause of unwise speech, which was worldliness fueled by pride. And this evening, James continues with speech, and here's what he is seeking. To teach us. When we speak evil against the brethren, we commit grievous sin. It's that simple. When we speak evil against the brethren, we commit grievous sin So I want to look at this under two parts, and I I got these two parts actually I'll give credit where credit is due from a professor of mine. It's the sin of evil speaking and the grievous nature of this sin. Very simple. So let's take a look first at the sin of evil speaking. Take a look in your Bibles there at 11 and 12. It says, do not speak evil of one another. I want to expose first what it means to say, do not speak evil of one another, brethren. When you first look at the words, you'd think, well, to speak evil, there's got to be a thousand different ways But when we look at the rest of the scriptures, it's actually more particular. It's not a general notion. And so I'd like you first to take a look at the Old Testament in Psalm 101, verse 5. Just so you can have these on hand, or if you want to write them in your bulletin, so that you can review these later and seek for these to set themselves in your heart. by the Spirit. In Psalm 101, verse 5, the same, see we have a Greek translation of the Old Testament, and those Greek words match up with the New Testament. Greek words, and we can see the cont the uh the history of how these words are used in God's sacred scriptures. In Psalm 1015, the same word is used here, whoever secretly slanders. And then it goes on to relate that to a proud heart as being a part of that. James chapter 4 with worldliness and pride. But slander is the specific thing in mind. Now, if we turn back to our New Testament and we look at 1 Peter chapter 2, we can see this word used This is a great example because in 1 Peter 2, verse 12, you can see where the general designation is given again. The problem here with this congregation is that although they are seeking to live holy lives under God by the power of Jesus Christ and His Spirit, the surrounding culture is is um unlawfully criticizing them. And here in verse 12 it says, having your conduct honorable among the Gentiles, that when they speak against you, you see that speak against you as evildoers. Now notice that the same situation shows up in 1 Peter 3 verse 16. But the word is translated much more particularly, having a good conscience that when they defame you as evildoer. So the point that I'm making here is both from the Old Testament and the New Testament is that the word has definite meaning. And that the main emphasis here, when it says in James, do not speak evil against one another, my brethren, is that he is speaking about a harmful communication that we would call slander or defamation And you can see that in the title of the sermon in your bulletin. This is communicating in such a way to where you don't intend to help anyone except yourself, really. You definitely intend to hurt somebody, to drag them down for something. And this is what he's warning us against. In our day, it's equally important to say what James does not mean. In our day, you could be hearing me say, be tolerant of anyone. Don't criticize anybody. That's what our culture would say to you. That is not what James is saying. James is speaking about a very type, a very specific type of judging. Called slander or defamation. And so in our day, it's equally important to say what James does not mean. We are, in fact, to judge one another by admonishing and rebuke and exhortation and correction. That is throughout the scriptures. Let me just give you two verses and we won't flip there because we've spent some time already. Flipping, but 2 Thessalonians 3. 15 speaks about the importance of admonishing one another, and Titus 2. 4 does the same. So it can't just mean we are unaware of what's happening. around us, whether good or evil, and we have no opinion about it, because we are, in fact, to admonish one another. And there's even in your your passage in the bulletin here from Leviticus 19, it says that you you surely you shall surely rebuke your neighbor and not bear sin because of him. So that's obviously different than what our culture thinks. But the thing is, is that we are to do this, if we do have to have a confrontation with another person and to offer a judgment of their actions as evil or wicked, then we have to do so in accordance with the way the scriptures tell us to do so. And it is for their benefit, not for their harm. It's not speaking against, it's speaking for them at this point. And Matthew 18 lays out very clearly the way that that's supposed to look. It mentions there, and starting in verse 15, that you're supposed to go personally and privately to the person. And that's really the big distinction throughout this defamation and slander. is that oftentimes, if not all times, defamation and slander happens publicly. And a lot, and I would say most of the time the person's not even present. It really is just intended for harm. But in Matthew 18, you go away with that person where no one else is around and you speak to them. You speak to them, if they're unwilling to listen and they can't see your point, you bring another along to become more clear and more helpful. And it mentions in Galatians 6. 1 that you're supposed to do this in gentleness. And humility, knowing that you could suffer from the same sins that this person is suffering with. You're not coming in pride or because you think you're better. You're coming out of love because you don't want to consign someone to the death of sin. In the church, in Matthew 18, it goes beyond just personal and private or bringing someone along. It can also go to the elders, and the elders have They don't judge the heart, but they are instructed to judge the fruit of the person and give censures accordingly. But they too are to be doing so with gentleness. upholding the honor of God and his glory, doing so for the peace and the purity of the church and to rescue the sinner. It's a rescue operation. So it's again not like our culture at all. James is not saying, never judge, as we would understand judge. He is saying, never judge in a destructive way. In other words, don't slander or destructive. fame. Literally speaking, the word here in Greek, you could divide it into two parts, and it literally means to speak against. Do not be against. Your brethren, be for them, be their champion, cheer for them, and help them when they are in a difficult spot of sin in the ways that the scriptures instruct us to So now I'd like to just go through some specific instances of evil speaking or how we could speak against the brethren. Notice how this is located within a church context. He doesn't Just say generally neighbor. He says, brethren. So it's really speaking about church life. Let me give you some specific instances that may be a little shocking to you, that this is included under slander or defamation. To avoid this sin of evil speaking against one another, you should not think the worst of people Nor should you be generally skeptical or cynical about them. Number two, you should not have uncharitable judgments about someone's intentions, words, and actions. Number three, you should not speak unkindly about anyone. Number four, you should not hold a grudge. You know, holding a grudge, I think, is keeping bad thoughts towards a person inside your heart And you should not hold a grudge. You should not take joy in another person's disgrace or their downfall, which means you can't watch half of the TV. shows that are on. You should not laugh at others mockingly or under your breath. You should not be harsh like sandpaper on a baby's face. You should not unnecessarily search out the faults of other people. You should not envy or be upset when someone else is successful And you should not um you should not allow someone to freely run into error and knowing that that error will lead to the harm of their own name. Those are a couple instances of what James would mean, and those are those are specifically from our larger catechism in the exposition of the Ninth Commandment. Commandment, which James is referring to here. And I hope that that's helpful for you to begin searching your own heart. The sin of speaking evil against another is not a general sin. It's slander. It's defamation. And the way I read it in the scriptures, it's one of the most deadliest things to be a part of a congregation. It should smell like death to you if it were present. And we must not allow it to be present. Present. It is destructive and it is hurtful. It is a sin that spans all generations. I've seen the youngest of children violate the ninth commandment in the ways that we've seen. I see it located in students and teenagers. I see it across all generations. It is applicable to all of us to hear this scripture. This evening. We can still admonish one another. It requires judgment. You have to judge another person's character and what they're doing to be right or wrong, but we do so with gentleness and through lawful means. Not through the public court of popular opinion on Facebook or Instagram. No matter what you think of Donald Trump, you do not have All the facts. You are not the judge. Or what you thought of Obama. Or if it were Hillary, it doesn't make any difference. You need to watch yourself with slander and with defamation. Now that's the first part. That's the sin, and I hope you can see that through the several scriptures and through that exposition, the nature of that sin that we need to evaluate ourselves on And the different ways that that can show up in our culture. Now, James wants us to see, and he spends the majority of his time here in this passage showing us how serious this sin is. Those are the bulk of his arguments. He's going to show the grievous nature of that sin. And now here's the first thing that he says. It is grievous Because it is a family sin. Take a look in verse 11. Do not speak evil of one another, brethren. He who speaks evil of a brother and judges his brother. Here we see that there is sins against the family. Have you had anyone speak against your family? You know what happens when someone speaks speaks against your family. Do you enjoy it if someone walks into your home and badmouths your wife? Or talks down your husband? Or what if you were standing on a sideline basketball court because you're both a part of the same recreational league and the person next to you elbows you and go is that your is that your son is that your daughter yeah it is this their first year they're so excited well they're really not very athletic Are they? They've got two left feet, don't they? There's obviously something wrong with that. And we would seek to protect our hackles would go up Because this is a grievous sin, we pick up on that, and the same thing should happen within us that it is grievous to commit sin against our family in Christ. We should not tear down one another, but only lift one another up and give each other life. That's the first way in which it is grievous The second way in which it is grievous is because it is demeaning to the law of God, and you can see this again in verse eleven. Do not speak evil of one another, brethren. He who speaks evil of a brother and judges his brother speaks evil of the law and judges the law. Now which law is he referring to? He's referring to Leviticus 19, 15 and following, and I've included that in the bulletin, or rather Marcy has. It's the royal law section, and James has already appealed to this royal law in chapter 2, speaking about how they are to not favor the rich over the poor. And in that section, it does speak about tailbearing or slander. Here he's pointing out that when we choose to slander, we are implicitly criticizing The law of God. That's what he means when he says here that you speak evil of the law and judge the law. Now, what does that mean? Let me try to give you an example of what's happening here where you've moved, as it says in 127, that you are supposed to be a doer of law to where you've moved to be a judge of the law. On the Eastern Shore, there are some towns that are about this big And you're on a main highway going fifty-five miles an hour, and then all of a sudden this town shows up and it's only about this big, and you've got to slow down to 15 or whatever it is. And sometimes they extend those speed limits of twenty-five miles an hour well outside of the bounds of that little of that little town. This experience. And most people, by the time they've gotten on the first mile and they've been out of the town, they hit the gas, even though it still says twenty-five, and the state said you can do fifty-five about another mile up the road The fact that you are hitting the gas, you are implicitly saying, whoever made this law to keep 25 outside the city limits for this long, they're dumb. It shouldn't be like this, and I'm not going to subject myself to this any longer. You've moved into a position of no longer being under the speed limit to a person who's criticizing and judging what the law should really be And anyone who chooses to continue in slander or defamation is doing the exact same thing with the law of God. James. I've never heard that amongst the culture. And that is a brilliant argument. And you can find out real quick on what you think about God and about his law just by that argument. That we are not to be in a position of being a judge or criticizing God's law, that's greatly grievous for us to think that we can be in such a position. Number three, it is grievous because it is against the lawgiver. And we see this in verse 12. And here is there's a little bit of a different situation. There is one law giver who is able to save and to destroy. Who are you to judge another? Here I th the where it says, who are you to judge another, it's really reminiscent of Romans chapter 14, verse 4. I think in addition to slander and defamation, to make sense of this passage, I think what else is going on there is an unlawful binding of people's consciences. And what I mean by that is that there are folks in this congregation that are coming up with laws That God never said were laws. And that is also a way in which we should not be engaging ourselves as Christians. If you, as a Christian, have to come up with a law that God never gave, I think implicitly and essentially you are saying that God's law is insufficient and he needs your help. And therefore, we should not bind people's consciences except by the law of God. And that is grievous to do so. These are all the arguments that he gives for us to pay attention to this prohibition that he gives. Which is do not speak evil of one another. When I read these words and had the opportunity to reach to research them, I even now feel the weight of How many times am I thinking unkind thoughts of a person, not even intentionally choosing to, but just driving My truck, and then all of a sudden taking a heart check and realizing I've been thinking unkindly about a person for 15 minutes. I can't believe I can't believe it. But I can. I suspect that you feel the weight of your sin. Surely, as it mentioned in the last passage from last week, we need the grace of God the Father through Jesus Christ and the workings of the Holy Spirit within our hearts with this sin. We need to humble ourselves and resist The devil, we need to draw near to God, that He would draw near to us. We need to lament and mourn and take seriously our sander, our slander, and our defamation of one another in humility. Surely we all stand in need of God's grace to keep us from speaking against one another. But it if you were to ask me, Jesse, you work at the church. You're talking to all kinds of people as a church. What would you say we really need to focus on at the church? And it's not because we're one congregation that's particularly worse than any other congregation. I would say this. I would say that this would perhaps be the most serious thing, is that we would not have unkind thoughts and overly critical judgments of one another, but that we would have huge hearts for each other. And that is what James is calling us to. It is, in fact, the remedy to almost everything. To overlook a transgression is to your glory, is what it says in Proverbs. Now, through Jesus Christ, this grace is present for us to lay hold of if we can move into submission again under God. And to repent, we can mourn as it mentions. When we speak evil against the brethren, we do in fact commit grievous sin, and we have got to take it seriously. You remember when I mentioned to you about taking worldliness seriously, and that's what James was saying. He said, take it seriously, it's not a joke. Don't take it lightly. And he's saying the same thing here. It's not funny, it's not cute. For you to have these thoughts or to just say a little joke or to sneer at somebody. And we have all of these underhanded ways of undercutting each other and sniffing at each other like little puppies and clawing each other and leaving messes in each other's lies. It's deadly and we have to take this seriously. I actually would like to make a call that if you're an officer of the church and you hear any Any kind of slander or defamation that you put it out right away. Don't allow the little spark to turn into a full-fledged fire within the congregation. It needs to go out and you need to do so with gentleness. And patience and personally and privately so that they're not embarrassed. And knowing that you yourself are in your heart, but by the grace of Jesus Christ. Christ, slander people yourself. Now I want to end with what a professor of mine also gave. There's four practical ways that we can begin to put this into effect and I uh these are great ways to just get off on a good start and putting what James says here into effect to not speak evil of one another. I've given you a lot of prohibitions. Let me give you some positive things. And practices that you can have as those who are seeking to follow Jesus Christ by his grace. Number one, take a look at Proverbs 18:17 This is a rule for life. I use this proverb by God's grace every day. Proverbs 1817 says, the first one to plead his cause seems right until his neighbor comes and examines him. Cross-examination exposes a lot, which is why it's in our legal system. It's very important for the sake of justice. You could put this by just saying Slow down your judgment of people. Your mind is built to where you're going to immediately start weighing evidence Slow it down. Here's a good rule of thumb for this one. Don't make excuses for yourself and your sin, but do make excuses Excuses for other people. Give some time for the reality of the situation to come about. Let me give you an example. If someone were to come up to you and they would say, Noticing that a person is always late to church, they're late all the time, aren't they? You could say Well I don't know that they're late all the time and I'm sure there was something going on this morning. Life can get busy, it can be difficult, can't it? Switches it right around. It gives everybody And you could do that in a thousand different situations. Just reverse Next thing I'd like to say is that we would cling to God's word. In 1 Peter 2, 1 through 3, a lot of us miss this. Let me just read this to you. In 1 Peter chapter 2. Verses 1 through 3. Therefore, laying aside all malice, all deceit, hypocrisy, envy, and all evil, and all evil speaking. That's what we're to lay aside, and we've seen that in 1 Peter 2. But notice what he says that you're to replace it with, as newborn babes desire the pure milk of the word, that you may grow thereby. So these these evil speaking and the thoughts that are going in our minds instead replace it with God's word. And the the first of God's word that I thought of was Philippians chapter 4. That as instead of thinking evil thoughts of people, that we turn to chapter 4, verse 8. And finally, brethren, whatever things are true. Whatever things are noble, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of good report, if there's any virtue, if there's anything praiseworthy. Meditate on these things. He's talking about how you should be thinking about the brethren, about your brothers and sisters in Christ. That you should run these honorable things through your mind and how good they are at these specific things, how organized they are at this. We're in hospitality. That's what we should be filling our minds with. In God's word as we set aside slander. I'd also say very quickly that we're to speak a word of edification that goes along with that. You're to be their defender. Defend the brethren. And praise them where they can be praised. Isn't that the greatest thing about grandmothers? They figure out a way to praise where you can be praised. And it really, I remember my grandmother. Grandmother always lifting up my spirits, even though as an honry little brat, she'd figure out a way to keep my spirits up in the way she spoke to me. And that's wisdom. And then lastly, I've just mentioned Proverbs 25-23, and I've already pointed you to Psalm 101. 5. In Psalm 101. 5, let me just reread that for you again. Whoever secretly slanders his neighbor, him I will destroy. The one who has a haughty look and a proud heart, him I will not endure. Evil speaking of one another must be cut off from the community. Again, it has to be done in gentleness, but we must not tolerate it. We must stop it in its tracks. Christ loves us as his children, and he wants his people to dwell in safety with one another And here James instructs us away from wandering into a constant Christianity by the power of Christ's Spirit, where we can protect one another and each other's reputation, where we could finally find a place where we feel safe, where people are not against us. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for these important words, prohibiting us against slander and defamation. We ask that you, through your Holy Spirit, would teach us these things internally, and that we would guard them, that we would overlook each other's faults To our own glory and to your glory. That we would build one another up and not tear each other down. That we would have large hearts for each other and allow our love for one another to cover over a multitude of sins. We ask, Father, that we would be with each other like you are with us. You are so kind, you're so merciful. You're such a servant. You keep us Us from embarrassment. You work on us privately. And we thank you for that. And we ask that we would be like you. In the name of Christ. Amen.