James chapter five. We're almost through, James. The next um our next series will be on the hope. Wouldn't that be horrible? That probably ha really happens out there, doesn't it? Yeah, no. Oh Mandy, I we're really not doing that. I swear. Okay. Okay, this is James chapter five, the first eight verses, please read along. Come now, you rich, weep and howl, for your miseries that are coming upon you. Your riches are corrupted, and your garments are moth eaten. You have lived on the earth in pleasure and luxury. You have fattened your hearts as in a day of slaughter. You have condemned, you have murdered the just. He does not resist you. Therefore be patient, brethren, until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, waiting patiently for it until it receives the early and latter rain. You also be patient. Establish your hearts. For the coming of the Lord is at hand. Let's pray. Father, we do pray that you would bring your teaching to our hearts, to our minds. Father, we pray that we would not just be hearers of your word, but doers, that you would transform and shape us, that we would be humbled by this passage, that we would fall more in love with you through this passage. And we pray for repentance in the name of Christ. Amen. During the high winds, if you were out on the highways or the whatever ways, you probably Probably ran into some detours. I know that I did. There's a detour due to a pine tree having fallen over onto electrical wires that took us Through a community and back out onto the main road. You can look at this letter to James as a kind of James setting up detours. Detours that you wouldn't wander in to dangerous areas. Well James has some other things that he considers dangerous. We've seen many of them, but lately he's really focused on high risk areas. Has communicated to us general truths. But he's also become very specific in this last chapter in four and in five, giving us high-risk areas. Let me let me just list a few as a reminder. One high-risk area is how we conceive of wisdom and our role within the community. In 4-1 through 10, we are taught that human wisdom is wisdom that listens to God and serves other people. It's not self-gratifying, stepping on the neck of others. Second, that we should not speak evil against one another. We'll see this in chapter 4, verses 11 and 12. Thirdly, do not be arrogant or presumptuous. Know who you are and who God is. And that's chapter 4, verses 13 through 17. And that brings us now to chapter 5 as we look at these first eight verses. And here's the big idea. It should be in the bulletin. The rich must repent, and the poor must be patient in light of Christ's judgment. high risk area. These words are difficult. If you were to have I just read these publicly, but if it were an issue that was live right before you as a congregation and I read these Words from James who would have still been living. It would have had a force to it that I wish were still present today. I pray that it is. A force that is um For us to pay attention to this high-risk area. Now I want to look at this under two parts. Verses 1 through 6. I just want to see us to see the evidence or the reasons for the rich to repent. And then in 7 and 8, a model of patience for the poor, for us to have endurance to hold on. And most of my time will be spent in the first six verses. Now, the rich here are not just those who have possessions. When you do a biblical theology or a word study through the scriptures of the rich, There's a specific word that's used, and it doesn't just communicate those who have wealth. We can see many patriarchs who had a lovely faith. That had a great deal of wealth. Abraham, for example. So it's not just riches. It's really here the corrupt and the abusive rich, those who have turned their back on God and are faithful. That's the rich that's present here, as you can see here in the description. This is a wicked rich person, and that is brought out in Proverbs 2. And hopefully we'll get to that in the blog. So that's that's the first thing I want to bring to your attention when we speak about the rich. It's the oppressive, corrupt, or the abusive rich. And then secondly, as we enter into this passage, there's an overall principle that I hope you can recognize. There is an abuse here of possessions and relationships that have been given to these folks. They were meant to steward these possessions. in these relationships, and instead they turned everything in on themselves for self-serving purposes. It's a warning for us as Christians. It was certainly a warning whether they were Christians or not that he was speaking to in this passage. It's interesting that he is. He is um provoking the rich so thoroughly within this passage, yet in verse seven he goes to speak specifically of the brethren. He's either speaking to rich Christians who had wandered into Or they're not Christians at all, but he wants the Christians to overhear him speaking to them as a way to encourage them eventually. But I do think that James's heart would have been for the rich to repent if they recognized any of these qualities within themselves. It's very serious here. And living in a materialistic Culture, we have really got to make sure that we don't have any leak in our financial fittings in this area either. And so let's go in first to the reasons or the evidence given for the rich to repent in verse Verses 1 through 6. The first that he gives is that your excess items will witness against you. So take a look at this. Come now, you rich, weep and howl for your miseries that are coming upon you. Your riches are corrupted, and your garments are moth-eaten. Your gold and silver are corroded, and their corrosion will be a witness against you, and will eat your flesh like fire. Do you notice the common quality in the description of all of their possessions? See if you can answer it just within your head. The common quality is that they're all deteriorating. There's rust or there's moth-eaten garment The main point that he's seeking to bring out here, he says quite boldly, that the corrosion will actually act as a testimony against Imagine a court of law where a witness gets up into the court stand. Here the corrosion or the moth-eaten garments would be the witness against you that you have done something unjust as a rich person. So I hope that you've heard those thoughts before, but the common quality being rust and that rust being a wit a witness against them. What is it this picture that As being painted here by James. The picture is of God visiting their house, the house of the oppressive rich, and finding rust on the possessions that he entrusted to them. And the point is not so much that they've been lazy, that's not why they're rusty. They're rusty in moth-eating because they have so many possessions that they do not use and they do not share with other people that they have begun to deteriorate. That's the picture. The problem is that the possession should have been shared so as to not accumulate rust. So, for example, in our society, if you have five lawnmowers, the truth is you only need one. So give four away or three. Maybe you need a backup lawnmower. I don't know. No, the first one might be in a bad condition. But the idea is that your all your four lawnmowers would not be sitting around rusting as you hoard your possessions as a type of Security within your life. That's the picture here. And that ends up witnessing against them. It would be quite scary if you were to start doing an inventory of your own possessions and seeing those things which should have been shared that are not shared will take the witness stand against you. Particularly with the rich that he's speaking to here. This must, if they had um the gift of the Holy Spirit made him truly There's a question that arises when you hear something like this. You hear about hoarding, you hear about storing five lawnmowers, you only need One, is it okay to store anything? I actually heard someone say to me that no, it's not okay to store anything. That you should leave no Inheritance. And I can't see in my study of the scriptures where that is wise. I can't see that this passage would teach that or that if you were to look at all of the scriptures, that it would be in violation of God's God's wisdom for you to have some store of something. Here's a different situation here. To have five lawnmowers and to only be using one is different than putting something in save I think as I study the scriptures, there's actually a case where you can be overrighteous or you can be overwise. That's from Ecclesiastes chapter seven verse Verse 16. There's a story told of a man when it snowed that he took his snow shovel out and he started shoveling all of the sidewalks and driveways of his neighbors. By the time he was done, he didn't finish half That is an example of being overwise or over righteous. And I think it's a example that can be used to determine whether we should be storing and the difference between storing and hoarding. Here's just a quick example I think that we should save as you look through all of the scriptures, but when someone needs immediate help, after you consider it with prayer, then you should give. I think that's a general rule that we should apply. So hoarding and saving are not the same thing. Please make that distinction. Don't drain all of your bank accounts and give that away. But if you do, give it to me. No, I'm just just kidding. Just kidding. Don't give it to me That's the first point that he wants to make. And the w and those things that were meant to be shared that were not shared end up becoming witnesses against the rich and it urges them. And if we're Guilty of this, it urges us to seek repentance before the Lord. It mentions earlier in James to humble yourself before God, and He gives grace. So the first evidence that the corrupt writ should repent is that the rust on their tools and the holes on the unused garments will be exhibit A against them. Now let's look at Exhibit B. Reason two here in chapter five is your exploitation or those whom you exploit cry out Take a look here at the next instance when we move past the heaped up treasures. And starting in verse 4, it says, Indeed, the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which you kept back by fraud, cry out. And the cries of the reapers have reached the ears of the Lord of Salah. Indeed, the wages of the laborers who have mowed their fields have been exploited The rich folks have become so captivated by their greed that they are blind to honest obligations. Like the prophets of Israel, Isaiah, Micah, Amos, James brings to mind the economic injustice that results from a withholding of wages and a denial to workers of the just reward of their labor. That is from what one scholar wrote in a commentary. And this is interesting as a thought here in the present church, not necessarily several and run, but but within the scene of the American church. The church today, it's interesting that James would even bring this up. Exploitation, social injustice. When you think about the church and social justice, there's quite a bit of debate. The church today is afraid to speak against injustice, in my observation. thinking it's not their jobs, but James doesn't take that approach. James speaks against it. As a leader in the church, even. A representative of that, those, all of those branches of the church, in fact. Now the message of Jesus Christ cannot be reduced to a social gospel or justice, obviously. really see people exactly trying to do that around me. However, justice in our social spheres is important, and James wants to emphasize that. And this is the second evidence. The second evidence is that those who you exploit, when someone doesn't receive their paycheck on the day that you told them that they were going to receive it, and believe me, that happens a great Those workers that cry out, God hears them. They take the witness stand. How will you ever escape that condemnation? It is time to repent, if you've been blinded by riches, to basic obligations within life and your finances. Now, that's the second piece of evidence. There's a third reason And here's exhibit C. Your obesity testifies against you. The image from hoarder to fraudulent becomes grotesque in the next exhibition. Example. Take a look. You have lived on the earth, verse five, in pleasure and luxury. You have fattened your hearts as in a day of slaughter. Now this is very interesting. Just like the other images, there's a reversal. The image from the hoarder to the fraudulent grows grotesque into this person that may not even be able to lift them up. themselves up any longer because they become so fattened in their luxury and rich. The rich become like animals filling every desire at the expense of the community. That's the picture. Interestingly, it does reverse. There's a reversal here, just as we saw all the others. You think you're getting away with it and the accumulation of possessions, but you find that the Or you think you're getting away with it because you've silenced your workers because you're in control of the courts. But God hears their cry. And here you see, you think you're getting away with it because you're eating everything in sight. Maphorically speaking, I'm not talking about food here. You're consuming and consuming and consuming. You think you're getting away with it, but it's not true. And actually the reversal here is you were fattening yourself out of luxury, but God was fattening you for the day of judgment. Fairy tales like Hansel and Gretel. Hansel and Gretel go mindlessly through the forest to a a a candy house, and they're able to Eat as much as they want, and from their eyes they've hit the jackpot, and there's no responsibility. They're able to just indulge. Meanwhile, the witch is inside, or whoever, stirring her pot, getting ready to boil them It's the same picture here. The rich fill themselves in complete satisfaction, but their obesity from God's perspective Is for the slaughter. Like cattle out there eating all the grass in the field, thinking, hey, look at all this grass. Isn't this great? Not knowing that they will be slaughtered. It again urges us towards repentance. This consummates in the in the uh verse six now. You have condemned, you have murdered the just, and he Does not resist you. It's really a summary of everything that took place before. To murder is not just the taking away of life by a knife or a gun. It's the robbing a person of their estate in life. It's It's f it's not allowing them to flourish. It could mean literal murder here, but it definitely means taking away from a person to be able to live the life that God intends. And that's what all of these things have done to this group of people by the rich. The idea becomes exacerbated because, as I express, the rich controlled the courts. You can look back in chapter 2. The rich controlled the courts, and therefore the poor have no recourse. They have no voice within society. To be able to defend themselves. And so their life is destroyed under the corrupt rich, those who abuse them. However, I want you to notice a pattern here in each of the examples. Verse one says, weep and howl for your miseries that are coming upon you. This is another emphasis. Look at verse three. It's emphasized again there at the end when it says in the last days. Again referring to the Look at verse 5, the day of slaughter, again referring to the day of judgment. And verse 4. This is an Old Testament reference, again, referring to the day of justice and of judgment, the Lord of Sadhioth, the Lord of hosts, or one who is omnipotent with all power One scholar says that the phrase, the ears of the Lord of hosts, come straight from the Septuagint from Isaiah 5:9. You know that justice and social justice was a big deal in Isaiah. Isaiah, right? In all of those prophets. It's being brought up again here. The echoes are coming into this passage, and doubtless James expected his Christian readers to pick up the illusion. There too in Isaiah, the rich were using their muscle to gain every piece of available land for their own aggrandizement and comfort. There too, though the withholding of wages isn't mentioned in the Isaiah Isaiah passage, the poor were suffering loss of land and income. When the Lord came to his vineyard in Isaiah 5. 1, he looked for righteousness. Hasid Va Ahmed, leaders giving their life so that others can flourish, and instead what he found was only a cry of outrage and pain amongst the poor because of the oppression oppression. That the rich had done for their own benefit. And he's bringing those echoes up in here for them to remember that Isaiah prophesied that the Lord cares about the oppression of those who are poor. He he cares about social injustices. And if you would like to remember, for us on the other side of this, we can see this even more clearly because of the judgment that came that came upon Israel in 78 All of that was tied in the words of Jesus as we look through his gospels to the social injustice that was going on The oppression of the poor, physically and spiritually. Judgment stands on the horizon, bidding the rich to repent and to kiss the sun, as Psalm 2 says And perhaps we need to consider ourselves as consumers and as the rich in some regard, and therefore must humble Is there some oppression within your life? Taking advantage, disadvantaging others for your own advantage Financially. The judgment stands on the horizon not only for the rich though. That brings us into verses seven and eight. It's so interesting to be Able to see a single event and to ascribe to it two significances, just as the Red Sea. It was significant when it was split for the people of Israel to walk through. as a day of salvation when they walked through the dry land. But the Egyptians saw it a day of judgment. Same event, two different meanings because of two different And the same is true here. With the rich, as they look out and they continue to be unrepentant and oppressed, the day of judgment was on the horizon. And it's a day of misery, of weeping and howling, howling for the day that would come upon them. But for the poor, for those who are oppressed, it is instead a day of hope. It is a beacon of relief and hope from the old creation. Now in verses 7 through 8, this is essentially what he's saying here. He's taking what they've overheard the Christian community has overheard James speaking to the rich, and now what they've overheard, he's going to turn to them and say And this is your comfort. It's your comfort that you won't last in this. And he does so in verses 7 and 8 through the model of farming. I love it. It's beautiful. Listen to this. Therefore, be patient with Brethren, until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, waiting patiently for it until it receives the early and latter rain? You also be patient. Establish your hearts For the coming of the Lord is at hand. And it ends up being a beacon of hope on the horizon, as opposed to a day of howling and of misery, depending on your relationship and how you're standing to the Lord. If you are rich, if you are guilty of these things, repent and this can become a day of hope for you also. I'll say that first. But for those here in this passage and for those that we read about and perhaps even for yourself and being oppressed or disadvantaged, those who take advantage of you, continu Consider the farmer. Verse seven brings this out explicitly and cross pollinates from the farming world. Another way of saying essentially there is a season for everything. About that when you're in winter, you're a pretty silly person. And he's saying that pretty much here too. Recognize the season that you are in. The season is coming. There is a season when Jesus will return and he will establish justice, he will establish goodness, and he will establish peace throughout the earth There will no longer be any oppression. If you have a heart for those who are taken advantage of, the only hope to solve that problem is Jesus Christ. I hope you know that. And turn to him. He truly does care about justice and oppression. He will return and wipe it from the earth. Jesus is the only hope for this world Just as any other Christian from any age after the fall of Adam, we are called, when everything around us seems to the contrary, to Trust that God will fulfill His promises to make this creation right again. It is a very difficult task, but it's actually an honorable task, and it is full of hope and excitement. Because we now get to place ourselves in the cloud of witnesses. They all had to be patient and wait too. And now we get to be like them, waiting for the early and the latter rain. Christ will come and bring justice to this world. In light of Christ's judgment, the oppressive rich must repent, and the poor must be patient. Please pray with me. Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that we can see you in the center again. We can see that all of our hope must be in you and that you care about all good things. That you will make this world right, that it is your goal to bring heaven and earth together again and to recognize We thank you that you have the power to do it, that you are the Lord of hosts, the omnipotent one. And we turn our hopes to you. We ask you That you'd give us patience. And we ask for those who have been blinded by their riches, that you would open their eyes and that you would give them repentance, that your return could be a day of hope for them also. In the name of Christ. Amen.