When you're younger, Your friends in the wintertime put on a pair of skis and ski off of your roof into your back At least my friends did. And now you look at those same people and they're concerned to go outside their front door if the sidewalks aren't salted. Uh there's something that happens in age where certain presumptions that you had about bouncing back in physical health. I remember this in Getting back on my skateboard recently. I presumed I would bounce back up, and it didn't happen Presumption is seems like courage when you're younger. But when you're older, you realize that it is, in fact, presumption and that it's foolhardy. And that having a greater awareness of human frailty is a sign of maturity. The main question for you this evening is: are you a presumptuous person? I don't mean in terms of extreme sports. I'm thinking of something else. That's the question that James is asking us. Presumption is the main theme for tonight, as you can tell with how Bradley led his confession. It relates to two other themes that have been going on for some time now in James' letter. We've been speaking about our speech, or the tongue. And its use. And then humility has been a major motif running through the late the chapters lately Two weeks ago, humility and the tongue came together in relationship to a command for the community of Jesus Christ, and that is: do not speak evil of one another. The way we understood that was that you're not to slander one another. You're not to defame each other's names. And I'd like just as way uh way of review, since we missed last week due to the snow. To remind you of the four practical ways to not speak evil against one another. And the first is do not be rash in judgment. Proverbs 18, 17. Don't uh one person tells you one thing, don't take that as the whole story. Cross examination I suppose is a lot, and that's why we have it in our court system. Give yourself some time. Slow down and judge the matter correctly. Speak to the other side first. Make excuses for people. If someone came up to you and said, boy, she sure is late for church all the time. doesn't she? Then you know what you should say since you don't speak evil of another person? You should say, well, I'm sure she has a lot on her plate, and I'm sure she loves God. That would be making excuses. Good ones. We would want to cling to God's word. As we set aside slander, we should fill up his word. Should speak the word of edification. We should be defenders of people in this community and praise them in whatever way we could possibly find to praise them. And we must cut off all evil speaking, just as it says in Psalm 101. The main point of the last sermon that we heard in terms of humility is that Christ loves us as his people here at Severn Run And he wants whoever is staying here with us to dwell in safety and not worry about how you're gonna run your mouth to be as Pasademian. alike as I could say it. Let us by the power of Christ's Spirit protect each other's reputation. Now tonight there's a further protection that needs to be done. There's a high risk area. It's not just in relationship to another's reputation, it is in relationship to the heart of our neighbor and in our own heart, and that is presumption in how we think about our future. How we think about our daily lives, how we think about how we conduct business. But the main the main point he's trying to make is you are wandering as a Christian if you are not consistently and constantly Seeking humility. And that will be revealed in the way you talk. The big idea, then, is that you are to not be arrogant But remember in your very heart the reality of who you are. Now I want to look at this under three parts, an example that he gives to us in the scriptures here. A dose of reality that he gives us, and a new way of speak that he instructs us. So let's take a look at this together, beginning in verse 13. We're going to first see an example, and it's an example from the business world. Come now, you who say, today or tomorrow, we will go to such and such a city, spend a year there, buy and sell, and make a profit. James begins by giving an example from the world of business in verse thirteen, and it's the picture of someone making plans during his day to sail to some town to buy and to trade and to make a profit. He has a Blackberry or well that's not irrelevant anymore. He has a wow. Has an iPhone, hey Sorry. He has an i has an iPhone and uh he plans everything out. And uh says this is exactly how he's going to make a profit. He he does he search Google Trends to figure out his demographic. He's got everything in place, and he knows exactly the profit ratio that he'll bring in for the year. Now when I say that, I don't want you to think that I'm denouncing planning, or that more importantly, that Jesus denounces planning, because he certainly doesn't. If you take a look in Luke chapter 14, verse 28, Just take a look at that with me real quick. I should hear far more flipping. Chapter 14, verse 28. He says, for which of you intending to build a tower does not sit down first and count the cost, whether he has enough to finish it? Lest after he has laid the foundation and is not able to finish, all who see it begin to mock him, saying, This man began to build and was not able to finish. Or what king going to war against another king does not sit down first and consider whether he's able with 10,000 to meet him who comes against him with 20,000? So the planning is not forbidden, even as you consider your salvation. He's not denouncing making money or working hard. We've seen, I'm not even going to quote them because we've seen them so often within the book of Proverbs of the importance of wealth, that it's a good thing. It's a gift from God and hard work. What he's speaking about here is not, and he's not trying to separate the business world from the religious world. That was something that was done in the Middle Ages that was a great tragedy to culture Your vocation is a God-given vocation, whether you may corrugate cardboard or whatever you do. It's the spirit behind Anything that you would do, really. And you could say that it's a correct and appropriate recognition of your place within the universe Before God. That's what he's seeking here is for us to evaluate our hearts as to who we truly are, not in comparison to the person sitting next to you. Because it's easier for you to feel superior to them. But in relationship to God, who are you? And therefore, how should you speak, and how should you act, and how should you plan when you have that mindset or that heart set? It's actually quite interesting that it's the opposite of what we see in the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew chapter 6, verse 25. If you would like to look there with me, you could of course use this for meditation later. In Matthew 6, 25, it says to not worry. Therefore I say to you, do not worry about your life what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air, for they neither sow, nor reap, nor gather into barns. Yet your heavenly father feeds them. Are you not more of more value than they? Which of you, by worrying, can add one cubit to his stature Seems that there are some within our life that are particularly anxious and they're worried. They're worriers. I'm sure you know some worriers. They're worried about whether God will take care of them. Here it's the opposite. They're not worried about whether God will take care of them. They think they have no cares in the world. Not because God will take care of them, but because if they were to just apply their talents and their competence and their statistics to situations, then everything will come out just as they equated. All it is is a set of formulas. And I just have to make sure the equation and the math is done right and out will pop the product That's the spirit behind this. Anxiety is one spirit, and the opposite danger is an undue self-confidence. This is the example from business. Christians wander into presumption. And now we thank God that James gives us a dose of reality, waking us up to reality in the next point. This is what we see in verse 14. We have the business example, and now he's he knows that we have wandered if we think this way. If we are self-reliant and are not If we do not acknowledge the sovereignty of God, according to his own good pleasure, we have wandered. But James is not satisfied for us to sit in a place He wants to bring us out of the wandering. That's his goal in the whole letter. And so in verse 14, he's going to give us a dose of reality. He says there in that verse, whereas you do not know what will happen tomorrow. You think you've got a year under control, and you can't even figure out today. That's how off you are in your mind. He's not saying that you never know what happens the following day. That's ridiculous. God upholds the universe by laws. You pretty much know what's going to happen tomorrow. You know that there could be changes in that. It's not really his point. The main point that he's seeking to show you is that you don't control any of it. You don't control what will happen tomorrow. And this is supposed to the difficulty with this passage is that it's so darn obvious. This is my struggle with it. It's like, yeah, of course these things are true. The difficulty though is to see, can you get this to be in your heart to where it's actually shaping you and how you think about your life? Do you believe that you have no control over tomorrow? You can ask me later, but if you're a procrastinator, you don't believe that. You you don't believe. You think you have control over tomorrow, that's why you're putting everything off until tomorrow. Because you think it'll just be like it always is. Which is a sign that you really do think you're in control of your life. But you don't know what will happen tomorrow. And continuing with verse 14, he gives us this other image Whereas you don't know what will happen tomorrow, and you've been planning for a year, is the underlying point there. For what is your life? It is even a vapor that appears for a little time and then vanishes away. You are nothing. You last as long as a vapor. You think you're going to fulfill all your plans tomorrow, but he can wipe you out in five minutes. I remember fly fishing on the gunpowder. We'd start in the morning, and we'd be fly fishing in a mist, this fog that's over the Over the trout stream. And then the sun would rise and in an hour all of the fog where we couldn't even see the woods would be burned up and gone. That's the picture. It's the picture here within this passage. Fly fishing in the morning with mist. But I have my own experiences. I don't like to share my own experiences, quite honestly, but I'm going to because I think it's helpful here. I remember in the summer going into the 10th grade, I went with a very close friend to a lacrosse clamp camp. He was a defenseman, I was an attack. We went to a uh an elite camp for lacrosse to prepare ourselves for the next season. The whole time that we were there, we were increasing in our skill and speaking to another about how the upcoming lacrosse season was going to be to be the best lacrosse season we've ever had, and we were going to have college recruiters. And he had become so good as a defenseman. That certainly would have been the case. But as we returned back from lacrosse camp two weeks later, on the way home with some of our other friends, the steering cable s Snapped in the car, all of the kids in the car went across the median strip, and everyone died. It's one of the greatest tragedies in my high school existence, and it hasn't left me And I hope it hasn't left me, and I hope it can impact you for you to realize what he's saying here. Life is a vapor. Tomorrow is not promised. You are not in control. And if you can allow that to set within your heart, then you would be in a position where you're not wandering as a Christian, where you could actually make plans With humility. You could study Google Trends, but in humility. You could work out your profit margins, but in humility. I also heard a story, she's much older now, but of a daughter who presumed that her father would return in the evening, so while watching cartoons, she decided not to say goodbye for the day, and that would be the last time that she would see him Because the heart attack would strike, and she would not see him by that evening. And I'm sure that your life is filled with examples like this, where life is like a vapor, and you think that you can control things because Our weatherman tells us that there will be snow tomorrow before there's any signs of snow. And we feel like we control the weather. We're getting to the point in the Anoron County Public School System where we're calling off school before weather even happens And there's a s that can be wise, but we, because of our sinfulness and our longing to be superior even to God Himself. Will take those things and we will feel like kings of the cosmos or queens of the cosmos. That's the dose of reality very quickly that he gives us there. That's very much like James. He did that last time too with how we speak evil of one another. And I hope you realize that that's the true picture of reality. That's actually what it's like to live as a human. It's a picture of weakness. It's a picture of frailty. It's a picture of confusion. It is a picture of ignorance But by the grace of God do we have the opposites of those things. And as this begins to settle, James brings up now that our speech should change. And so there is a new way to speak that we see in verse fifteen. So the one way that you could speak is you could say that um even though I can't even control a moment, I'm gonna go ahead and plan out the whole year. And not acknowledge the sovereignty of God. But he says in 15, instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we shall live and do this or that. So James is still actually focused on the tongue here. Did you notice that? The theme is continuing. He focuses now and he says, he's focused on how what you should say. Isn't that interesting? He's still continuing all the way from chapter three to focus on speech and how it manifests what's truly within our hearts. This statement, uh Lord Lord willing, everybody heard Lord Willing? I actually heard some. Somebody say it to me today. Lord Willing is the American version. If you were in the Victorian era, usually you'd say Deo Volente. Has anybody seen D V on a letter? Fancy people that put that on their on their letters. D V. Now I I don't there's a debate on whether you you have to say this all the time or not. I don't think that's really the point. I think it can be Appropriate to say it? But the point is: if we were to look back at James 3, verses 11 and 12, don't forget what he talks about here with the tongue. He says in verse 11 of chapter 3: Does a spring send forth fresh water and bitter from the same opening? Can a fig tree, my brethren, bear olives, or a grapevine bear frigs? Figs. Thus, no spring yields both salt water and fresh. He's speaking about the mouth there. And from the heart, the mouth is the overflow of the heart. And so if you're saying, if you're cursing the person next to you, it shouldn't be because your heart has been remade by the Holy Spirit. What should be coming out are good things about another person. That's his point there. And he he's still continuing with that theme. And so out of the overflow of our heart, being humbled in our actual being or self or heart, it would overflow in our speech that we wouldn't presume that we own another minute of our life unless God were to grant it. Have you ever seen someone like that? They're my favorite people in all the world that have that kind of humility. That's what he's saying here, and that it would therefore be reflected in our speech because it's so deep within our hearts The heart or the mind must be captured by a true evaluation of yourself. See that in 4. 12. I want you to notice this as a further argument for it. That this is what he's trying to say to you. Your heart must be captured by a true understanding of who you are in relationship to God. Look at 4. 12. There is one lawgiver who is able to save and to destroy. Who are you to judge another person? Who are you to think you are superior to where you could talk down on another person in an unlawful and illegitimate way? That was last that was two weeks ago. Now notice the same thing pops up in 414. Whereas you do not know what will happen tomorrow. For what is your life? You see that? He's really putting us in our place as those from the human race. I didn't mean to rhyme there That's his main that's his main point. He's seeking to give you as many resources as he possibly can that you would have a chance at gaining some humility within your heart. Because any other thing, if humility is not within a pre present within a Christian, then you have wandered. Now let me read to you John Newton, one of my favorite authors. He wrote and on, or actually preached on November 21st in the year 1770. He said this. When God dealt familiarly with Abraham and conversed with him as a friend, Abraham fell on his face before him. Sometimes I get the impression that Christians, if if Jesus walked into the room, they wouldn't even get up out of their chairs. When the Lord appeared to vindicate Job and to comfort him after his sorrows, he abhorred himself in dust and ashes. That we can often approach the Most High God with a kind of indifference, as if it were a thing of regular course. Is a proof rather of the hardness of our hearts than of the strength of our faith. The angels are represented as hiding their faces before Him With what humility then should we pour sinful dust and ashes, take his holy name upon our polluted lips? That is a true estimation of the human being in relationship to God, and that is the message that James seeks to give us. In conclusion and in summary, James has given us a hypothetical situation to bring out how Christians can wander into presumption and arrogance. Jesus Christ, through his Spirit, working through the personality of James, has graciously given us a dose of reality. Reminding us of our ignorance and our frailty, that we would not be stuck in self-pity, but that we would have appropriate humility. And may the Spirit make us at least as humble as the angels. We would not even think of covering our eyes because we think so much of ourselves And may that be cast out of us, and may humility be pile-drived in. Now I want to bring out, as we close and in conclusion, verse number 17. And then I want us to go into a time of prayer. I actually think when James says in chapter one that they should pray, I think he wants them to particularly pray for humility. If you think about the double-mindedness, what's going on there, and compare it with chapter 4. So I want us to do the same thing. Look at verse 17. Therefore to him who knows to do good and does not do it, to him it is sin. This is a clear example of a of a word that you've probably heard if you've been around for a little bit. The sin of omission. Versus commission. You've probably heard that terminology before. To have a sin of omission means that you know what is the right thing to do, but you do not pursue it. You omit your responsibility, even though you know that it is the right thing to do. Whereas instead of omitting, you should have committed yourself to a particular action. And this is actually brilliant, which is why we need to go into prayer. It's brilliant because humility, in my experience And in reading the scriptures, it does not form and it does not stay within the heart of a Christian unless it is actively cultivated. It will be one of the first things that leak out of the bucket. I can cultivate humility when I wake up in the morning I could co cultivate humility on my way to work, and by the time nine I get here at 8, by the time 9 o'clock rolls around, everything that I had worked on will almost be gone There is a hole in my heart, and the first thing to leak is humility. I have this innate drive to be superior. It must be constantly tamped down. And so I love that James ends this section in verse 17 that you know what the right thing to do is. You know that you are supposed to weigh yourself before God and not other people, and that you are meant to be humble. But let me tell you something. Just because you know it doesn't mean anything You must not just hear the word of God, you must do it, to bring it up from chapter one and what he has said. You must pursue it, you must cultivate it. And I find cultivating it primarily through song is my greatest advantage. advantage. Holly and I have been talking about this. We have found there's a buzzphrase going around that says preach the gospel to yourself. And I'm fine with that as long as you got the gospel right. Preach the gospel to yourself. But the problem is, is that usually means listening to a sermon. And if you're a mom and you're trying to listen to a sermon in the car, you're going to get really frustrated because the kids are going to interrupt you the whole time And you're not going to have any preaching the gospel to yourself. So Holly and I, and I've found that same kind of thing to happen in my life, Holly and I have found that it is far more plausible to have someone else or for each other to sing. the gospel to us. And so we have got to have something on the radio at all times singing the love of God to us and what he is accomplished Accomplished through Jesus Christ. And that creates a humility in us when we understand that properly. Constantly having those songs running across our hearts, marinating our hearts. Within songs about the goodness of God and Him saving us from our sin. So as we go into prayer, I want to give you a few ideas by reading another Paragraph from John Newton. This is from Miscellaneous Thoughts upon Entering the Ministry from 1758. And I ask that we would pray for a deeper sense of our frailty and God's supremacy this evening. This is a prayer from John Newton. And as I read it, let's ourselves go into a prayer that has a spirit like this. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, give me a humbling sense of my sins. Give me a humbling view of your glory. Give me a humbling taste of your love, for surely nothing humbles like these. All my pride springs from ignorance. Grant me to know myself, to know you, to know my relation to you, and my dependence upon you, my unprofitableness and my insufficiency before you And the extent and importance of the mercies I continually receive from you. With this same spirit, let's now go into prayer, asking that God would pour out humility on