Chapter. You can also find the scripture verse in the bulletin, but I will be uh asking you to turn to a couple different places in your Bible this morning so it'd be good for you to have it. in hand, digital, or analog, however you do it. And we're looking at Matthew 28, 19, but I'll go ahead and start at 16 just because this is a unit Matthew 28, 16, and we'll go to the end, but my focus is on 19. Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee to the mountain which Jesus had appointed for them. When they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted. And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you, and lo I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Amen. Amen. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, in the name of Christ, I ask that you would teach your congregation. That they would have ears to hear, that they would know their marching orders and their mission, that they would see what you have called them to do. I pray, Lord, that they would not just hear your word, but be doers of it. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. A few weeks ago we ended a sermon series on the book of Jonah, and I think that many of us were surprised at the conclusion of Jonah that it ends with a question. And one way to paraphrase that question is, are you willing to bring my mercy to the nations? It's one way to paraphrase that. And that's the question that's really been before us. So in order to be able to look at that more closely, to bring God's mercy to the nations, we've decided to Have a brief series this summer on the Great Commission, which is a central teaching from Jesus on bringing his good news to the nations. Now last week We looked at verse number 18 where Jesus has declared that all authority has been given to him in heaven and on earth. And there were a few observations that we made about that that were quite comforting, actually. The first was this, is that God Himself from Psalm 2 underpins the authority of Jesus. Now the the implication of that that we drew out together that ends up being a great strength and comfort for us is that all those who do not submit themselves to the authority of Christ make war against God Himself. Well, that should uh sober you up as a truth. And then the the second thing that we noticed is that we asked the question, well, why did God, the Father Give so much power and authority to Jesus the Son. And there are many different answers to that, and we could summarize it for God's glory. But we focused on another purpose, which was that Christ has authority and power in order to bring blessing and paradise back to earth. We see a vision within Revelation, not of being sucked up into a heavenly vacuum cleaner. We don't see ourselves as just remaining here on earth as it is in its imperfection with tears and disease. Instead, we see the uniting of heaven and earth by the power of Jesus Christ, where we are renewed and brought into a paradise under his lordship. And so that is the second thing. The purpose of his authority is to bring blessing. And what what great news is that? That he's not trying to rob us. He's trying to help us. Now this morning, we're focused on the second of the alls throughout this passage. Remember, we're focused on all authority, all the nations all of my life where all the commands obey, and then always with you. I'm always with you. We're focused on those all's. And here is the second one And the second one is all of the nations. Now here's the first thing that I want you to hear from me this morning, okay? Our marching orders at Severn Run are to all of the nations. Now I don't need to spend a lot of time, I was thinking when I was thinking through the outline of this, I was thinking, well how can I prove that to them? What kind of arguments could I give to them? Well how about this one? Look at verse number 19, and it says all nations. How's that? There you go. Okay, we don't need to keep going on that one. That would be called beating a dead horse. So I think we all pretty much see that that it is to all of the nations, but I hope that you can I hope that you have some sense of the significance of that. that actually we are meant to bring the good news of the gospel and the life that accompanies life in the spirit to the nations. Do you know that it didn't always used to be that way? I wonder if some of you remember a story that I've told. I think I was still in my internship. I'm not sure. I just remember being way less mature when I first said this. But I was back where uh Pat High uh lives. I'm not sure if you know where she lives and I'm not going to tell you. But I was back in Pat High's neighborhood. It was a little bit past the Pooleys and I was with my friend Brian Lapiccolo We're well we were both pastors at the time, so it wasn't just in in an internship. And um we were leaving uh Pat High's house and next door, a couple doors down from Pat High's house, there was just a raging party. Like the kind you would see with celebrities. Out back of the house, there were all these boats that had tied themselves together. The music was super loud. Everybody was having a great time. And then as I'm driving out of the neighborhood with Brian in the passenger seat, there's this couple, young couple, that stumbles out into the middle of the street Because they don't have all of their brain with them at the time, I'll just put it that way. And so we saw that they were kind of fumbling. I think they dropped their car keys like six or seven times going across the street. And so I rolled down my window and I said, could we take you somewhere to keep you safe? And they said, yeah, that would be great. We'll do that. We'll take you somewhere. So they both hopped into they both hopped into the back of the truck, uh where there's seats, not the very back. But they hope both hop into the back of the truck and uh so they start asking questions about, hey, who are you guys? And we both say, well, we're both pastors. So they're thinking Great. This is the worst thing that could ever happen. Literally what a buzzkill. Right? So so then we start asking them questions. And this is the point of the story, is that the girl very uh Just really waving her arms and really excited about everything. She she says, she I said, Well, what's your story? And she says, I'm Jewish, chosen people of God. Real loud. And uh and I'm and I'm thinking, okay, yeah. That's true That's true. And that would have been a good way to say it before the arrival of Jesus. Because when we take a look, for example, like she could literally, uh, with much wine Be quoting Exodus and Deuteronomy. Listen to these passages in speaking about Israelites. Don't transport it into a modern-day context. Listen to the original context. Exodus 19, 5 through 6. Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, then you shall be a stretch a special treasure to me above all people. Same thing as in our passage here, all nations. All people. For all the earth is mine, and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. I'm setting you apart as a chosen people. Or Deuteronomy 7:6. For you are a holy people to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for himself, a special treasure above all the peoples on the face of the earth. And so what you what do you the little lesson that we get from a little miss thing in the back of the truck there is that you can begin to see the shift here within Matthew 28 that that's changing. If you want to ask who is the chosen nation of God, you're now going to have to say, well, all nations. People from all nations. Reforming and moving into one kingdom of God. Now this is talked about. Sometimes we don't see this, and it's a very difficult passage, but this is what Paul is talking about in Ephesians 2, by the way. This is something you can meditate on and just think about the imagery during your lunchtime or whatever. But in Ephesians 2, 12 through 13, listen to the difference that's happening under the reign of Jesus Christ after the incarnation, after he has taken upon himself flesh. Listen to the difference of how God is ruling the world. It says in Ephesians 2. 12 that at that time you Gentiles were without Christ, and you were aliens from the commonwealth of Israel. You were strangers from all of the covenants of the promise of promise. You had no hope, and you were without God in the world. So you could picture if you want, uh just to kind of get across the point, the center of the world, there's something that is shining, that is connected to heaven, and that's Israel, like she had said in the back of my truck. But here you're starting and you hear him speaking about it, and every place else is in darkness. That's the way that he describes it. But then when you get to Ephesians chapter 2, verse 13, he says, But now, in Christ Jesus, you who were once far off Have been brought near by the blood of Jesus Christ. You have the privilege In other words, going back to the Matthew passage, you have the privilege, as a congregation, of telling the nations That the door is now open for them to enter into covenant with God And no longer be his enemies, but to be reconciled and have peace and life eternal. So you could start with the center of the earth where it was just a small light connected to heaven, and now it is unfolding to where we really have a vision in front of us and you're participating in the vision under your leader, Christ Jesus. To where the whole earth shall be filled with the glory and the knowledge of God So now we could go into the significance of that for a long time. But that's the basic thing here. I don't want to spend any more time on that. That's the basic idea of all of the nations and the difference. So you can see God is m moving in a major way here, so we can't ignore that this door has been opened and we have work to do. Now the second thing that I wanted to point out to you, so that's the first thing. It's all nations. But here's the thing. Let me just ask you a question. Based on the rest of just this verse, what are we supposed to be doing with the nations? This is another place where I don't need a complicated argument for you. We can just look down at verse number 19, and you can see that we are to be discipling them. We're to be discipling them. Now I want to highlight that for you this morning, not only that it's to all nations, but it's that's to disciple all nations. Very simple message this morning. We're discipling all nations. I want to highlight that to you because I want to make a distinction. Sometimes it seems to me that at least the American Evangelical Church has made the mistake of thinking that Jesus in this passage says, you're going to, all authority has been given to me in heaven and earth. Go therefore and hand out impersonal tracts to all people. Or, if you want to just put it in terms of uh how we talk about it, go therefore and evangelize all people. But he doesn't use that word. And I'm not saying that tracks have no place. That's not what I'm saying. I just want to focus on, well, what does Jesus say the main goal is? Because if I make something that's a means an end, then I'm already in trouble. So I need to make sure that his ends are my ends, that his ends are your ends. And he says the end that we're doing, that we're striving toward with all of the nations is that they would become disciples. That's the end. So let me just show you in the scriptures. We're going to flip around for a minute. I'm going to hear all these pages, and it's going to be great. Okay, because we're a Bible-believing church. So I want to show you a distinction just within the ministry of Paul himself of when he's going out and what he does first in evangelism and then what happens after conviction sets in and then move into disciples. Alright, so let's start first in, I just want to bring to your attention Acts chapter 17, verses 2 through 4. I'm just going to read this for you, and then I'll make a few comments on it, and we'll move on. So this is an example, I want to unfold an example of how Paul began his conversations and his preaching with people so you could see a division. of how he thinks about these things. So he says, then Paul, as was his custom, Acts 17, 2 through 4, went into them for three Sabbaths, reasoned with them from the scriptures. So you you see that picture? It'd be like Paul showing up here and he's going to reason with you for three Lord's days from the scriptures about something Now let's go ahead and discover what he reasons with you about. He's going to argue with you and seek to persuade you rhetorically. He says he's explaining and demonstrating that the Christ had to suffer and rise again from the dead, and saying, this Jesus whom I preach to you is in fact the Christ. That's what he would be trying to do. That would be his thesis, students. That would be his thesis every Lord's Day. Jesus is the Christ. And then he would show you how that unfolded throughout the scriptures of the Old Testament. This Jesus whom I preach to you is the Christ. And guess what happens in some of those congregations? Some of them were persuaded. And a great multitude of the devout Greeks, and not a few of the leading women, joined Paul and Silas. Do you see how that would happen? Now let me go on in verses continuing in Acts chapter 17. I'm going to pick up on verse 5 now, just continuing. But there were some people who were in that congregation who actually had a lot of power who were not persuaded. But the Jews who were not persuaded, becoming envious, took some of the evil men from the marketplace, and gathering a mob, set all the city in an uproar, and attacked the attacked the house of Jason, and sought to bring them out to the people. But when they did not find them, they dragged Jason and some brethren to the rulers of the city, crying out, those now listen to this very carefully, because you can see what Paul proved is now a problem. Those who have turned the world upside down have come here too. Jason harbored them, and these are all acting contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus. There's literally a subversion of the empire happening with the acceptance and the persuasion that Paul has had within the congregation. And now, if you were convinced of Paul's arguments that he has said, your allegiance will shift from the one empire to a different empire. All of that is happening in these different places. That's how serious this is. And this is how Paul begins. And they troubled the crowd and the rulers of the city when they had heard these things. So when they had taken security from Jason and the rest, they let them go. Verse number ten. Acts seventeen. Then the brethren immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea. Now Here we're going to now go into another city. Let's see what does Paul do in that city as an initial act of sharing or preaching the good news? When they arrived, they went into the synagogue of the Jews, okay, just like he always does. These were more fair-minded than those in Thessalonica, and that they received the word with all readiness. What word? It's going to be the same word that he had been preaching all along, proving that Jesus is the Christ, that he had to rise from the dead, he had to uh uh be murdered by the hand of his own people, all of those things They end up searching the scriptures themselves, confirming his arguments, to find out whether these things were so. And therefore, many of them believed. And not a few of the Greeks, prominent women as well as men. And my argument to you is that is kind of the initial preaching that we see from the Apostle Paul and the other apostles according to 1 Corinthians 15. is they had this this these sermons that they would give. We don't have the full sermons, we have outlines of them. They have these full these gave these full sermons where their primary Purpose was to prove to the people that were sitting in front of them that Jesus is in fact the King of the world. Basically, they're seeking to prove everything that we saw in Psalm 2 last week. And some of them were persuaded. And it says they joined Paul and Silas. Okay, now, once that happens, once that conviction sets in, that's the evangelism that took place The conviction has set in, and if it were an American evangelical Christian, Paul would just be out the door and he would have no idea what happened to all those people that were persuaded. You know, I was reading accounts from Billy Graham, who had these huge rallies, and I actually think there's one member here who went to one of the rallies and perhaps even became a Christian in that rally. And I read that he would lay awake at night praying, God, I don't know any of those 4,000 people that came forward today, but would you please Make sure that they have a church to go to. And then they started doing, you know, there were some research students, grad students that started doing research on Billy Graham revivals and they took statistics on the different people that would come forward and what would happen to them afterward. They ended up determining a huge percentage of those who did not have a follow-up church afterwards. never spoke of the faith again. Now why am I telling you that in the middle of this argument on evangelism? Because there needs to be a distinction now because We have an initial persuasion under that evangelic evangelistic preaching that's happening under the ministry of the Apostle Paul. But Paul doesn't forget about who those people are. He immediately starts plugging them in to form a congregation where discipleship can continue. And remember, our mission is to disciple the nations. Not just to give them a message and head out. We are to disciple the nations. Now let me give you another picture of how this happens in the congregation. Acts chapter 2, 40 through 42, it says, And with many other words he testified and exhorted them, saying, Be saved from this perverse generation. And they gladly received his words, just as we see in the Great Commission, they're baptized, which means signifies many things, but one thing that means is that I am now committed to a different king than I was before and a different community, and so too is the rest of my household, which is why our children are baptized. And he continues and he said, They were they gladly received his word, they were baptized, and now hear the discipleship. Listen to it switch They're now going to be full-time disciples. And at that day, about 3,000 souls were added to them, and they continued devotedly. In the Apostles' Doctrine and fellowship in the breaking of bread and in prayers. The very first people who received instruction from Jesus on what the marching orders of the church were did not just do evangelistic preaching as an end. They did evangelistic preaching to a further end. And that further end was for them to be gathered as a congregation and discipled. Take a look at the rest of 19. so that they would obey everything that he has commanded in every single part of their lives. It was never enough to sign a card at a BBS. It was never enough to do the altar call at the summer camp. Those aren't bad in and of themselves. I've seen God use those things. I'm just making the argument that when we look at the Great Commission, we don't see Jesus saying Stop with the evangelistic preaching. That's all I wanted you to do. He's saying disciple him to the end in every area. That's the job of the church. That's the job of the congregation. We are not just a preaching community. We are a discipling community, and preaching is one end to that. As well as there are other things. Now I wonder if that's true in your own life. If you have seen that same thing where maybe you had become convinced in one way or another that Jesus is in fact your King, That he's been made king of the whole world. And I wonder if you really struggled for a while because there was never a switch from the original evangelistic message that you heard. To a full-blown discipleship. But then once you entered in, when someone actually cared enough about you to walk with you, to start working through all of the different questions that you had, annoyingly enough. I wonder if that's when you really started to see the growth. Because that's what we see here within this passage, and that's the job of the congregation of the church. is discipleship. Now I know many of you have heard my story, so I'm not going to bore you with it again. You know that I I was given the gospel while I was in a rehabilitation center. The guy pulled out, unlocked the drawer, pulled out a Bible, shared with me Noah's Ark. I had already been experiencing the presence of Christ by way of his word before that And then this just sealed the deal for me to understand whom God had placed judgment with. It was Jesus. I wanted to be friends. I didn't want to be drowned in that like that like in that story in one way or another. I told you that part of my story, that evangelistic part. I don't know if I told you that after that, I went back to my little dorm area. And there was like a machine gun fire of questions that I had. Now that I was a follower of Jesus Christ, what is that supposed to look like in my life? You see, it was like the Holy Spirit Himself was moving me from conviction from the evangelistic preaching now into the kinds of questions where I needed to be discipled. So I went back to the same intake officer and I said, well, what should I do? He said, Read your Bible. Well, I'm in a rehabilitation center, which means I have nothing else to do. So I just read my whole Bible from cover to cover within a week I noticed all kinds of stuff in the Bible that were contrary to what I had been taught growing up, including stuff about something about the Lord's day And the way that we're supposed to spend certain days, so I had a lot of questions about that. All of my friends there would be playing basketball, and I'd ask questions, is it okay for me to play basketball on this day or whatever it was Now those might seem like trite questions, but what I'm saying to you is that there was that switch from the evangelistic preaching over into, okay, well, what does it look like for me to have every area of my life come under the reign of Jesus Christ? And I turned back to the intake officer who was a plant of a local congregation. And so there we have remotely the church in that area doing its job That's the whole argument I have for you this morning. This is your job. To go to the nations and to disciple them. Discipleship. After I returned home, the discipleship continued, and the person that discipled me, we worked through everything. What is the place of alcohol within your life? What is the place for me, a man, so what is the place of a woman in your life? What is the place of church attendance in your life? What is the place of philosophy in your life? What is the place of theology in your life? What is the place of culture and plays and uh queso manchego cheese and seven course meals and whatever it was. I had questions about everything. I asked one day whether I should have Pepsi or I should have Coke And I look back and I think, man, I was just the most annoying person ever. But do you see the energy inside of me at that time is the energy from the Holy Spirit? Because the Holy Spirit's purpose is the same is communicated with here in the scriptures and and the Holy Spirit never relents from that purpose, and that is that he is seeking to bring the congregation completely in every single area in submission to Jesus Christ and His kingship. Pepsi and Coke. And now the answer when I'm 48 is water. Water and a walk. Now I've had other people, I've had some of you communicate these things to me. When you first became a Christian, you had all kinds of questions about bathing suits and all kinds of stuff. And that's right. That's the spiritual impulse of not just evangelism. But discipleship. And it gladdens my heart that you know where to go to get the answer, which is the congregation, because that's the congregation's job. I wonder, just going back, uh and maybe s maybe some of you are feeling a little doubtful and Don't feel as strong as your Christianity in your Christianity as you used to. Maybe you grew up in the church and it all just kind of seems like something that was handed to you, but you never really voluntarily chose this. That's one way of putting it. That has its drawbacks of phrasing it that way. But I wonder if you have ever really been convinced of the message. You know, if we had the time and we could do a survey, how many different views are there on what Christianity is? I mean the devil doesn't play around. He just wants you to be confused all the time. And I think one of the things that happens among us as evangelicals is sometimes what's passed down to you, especially if you grew up in the church, is that Christianity is a religious experience that you had. I'm not against religious experiences. I've had them myself. I'm talking about the kind of religious content, religious experience that doesn't really have any content except high emotions. I just want to tell you, and we could go over this if you're interested from the word, but from my own experience, those who have religious experience with no content, number one, may in fact not be a Christian, and if they are, they fall away very quickly. Do you notice how many times in Scripture it doesn't say or it says believe? In every one of the examples that I gave to you with the Apostle Paul, he went into a congregation and he sought to persuade them. Which means he engaged them with reasons, not overly complicated and annoying reasons, but he sought to persuade them of something. particular beliefs. And I'm just wondering if you've grown up in the church, perhaps your primary experience with Christianity is a religious experience and religious highs. And that when you were hearing the different scriptures about Jesus is the Christ, he had to be raised from the dead, and these things are proven from the Old Testament, I wonder if you believe any of that or if you even know what's being talked about. If that's you, now is the time in order for you to be able to do your job as a part of the congregation is you have got to Stir up within yourself and pray to God that you would become the kind of Christian that actually knows the message of Christianity. I'm not asking you to become a professor I'm just saying, could you know the basics of the sermon outline that Paul gives within his speeches to all of his sermons to all of those different congregations? Have you been convinced of the good message yourself? Second question. In the spirit, are you dedicating every part of your life to him? There has been a continual problem among the evangelical church where they have religious practices, but they don't really know exactly what Jesus Christ has to do with Monday through Saturday. And we're going to talk about this next week, but we literally have in verse number 19 that Jesus wants it all. And all to him you owe. There's not one square inch in all of your life and in all of the nations where Jesus does not say, yes, that too is mine. In other words, I'm really just asking with these application questions. Have you been evangelized and actually heard the Christian message? And have you become his disciple? Not asking for perfection, but his total presence in all your life. Now I do want to end with two questions. Let me get off of your personal case for a second. I do want to end with a couple questions that have to do with your job. And I think that these are really important questions. You should remember them, which means you should probably write them down or something, or get somebody in your family to write them down. Or I guess go back and listen. But these are two questions that I think that we've got based on the way that this is framed within the scriptures, there's two main questions I at least that we've got to start to answer as a congregation if we're going to do our job. Number one, why are the nations around you not persuaded that Jesus is the Christ? I need the list. Let's call them defeater beliefs. They believe something that defeats the idea over and over again that Jesus is actually the Christ. So I'm asking you, just within your spheres, this is an important question, you've got to start to answer. You need to know your audience to speak about it crassly. Why are the nations around you not persuaded that Jesus is the Christ? One of the first places you could look, I'll just give you a hint. I'm doing this myself. Pay attention to the slogans people use. It's not like they thought it out. It's just like a little slogan that just solves the issue for them. Listen for the slogans. It's the same thing the Nazis did. I expect Satan to do the same thing here. What are the slogans where they where it defeats the idea defeats the idea that Jesus is the Christ? That's the first question. What are the nations around you? Why are they not persuaded that Jesus is the Christ? Second. Within both the nations and those who say they have joined the congregation, ask this question. What is keeping them from being a devoted follower of Jesus the King? They're slightly different. What keeps them from being a devoted follower of Jesus? Now you know how you're going to get those answers? You're actually going to have to start talking to people. And and you stop talking and hear what they have to say. And that's where we can begin with our job as a congregation. Stebborn Run Evangelical Presbyterian Church, according to this passage, you are called to all nations, and you are called not just evangelistic sermons, though they are good. You are called to share the good news in order that they would become devoted disciples for all of life in every area of life. Let us pray.