When they saw him, they worshipped him, but some doubted, and that was last week. And now in verse eighteen. And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and earth Rage and the people plot a vain thing. The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel wrath, and distress them in his deep displeasure. Yet I have set my king on my pieces like a potter's vessel. Now therefore be wise, O kings. Be instructed Heavenly Father, it is you who has decreed and in your providence worked out would not just hear but believe. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Last week we W you heard a sermon on the first two verses that I read here this morning with Jesus on the mountain of Galilee. And we use this as an opportunity to begin to contextualize or orient ourselves as to the larger picture of the Great Commission. There are many larger pictures we could have tied into. There's one giant tapestry that God has created. And what we did last week was we focused on the part of the tapestry of Daniel. And that was quite appropriate because Daniel teaches that the stone that was not cut by human hands shall overcome all kingdoms. And that's represented by a stone becoming a mountain. And I thought, well, how appropriate that Jesus is standing on a mountain, and then we see in Daniel that the stone becomes the mountain. And we're able, therefore, to go ahead and contextualize this great commission. I think the main goal was just that you would see who it is that we're talking about here. What it what it what what is it that we're talking about? Sometimes in our culture, if you were to talk to your different teachers or professors or your relatives, Many people are willing to acknowledge that Jesus had some kind of insight in the same way that Confucius or Buddha or somebody did. They see him as a pretty competent moral teacher, especially with teachings ripped out of context on love and judging and kindness. But when we look at this larger context, we're not just talking about someone who had good leadership skills, like Stephen Covey. We're not talking about someone who's just a good moral philosopher. We're not just talking about someone who has compassion on you and your sins. We're talking about Someone who grips your imagination. That he's actually bigger than your imagination. You're seeing images in Daniel that are quite incomprehensible. And that's a good way for us to be able to approach Jesus. Because when we get the more we get to know him, we realize we're not able to circumscribe him. We can describe some things that have been revealed about him, but we're not able to circumscribe him And that leads us then here into the Great Commission as we begin to see who this is. And so what I want to do this morning is I want to continue going through this Great Commission. You have four more sermons that are left in this particular series. We're going to focus on the alls, and that'll help us to focus for the rest of our time together until I die or retire, whichever comes first. You'll be able to see what our focus is, because it's going to be all authority, all of the nations, all of life, always with us. Those four things. Now I'm not just coming up with that like I'm clever. This is how the passage itself is structured with those all words. So today we're looking at in verse number 18 the all authority. And the way that we're going to get at his authority and his power, his exusia, is we're going to take a look at Psalm number two. But before we head that direction, I want to show you why. Why is it that we're going from here and we're jumping back Now in order to do that, let me just run let me just run this let me narrate something for you. If you're if you want to If you feel more comfortable following the scriptures yourself instead of me just reading them to you, I'm going to take you through Acts chapter 4 for a moment. As a basic, what I see as an unassailable argument, and why we would want to go to Psalm number two to understand Jesus not only in his authority, but really for the rest of the passage. These are really strong pillars. So the first thing I want to point out and why we're going to go to Psalm 2 and why you should have a lot of confidence in that. is because the when we look at the apostles and the disciples on the pages of Scripture, they went to Psalm 2 to understand Jesus. And we can see that specifically with relationship to his power and his authority. In Acts chapter 4, verses 7 through 11, it reads this way. And when they had set them in the midst, they asked, now this is where some of the apostles have been arrested for preaching. And the Sanhedrin is bringing them before them to give an account. And it says in verse 7, when they had set them in the midst, they asked, by what power Or by what name are you doing these things? So then they respond. Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, Rulers of the people and elders of Israel. We this day are judged for a good deed done to a helpless man by what means he has been made well. Let it be known to you all and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by him this man stands here before you whole And now this goes back to that Daniel observation from last week in verse 11. This is the stone which was rejected by you builders, which has become the chief cornerstone. So that's Peter's account as he's here in the context of Acts chapter 4, he is in a conversation about power. And about authorization. Who authorized you to do these things? Now that's Peter's reply. He says, Jesus has the, it's in his power and it's in his authority that we do these things. Now, this is interesting because as we go on and we see that these apostles have been arrested and they're beaten, we go on and we see how when the apostles get back to their companions, how they respond. to what just took place before the Sanhedrin. And this takes us to Acts chapter 4, 23 through 30. Now listen to this. So they're let go They go back to their own companions and they report all that the chief priests and the elders had said to them. And so when they heard that, this difficulty, this roadblock, and these beatings. When they heard that, they raised their voice to God with one accord and said, Lord, you are God who made heaven and earth and the sea and all that is in them, who by the mouth of your servant David had said And now we move into Psalm number two. They're literally going to quote that in the part of their praying to Yahweh. From Psalm 2. So listen, they say, Why did the nations rage and the people plot vain things? The kings of the earth took their stand, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his Christ. And then they go on and they say, identifying Jesus as the Christ here of Psalm two, in verse number twenty-seven of Acts four, he says For truly against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod, one nation, and Pontius Pilate, The other nation, really in this way, there's only two nations in all of the world, the Jews and the Gentiles, Herod and Pilate. Both Herod and Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, just to get the point across, were gathered together. To do whatever your hand and your purpose determined before to be done. Now, Lord, look on their threats and grant to your servants with all boldness that they may speak your word By stretching out your hand to heal, and the signs and wonders may be done through the name of your holy servant, Jesus. The whole Inquisition begins with by whose name or in what power are you doing this? They say Jesus. They go through an entire prayer, and the passage ends with your holy servant Jesus. All within the context of power. And this is very interesting. This is very helpful for us to be oriented and to understand the path that we are supposed to walk. As a Christian congregation. Number one that we see in this Acts passage is that they pray to God the Father That's going to be important because when we get to Psalm 2, when you get a chance to read that on your own time, you'll see that there is God the Father who is anointing and declaring his decrees about his son. Then in the Acts passage, they pray, literally quoting the words of Psalm 2, a coronation psalm of a king. Of the king, it comes to find out. And then in verses 27 and 30 of Acts chapter 4, they specifically tie Psalm 2 to and the servant there to your servant Jesus. Now I know that you have thought about Jesus as a servant before, especially during Holy Week. Many of you know, if I said, where should we go to understand the suffering servant? And some of you would tell me where to go in Isaiah, for example, wouldn't you? But here we see That Jesus is not just one and the way that his disciples and apostles understood him, he's not just the spotless lamb. He is one who has, that was a means to an end. And that though he was in a state of humiliation as a means to an end. He then is exalted after that, and we get to see not just his state of humiliation, but his state of exaltation in other psalms. If we were in Holy Week, we would look at Psalm 22. We would look at Psalm 16. We would look at the suffering servant in Isaiah. And here, when we're looking at the Great Commission, after he has gone through all out after he's gone through that holy week, we're able to see him moving into that state of exaltation and a different set of Psalms In order for us to understand, and one of those psalms that the apostles and the disciples apparently love to use even in their prayers was Psalm number two. Which is why I want to turn there. I want us to be able to then look for some fruit from Psalm number two in specifically understanding Jesus' authority. Now how much fruit is in Psalm 2 about authority? I just like orchards. Orchards of fruit. But we're just going to look at a couple apples, if you will. We're just going to we're going to look at a couple really I just want to point out two main things that I think will be especially useful for you. And the first thing that I want to look at when we get to Psalm 2, which we're going to flip there in a second, is the underpinning of Christ's authority. the underpinning of Christ's authority, who backs him up, if you wanted to put it in that kind of language. And then the purpose of his authority. You can say the underpinnings of his power, if you want to do the do the P thing, and then the purpose of his power. Underpinnings of his power and then the purpose of his power. So let's go ahead now and look at Psalm 2. I'm just going to pull a couple of these verses. for you to be able to see some things that are quite clear. The first thing I want to focus on in turning to Psalm 2 to understand the authority of Christ is that it is God the Father who backs him up. Now you can see that very clearly in verse number two. You have a situation here and I'm in Psalm 2, verse 2, just to make sure we're all on the same page here. The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together, and then look at the way that this is phrased. Against the Lord, that's Yahweh in the translation. Against Yahweh And then look at the way that even the Christ or the Messiah is described and against his Messiah Everything is focused on Yahweh there. And if you actually, if you went back to Matthew 28, verse 18, you'd see something that we notice we call the divine passive. In Matthew 28, 18 it says, I have been given. Did you notice that? Jesus says, I have been given all authority. He doesn't say I just took it or I grant it to myself. It is a grant to him. And we can see why he would say that because of the Psalm number two here, and that there's a reference to him who authorizes. The God man as mediator between God and men. And I want to draw a draw out a quick implication here and recognizing that it is It is God, it is Yahweh who underpins Christ's power, and it's this. This is something you're going to want to write down and meditate on. All who do not, and this is very true to Psalm 2, all who do not subscri You can see just with the way that the Great Commission is phrased, and then the way that we see it in Psalm number two, verse two, that God is the one that backs Christ. And therefore, I want to draw out this major point. All who do not submit themselves to the authority of Christ make war against God. The reason why I'm sharing that with you was because when I started reading this and I and the Lord allowed me to see that implication, I was holding my scriptures. The Lord allowed me to see the implication that if I rebel against Christ, I make war against Yahweh. I had to put the scriptures down. And I noticed that I wasn't breathing because I was so shocked by it Wow. And I thought I have got to share that with the congregation. I would want to come that would be worth my time in going to Sunday morning service just to have the realization of that. And that has helped me so much throughout the week here. Each time something has come up in the life of my family or extended family or the congregation. There is this thing inside of me that wants to rebel, and there I'm I'm sh and I'm sure I did rebel quite a bit, but there were other times where Christ was working in me and I thought I don't want to make war with God. So I'm going to choose your will. And I hope that God works in you like that too. You can see that that's the immediate context of Psalm number two. There are a group of people, basically all of the nations. Again, notice that national language or the nation language, just like we see in the Great Commission. All of the nations are raging and they're plotting against God and what he wants to, who he wants to establish as his king, and what that king is meant to do. They even say in verse number three, let us break their chains and cast away their cords from us. But the thing that they have to recognize is that they are fighting against Yahweh Himself. The apostles' prayer in Acts chapter 4. The apostles and the hit their companions saw this because they prayed to God the Father and say this very thing. They're warning against you and your servant. Please now lift your hand of power and give us boldness to speech, to speak. And then of course we see throughout the ministry of Jesus further uh premises, if you will, or argument or parts of an argument in order for us to be convinced of this, like for example, in 522 through 23 For the Father judges no one, but has committed all judgment to the Son, that all should honor the Son, just as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him Luke 10, 16, he who hears you hears me. He who rejects you, rejects me. That's him speaking to the disciples. He's saying to his disciples, If they hear you and you're speaking my word, they hear me. And if they reject you, they reject me. And then he goes on in that same passage. And he who rejects me, excuse me, me, Jesus' voice wouldn't have cracked. It would have been way more authoritative. He who rejects me, let's recover. He he who rejects me, Christ speaking, rejects him who sent me. So you can see this whole ch this is you're not supposed to get lost here in some kind of ontological puzzle. What you're seeing here is the same thing that we see within Psalm 2 is this authority structure. And that if you reject the Son, you're making war against God. That's the that's the whole point. You know, this I remember when this first uh started to come home to me, I was a member and a deacon at Saverna Park Evangelical Presbyterian Church over there off of Ritchie Highway. And we I was a part of a small group team. So we would have different groups of people into our home and we would study the scriptures together. I was given the privilege to be one of the leaders where I would raise questions and do some of the teaching, seeking to lead people into submitting themselves under God's word. And I remember there being a couple characters there one day that really gave me a hard time. Uh pretty much rejecting and arguing and making things more complicated than they actually were. And it became very tense because I felt responsible for the other people sitting in the living room. And it really upset me. And uh Pastor Glenn Parkinson happened to be visiting that night, which really upset me because I wanted to look good in front of him. And he saw that I was upset. And he came over to me and he said qu quietly kind of pulled me over into a corner. He could see I was preoccupied in my own head. And he said, you know you shared God's word tonight. Well, I tried. You know they didn't reject you, they rejected Jesus Christ. And you know what that did for me was it uh I thought, well, who cares about me and whether I look good in this small group as a small group leader That's a way more serious problem. And and Jesus has said the same thing to his disciples, but he takes us even one more step. If Glenn were there and he wanted to keep going with this logic that Jesus gives us, he could have said to me, you know, they're not rejecting you. They're not your words. They're rejecting Jesus. And then he could say, and do you know those who reject Jesus make war with God? And boy does that hit home. It hits home in just the gravity of what we're dealing with here, with the authority of Jesus and the Great Commission. Going out to the nations. And I would say when Pastor Glenn framed the situation that way, it gave me more concern for the people rather than just irritation. And that could be your first application. When you begin to look at it this way and you see what is at stake, you could begin to grieve and not just be irritated. But there's two other ways that I would appreciate if you would apply this also, and that is in your comfort. As we're thinking about moving out, We've been given these marching orders in the Great Commission. We need to be strengthened, Conforte, from the Latin. We need to have strength and encouragement. And the first comfort that I want to give to you this morning is this, that you would be strengthened. When the world tries to disrupt or destroy the success of Christ's kingdom, We should remember from Psalm number two when the nations were predicted to rage against him that this was predicted long ago. No matter what happens, we don't need to be troubled by people raging. God knew it was going to happen. Comfort number two. All authority has been given to Christ, and behind that authority is God's power, and the comfort that that brings. Is that when the wicked gather their forces, when they boast about how many numbers they have, the kind of wealth that they have, the defenses that they have, when they arrogantly speak against heaven itself, we can confidently dismiss all of it. Because they are opposing the God who reigns in heaven. When it seems like Christ is nearly overwhelmed by the strength and number of his enemies, writes John Calvin, or Jean Calvin. We should recall that they are fighting against God, whom they cannot defeat. No matter what they try. Or how much their efforts grow, their plans will fail and have no effect. And I'll just add, if you were to look back down at Psalm number two, it is so pitiable that he laughs. Have you ever seen a scene where the the disproportion and the strength makes you laugh? It reminds me of the um Liliputians. Now you either know the Liliputians for reading classic literature or watching a Jack Black movie. But it's Gulliver's travels. And it's kind of like that. When Gulliver wakes up on the island shore, he's surprised to see the finger-sized Liliputian setting up tiny ladders against his body. And their king, just a fingernail taller, climbs the ladder, stretches across Gulliver's chest, and he's barking orders as to what he's supposed to do. They even had staked down Gulliver's long hair to the ground, and we know that with a single clap of his hands, Gulliver could have crushed them all. In the words of the Psalm, He who sits in the heavens shall laugh. The Lord shall hold them in derision. Now that's the power behind Jesus Christ, as the mediator between God and men. But there is also a purpose for which God the Father has given the power to Jesus. And I want to talk about that. Sometimes we forget that there's a purpose for which you would have authority or power. There are plans to carry out. And so let's take a look then at one reason why God has granted authority and power to Christ, and that is this. And it's just one reason. There are other reasons. You could summarize all of the reasons as bringing glory to the Father. That's what we see in 1 Corinthians 15. But you could go ahead and you could see a sub-reason on how he's going to accomplish that and is this. Jesus Christ has been given all authority and power, and the purpose for which, one of the purposes for which he has been given this is to bring blessing to the world And you can see that there in verses 10 through 12 at the end of the Psalm. Now therefore be wise, O kings Be instructed you judges of the earth, serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice with trembling, kiss the sun lest he be angry, and you perish in the way. When his wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all those who put their trust in him. And I think that's just a little breadcrumb. And this psalm ends here and doesn't get into, well, what does that blessedness look like? But you can look at other psalms and other parts of the scriptures to begin to see what does it look like to be under Christ's rule? The one way to describe it that we see here in Psalms is it is to be in a state of blessedness. And that tells us the reason for which God the Father has granted to him this authority and this power. We see this especially in Psalm number eight. In Psalm number eight, it says, it speaks about Jesus the Christ as the Messiah. And it says, For you have made him a little lower than the angels, and you have crowned him with glory and honor. You have made him to have dominion over the works of your hands. Hear the great commission in there You have put all things under his feet, all authority in heaven and earth. All sheep and oxen, even the beasts of the field, the birds of the air, and the fish of the sea that pass through the paths of the sea O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is your name in all of the earth. Do you see the two interacting there? The psalm begins and ends with praise to God the Father. in establishing the Son of Man as the crown and the glory of all of creation and putting all things under his rule Now originally we could have read that as the first Adam, but did you hear the creation account in there? But what's so interesting is that when we begin to reflect on these Psalms as Jesus taught us as his disciples to do in Luke chapter 24. You must know about me from all of the scriptures, including the Psalms. In Hebrews 2. 5 I give you, take an opportunity to look that up sometime. The author of Hebrews shows us by quoting Psalm number 8 and then saying, this is Jesus. God the Father gives and gives rule. He gives authority. He gives power to Jesus Christ in order to restore his creation to paradise. That's the picture. Where the first atom failed and brought death, the second atom brings life In fact, that life is supposed to take over the whole earth. I know that you know this passage, but here is the sun bringing heaven and earth together. Just like a mountain would do. And it says in Revelation 21, verses 4 through 5, if you want an end picture of the rule of Jesus Christ. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There shall be no more death, there's no more sorrow, there's no more crying, and there shall be no more pain, for the former things have passed away. Then he who sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said to me, Write, for these words are true and faithful. Now let me just ask you a question. How is God the Father making all things new? Through Jesus. And how is Jesus accomplishing that? By way of his spirit And his word and his congregation and his sacrament These are major parts of this restoration plan. It makes me wonder if you've ever thought of Jesus' rule that way. When we look on the scriptures and we see when when people who get it Who have their heads screwed on straight. When they think about Jesus' rule, they are enthusiastic about it. I end up seeing within Christian congregations and the Christian world at large, even within our culture, That there is some kind of celebration in seeing the sacrifice, the atoning sacrifice of Jesus. They think, wow, he has compassion. He is kind. He has all of these different things that we could see as symbolically represented, even by way of a cross. But then if we were to ask, are you as enthusiastic about him ruling over you? For example, there's a very popular book, the last couple years, I think it it it It's called uh gentle and lowly. And it's referring to the yoke of Jesus. And and I I get the sense that when we think about Jesus' rule here and the fact that he has power and authority I like that people think I like the title of the book, Gentle and Lowly. I could deal with that. But then when I go to the scriptures and I read that, he starts talking about a yoke that he puts on me And I don't want anything to do with that. So could I just have the gentle and lowly Jesus and not have the one that also has the yoke A yoke is something that you would put over an animal because you have the authority for them to work for you. You could put it that way. And I just want to ask you as a congregation, what would need to happen in order for you to become enthusiastic? That Jesus Christ is ruling you and your families and this congregation. I think one of the first things that we'd have to do is we'd have to believe that his rule is actually good And that's going to lead us into the next part of the Great Commission because you're supposed to go and make disciples teaching them to obey. We forget that word's in there. There's a yoke in the Great Commission. Teaching them to obey. We've got to talk about the law, because we have a king. What is it that's going on inside of you where, yes, you'll take the gentle and lowly Jesus, but not the King? Or what is it about you that would love to have an effeminate king that never really tells you what to do and doesn't have an opinion about things? versus the one that we have here in a picture of Daniel and the one that we see being established through the anointing of God the Father in Psalm 2. If you look at Psalm 2, this is not a person to mess with. Gentle and lowly must be read in that context. I was reminded of a scene that I had scene in um the Lord of the Rings. I think I've shared this scene with you before. Has anybody here seen The Lord of the Rings? Funny, right? I say that sort of seriously because I hope to not alienate anyone with the illustration, but you'll have to go watch the movie. This is one I can actually recommend But there is this scene where um Bilbo is at his I think it's his hundred and eleventieth birthday, is that right? Yeah, I'm like walking on a thin line here with with Lord of Lord of the Rings fans and there's a lot of trekkers in here. So Trekies, yeah. You can see where I stand with that whole book. So Bilbo, after he gives his speech, he then slides the ring on. Does anybody remember this? And then he disappears. Poof. But Gandalf notices something that has happened. He knows there's something up. And so he follows Bilbo back to his home, inquiring as to what is happening here. Why is it that you're disappearing? What kind of magic is going on here And eventually he gets around and he asks Bilbo, do you still have that ring? And Bilbo says, yes, yes, it's in an envelope over on the mantelpiece. No, wait. It's here in my pocket. And you can see on the movie or if you're reading in the books, you can see that the atmosphere is beginning to change. And something has entered into the room that is dark Something's beginning to take over that has already started to blind and make Bilbo's mind frail. And he says, Oh, isn't that an odd thing? Yet after all, why not? Why shouldn't I keep the ring? And Gandalf says, I think you should leave that ring behind, Bilbo. Is that so hard? Well, no, and yes. Now that it comes to it, I don't feel like parting with it. It's mine. I found it. It came to me, Gandalf says, there's no need to get angry. Well, if I am angry, it's your fault. And that's where he begins to do this. He says, It's mine. It's my own. It's my precious. And Gandalf says, Precious. It's been called that before, but not by you. What business it is of yours what I do with my own things. Gandalf, I think you've had that ring quite long enough. Bilbo puts up his fist. You want it for yourself. Bilbo baggins Do not take me, I know you remember this, especially in the movie where the film starts to distort and you see Gandalf becoming greater and greater. Do not take me for some conjurer of cheap tricks. Now I want you to keep thinking about Jesus Christ's rule because I'm putting you in the character of Dilbo and Gandalf as a Christ figure. Gandalf goes on and he says, I'm not trying to rob you. And then he speaks very gently to him at the very end. You hear his whole tone drop, nurturing, and he says I'm trying to help you. And Bilbo starts weeping. He stumbles towards Gandalf, who embraces him with gentleness. The reason why I wanted to share that with you is because that's also a picture of my experience with Jesus Christ. You just want to take everything from me. You just want me to be lonely. You want me to be of a lower status. You don't want me to have The things that I would like to have. But over the years, I see Jesus more and more as saying, I'm not trying to rob you, Jesse. I'm trying to help you. And that is Christ's rule over you too. I wonder if we need to begin to be honest here this morning just for a moment and recognize that oftentimes when we think about Jesus Christ's rule, the reason why we don't like it Is because we think he's robbing us of something. And I need you to be convinced this morning by Psalm number two, especially that last verse and all of the other psalms And he's not trying to rob you, he's trying to help you. And he will do that by putting a yoke on you. I'm going to say something quite bold. Whatever problems you have in your life right now based upon where we are in our civilization, do you want to know what probably is the number one cause? And that's what our sermon's about here this morning. You were never meant to take on all authority in heaven and earth, and you're collapsing under its weight. Jesus has all authority, and you rest in him. Well That is the power behind Jesus, and that is what his rule looks like. And I know that the evil one is going to try to take that picture away from you within a few seconds. But may the Lord stand up against him and crush his head. Really, we're looking at Matthew twenty-eight, eighteen, in Jesus' authority. It says there that Jesus came and he spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. And we can see how the disciples took that. They took that and they understood it by way of Psalm number two. And in Psalm number two, at the very least, we have two apples that we're able to have today for fruit. And that is that God Himself underpins Christ's authority. Don't go at war with God. And God gave authority to Christ as the new Adam to restore paradise. He is not trying to rob you. He is trying to help you, Christian. And non-Christian for that matter. He's not trying to rob you. He's trying to help you. Amen. Let us pray.