Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee to the mountain which Jesus had appointed for them. When they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted. And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Therefore, go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son. And of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Amen. Amen. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we ask in the name of your Son Jesus Christ that you would work through your preached word here this morning. Pray, Lord, that you would not leave us in ignorance. Pray instead that you would illuminate our hearts and our minds as to who we are as your people. And I pray, Lord, that therefore this congregation would not just be hearers of your word, but doers. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. What is the purpose of the Church of Jesus Christ being on the earth? To answer that question, we've been looking at the Great Commission. We are dividing the Great Commission according to an obvious repetition that happens throughout verses 16 through 20. with the word all, really 18 through 20, with the word all. So far we have in multiple ways looked at all authority We looked last week at all the nations. This week we have the opportunity to look at all that he commands, and I'll be phrasing that all of life. All of life. And then next week we'll end our our time together in the Great Commission. And that'll be always with you, even to the end of the age. And it's these all that are the marks or the uh showing us who are we, their touchstones that we get to keep going back to so that we can always remember who we are. and what our job is under Jesus Christ. Now I left you last week with two important questions and I wonder what answers you've come up with for those questions. The first A question that I asked you was, why are the nations around you, using the language from the passage, why are the nations around you not persuaded that Jesus is the Christ? When we look at the scriptures, that's primarily first and foremost what the Apostle Paul is doing is he's making arguments from place to place, even at Mars Hill. He is seeking to persuade people that Jesus is the Christ. Now let me ask just a follow-up question. Given that you're an American, you're living in America, what would it take for people, say your workplace Do you even understand what you mean when you say Jesus is the Christ And that already starts to answer that question. I'm giving you a little bit of help here from last week. What is keeping the people around you from believing that Jesus is the Christ? One answer, they have no idea what you're talking about. They don't know what the word Christ means. They don't know how to understand Jesus. They have not read Any of the prophecies that the Bereans would have looked up in Isaiah, they're not using the scriptures as an authority to understand the world around them consciously anyway. I think there's a lot of benefit received from Christ making himself known in the world. But that's an important question for us to keep asking. Why are the nations around you not persuaded that Jesus is The other question that I asked is what keeps them from being a devoted follower of Jesus Christ. And the reason why I gave you two questions is because of the distinction that we're still reviewing from last week. And that is that we are not just an evangelistic persuading community that Jesus is the Christ, and then we stop. We are a discipling community. Now why is it that I said that to you? Because it specifically says in our passage, go therefore under his authority and his power. and make disciples. Don't just do the evangelistic sermons and persuasion. That is to a further end. And that is so beautiful that Jesus shows you the end goal within the Great Commission. The end goal is for them to be disciples. So it can't stop short with just the persuasion part. Oh yeah, Jesus really is the Christ. And now that I understand that I realize that he is my king and all of my life is meant to be under him. Now the second step is the discipleship, and that is, okay, well what would it look like for my life to be under Jesus? Do you see that? And that's where we get today within our passage with the next all. It means obey all of the commands that he has given. For all of life. That's what we end up seeing within Jesus' commands is that he claims all of our life. So we could put it this way. Discipleship, and you can write this down just so you can remember what your job is in the world Discipleship is teaching all the nations to obey what Jesus has commanded in every area of life. Thought, word, indeed. Discipleship is teaching all the nations to obey what Jesus has commanded in all our areas of life, thought, word, and deed. Now, do you know what one of the scariest things are for people when they hear that kind of thing come out of my mouth? One of the scariest things for people to see that you are to obey all that Jesus Christ has commanded is they are afraid that what he has commanded ruins and hurts people and it doesn't actually help them. That's a major obstacle that we need to get over, and one of the ways that the reasons why people think that is because Christians twist and misuse What God has commanded for selfish purposes, and Christians also misrepresent Jesus Christ in saying that they are living for him, but really they're not. So there are poor representations. So I think a really important question for us to ask right off the bat, if that's what Jesus is teaching here, that we're to obey him in all of our life. One of the first questions is what are what are his commands? Now we're going to look at that. Do you remember when I told you we're going to do a series on Hosea? You remember that? I'm going, Lord willing, to keep my word. But I really want to go and look at what Jesus has commanded in greater depth. So the next So after the Great Commission series, the best way for me to do that is a thirty-part sermon series on the Sermon on the Mount. So that's what we'll do. We'll go through all the Beatitudes and then we'll go through Matthew 5 through 7 and it's the vibe. There's thirty sayings according to Jesus. So we'll do that, and then Lord willing, the Lord will still have us go through Hosea together. So we can look at this. My point is we can look at the question to, okay, well if we're to be teaching the nations to obey what ge all that Jesus has commanded, what has he commanded? We're going to do a 30-part series on that And then what I can just point out to you today, to start answering that question, is is it good what he commanded? Does Jesus Christ have a good vision for human life? I can point out to you Matthew 22, 37 through 39, and it's significant that I'm pointing out something for Matthew because we're in Matthew with the Great Commission. I expect this whole letter to connect and be consistent with itself. Because God is superintending the writing of it. So in Matthew 22, 37 through 39, Jesus is asked, what are the greatest commands? And he summarizes it this way. He says, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. This is the first and the great command, and the second is like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. So right off of the bat, we have to say that we, as a community that is set aside as the kingdom of God We are placed upon this earth to teach all of the nations, to disciple them, all of the nations in all that Jesus has commanded, and that can be summarized in that you are to teach the nations how to truly love. How to truly love God and how to truly love each other. So let me ask you a question. Do the name if you were to drive down the street, would you see any signs with the word love on it? You'd see signs all over the place with the word love on it. But let me ask you, in some of those communities where they're the most confused, do they actually know what love looks like? They don't. They will use the word but not know the meaning. You will use the word and not know the meaning, but part of our job is to know both the word and the meaning It's love of God and love of neighbor. Now we know that when you look at that Matthew 22, 37 through 39, just trying to a answer what is Jesus commanded. That you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. Does anybody does that remind you of anything? It's almost a direct quote from when Moses gives the law in Deuteronomy. And he's calling God's people to the Ten Commandments. And Jesus here It's doing the same because the summary of the t the Ten Commandments are a summary of God's vision for human flourishing. The Ten Commandments are then summarized by Jesus into two commands, love God and love the neighbor, which summarize the first part of the Ten Commandments and the second part of the Ten Commandments. So if we needed more content, we could begin to look at the two what are called the two tables of the law or the total ten commands. And we would begin to see things like on the second table, honor your mother and your father. We would say see things like, do not murder. We would see things like do not steal. We see things like do not covet or do not commit adultery. We would see things like that. And one of the problems that human beings have run into in asking what is Jesus command, when they see the Ten Commandments, Sometimes people will interpret the Ten Commandments as that Jesus is just trying to take things away from us, and all we're doing is trying to have a little bit of fun. And that's why it's also important, and we'll get into this on the 30-part sermon series, is that to read the law correctly is not to read them primarily in the negative of what you do not get, but to read them in the positive of what you get to bring. Now I've gone over this with you before, so I won't labor it too much, but let me just give you one example, still answering the question: what is Jesus commanded? When he says, do not murder, what is the point? The point is to bring life. Now who wants to argue against that? Who wants to be against Jesus as he seeks to bring life and has the authority to do so? And what kind of privilege have you received where you are literally known, you're supposed to be known as a community who brings life? Where there was a desert, because the people of God live there now, it's a garden and it's flourishing. The entire society. Well that sure is a beautiful vision. That sure is a beautiful vision. And there's one other little piece that I want to give to you now, which is just a precursor to a larger series so far. We've seen this what does Jesus command us? Well, we get it in summary, love. What do we know what that love looks like? You can get a better idea from the Ten Commandments And it's positive, meaning we're after flourishing. We're not just trying to ruin people's good time. And then lastly, I just want to say that it's in wisdom And that means that God intends for you to become the kind of person who from situation to situation is able To reason through it and figure out what is the best way to bring God's will on earth as it is in heaven in this particular situation Which means you use it in a t you use the law in a tailored way in love, in personal love for specific people. Now that's a trying to cover that and and that I understand that that's a summary, but that's the first question that I wanted to answer for you is just, well, what has he commanded And so you can see a little bit of a picture of that. But I have a second question that I want us to consider also, as we're looking at just one verse here this morning. Verse number 20 that we are to be teaching them to observe all things that he has commanded in all of life. And here's my second question. We see what he commands. What does it look like? What does that look like? What does that look like? Let me show you a couple pictures of what it would what it looks like for a community that were not persuaded that Jesus is the Christ. We're going to take the first step. They're going to become persuaded that Jesus is the Christ. They place themselves under his authority. by the grace of God. Then we're going to see that they are then being discipled. And we're going to be able to see what does it look like for their lives to start to be discipled. So let's take that first step and we'll look at Acts chapter two, verses forty-one through forty-two, and I'm just going to read that for you. And we went over this a little bit last uh week also. In Acts chapter two, forty one through forty two. It says, then those who gladly received his word, there it is, they were persuaded. Do you see that? Because this is coming off of Peter's sermon that Jesus is the Christ. You can go back and read his sermon. Then they're baptized, just as Jesus instructs in the Great Commission. There it is. And now there's about 3,000 souls. They have a building program. Added to them. And then now we see in 42 the discipleship starts to kick in. Then they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine. They were devoted to the teaching of the apostles and the fellowship of the communion of the saints, the breaking of the bread, and prayer. Now if you were to look on our website, we list all of these things that we're a people that are dedicated to this in order to reach the nations for Christ. Another way to get at it is the awls. Now this is the thing, this is why I'm bringing up the Acts chapter 2 for you. Is I'm saying if you want to know what it looks like Then you go ahead and you turn to Acts chapter 2, and it looks like a community that has been persuaded that Jesus is the Christ, and then number two, a community that is being discipled, and the way that that looks is that they are loyal to the apostolic teaching. Does everyone see that? Or did you hear it? Okay, now, so let's just go ahead and ask the question, what's some of the apostolic teaching to which they were loyal? And for that, I'd like to just read a section for you from Colossians chapter three. Not only is the apostolic teaching continuing to help people to understand the work of Jesus Christ, but then it gets into what does it look like to love? You'll see this in every New Testament letter. And this is this is what the community was devoted to. Listen to this Therefore, as the chosen of God, holy and beloved, put on tender mercies. Be kind and humble and meek and long-suffering Bear with one another and forgive one another. If anyone has a complaint against another, even as Christ forgave you, so you also must do. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts to which you are also called in one body, and be thankful Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your heart to the Lord And whatever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God, the Father, through him Well, what would be some of the specifics that we could start to get into in the different spheres of all of our life? Paul continues. Wives, submit to your own husbands as is fitting in the Lord. Husbands, love your wives and do not be bitter toward them. Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing to the Lord. Fathers, do not provoke your children lest they become discouraged. Bondservants, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh, not with eye service as men-pleasers, but in sincerity of heart, fearing God. This is why we say that it's all of life. Because Paul is hitting on all of the major spheres of human existence. And if we wanted to We could flip and we could look at 1 Peter, where Peter calls the Christian community to the same set of things, and then he adds, you have civic responsibilities also. To submit to the king, for example, as they are seeking to do their job, which is basically to keep a cap on sin so that human beings don't destroy everything. That's why police have the role of enforcement, for example This is what it looks like. It looks like all of life. Coming under the reign of Christ and everyone being able to flourish. Wives being able to flourish in their marriages will need further explanation on how submission would lead to that. Husbands being able to flourish in their marriages, children being able to flourish under their parents, employees being able to flourish within their jobs Kings being able to exercise their authority which the Lord has given to them, subjects of kings, those who have civic responsibilities respecting those who have been placed in authority over them, that the world would be living within a harmony under the rule of Jesus Christ. All of the nations are to be discipled into that. That's what it looks like. Now we could go into even more of the particulars, but that is the the general picture that is given to us. And then the last thing, the last question that I want us to do To focus on this morning is just, okay, I understand that Jesus commands love, and I can understand love through the Ten Commandments and exercise that positively and in wisdom And then I also understand that if I really want to see what that looks like, I'll need to see what the apostles were setting up within the churches. And that had to do with every sphere of life, flourishing in every sphere. Now the third thing is, how do we do that? What does that look like to disciple somebody in that way? And there's one that's really a real obvious answer for all of you. If you're called to disciple people to that vision One answer that I can give you right now is it requires more than a classroom. Doesn't it? Let me just ask you, I know I know listen, no disrespect to any teachers in here. I am a teacher also. I try to be Teachers are of great benefit. Teachers are necessary. We love teachers. If I could, I'd give every teacher an apple right now with caramel all over it. But if we were to reflect on our own experience, though classrooms have been helpful. It was outside of the classroom where Jesus Christ was working also. It was never meant to be limited to sitting in a desk. So it at least looks like that. Now that's me telling you, hey, we all have this experience, don't we? Okay. hear this from the scriptures that this is the same way that the Apostle Paul approached this, who is a master discipler. Listen to him from 1 Thessalonians 2. 10 through 11-2. 12 and how he approaches discipleship. He says, You are witnesses, and God also, how devoutly and justly and blamelessly we behaved ourselves among you who believe. As you know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you. Now listen to this. Here it is. This is the model that you're supposed to be using for discipleship. As a father does his own children. Go ahead and add in the mother there too, because Paul will use maternal language elsewhere. As a mother does her own children. And then he continues and he says, that you would walk worthy of God who calls you into his own kingdom and glory. You see the same vision that we just went over in the first part of his sermon is on Paul's heart and mind and he's uh he's showing you how he what's the how does he go about that and to give you a general picture so that you can be oriented correctly He tells you that discipleship is like raising children. And that means it can't just be limited to the classroom. How many lessons for parents are outside of a classroom? Just about all of them. And I think God intends for it to be that way, though there is a place for the classroom. As a father Teaching them to walk worthy. As a mother, teaching them to walk worthy in all of life, not only in a classroom. Now, I'm going to reveal something about myself here. I la I'm a I'm a pictorial thinker, and I included two pictures in the bulletin for you this week. They don't need to mean anything to you, they're meaningful to me And I just want you to see that these tell a story. These pictures tell a story to me. And they help me to remember what real discipleship looks like. I have experiences like this for my father. So I got a lot of background to these stories. Take a look at the pictures. The first one is called Careful Aim And the season has set in, which you can tell by the falling of the leaves. And you knew that the gun was in the closet for years, but you were never allowed to touch it You always just watch your father and his friends able to engage in those kind of things and maybe you could tag along, but here is a moment where a season comes along where you have your dog who you do everything with And finally your father is going to show you how to aim. Now there's a whole culture behind this, isn't there? Can you see it in the picture? Can you see the story that there's a town and there's a grandfather who taught them this other thing? And even the jackets that they're wearing and the hats, or if you flip over to the other side the summer In my mind they're using they've graduated and they're no longer using monofilament, they're using braid, and so he has to teach his son how to use tie a uni knot. But there's a little creel basket on the right. And only thing I'm trying to do here for you, and these pictures are meaningful to me. Maybe they're not meaningful to you, but I'd encourage you to find ones that are meaningful to you. That these are pictures of discipleship. Now what difference do you think it would be if if instead of this picture, my father said, okay, go get the whiteboard from the basement And I want you to get your desk and I'm gonna draw a gun and then we're gonna talk a lot about different size ammunition. And then you're excused. And you get a certificate that you sat through the class. Or same with this. What if it were just a class on trout? I tell you I would not attend. And it's the same thing with us as a as a responsible Christian society is that discipleship is meant to look more like this And now this is where I get to bring out another part of that passage that we just kind of flew through. Listen to that passage again from 1 Thessalonians 2, 10 through 12. You are my witnesses and God also how devoutly and justly and blamelessly we behaved ourselves among you. And if you were to read the other part of the passage, you would the devoutly part Do you know how much time Paul had to put into these people? Do you know you If discipling the nations was getting everybody into a classroom, do you know how big we could build a classroom and just shove everybody in there and then give a lesson? But it doesn't work like that. What it will require is for you to go back to your lessons from Philippians in that you're gonna have to be like Jesus Christ and it's gonna require skin in the game. You're gonna have to give up your own life. In order to truly disciple people. Now, anybody who has been significant in my life, in my own discipleship, are people that made tremendous sacrifices to be with me. They had other things to do. And so that is a part of our call on how is this done? Not just the classroom, it is done in devotional sacrifice. And it is like parents raising up a child. I have a couple pictures of what that looked like for me when I was growing up as a father teaching a son to fish. If you would like a good summary of the total philosophy here that I'm trying to impart to you in this limited amount of time, I'd encourage you to turn to Ephesians 6, verse 4. And thank you for hanging in there with me this morning with all these different references. This is a very special passage. Ephesians 6. 4. Well Paul says, I'm like a father or like a mother in discipling you. Well, let's go ahead and look at what he says to a father. And he says in Ephesians 6. 4, and you fathers, do not provoke your children to wrath, and then he gives the positive, but bring them up. In the training and the admonition of the Lord. And that word there for training is a very special Greek word. It is pidea. It's what we really mean when we talk about true education. But if you wanted to try to get at the total understanding of what this is, which is very difficult in a limited period of time, Pidea Is the process of enculturation. It is the process of the enculturation of someone into the customs The morays, the traditions, the heritage, and the worldview of God's people. Have you ever seen enculturation take place? I mean a total from one a person of one nationality becoming enculturated to a totally different nationality. Because that's what we're talking about here, because we're talking about kingdoms. A translation from the kingdom of the world into the kingdom of God, and the translation takes place by way of discipleship, progressively over time, where they become more and more a citizen. And more and more look like they belong to that culture. What experiences do you have of enculturation? You know I have an experience of enculturation when we go to on vacation we visit a family and they're from Hawaii. Now when I say Hawaii I don't mean they just showed up there because someone was stationed on an army base or a navy base or whatever base it would be. It would be, no, this is where our family is from We live where tourists don't go. And when we visit them, there is a separate culture present within the home. There is a slight bit of Americanization, but it is largely a Hawaiian culture. Guess what I do when I first walk in, you're invited to do, they try not to be too pushy, but you know what you're invited to do when you first enter the house. Take off your shoes. That sounded very forceful. Take off your shoes. Uh they're not Christian, so what do they do before dinner? They form. Only a certain part of the family is allowed to do this after many, many years of practice ever since you were a toddler. They form a perfect ball of rice and place it in a a sort of shrine-looking thing As a representation that the only reason why we have this food is because of all of the sacrifices of our ancestors. And so they set that aside in order to say that we honor what you have passed down to us here today. And that will go even further than that in a kind of ancestor worship. If you were to talk to Hawaiians about the sea and about turtles, they would talk about the sea and about turtles in a very different way than you would. The way that they viewed the sea, the way that they viewed their tattoos, the way that they viewed the volcanoes, why they go to the top of them. Do you know that they call uh their children call me Uncle Jesse? That's also a part of their in their culture is that anyone who is older than them is to be called a name by way of respect and not their other name. I think that's true also for Alex Alex and Eska Is that auntie and uncle? From that what they have. From that culture? Yes, they they know their uh lineage what uh level of So you can't help but to walk into this house and there's stuff all over the walls I haven't talked to you about You can't help but to walk into this house and to feel like you are in a different world. You are in a different culture. And the reason why I'm spending this much time telling you this story is because that is a very good analogy to what Jesus is calling you to when he talks about discipleship. He's talking about you moving people that have been a part of the world over into a whole other world that you have already started to become a part of. If you're not enculturated and you're still just a normal American that doesn't have anything to do with the kingdom of God, you can't enculturate people because you're still a part of that culture. And these are the parts that are involved within Pidea. That's in this word in Ephesians Chapter six verse four. Don't provoke your children. Instead train them, paidea, bring them up in the paidea and the admonition of the Lord. A re-socialization, an enculturation, a change in customs and mores and traditions and a heritage. and a worldview. And if some of you are struggling with, you know what, we've learned the catechism together. We read the Bible together. We listened to all of the salty songs together But my children are still moving in this other direction. Now there are a lot of different reasons for that, but one of the reasons is that no matter how much teaching you have done, you've never really done any discipleship Or if you did do the discipleship, they're in such a situation that it's taken away immediately. Does anybody know the story of Penelope in waiting for her husband to return? She had a bunch of suitors show up. Um help me out if you're classically educated. Is this the Odyssey? Okay, thank you so much. All of a sudden I s I saw two hundred and fifty people nod. Okay, that was great. We're all classically educated. She's waiting for her husband. Suitors have started to show up because they want to marry her and she says I'll make once I get done sewing this cloth then I'll choose my suitor. So all day long she spends time do I have this right I said all day long she spends time weaving this thing and then at night when no one is looking she undoes it so she never has to choose. And part of what I'm saying to you here is if we don't get this right, if we don't understand what Jesus Christ is really asking us, that it's way more than a classroom, that it looks more like these pictures that I've given to you. Whatever you attempt to do will be undone in the night. Whatever you have woven during the day will be undone. Now there's a thousand different reasons on why things are undone. I'm just saying that one of them is that we have to look closely as are we really discipling, which requires personal sacrifice, the kind of par sacrifice that you would see in a mother and a father and trying to raise up their children so that they could flourish. You could still do all those things and it still unwinds. And some of this is within the mysteries of God. I'm just giving you one thing. And that is Pideia or enculturation. The problem that we have is that the culture knows this all too well. They know about Paideia sometimes more than we do. Have you heard the saying that you're not the only one that's catechizing your children? It is the same thing. The main point that I'm seeking to get across here is what we see when we go back to Matthew in chapter 28. If you could just review that with me here. Jesus has been given all authority in heaven and on earth. And in that power we are to go and we are to make disciples of all of the nations. And we are to baptize them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. And our focus this morning is that we are to teach them to observe all things that He has commanded in all. of the areas of our life. And we've just taken a brief look of what that would look like. What are the commands? We went over that. What would it look like for that to happen under apostolic teaching in all of those different spheres of life? And then how are we going to do it? We're going to do it through sacrifice. And through paidea and enculturation, you're going to have to look like the way Christ and his apostles looked in trying for those congregations to become healthy. That is your job. That's what you have been called to do. And next week we will look that as we're doing it, he is always with us. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I thank you for your people that you have set them aside to this task, and I pray that you would Now that you are making it clear exactly what the purposes of the church are within the world, I pray that you would give us the power to be able to do it. Lord, I ask first for this congregation out of two things. First, that you would help us to see where we have been enculturated by the world around us, which is not really looking for human flourishing, but destruction. And I pray, Lord, that therefore we would repent where we ourselves have been discipled by the devil himself. I pray that you would give this congregation, even in the privacy of their homes and hearts, repentance. Pray that you would give that to me, Lord. I can already see ways Where I have fallen short as a father. And secondly, Lord, I pray that from that That you would form a group of people at Severn Run that really love your vision for human life. And that when we tell other people about it, it would be a source of our joy and not hidden shame that we have to do things this way. Oh Lord, make us proud of your kingdom. I ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. Let's stand and respond to the word of the Lord this morning by singing our invitational hymn, The Church is One Foundation. And then I'd ask the elders to please prepare the table.