Today I am going to read 34 through 43, but our focus will be on the summary. Can you turn us up just a little bit, Mr. Soundman? Our focus this morning will really be on the summary on 42 and 43. So summary of the apostolic preaching. Then Peter opened his mouth and said, In truth, I perceive that God shows no partiality, but in every nation, whoever fears him and works righteousness is accepted by him. The word which God sent to the children of Israel, preaching peace through Jesus Christ, He is Lord of all. That word you know, which was proclaimed throughout all Judea and began from Galilee after the baptism which John preached, how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power who went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him. And we are witnesses of all things which he did, both in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem, whom they killed by hanging on a tree Him God raised up on the third day and showed him openly, not to all the people, but to witnesses chosen before God, even to us who ate and drank with him after he arose from the dead. And here is a good summary of their message. And he commanded us to preach to the people and to testify that it is he, that's Jesus, who was ordained by God to be judge of the living and the dead. To him, all the prophets witness that through his name, whoever believes in him will receive remission of sins. Let's pray. Oh Lord Christ, you are in charge of setting your word out in such a way to where it has power and it is effectual. I pray that the seeds that are cast, the water that is given, Lord, that you would bless it and make it grow in each of our hearts. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Well as I mentioned in the reading, I want to focus on verses forty two and forty three. three this morning because they are a summary of the apostolic preaching. You can see that right in 42 when he tells uh this group of people, Cornelius and his household that there was a certain message given to him to preach in all of the apostles. So I want to focus on that message in 42 and 43 and really make sure that we understand it. It contains 42 and 43. I think that it's just right on the face of it. You can see the two main truths that are there, the two main realities. God has ordained Jesus as the judge of the living and the dead, right? It's right there. And then the second one in 43 is: whoever believes in Jesus will receive remission, which means removal or release. You can find the same word like the Jubilee, the release. It's the release of sins, or the removal of sins. Those are the two main realities that are present there in the apostolic preaching summarized in verses 42 and 43. Now let me ask you, have you ever heard those two realities before? Jesus is judge. If you believe you can be forgiven for your sins. Have you ever heard that? If I asked you to raise your hand, which I'm not going to do, I think 99% of you would raise, maybe all of you would raise your hand saying, yes, we have heard this before This is familiar to us. But here is the thing that we have to do more and more often is we've got to stop and pause for a minute and make sure that we have not misunderstood These basic truths by way of reference to the culture. Because the culture has given us analogies And stories that try to explain what it means for Jesus to be judged or what it means to be forgiven of sins. And when you start to examine their analogies and explanations by way of the scriptures And I'm speaking primarily of the Old Testament, then you will find out that they have misled you in some ways. For example, when you hear that Jesus is judge, it is probably not unusual for you to think Of Christian skits on YouTube or in churches where Jesus is in behind his judge chambers thing and he's wearing the black robe and he's got the He's got the gavel or God's got the gavel and he's getting ready to say guilty and then Jesus comes out and he's got his you know what I'm talking about? This is yeah wow All of you are looking at me like, where have you been? Okay, well, it's out there. That is not okay, and that is in part true, that there is a judgment day coming, okay, and there's going to be An element of that of that is true. But we've got to go beyond that and really look for what does it mean for Jesus to be ordained as judge and what does it mean for him to give remission of sins. And I believe that we are to do that this morning from a biblical perspective that is offered to us in 2 Samuel. So that's really what I want to do in the first part of the sermon: I just want to understand those two realities: Jesus' judge and remission of sins. And I want to understand it by way of the model that is given to us in 2 Samuel when David is made judge and he remits the sins of Abner And I believe that that is a model that you need to be using to understand your own relationship with God. Very, very important. And then in the second part of the sermon, we're going to move into some lessons that we can gain from that. So, the model that I want us to use is in 2 Samuel to understand that Jesus is ordained as the judge. Now, in 2 Samuel, you will find that David is installed and he is found to be the anointed of the Lord. God ordains David to judge all of Israel. That is the summary statement. That the writer of 2 Samuel gives themselves, that he comes in to judge Israel. And what that meant when you start to study 2 Samuel. What that meant was that God empowered David to establish God's kingdom in the face of God's enemies, in the face of injustice. And in the face of disorder, for example, the ark was no longer in Jerusalem, but was in the hands of enemies. There were people practicing injustices amongst God's people themselves. Now, when you start to look at all of what it means for David to be a judge there, do you know what is one of the closest stories that we have in our own culture to what a judge is? It's actually the Western. Do I have any Western fans here? That's kind of a older thank you, Doug. I've got one. Two. Thank you, Jeremiah. It's kind of three. Okay, three. Yeah, three. Does that do we four? Okay, I'm now I feel like I'm at an auction. So let's move forward. The Western, I I am gonna not vow, but set my heart toward watching some westerns. There's one I want to watch called High Noon. But if you think of Westerns in relationship to David as a judge and ultimately of Jesus as a judge, you're what you're looking at is basically there's a nice town that has been overcome by an unruly gang of no-gooders with enemies threatening on the outside, but guess what? Woo woo woo! There is a new sheriff in town. That is the whole point. David's going to come in, and he is going to clean up the neighborhood. That is what God did through David in Israel, and it is what God would continue to do through Solomon and his wisdom. It's what it would mean to have a shepherd over Israel. They would not be like lost sheep, not knowing what to do, and subjected to their enemies. And if you if you picture the whole world, this is where we're going with this, not just David, but if you picture the whole world as a a town out west with tumbleweeds blowing down the main street and disorder and villains and Some guy with a gun named Black Bart or whatever it is, then you have a good picture of why God ordained Jesus to be the judge. Because he is the one with the power, being God Himself who can clean up the neighborhood of the cosmos. I'm talking about cleaning up evil angels. I'm talking about cleaning up evil people, evil institutions, whatever it is. Christ has been ordained in a kind of Western, if we want to use that as an analogy, to clean this place up. That's the analogy that we receive when we watch David cleaning the place up, or Solomon cleaning the place up. It's exactly the way you should be viewing, for example, Christ as judge when he flips over the money changers' tables. It's exactly what he's doing. He's walked into that place that is supposed to be set aside for God, for the nations to come and to pray for him, and he sees injustice in there, and like a kind of Western, he flips the tables over and sets the town straight. That's the first thing that we have to have in our mind. Go to the category of the Western, and it is useful for us here First, to understand what God has David doing in 2 Samuel, in order to understand what Jesus is doing, not just with Israel, but with the whole world. Now, when you want to understand what it means for Jesus to be the judge, do not only think of modern-day church skits with the gavel like I was bringing up before, with God in a court Think of David's ordination and the Western. But I also want us to look at that second reality, which is that whoever believes receives remission of sins. And this is where we can really receive some illumination in thinking about our sins in relationship to Jesus as judge. How many of you have heard of Abner? Less than that like Westerns. Great. Abner was a cousin of King Saul. You can find him in 1 and 2 Samuel. This is really what you should be doing today, is reading these two books. Abner was the cousin of King Saul, and he was the commander of his army. Now you know that Saul is set against David at a certain point. They become enemies. After Saul's death and David's ordination, Abner continued to reject David, and he appointed Ishmael as the successor to the throne. This started a civil war. Read the books, 1st and 2 Samuel. It starts a civil war, but eventually, this is what happens with Abner. Abner becomes convinced that David was the anointed of the Lord. This is what it says. This is what Abner says. For the Lord has spoken of David, saying, by the hand of my servant David. I will save my people Israel from the hand of the Philistines and the hand of all their enemies. Abner is confessing David to be the anointed one. He's confessing him to be the Messiah. He's confessing him to be the little sea Christ. That's what he's doing there. This is a a really a defection from his former place in an opposite army And then Abner says this. Now listen to this in terms of the remission of sins. Think about it within this context. It really gives us light. Abner says this to David. I will arise and go, and I will gather all Israel to my Lord the King, that they may make a covenant with you. And that you may reign over them with uh that you may remain reign over all that your heart desires. And so David sent Abner away, and he went in peace. 2 Samuel 3:20 through 21. My plea to you this morning is to accept 2 Samuel as an analogy to understand the remission of sins in verse 43. There is much more to say about the remission of sins, but if we just want to get basic, then we need to see that we are like Abner. In having our sins remitted. Abner came to believe that God ordained David as judge The apostles exhort all tribes and tongues and nations to accept that God ordained Jesus as judge When Abner believed, David removed Abner's transgressions and he made peace with him. When we believe Jesus removes our sins and he makes peace with us, though we used to fight against him in the army of the world, when we come before him in a new covenant. We are no longer at enmity with him. He removes our sins and we join him in his service just as Abner did. He sends us away in peace, just as David sent Abner away in peace. When Abner believed, and this is true belief. He did not just have a series of propositions lodged in his mind. Abner's purpose in life became to make sure that David reigned over all that his heart desired. And it is the same thing with us who have true faith. It results in good works, and our purpose becomes to make sure that Jesus reigns over all that his heart desires. Now tell me that that is not exactly what is happening in Acts. Instead of Abner going and gathering all of Jerusalem to David. Peter and the apostles are going and gathering all of Jerusalem to Christ, and then Christ surprises and says, Oh yeah, don't forget the verse earlier. I'm not just Lord of the Jews, I am Lord of all, and we will begin to gather all. And I will remit their sins as they leave the army of the world and they join my army. Now that is a very clear way of understanding remission and being. Taken out of enmity with God is to just simply look at Abner and his relationship to David. Now we wanted to put all of this together. I want to combine both of those things together. And see this reality that we must acknowledge this morning as Christians. Here's the first. God has ordained Jesus as the judge to bring order to this creation. It's what he means, it's what it means to be the judge. And Judgment Day is just in continuity with that. He is the new sheriff in town. And those who believe that Jesus is the ordained sheriff will be pardoned of their sins. and put into his service seeking for Jesus to reign over all that his heart desires. You will have to repent from believing, not believing that Jesus is the judge. You'd have to repent of all the ways that you had sought the opposite of him, and you must defect from the world and come over and join him. And when you do, he will give you peace. Peace with him, peace with his father, peace with the Spirit, and you will work for him, making sure that he has all the desires of his heart. What an excellent summary of almost every sermon you have heard from me since like last March. Really, sermons that we've heard from Peter All coming together in these two main realities. God has ordained Jesus as the judge to bring order to this creation. And those who believe that Jesus is the ordained sheriff will be pardoned of their sins and put into his service, seeking for Jesus to reign over all that his heart desires. Now, since God has ordained Jesus to be judged, or to be judged, there are two main things moving into the second part of the sermon here that I want us to focus on this morning. I had in my mind, I think, probably a thousand ways to apply this truth and this reality. But I want to bring up two. It's speak up and live up. Now I'm going to warn you. This is going to be tough to hear. I'm really going to put you on the spot. I'm going to call you to a life Of living for Jesus Christ this morning. I'm not trying to be cruel. I'm not trying to be short with you or disrespectful, but I just want to tell you how it is, because we're we're in a moment We've really got to up the game here. If we really believe that Jesus Christ is judged, then that means something for us. There are a certain set of responsibilities. We have got to speak up and we have got to live up. Since God has ordained Jesus to be judge, the sheriff, it is time to speak up and to let people know. It was a Saturday of a few months ago, and I went to buy some chicken feed Because during COVID I decided to buy chickens. And you laugh, but what did you buy during COVID? Yeah, I know, I know. Uh you're yeah he who doesn't have sin throw the first stone here. Well I went to buy the chicken feed and when I was pulling into the place I noticed up on the uh billboard or whatever it is where you can put the letters up It says something like this. I don't remember the exact words, but it says something like this. You will never crush our spirit. You will never crush our spirits. So, being who I am, I went ahead and asked, what in the world does this mean? I mean I'm living in a politically hot climate. What did that mean? Do you not know we're in Saverna Park? Like what's happening with this billboard. And uh the employees didn't know. They said the owner put it up. They no, the owner told us to put it up and he'll explain it later. So I showed up later. I did and I found the owner. I tracked him down. I said, What is going on with that sign? And he started to stutter a bit and not want to tell me. I said, just tell it to me straight. We're probably on the same side on this. And so he did. He said that he was sick and tired. That he said enough is enough. He said he was sick and tired of the incompetence and the nonsense that is being taught by some political leaders, some major corporations, and most educational institutions. And here is the thing, though. Now he had to stop. He's a very busy man. He had to get going. But here's the thing. I sympathize with him. And if I had more time, I would have asked him, well, what do you think we should do? And knowing him a little bit, and knowing how conversations have gone in other places. Where people are expressing the same kinds of frustrations, I would not expect him to have very much of an answer. I think at this point he is reflective of most of the country, which is, I'm just frustrated, but I don't have an answer. All they see is that a group of people have power and they are forcing things on them that do not make sense That's what he was saying to me, really. He was saying, these things don't make sense to me, but I'm being forced to adopt them. Why are they forcing me to do these things that I don't know if I should be doing them? That's really what he was saying to me And he was pointing out specific things. And it's not just him. I just saw, this is crazy, I just saw a YouTube channel of a husband and a wife who are both evolutionary biologists Speaking of how disgusted they are that they are being forced to do the same thing. As scientists They believe that there is chromosomal evidence that you cannot change gender, that men are men and women are women, and yet, in order to remain in their university, they have to call a man a woman and a woman a man. Or they lose their job. Now I know that you know about these things, but what is basically being expressed by the guy with the billboard or these evolutionary biologists, it's all the same thing, is that they are getting frustrated that they're literally being asked to say 2 plus 2 equals 5, which is a reference to a book. People are sick of it, and so they are creating YouTube channels or they're putting their billboards up as a cry for hope. That is the way that I look at it. They need hope. They need help And what this means for you, it is time for you to let them know where their only hope is. It's as if Christ has laid this on your lap. God has ordained a new sheriff in town that is very aware of injustice and the secret thoughts of men and women and what they are trying to accomplish. against his designs. When you hear people complaining about living under nonsense or horse manure, Then you need to speak up and you need to tell them of the only hope that they could have in Jesus. Here's the thing There's a whole swath of people that thought if we could finally get out from under this thing called Christianity, then we would finally have freedom. And now we're out from under-Christianity in a sense because we're post-Christiendom and everything has gone to hell or is on its way. So you get to tell them that maybe they misjudged it to begin with. Maybe they should have never left Jesus. Maybe they need to return to church. You know, I was speaking with someone in Florida, and they had a lot of questions. I gave that sermon before I left about someone pulling on your sleeve. I I lost all my sleeves in Florida It was crazy. Ask Holly. She just stopped and would just watch one conversation after another. But here is an interesting thing in light of our truth that we have got to speak up. And I'm going to clarify what I mean by speaking up. This guy came to me and he had a lot of questions about what was going on in the world, what did I think of it as a Christian? And he said, Jesse, You Christians speak a lot about what happens after we die, but I need to know what to do while I'm alive. We need to make sure. Do you see what he's saying? He needs a witness to reality and truth about now. Do you see how much that lines up with Jesus as judge if we understand Jesus as judge biblically We have accepted a notion of Jesus as judge only in the future, on a day with a gavel. But he is judged now. If you were to look at the Greek language here, it's actually a This is going to bore you for a second. A perfect participle, which means it's an action that took place and continues on into the present. Jesus was made judge and stands as judge now And that's what that guy was asking for. I need something for now, not just for later. There is a place to talk about later. I will grant you that. But people need to hear us speak up for the truth now. We need to make sure that we communicate that God has ordained that Jesus is the sheriff now That those who need hope and help and clarity and wisdom, they must defect from their sin in the world and must join Christ in loyalty and be at peace with him. We have got to speak up. Now there is a wisdom issue there on when you're going to open your mouth or when you're going to be silent. But I would encourage you to not harbor the lies any longer. Whether, even if you just keep your mouth shut and don't affirm, that is better than nothing. I had conversations while I was away where people wanted me to affirm the legitimacy of homosexuality. And I had to let them know that's not God's design. And then they would start to give me an argument from science on design. And then I would say, until God tells me it's okay, then all the scientists are wrong. And that's as far as the conversation went. But I had to say something. We can't keep abiding the lie because they will take it to the nth degree into total chaos. We have got to speak up for the truth. We have got to speak up and stand up for what Jesus says that we are to believe The way reality is. And we must speak for the hope that is in Jesus Christ. Our hope is that Jesus as the judge truly will clean up the town. People are scared. People are confused. They are like the whole world is like a group of people without a shepherd. Why don't you tell them who the shepherd is, who God has ordained? Let us speak up. But I said that there are two lessons, and it's not just speaking up, there's also living up. Because speaking up is never enough. We also have to live up to our calling. Now this will be a short point. We have to live up to the message that we are giving to others. I mean, how silly is it that you say that you follow a sheriff who's cleaning up this place, but your life is a total disaster? We publicly profess that Jesus is cleaning up the world, and therefore we cannot contradict that message by perpetuating the dirt of this world. We have to live up to our callings. And in the past, we've heard this kind of thing before, and we've been motivated by having some kind of personal goals and personal faith. and what we stand for. I want to tell you this morning, you living up to your calling has less to do with you and more to do with the honor of Jesus Christ. Do you have any idea who you are being called to be the church? Do you have any idea what it means to be called the bride of Jesus Christ? the kind of responsibility that you bear within this world. Do you know how much your actions and your words matter? They are a testimony of the only truth that is out there. The church is the witness on earth. to the competence and glory of Jesus Christ as the one who is reforming the world for good. Your personal life, your family life, your church life, your civic life is meant to be evidence of how awesome Jesus Christ is At taking things that are no good and making them good. It is not just about you and your personal goals and your personal faith. That is a very small part of this. We are talking about The glory of Jesus Christ and of God, you affect it. If you will not only speak up, but if you would live up Then the nations would stop blaspheming his name, thinking that he is incompetent. An incompetent sheriff or an incompetent ruler. We have got to take this seriously. I have heard over and over again this mantra: love your neighbor. And we have narrowed it down to only wearing our masks as an act of loving our neighbor. You know the one of the most important thing you could do to love your neighbor? The most important thing you could do to love your neighbor is to show them through your good life the confidence of Jesus Christ as the leader of the cosmos. There used to be a time amongst the Christian community where we were admired I remember taking a Presbyterian class and seminary where they would show us all of the Presbyterians that were a part of Major governmental issues, signing of the Constitution, the founding of colleges and towns. But where are we now? Where are we as a community now? How the goal has become dim. I'm not just speaking about us, I'm saying this is a global issue. I'm trying to impress upon you not guilt for the sake of you just hanging your head This is an impression of the serious call that we have to live according to our calling. Because there is more at stake than your personal well-being. Or your personal goals. We're talking about the glory of Christ here. When a non-Christian looks at the church, let me ask you this question, and I want you to answer it in your own mind. Don't answer out loud. When a non-Christian looks at the church, do they see a group of people that they can admire? I think sometimes yes. But I think that there is a lot of times no. And some of that is on them, right? They just don't know what they're doing. But some of it is on us. For example, could they admire us and how we handle conflict with each other? Are we known for being petty and resentful? Sometimes we are. Can you imagine being a group of people that have been forgiven by way of the Crucifixion of Jesus Christ, him giving up his own life, being a group of people who can't forgive, who can't overlook. Can you imagine how out of touch with the gospel you are? If you can't offer forgiveness, if you can't overlook, if love can't cover over a multitude of sins? They don't admire that. Could the world admire us and how we treat our elders and the elderly? I'm starting to develop a pet peeve about this. There's no honor in Israel. You know, when I was in Florida, I was uh ashamed in a sense. We we spent a lot of time with a family that is uh the mom is originally from Hawaii. She was raised Buddhist. And within that culture, you know how they honored their elders? If anybody was 10 years older than you, which is about a generation, right? If they're a generation older than you, they would always refer to you as auntie or uncle. Now that's true in Indonesia too, right? Auntie or uncle. They're not trying to say that we're blood relatives. It's a designation of honor of those who are older. Is that still happening in our midst? Is there any way in which we are still in our language representing the honor that we hold older folks in? Most of the teenagers here call me Jesse. Makes me sick. How about Pastor Jesse or Mr. Jesse? Or how about Miss High? Could they admire us and how we treat our elders and the elderly? There are so many more issues that could go along with that. Could they admire our wisdom in dealing with today's issue? Today's issues. We have folks with really great minds still spending all of their time trying to figure out if you should sprinkle or dunk somebody in baptism. I agree that those kinds of things are important, but it is not the main issue that is on the table right now. People need to understand how to deal with sickness, with the threat of death. They need to understand how to deal with corrupt governments. They need to know how to deal with all kinds of things that are presently before us. Are we being admired as a source of wisdom in today's world as the church? If not, then we are not living up to our calling. Speaking up is not enough. We have to live up. And the reason why I bring up this idea of do they admire us is not for us to receive some kind of credit or glory in and of ourselves. Here's the main truth. If they do not admire us and they know that we are disciples of someone else, they will not admire the one to whom we are disciples. If they dishonor the servant, they certainly will not honor the master. It works that way. And I'm saying that we have a calling here for us, not just to speak up, not just to say things. Even if you said things, if you do not have the life to back it up, your words are void. We must live up to our callings as servants of the ordained judge of the cosmos. And the truth is, though so far this has been framed to hold you accountable, to call you to a better life. The truth is, this is good news. Because with Jesus Christ as your judge, every moment he is leading you down into the path of righteousness to show you what goodness is. Partially, what this point does is a call. It is a call for you to live up to your calling and to stop resisting it. You keep making excuses as if Jesus doesn't know what he's talking about. I met a guy Who became a Christian, and you know what he told me? He said, Christianity is great. It's just so simple. Whatever God says, I just do it. Isn't that nice? Couldn't we just get back to that and then be a witness that God knows what he's talking about? Let's stop resisting. You don't know what you're doing. Jesus does. You're not the sheriff, he is. So let's not just speak about him. Let's live in line with his words and adopt his faith. The reality this morning is that God has made Jesus judge. And this means that Jesus is restoring this world from evil. When we believe that, then like Abner, we will defect from our old allegiances and we will seek peace with Christ. Christ removes our sins and he puts us into his service. And now our desire is that he would have all the desires of his heart. The world needs to hear from you. The world needs to hear that God is renewing our world through Jesus Christ. They need us to speak up. Do not be complicit in the lies. The world needs to see evidence, secondly, that Christ is competent to reform this world, and you are his main piece of evidence The world needs us to live up to our callings. Love your neighbor. Live for Jesus. Let us pray.