And those who had laid hold of Jesus led him away to Caiaphas, the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were assembled. But Peter followed him at a distance to the high priest's courtyard, and he went in and said With the servants to see the end. Now the chief priests, the pr the elders, and the council sought false testimony against Jesus to put him to death, but found none. Even though many false witnesses came forward, they found none. But at last two false witnesses came forward and said, This fellow said, I am able to destroy the temple of God and build it in three days. The high priest arose and said to him, Do you answer nothing? What is it these men testify against against you. But Jesus kept silent. And the high priest answered and said to him, I put you under oath by the living God. Tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God Jesus said to him, It is as you said. Nevertheless, I say to you, hereafter you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right end of the power. And come Coming on clouds of heaven. And the high priest tore his clothes, saying, He has spoken blasphemy. What further need do we have a witness? says, look now, you have heard his blasphemy, what do you think? And they answered and said, He's deserving of death. And then they spat in his face and they beat him and others struck him with the palms of their hands, saying, Prophesy to us Christ, who is the one who struck you. Peter sat outside in the courtyard and a side Servant girl came to him, saying, You also were with Jesus of Galilee. But he denied it before them all, saying, I do not know what you're saying. And when he had gone up, out of the gateway another girl saw him and said to those who were there, This fellow also was with Jesus of Nazareth. But again he denied with an oath, I do not know the man. A little less Later, those who stood by came up and said to Peter, Surely you are also one of them, for your speech betrays you. Then he began to curse and to swear, saying, I do not know the man And immediately a rooster crowed. Peter remembered the word of Jesus who had said to him, Before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times. So he went out and he wept bitterly. And when morning came, all the chief priests and elders of the people plotted against him. Against Jesus to put him to death. And when they had bound him, they led him away, and they delivered him to Pontius Pilate the governor. And then Judas, his betrayer, seeing that he had been condemned, was remorseful and brought back thirty pieces of silver. to the chief priests and elders, saying, I have sinned by betraying innocent blood. And they said, What is that to us? You see to it. And then he threw down the pieces of silver in the temple and departed and went and hanged himself. But the chief priest took the silver pieces and said, It is not lawful to put them into the treasury. because they are the price of blood. They consulted together and brought with them the Potter's field, bought with them the Potter's Field to bury strangers in. And therefore that field has been called the Then was fulfilled what was spoken by Jeremiah the prophet, saying, And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the value of him who was priced, whom they of the children of the Of Israel priced and gave them for the potter's field, as the Lord directed me. Now Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asked him, saying, Are you the king of the Jews? And Jesus said to him, It is a As you say. And while he was being accused by the chief priests and elders, he answered nothing. And Pilate said to him, Do you not hear how many things they testify against you? But he answered him not one word, so that the governor marvelled greatly. Now at the feast the governor was accustomed to releasing to the multitude one prisoner whom they wished, and at that time they had a And while he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent to him, saying, Have nothing to do with that just man, for I have suffered many things today in a dream because of him. But the chief priests and the elders persuaded the multitudes that they should ask for Barabbas and destroy Jesus. The governor answered and said to them, Which of the two do you want me to release to you? They said, Barabbas. Pilate said to them, What then shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ? They all said to him, Let him be crucified. And then the governor said, Why, what evil has he done? But they all cried out All the more, saying, Let him be crucified. And when Pilate saw that he could not prevail at all, but rather that a tumult was rising, he took water and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent the blood of this just person you see to it. And all the people answered and said, his blood Beyond us and our children. May the Lord add his blessing to this reading and understanding that comes from his word. We're continuing today to walk on holy ground, much as we spoke of last week. And I confess to you that it's very frustrating to me in some regard as I study the This passage. There's so much that can be talked about in it. There's so many details that could be brought out and explored. But really, as I look at this passage, There's one main thing that has to be done, and that's actually what is most difficult. I struggle with trying to find words to express just how these words should affect us. You see, this closing section of Matthew is not just history. We are talking of the most holy event in all of history. What should come over us is a deep, reverent awe as we think about it and as we let the images of what Jesus is going through fill us our mind. There should be a fear of a element of fear also present in that. Why? Because we We are looking here at these events. And here, brothers and sisters, we see the holiness of God, the power of God, and the wrath of God All set before us in full display. This story, the record of these events, is written to elicit from us a response So we must come to these words, we must come to these events humbly, reverently, and with our hearts broken. At what we read there. You see, the symphony, which is Jesus' life, is now reaching its peak Rough men, hard-hearted men, mean-spirited men, have come in the middle of the night with clubs and swords and arrested our Christ. They push him and they shove him and he stumbles over the ground and they drag him if necessary to bring him to Caiaphas' house And that sets the stage for what God wants us to see in these verses today. Because the center of these verses. The focus of these verses, in all of their munificent detail, in all of all of the things that we could write about or talk about in them, that which is center stage is Jesus Himself. God wants us to see His Son. Everything is revolving around Him. And God looks wants us to look at him. And when we look at him, what do we see? Here's what we see in these verses, and here's what we must Us see in these verses. We see Jesus alone. We see him abandoned. We see him despised We see him rejected and we see him condemned. Now that is the theme which ties all of the verses together. You see, in these verses, the whole world has turned its back on our Christ. It is he standing there in center stage with us No one to help him, no one standing to support him. That is the theme. His disciples, other than Peter, seemingly have fled Peter's cringing in the courtyard. The chief priest and the elders have rejected him. The ones who should have worked Welcomed him with open arms because they of all the people should have known and recognized who is one. They who should have seen him as being the very hope of Israel, the hope of Israel that has been proclaimed through the prophets through all the years. These men, these high-ranking, relatively high-ranking men, these men who Who have known the scriptures from their youth, they turn their back on the Christ, they spit on him, they slap his face, they beat him on the head and shoulders Imagine the sheer arrogance that we see there. Men who ought to be on their faces before the very Son of God are acting in this way. Think of the shame of it. Think of the anger, the revulsion that should be sweeping over us. Brothers and sisters, this is the Son of God. This is the Christ. These are supposed to be his servants. Why are they doing this? We see Jesus rejected, despised by the leaders of his people. We see him denied by Peter. Peter, one of the inside free, one of those closest to Jesus' heart, the one whom Jesus himself had set aside as special because of his cons Confession at Cesarea Philippi and is associated with the very core, the rock of the church on which God is going to build. He was beloved by Christ in a certain way, special way. We know that at the end of John. And what do we see Peter doing? What do we see Peter doing? We see him cursing and swearing. Sweat drops of terror Coming upon him. So we see Jesus not only rejected by the leaders, the religious leaders of his people, those who should have known him best, but we see We see Christ rejected and despised by those whom he loved the most. In fact, we We see him rejected and despised by those he came to save. For Peter is one of the elect. What do we see here? Peter or the fulfillment or the completion of Judas's betrayal. One who had sat at the very table with Jesus, one who had shared bread from his heart. hand had drunk wine from his cup. And what do we see in Judas? We see him in anguish. We see him in anguish. We see him filled with remorse. But be careful to note we don't see him filled with repentance. He goes out and he hangs himself. Like the rich man in the parable of the rich man and Lazarus, Judas Saw his own judgment. Judas recognized his own judgment. Judas recognized that he deserved hell, and he recognized, I believe, that he was going to get it. Like all sinners who die apart from um confession And repentance to sin. He sorrowed and grieved when God's judgment was open to his eyes. But brothers and sisters Being sorry does not equate to being repentant. Simply saying I'm sorry, even feeling the pain and the grief of your sin Does not constitute a saving grace. Judas died sorrowful, but not repentant. And here we see Jesus betrayed by one who is as close to him as his very own household. And we see Jesus Jesus alone standing before Pontius Pilate, standing there before all of the powers and principalities of this world, the demons that are behind the authority structures in the world Standing before all the kingdoms that this is in this world that have been built through the pride and arrogance of the human heart. Standing there with not a shred of evidence which would legitimate Convict him of any crime, standing there bloody and beaten, but not defeated. Pilate asked him, Are you the king of the Jews? And we see Jesus standing there all alone. With firm resolve, setting his face to the cross because he knew this was going to do it. Telling Pontius Pilate, it is as you say. Pilate now becomes the one who is being judged. The table have completely shifted. Pilate tries to wiggle out of his situation. His wife tells him to let Jesus go. It's one of the times he should have listened to her. She was not a very good advisor otherwise, if you know their history. But this time he should have listened to her. Pilate knows Jesus is innocent. He's says so he calls him a just man but he's a politician and the most important thing to him as a politician Is self-perpetuation in power. And all of those who lust after power, who lust after the things that the kingdom of this world offer, will do whatever they have to do to gain it and to keep it and so Pontius Pilate turns his back on justice. He turns his back on that which the Lord God himself had raised him up and put him in place to do. He turns against his rightful king, and all the demons who were reserved for the fires of hell were rejoicing as Pilate, representing all of the earth's worldly powers, pronounces a sentence of death on this innocent Christ. And what do we see Jesus doing as this travesty of justice happens? He stands there alone and meekly He is unyielding in his recognition. Recognition of his own prerogatives, but he is entirely submissive to the will of God, acting through Pontius Python. And then we see Jesus standing alone. The people about him crying out, let him be crucified. Now John tells us that they also said, We have no king but Caesar. But Matthew here records the Most condemning statement of all. The Jews, the ancient people of God, the ones whom God brought out of Egypt Through the hand of Moses, the very household of God itself, they're crying out for his crucifixion They prefer that a known terrorist, for that's what Barabbas was, be released than he And then they say, Let his blood be on us and our children. Think of the the gravity of that statement, brothers and sisters. To to willingly take upon yourself the blood of Christ in judgment Against you? Let that blood stand as a witness to the horror and the ugliness of your own heart? Can you imagine saying that about the Son of God? It should hit you. It should hit all of us like a punch in the stomach. It's just too horrible. to imagine. Through all of this, what do we see? We see Jesus standing alone. Standing as only He could stand Because there was underneath all of this one more abandonment that we must recognize. The greatest agony. The greatest humiliation is not explicitly stated in these verses. Rather, it is that which underlies all of them. For not only was Jesus standing there alone being abandoned and rejected by men. But even here, Jesus is already standing as one who has been rejected Rejected by God. God, as Jesus' protect protective, nurturing Father. pull back away from him. Jesus is alone, bearing our sin, the sin of all the elect. And as the sin bearer, he is abhorrent to God the Father. He has to be. Sin can Cannot be anything but abhorrent to the purity and perfection and holiness of God. And so we see our Christ as As an object of wrath, the one on whom the just sentence of eternal hell has been laid. See, Pilate here is not only the instrument of the Roman Empire, like Cyrus, the Persian king before him, he is an instrument of God. For it is God who is pronouncing judgment on Jesus that day. On Jesus as our sin bearer. It is God who is stating that This is the one on whom my anger is to be poured. We must go back and look at these events, all of them, through the lens of Isaiah 53. I want you to hear them. These words as I read them to you, and I want you to let them sink in as you kind of play over the events of this passage in the light of them. He is despised and rejected by men. A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And we hid, as it were, our eyes from him. He was despised And we we did not esteem him. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, and yet we esteem Esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions. was bruised for our iniquities, the chastisement for our peace was laid on him, and by his stripes we are healed. We, all of we, like sheep, have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord God has laid on him the iniquity of us all. Brothers and sisters, do you see the divine purpose In this terrifying statement, Jesus is standing there all alone. The Lord God Is imputing to him the sins of us all. Peter cringing in terror Sinning the sin of denying his Lord. That sin was being imputed to Christ right then Jesus stood there and took it. There must have been some among those who gathered there that night and yelled out, Let There must have been some at some point who repented. And if there were any of Those present in that crowd that were yelling out that night to crucify him, who would later repent and be united to him through faith? And Jesus standing there, even while they were crying out, crucify him, was taking that sin upon himself. This is the main theme that ties all of these verses together. It's Jesus as our Passover Lamb on this Fulfillment of the Jewish Passover, standing alone, despised and rejected by Him, by men. We must see that that all men are rejecting him. We must see that it is included in the term we, that we rejected him Brothers and sisters, go back in your mind over that first Passover. Go back and hear God speaking to his people through I will pass through the land of Egypt on that night, and I will strike all the firstborn of the land, both men and beasts, and I will I will execute judgment against all the gods of Egypt. Because I am the Lord, and when you see the sign of the blood, I will pass, but when I see the sign of the blood, I will pass over you. And the plague will not destroy you when I strike the land of Egypt. Do you see how God is fulfilling the first Passover here? Do you see how God is bringing both judgment and salvation at the same time? Do you see how the people of Israel now stand in the place of Egypt? They stand as the ones who have been keeping the remnants, the people of God, in chains of slavery to the law, to laws of their own making, the traditions of men, rather than the laws. law of God and do you see the people of Israel here being subjected to judgment also? Do you see The gods of this world being judged? As Pilate represents them. Do you see how he is exposing the perversity, the murderous love The depravity that exists in the world about us. And do you see the worship of this world is worship of the gods who control it? But what you must see most of all. In the terms of the first Passover, you must see the Passover lamb You must see that pure, white, unblemished, unstained lamb. You need to see him there meek. submissive, being led forward to the slaughter, coming forward to die. Jesus, the Lamb of God, who took away The sins of the world stands there alone, as only he could do. Suffering the rejection of men, selection, suffering The rejection of those who are bound over to hell, and suffering the rejection, suffering rejection from those who have been predestined to join him. The Lamb of God suffering the rejection of all men, because all we, like sheep, have gone astray. Each of us have turned to our own way, but the Lord God has put on him the iniquity of us all. And that's the very last thing I want us to look at. Brothers and sisters, I want you to let this fill your mind, these events that I've portrayed to you, and I want you to put Jesus right in the center of it. I want you to to see him standing there rejected by you. Despised. by you. Condemned by you. For it was your sin that required that he be there. It was your sin that required he be humiliated. It was your sin that took him from the position of vibration Right, having all the angels in heaven singing his praises, giving that up so that he may stand there before men and be humiliated. By those he created. It was for your sin that he had to be punished. For God to be just and the just Justifier of those who have faith in Jesus Christ, this is the way it had to be. What is the application that these verses should have? have for us? It's simply this. We should look in these verses and we should see our Lord standing there alone. And our heart Hearts should be broken. With great humility, we should be singing or thinking what amazing grace. This is. That the Son of God should do this for me. Let's pray.