Matthew 28, verses 16 through 20. Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee to the mountain which Jesus had appointed for them. When they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted. And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always. even to the end of the age. Amen. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we as your congregation have been sitting under your teaching on the Great Commission. I pray, Lord, that your congregation would end well here and take forth your word into the world. I pray, Lord, that you would use the preaching of the word. to mold and to shape your people for service. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Well, we've come to an end of the all with our great commission. We started off our series with an orientation to who this was standing on the mountain. by seeing that he was the stone in Daniel that shall become the mountain, cutting down all nations, and he himself being given power and authority over heaven and earth. We then set out in pursuit of each of the alls that we might understand who he is and who we are. Began with all authority. proceeded with all nations, moved into all that he commands for all of life, and now we have moved into always with us Which really, if you were to take a look in how Paul wrote this in his original language, you'd see that there isn't all there that he is with us all of the days is the way that that is rendered. And we've been taking lessons all the way along in all these alls For example, we asked, well, all of these different commands that we're to obey, well, what are they? And we summarized it in loving God and loving neighbor, which are the two tables of the law. We went further and we said it's a positive orientation. It's not just about what do not, it's about what we bring to the table of the world. In flourishing, and that it is exercised and applied in wisdom. We further asked, well, what does this even look like last week with these commands? Well, it looks like it being over every sphere of life, heart, mind, soul. as we even see with Jesus' summary of the commands, and that it is not taking place even primarily within a classroom setting. That even the discipleship takes place in all of life. That the the uh the model that we have is from Paul in 1 Thessalonians, where he says, as a father I tended to you. And so we take on a kind of pedagogy or method of teaching that looks more like mothers and teachers rather than just professors with a hall of 150 people. We're teaching each other and those whom the Lord is gathering into his kingdom to walk worthy of him in all of their life. And the way that we summarize this, just again by way of review, is by the word Pidea. We looked at Paidea. I hope we can talk about that more when we get into the Sermon on the Mount. But Paidea is the process of enculturating into the customs, mores, traditions, heritage, and worldview of his people. It is becoming a different people. It is becoming a different society. It is becoming a different race. It is becoming a different nation. Those are all analogies to try to get at the alien nature of the kingdom of God amidst the world. And therefore the features and characteristics of his people. That is what Jesus means when he's talking about discipling that they would obey all of his commands. Not just memorizing a bunch of stuff on Quizlet or on your three by five cards, though memory is a part of discipleship. And now we come to this fourth awe. This fourth awe, where we see a promise. And I love that Jesus Christ leaves us here in this great commission and even leaves this gospel of Matthew before he says, so be it. Amen. He leaves his people with a promise, and it really shows you his shepherding heart. We come forth to I am with you all of the days. even to the end of the age. Amen. Now the most difficult part about this sermon will not be, well let's just hope it won't be that you understand it. Let's hope I'm clear I don't expect that to be the most difficult part. The most difficult part will actually be believing that he's actually with you. It's all of our struggle. That is why so many times when we see that gentlemen in the scriptures say, Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief. I usually get nods and amens. when I say that from the pulpit. May the Lord convince you more and more that He really is with you. That He's with you here all of your days Even to the end of the age, not just as individuals, but even as a congregation. Amen. I want to look at this in just looking at the promise that is attached to the Great Commission. And then I want to focus on that the promise really is needed. If you understand what you're up against, you needed him to tell you this. So it's a promise that is attached, and then it is a promise that is surely necessary and needed. Let's just begin at looking this I am with you all the days, even to the end of the age, by acknowledging that this is a promise. And the thing I want you to notice is that it is a promise that is attached to a commission. This is not a promise. That is allowed to be used in whatever twisted way you would like to be able to use this We had to talk about this a little bit. Not that I would think you would want to use this in a twisted way, but human beings have a way of twisting things. And we see the same kind of thing When we talked about in Philippians, where through G through the strength of Christ I can do all things, we can see that applied in many contexts that I'm not sure, and sometimes I'm really sure That Jesus never intended it for that specific context. So, in order for you to be able to help to understand where he believes he's going to live up to his promises He doesn't just give you a promise detached from context. He gives you a promise that is specifically attached to the commission that he has given to you. I send you out on mission. And in that mission, I will be with you all of the days, even to the end of the age. Amen. Now, this is not the first time That God has attached promises to commissions. For example, I just want to give a few to you, and you could look these up over lunch, and I hope that the Lord encourages you through them. The goal of looking them up with you by yourself or with your friends and family would be that you would begin to see, oh wow, God does make promises and he keeps them. That is meant to be encouraging to you, so that you could believe God. Some of the commission scenes that are the most famous, for example, are Exodus chapter 3, verses 11 through 12. Moses' commission is used all of the time. It says this in 11 through 12, but Moses said to God, Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and that I should bring the children of Israel out of Egypt? So he said, I will certainly be with you. And this shall be a sign to you that I have sent you. When you have brought the people out of Egypt, you shall serve God on this mountain. You can see that in that commissioning scene where God is setting aside Moses to be that great prophet who is also going to lead his people out from Pharaoh's tyranny. That a part of that commissioning is also a promise. We see this also in Joshua 1. 5. This is also a famous one. No man shall be able to stand before you all the days of your life, Joshua. As I was with Moses, so I will be with you. I will not leave you, nor will I forsake you. He picks up the same thought again in Joshua 1. 9, where he says, Have I not commanded you? Be strong and of good courage. Do not be afraid, nor be dismayed, for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go. Certainly a commission in the conquest of that area under Joshua's leadership for a while, and attached to that commission is a promise. We also see promises made and fulfilled. If we were to fast forward over into the New Testament, we see promises attached to the commissions, specifically with Saul turning into Paul. We all remember Paul being confronted on the Damascus road and the promises that, or the really the commission that he gives to Paul there And then after that commission is given, we begin to see Jesus saying it specifically, but even acting in his providence throughout history. throughout Paul's history that he truly is with Paul. What are some examples that you think of? I think of the power to hear Jesus shows that Jesus was with Paul. The power to speak boldly about Jesus certainly showed that Jesus was with Paul, especially in the kind of powers that were against him. The power to escape various situations. I mean how many situations did Paul find his way out of? Was that not really a finding his way out of it, but rather a Jesus being present and being his savior power to cast out demons that the mission could continue when demons continually interrupted the proclamation of the gospel. All because Jesus was with him. And now if you were to go forward even beyond the pages of Scripture into extra-biblical history, you would find accounts from missionaries. Telling you Jesus has never left us nor forsaken us. He still keeps the promises. You know, I haven't spent a lot of time in this In the writings of Elizabeth Elliot. And I don't know much about her. But some of the the quotes that I was hearing from uh some stuff that I was researching. The story was really interesting to me and the things that she would say really caught my attention. I'm not sure if any of you are familiar with her But those of you who don't know her, and just for my own sake, I had to do some research, but apparently in 1956, her husband Jim Elliott and four other missionaries attempted to reach a particular tribe in Ecuador in the Amazonian jungles After an initial friendly contact, a misunderstanding led to the tribe spearing all five men to death. Am I getting this correct? And that happened on January 8, 1956. And Elizabeth was left with a left a widow with a 10-month-old daughter. and faced immense grief. I actually saw pictures of her teaching this tribe with her daughter with her. It was really precious actually to see that she would continue doing that. And in fact in 1958 Elizabeth Elliott returned to the Ecuadorian rainforest to live with the tribe, who had killed her husband only two years earlier Her choice to forgive rather than to retaliate sparked a change. This is how the biographers tell the story. Sparked a change in this group of people, and that group of people left behind the cycle of violence. and instead embraced a life of Christian love. The remarkable story rippled across the globe, inspiring millions to serve God through missions. Now that's taken from the the Bible museum website. And just trying to understand a little bit of who Elizabeth Elliott was. And I wondered as I was thinking about this woman who had faced such difficulties Even when her husb I mean to have your husband die is one thing, to have him spear to death is another thing. And I just wonder what was her mindset What is it that the Lord taught her in those kinds of situations? And was she able to hold on to the promises? And did the promises make any difference in how she would conduct herself for the future? How she would relate to her daughter and the stories she would tell her daughter and the things she would say about her Lord. And when I look at the quotes from Elizabeth Elliot, it looks to me, I imagine there was a time of severe sorrow and maybe some doubting. But it looks to me that the Lord never left her nor forsake her, and she knew it. Because when I look at the different quotes from her different works, I just want to share a couple with you. And here we have this morning I'm basically just giving to you an extra biblical testimony from Elizabeth Elliott saying, God keeps his promises. She said, for example, leave it all in the hands that were wounded for you. Isn't that a great way to put it? We are to leave it all in the hands, the same hands that were wounded for you. It just lets you know the kind of care, reminds you the kind of care that He gives, seeing whose hands they are She also said, fear arises when we imagine that everything depends on us. She also said If you believe in a God who controls the big things, you have to believe in a God who controls the little things. I thought those were precious. I especially like that last quote from her because we're coming off of the third all, which is all of life You know, one of the dangers that we can run into is we can look at Elizabeth Elliot and we could say, you know what? God is definitely with people like that. But I'm not an Ecuador. Although my children act like Amazonian tribes, I'm not really in an Amazonian jungle And we can think that those promises aren't for our mundane existence. But that's not what she said And that doesn't, that's not coherent with the Great Commission anyway, because she says that we're to be discipled in all areas of life. And that in each of areas of those life he is with you and will not forsake you. Sometimes we can think that changing a diaper is insignificant, but it's not. It's a part of the Great Commission. And when you're there and you're doing those kinds of things, Jesus is with you there too. I remember a painting that I'm not sure is on our counter any longer. I've been a little preoccupied inside my own heads But maybe it's still on our counter or just above our counter. And it's a paint, it's a watercolor of a hamper with a bunch of laundry in it And it says, do everything for the Lord. Something along those lines. Have you seen that? And we could go ahead if we wanted to do another watercolor Instead of putting do everything for the Lord, we could put below it, the Lord will never leave you nor forsake you. Even when you're doing the whites or the colored wash. When you're doing the laundry. In every single one of your vocations where you are coming under the Lordship of Jesus Christ and seeking to disciple others in the same Jesus Christ is with you and never will forsake you. We believe in a God who controls even all of the little things, and that goes for all of the little things as a mother and as a father and as children. And as grandparents, it's the same promises to all of us in all of our vocations. Now, that is the promise that Jesus gives to us. It is the promise that is attached to the commission. And I hope that's helpful to you, and I hope that you can work. I said the hardest thing that you're going to have today is actually believing that. It's true. And you're going to need to keep working on that just like I am. But I hope that that helps some. The second thing I wanted you to see from this passage is that not only is there a promise attached, but it is a promise that is sorely needed and necessary. I just want to remind you for a moment what you are up against. Number one, if you were to just take a look at the Great Commission itself, it should scare you a little a lot that he uses the quantifier all with regard to your task and the nations. And it should scare you a lot that he says all that he commands Because there are some things that he commands that are very popular, but there are some things that he commands that are very distasteful and stink to many people. That already lets you know that this task is as deep as the ocean. And if you were to stand on the bottom and look around, you're thinking, how am I supposed to take care of all of this? But this is the deal. It gets worse Not only is the task in and of itself impossible unless he promises to be us to be with us in doing this We have an enemy who is working against us at every step. I'll remind you, for example, of Genesis chapter 3. If you read Genesis chapter three correctly, you will read it in two main ways. You will read it as a historical account of the first man and the first woman. But you will also read it as it's showing forth great significance as to the struggle that humanity will have and how it will be relieved. Oftentimes, when we look at Genesis 3, we only focus on the existential threats of our life embodied in thorns and thistles. Sometimes we will furthermore focus not just on the thorns and thistles. We all feel the thorns on that. Everything I'm trying to do today, there is an obstacle getting in the way. All I want to do is get to work on time, and then I I found out that the tire is flat, or that a squirrel has decided to chew through all the electricity in my engine. That's the thorns and the thistles and the futility that we can feel. Other times we could focus on Genesis 3 and see that there is a war between the sexes. And that we're supposed to be uh we're supposed to be there's supposed to be a kind of mutual help. And it ends up turning into a war. And we have books like Men Are from Mars and Women Are From Venus But did you also notice that besides those things that are working against us in the dominion or creation mandate that is captured in the Great Commission, that there is also a serpent? In Genesis chapter 3, we tend to focus that the serpent's head will in fact be crushed. And we forget that there's a part that's another part to that and that he will bruise the heel. We also tend to see just in the victorious work of Jesus Christ over Satan, which is great for us to be able to see, we tend to focus on that and not realize and look throughout all of history the menacing presence of Satan in all of God's works. And that continues to some degree today. In each step that you take, there may be two steps back. We often forget, for example, in Genesis 3. 15, and I will put enmity between you and the woman. You could think of the congregation, of the church. And between your seed and her seed, he shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. One author in capturing the influence of Satan throughout the ages and especially with reference to the work of God gives this a lovely list that ascends and and crescendos in you being able to see the influence and what you're up against. The scriptures portray Satan as being a real being whose activities and orientation are always negatively directed toward the people of God. Satan is the roaring lion walking about seeking someone to devour, 1 Peter 5. 8. He jealously provoked Job in order to prove his inconstancy. Job 1 His wiles are such that the Christian needs to don the whole armor of God to stand against him. Ephesians 6. 11 His children are manifest in their multiple manifold works of unrighteousness, which are many times against the church directly. 1 John 3. 10. He hindered Paul in his missionary journeys. 1 Thessalonians 2. 18. In order to deceive many and disrupt the progress of the gospel, he transforms himself into an apparent angel of light. 2 Corinthians 11, 14. And finally, in the revelation of John, he is prominently displayed as the serpent of old. Whose continued war against the people of God is fierce and bloody My main argument and the reason for listing all of these different things is for you to understand as God's people the necessity of the promise. Discipleship is to be understood within the context of a raging spiritual war being waged by fierce and relentless foes Who will oppose all such things and seek to undermine any advances made through the congregation? You will even have your own families turn against you under his influence. He spares no resource to end the work. And that is why we need the promise. You know, I'm trying to take the Great Commission seriously, just like you. So I've been trying to speak more boldly I've been trying to listen and say, okay, who has God made me? I wear different hats. And then how is it that I can work out my calling in a way that is worthy of his particular name? So that means that I have been sharing more with people about Jesus Christ. I try to bring him into a bunch of different conversations. And I'm trying to do it in a way where the Apostle Paul does those kinds of things, which means I always end up in conversations about authority I say, God has authorized me, since I'm an ordained minister, to tell you his will, and that all authority in heaven and earth has been given to Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ, being the King of the cosmos, says this about the pride movement. Now you can imagine how this conversation went. There are other people in this congregation who are having similar congres conversations like that and what they're getting back is they're getting them being spit back at them that has accumulated year after year after year of the lies of Satan and slogans that he has implanted in them to where they are completely blinded by the God of this age. Lowercase G. As we see Paul talking about. And they will say some slogans like this, well, the Bible is just recorded by men. It's just religious thoughts Do you know another slogan? It's used by the church to dominate. When I end up having any of these conversations that have to do with the authority of Jesus Christ and that he's king And I have to say that because that's the the first part of the message is that God has anointed Jesus as the Christ. The immediate venom that I'm getting is that everyone is understanding me by way of a narrative of power dynamics. that I'm not actually trying to give anybody any kind of truth or that there's I'm trying to relate anything about reality, but instead I'm just a white male who um wants to um oppress the people that are in front of me so that I can have more benefit in society than them. Now let me ask you, where did they get that narrative? Why is it that that makes sense to them as the mindset by which they should look at the world? How long has Satan been telling that lie? You know, one of the difficulties about lies that Satan tells is they're like 90% true He works like that. Has there been oppression in the past? Do we have a great reputation with crusades? Have white males made dumb decisions? There's all of these different things. But you see what he he's working, you see what Satan's doing with the narrative? He's making it to where people would not be able to hear the word of God from the people who have been specifically commissioned to give the word It says in the pastoral letters that the people who are not a part of the congregation have been taken captive by Satan. And ensnared to do his will. And that we would need to pray that God would release them from the satanic captivity. Do you know what all of this implies? People's response to me, the response to other congregation members, those verses from the pastoral letters. It implies That if you are going to complete this commission that God has given to you, it will not be completed unless Jesus is with you every single step of the way. He is the only one that can undo the spell. He's the only one that can cut through the lies. It is a promise that is necessary. This is the last thing that I'll say here this morning. I'm slow, you all know that. I just realized with more profundity that A mighty fortress is our God is talking about this same thing. It is talking about the influence of Satan and the necessity of having Jesus Christ and his promises. A mighty fortress is our God. Perhaps hear it for the first time. A bulwark never failing. Our helper, he amid the flood of mortal ills prevailing. Now listen. For still our ancient foe doth seek to work us woe His craft and power are great, and armed with cruel hate, on earth is not his equal. Did we in our own strength confide? Our striving would be losing. Were not the right man on our side, the man of God's own choosing? Dost asked who that may be? Christ Jesus, it is he. Lord Sabaoth his name, and from age to age the same, and he must win the battle. And though this world with devils filled should threaten to undo us We will not fear, for God hath willed his truth to triumph through us. And then it goes back. Listen, the Prince of Darkness Grim We tremble not for him. His rage we can endure, for lo, his doom is sure, one little word shall fail him. That word above all earthly powers, no thanks to them, abideth. And this is the precious line here at the end of this set anyway. The Spirit and the gift are ours through him who with us sideth. It's all right there. As clear as day Martin Luther saw the same thing. The necessity of the promise and having the right man on our side. I'll leave you. Preachers say this is the last thing I'll say, and then we say something else. I'm going to leave you with this quote. This is another one from Elizabeth Elliott that really was helpful to me in terms of thinking about I really need to believe that Jesus Christ is with me. And he's with us as a congregation. Lord, I believe, help my unbelief. And Elizabeth Elliott says this, restlessness and impatience. This is what happens when we don't believe. Restlessness and impatience change nothing except our peace and joy. Peace does not dwell in outward things, but in the heart prepared to wait trustfully and quietly on him who has all things safely in his hands. He is with us to the end of the age. I am with you all of the days, even to the end of the age. Amen. Let us pray.