We'll be turning to the Book of Acts, chapter fourteen, and we're looking at verses eight, and we have to use the first one. Starting with verse eight. And I'm going to ask if you'd please stand for the reading of God's Word. Beginning in verse eight of chapter 14. And Elystra, a certain man without strength, and his feet was sitting, was sitting, a cripple from his mother's womb who had never never walked. This man heard Paul speaking, and Paul observing him intently and seeing that he had faith to be healed, said with a loud voice, Stand up straight on your feet. And he leaped and walked. Now when the people saw what Paul had done, they raised their voices, saying in the Laconian language, The gods have come down to us in the likeness of men. And Barnabas they called Zeus and Paul Hermes, because he was the chief speaker. Then the priest of Zeus, whose temple was in front of their city, brought oxen and garlands to the gates, intending to sacrifice But when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard this, they tore their clothes and ran in among the multitude, crying out and saying, Saying, Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men with the same nature as you, and preach to you that you should turn from these useless things to the living God, who made heaven the heaven, the earth, the sea And all things that are in them, who in bygone generations allowed all nations to walk in their own ways. Nevertheless, he did not leave himself without witness, and that he did in that he did uh And that he did good, gave us rain from heaven in fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness. Then the Jews from Antioch and Iconium came there, and having persuaded the multitudes, they stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city. And supposing him to be dead, however, when the disciples gathered around him, he rose up and went into the city, and the next day he departed with Barnabas to Derby. Please pray with me. Heavenly Father, this is an astonishing passage for us. It is astonishing. We ask that you would illumine our hearts to understand your great word here. We thank you for the great sacrifice. of the apostles through your Holy Spirit, and we ask that we would honor you and them in the hearing of and in the reading of this. In Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. If you had never read that passage before, did you see that coming? Things were going great. And then I'm not sure. Stoned and got right back up. Not sure that would have been me. I would have laid there at least for a little while. I was just in uh Greenville, South Carolina. wonderful opportunity of meeting uh yet again a man named Patty Cook. Anyone know Patty Cook? He he's actually uh pretty popular. He is from Australia. And he is a missionary and he goes into foreign lands uh under the guise uh as a bookseller and then slips in reform books. Amongst people. And actually we were talking and and he's hoping to come up here and talk to us about how to witness in our normal situations. And you will love him. He's just he's charming, but also in just uh Excellent in in the word and in witness. He has special abilities. In fact, he was telling me when he was in Iraq with his son Stephen Cook, with whom I graduated. He uh on the last day being having a funny Australian accent and um he's kind of a funny guy, the the uh local Iraqis thought of him as Kind of entertaining. And right before they left, of course, they wanted their picture with him. It was like a tour it was like a photo op. And so they were asking for that to take place and he and there's one Muslim man who says um I really want my picture with you. And he says, I don't do pictures. I hug. We can hug. And when the men would come to hug him, he would whisper in their ears, Are you Christian? Or are you Muslim? And then they would say, I'm Muslim. And he would say, Oh, I'm so sorry. Then I can't give you this gift that I long to give to you And then they would say, What gift? He'd say, Oh it doesn't even matter, you're Muslim. And then they'd say, No, give me the gift. I I would like the gift. And then he'd say, Okay, here's Here you go. And it'd be a a Bible or reform or reform literature explaining the Bible. It was really great. And here in this passage are some of those same elements that we see him exercising so wonderfully in Iraq. There's a exchange taking place there where he actually in a in a a non-offensive way strangely Excluded the Muslim faith. He criticized it in a way where a person could receive it. But at the same time, he also uh loved. He confronted, and at the same time showed some delight in the gift that he had, that it was a great had great meaning for him, and he wanted to give it uh to the young man and he brought them into that There are these, there's two elements of confrontation and delight happening in this witness moment. And they're the exact same elements that we end up seeing within this passage. I think Patty gave us an excellent example of what that looks like. And sometimes only men like him can pull something like that off in Iraq. But nevertheless, what we end up seeing in this passage is that any Christian witness That Christian witness consists of confrontation and also delight. Two things that maybe you hadn't thought about coming together. Christian witness confronts and it delights. I want to look at this in this passage. Let's divide this up into three little parts. The example of witness, the delight of wit, and the delight of witness. We'll just do two. The example of witness and the the uh the light of witness. So we're We're picking up on the heels here of uh a an entire series, and next week is the last sermon in this. We're just discussing witness. And basically what we have seen in a nutshell is that Jesus Christ has ascended on high, and although he is not physically present, he is present through His spirit working through particular individuals such as the apostles and prophets at this time, and then later in his church, in order to continue to witness to the nation. That's really what the entire book is about. It's entitled The Acts of the Apostles. Really, it's the act of the risen Lord through the Apostles and then through His Church. If you remember last week, we got into this discussion of Isaiah, where Jesus Christ and Paul are both described as the light to the Gentiles. And this brings us to the very first thing that I want you to, that we have to deal with in this passage. And that is, is it okay for me to use this? And I've put this under the title of the example of witness. And my argument is that Paul is an exemplar here throughout this entire account of how we too should also witness. Generally, we accept this. If you for instance were to flip to 1 Timothy chapter 3, verses 16 and 17. 17 it mentions the word of God and that it is for the sake of the use of a godly man and woman, for the sake of these other things. So our anticipation is that it would be, but you can't take that for granted with every single scenario within the Scripture For instance, is it applicable to you in this passage that if you see someone who looks like they're listening with faith, that you could then tell them to stand up and walk, even though they've been cripples their entire life? Do you anticipate that because Paul was able to heal with the apostolic gift of healing that you too could heal? There are some traditions that would say yes. But our argument is that there were some extraordinary gifts given to the apostles That are not applicable to you. And our argument runs something like this. The gift that was given here of this extraordinary miracle of him being able to heal people or even raise them from the dead in other accounts was for the sake of showing or attesting to the fact that he had an authoritative message from God. Miracles are, by definition, an attestation in the scripture. to a true word from God. And that's exactly what we end up seeing here. It's not something that we are to copy, but there are elements here that are exemplary for us. us. Paul says, as I move in Jesus Christ, you too follow my example as I live for him. So we would expect also in that right. In the passage from last week, we saw a curious thing. In Isaiah, it says that there will be a light to the Gentiles, and it's speaking about the Messiah. But then Paul applies that same verse to him Himself saying, I'm an apostle, I'm going out and I'm spreading this Christian message because I'm a light to the Gentiles. And he cites the Isaiah verse. Do you remember that? And we ask the question, how could Jesus say that was about him and Paul also say it was about him? Maybe Paul is ripping these things From their context. Of course he's not. And what we found out even further was that this is set of the church in multiple places. For example, Matthew chapter 5, we are the light of the world. Or in Philippians chapter 3, be light to your neighbor. This is all tying into this light image given from the prophets. The answer to the dilemma was that Jesus Christ on high as the ascended Lord, of course, is the great light to the Gentiles. But he has chosen to work through ordinary means, such as apostles, and later his church, in order to continue to accomplish his task, which we argued is not unlike him because from the very beginning, although he could have not only created the world, but taken care of every single thing, he did not need you to tend the garden. It delights him for you to participate with him as a kind of steward over his creation. And he's asking us now, as the church, to be the household of faith that stewards the faith. And so what we end up seeing here is a continuation of Paul's ministry, not just in the extraordinary sense, but in the ordinary sense. Let me show you right here on the pages of Scripture why I say that. Notice first off that the emphasis, when you first read it, seems to be a miracle, but it's actually not. Paul in verse 8 and in Lystra, a certain man without strength and his feet was sitting. A cripple from his mother's womb who had never walked. Now listen to what Paul is doing. His primary focus is not the healing of the man. This man heard Do you see that? You can almost just slide right by the fact that Paul is doing a continuation of his preaching ministry here, not in a synagogue, but amongst the pagan culture. So Paul here is still placing an emphasis upon being a light to the Gentiles in the exact same way that we may be, which is through witnessing to the person and work of Jesus Christ. He looks at the man. Who looks like he's responding in faith. The Holy Spirit is working within him, and so then he heals him. That's the occurrence that took place. A further argument for this and showing that Paul is focused on the preaching of the word in the same way that we may be, and therefore this passage is exemplary for us. Is that when they do finally bring the sacrifices toward Paul, look at the names that they give to Barnabas and to Paul. Barnabas they called Zeus and Paul, what did they call? Hermes, because he was the chief spokesperson. If you know anything about Hermes, he is the one who is a messenger from the gods in order to say what the gods are thinking. And so they categorized Paul immediately like that, because Paul came as a messenger, just relaying the words that Jesus Christ had given to him for the sake of the Gentiles. You see that? So there's a great deal of an exemplary nature here for us. We too are called to witness. And so we may with the rest of the points see how Paul witnesses and benefits from that. And what we end up finding are very general things that he does. does throughout all of his mission that applied to us. So that's the example of witness. This passage is for you as the summary of that point. This passage is for you. Number two, the confrontation of witness we see in thirteen through fifteen. Can you believe that they started sacrificing to them? Very different. So far we've seen Paul stop in one synagogue upon another. Here he's in a pagan city, and we'll see that later also in Areopagus. And this really relates to us Not many of us relate with witnessing in a synagogue, but sure we sure do amongst a uh hedonistic or pagan culture. And so in thirteen through fifteen, let me read that for you Then the priest of Zeus, whose temple was in front of the city, brought oxen and garlands to the gates, intending to sacrifice with the multitudes. But when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard this, they tore their clothes. a great sign of grief, and ran in among the multitude, crying out and saying, Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men with the same nature as you, and preach to you that you should turn from these useless things to the living God And then he goes on to talk about God. The main content of the witness here that Paul gives is a confrontation Of the way that they are choosing to try to approach God, that is to say, through useless things. He confronts them and says, You should turn from the useless things. to the living God and sets that up as a mark or demarcation for every witnessing event that you would engage in. You must turn from the useless things to the living God. Now one argument for that is just for me to appeal to your self-testimony. Isn't every Christian in here a story of turning from useless things to the living God? And that's what Paul is doing here. This useless things here is personified most often throughout the scriptures as idols. They're useless. And that's the point that he's making here. It's a it's officially called uh an idol throughout many parts of Scripture. For instance, Jeremiah two five, thus says the Lord, what injustice have your fathers found in me that they have gone far from me, have followed idols? Exact same word You'll notice too if you were to flip to the other pagan context of Paul's preaching in the Areopagus, this same discussion is basically happening and He's referring, of course, to all of their idols. And so at the forefront of his mind is him criticizing them for their idolatry. Here, it is a false religion. It's a little different than what we would deal with. If you were Pastor Kim, the senior pastor here at the Korean church, when he goes home, he actually faces this almost like you would see it here. There are Buddhists bowing to Buddha and lighting incense To those gods. There are other cultures that believe that there are thousands of gods and they manifest themselves in monkeys or whatever it is. And Paul is confronting something similar to that with the Greek pantheon of gods. Which of course we don't see that exactly. Here they're literally devoting themselves to that which does not exist, it does not have power and it does not act effectually in any way. It is absurdity in the Paul in the mind of Paul. Look at the example that he gives of the living God just for a second He says it is God who basically allows all of your crops to grow. Can you imagine how Paul views how they normally go about this and how useless it must look to him? Instead, they would be praying to Zeus in order to help with rain and during the crop season, who does not even exist. Now that's the ancient problem. It's empty because he doesn't exist and he and he doesn't have any power, therefore, to decree whether cop crops would do well or would not do well It is only the living God would that would have any power to do that. Now we don't face it that exact same way within our culture, but this is still a modern problem, which I think comes out by just asking the question. Do you and others today turn to ineffectual things for hope or stability Do you or others that you know turn to things that are ultimately ineffectual for hope? It becomes absurd when you Begin to think of the examples. We're talking about witness, and so I want to remain just for a moment in the context of the church. Listen to this quote from Psalm 20, verse 7: Psalm trust in chariots. And some in horses. But we will remember the name of the Lord our God. They have bowed down. See the idolatry present there? And fallen. But we have risen up. And and we have risen and stand upright. That's another image for you of the kind of thing that you could begin to hope in w which is a form of idolatry, turning to those things which are ultimately ineffectual. Thinking about it as a church here at Severn Run, I've laid out with witnessing that we are to gather those who are the Lord's, and we are to disciple. The confession puts that as gathering and perfecting. the two main purposes of the church existing. A lot of the times when you get into these discussions as a church and you're wondering how can we at Severn Run grow? How can we become vital? How can we become full of the Spirit and for people to long to be here with us so that we can have different resources? And things to be able to offer to this culture that we can't because of our numbers. And then we begin to hear the chariots and we begin to hear the horses. We need to change the music. We need to change the paint color. We need to whatever you could fill in there And I'm not saying that paint, color, and music aren't important. I'm just asking, are those the things that have the power to make people Christians and to disciple? That's all I'm asking. Think about the absurdity. Oh, paint color, will you please bring people here? Oh, or orchestral whatever, I don't know, music. Will you please bring violin? Bring people here. That's almost the kind of thing that we end up getting into. And thinking that there's some effectual power in those things as this technology or technique or methodology is going to solve our problems and not the risen Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. And I'm just speaking about, as a church, we end up falling into a Madison Avenue uh cult personality where we rely upon the discoveries of human psychology and we try to tap in and condition people and anticipate their responsibilities. response. If we're really going to do that, let's just go all the way. Do you know how many members we could be here could have here within a month if you would allow me to just offer a free Xbox One upon signing up for membership? We'd have to get a building program. I'm dead serious. I think it's I think it's absurd. And you know what's what can become subtly absurd is when we would turn to these things as a witnessing church as we're thinking about what do we need to do our job as a missions church. We could say, what we're missing is Bible study, and what we're missing is prayer, and we need to celebrate the sacrament every single week, and then they would come. And now that's subtle, but it's not true. Because what is it, or who is it, rather, that gives power to the word Who is it that may sovereignly choose to answer or not answer your prayers? And who is it that accompanies and seals the sacrament to your hearts The answer is always the Trinity. It is the power of the Godhead alone that is able to do this. We must not rest. as we're thinking about growing as a church and doing great things. Never rest upon technology or methodology. The power alone resides in Jesus Christ and his sovereign desires. Whatever he chooses. As a culture, if you're not interested in the church and you're just trying to get through life, the same thing ends up applying. When you're speaking to those who are just your coworkers or someone you run into the grocery store, each person there is just a ball of desires They crave and yearn for significance and stability. And they're going to choose means that they believe will give them significance and stability. stability, such as trying to attain some kind of power through a degree or through upward mobility in career, or they're going to gain lots of money and then that would give them power. Or romance, for instance, for significance in the other's eyes, and for stability, because now you're with another. And all of those end up being good desires, don't they? Shouldn't we have a desire to work? Shouldn't we have a desire to be loved? Shouldn't we have a desire to have dignity and to have me Meaning, but what we end up seeing is that become obsessions They become what we trust in instead of seeing that it is God that we should trust in, and thus it becomes idolatry. Taking good things and moving them into the place of God is by definition idolatry That is what our culture struggles with. And what I'm saying here is that witness is you going to them and saying, it's never going to work if you keep trying to choose that. You're never going to be stable. You're never going to have true love if you keep turning to the world. It doesn't offer it. And they end up either believing you or not believing you. I think of an example of this within a one gentleman that they made a movie about who invented the intermittent window wiper. Brilliant man lost his entire family because he refused to lose the money from the patent office that he lost when they stole his invention. He was, I don't remember, I don't want to ruin their reputation. So whichever car company stole it from him. Lost his entire family because he would not lose the court case. Whole family left him. Totally consumed. And I imagine he died lonely. But he thought that that was going to give him the significance and the stability But idols are always liars. They promise everything and they deliver nothing. And so Paul doing them a favor and being um Obedient to his Lord Jesus Christ, who has come to save and to save the human race, his people from destruction, calls them from useless things to the living God. That's the second point. You must confront the useless things and call them away from it. But there's a second part, and that's the third point. And that is the delight of witness. This was surprising to me as I mentioned Meditated upon it. Look at what he adds. Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men with the same nature as you, and preach to you that you should turn from these useful Now listen to this. He's not going to go off on who God is. He made the heaven, he made the earth, he made the sea, and all that are in them. who in bygone generations allowed all nations to walk in their own ways, nevertheless, he did not leave himself without witness, and that he did God He gave us rain from heaven and fruitful seasons. He filled our hearts with food and with gladness. This is where the delight comes in. The confrontation leads to you sharing how what you have in Jesus Christ is better than what could ever be offered in idolatry It's not you just criticizing someone and telling them everything that's ever they've ever done wrong. It's showing that the ultimate way for this movement forward is for there to be a replacement with something that is more beautiful, more profound, more robust. That's what Paul is saying to them. He he gives these natural examples. You wonder if he's pointing to to wheat fields or to mountains in the landscape. as he points out the beauty of God. Is this what it sounds like when you are witnessing to people? Is this what people have is this the impression they get? Look look at what he's saying. He's basically saying, God put food on your table, and listen to how thankful Paul is. Can you imagine saying grace with the abundance? Apostle Paul. We may never eat because he's so excited about what God has given to him. We all know people like that, right? Give too long graces. Paul is so excited here. If someone sat down with you and you told them you need to get rid of those useless things and then they sat down with you What would they think about your God based on how you give grace? Are you truly thankful? Do you really believe that He put those things on your table? This isn't a guilt trip that I'm trying to lay on you. This is a prerequisite for you being able to witness, because after you confront, you must delight. And so people should see the delight in you. How irresistible is that just to see somebody having fun and delighting in something? Don't you want to be a part of it, even if it's a bad idea, like drinking sour milk? Somehow people get us to drink sour milk because they think it's so funny. And you want to be a part of that, or to throw yourself down a set of stairs, or whatever it is that I did in a youth in youth There's something compelling and attractive about delight, and I see this here in Paul. If you don't truly delight in the living God, then how can you ask other people to do the same? And a sign of that, of course, a test for you is grace. What you would have is someone saying to you, You tell me to trust in God for my stability. And for my bread, so to speak, but when you say grace, you just go through the motions. Do you really believe that he gave you this food? Because it doesn't look like it I remember once a person uh this is a little bit different, but I remember once a person refused to stay grace with me. And they did so because they said I'm the one that worked forty hours with week to put this whole thing on the table. Why would I give God thanks for any of it? Now that's difficult, right? Because I think that thought goes through our minds. There's a little there's some there's some real struggle there that we need to answer and not just What we end up seeing here is something I think more profound. And that God Himself, although with the snap of Metaphorical fingers could do everything himself, he chooses to bestow upon us a dignity that we are not worthy of. And that is that we may be able to participate with him. And putting bread on the table. And so you end up with bakers and farmers. Is beautiful. God allows us to participate because he guards our dignity and the plan that he has set up from the beginning, and yet we in our sinful hearts end up using that as an excuse that he never contributes anyway. That I'm always just here on my own, trying to hold up the curse that he has placed on me. But I ask, where would we be if he did not allow us to participate? Who is it that allows your heart to beat? Where is it that the sun comes from? Where is it that we do get the rain? Where is it that you do get the dirt? Where do you get the seeds? Where do you get the plants? Where do you get the right mixture of the atmosphere in order for anything to survive? It is God Himself. And He is the one is reversing it on us. And He's saying, I'm allowing you to participate with me in everything that I am doing. And there's one more step here if you haven't delighted in him enough yet, if you haven't felt a tinge of delight, let me bring out one more part because this is so important for your witness. Notice the last part of his description of God. He says, filling our hearts with food and gladness. Did you ever wonder why God doesn't make all food gray? Is that just me? It's just me. I'm so sorry. This is the answer right here, because he cares about whether we're delighting. He wants us to be happy, but happy in the right way. He, even his enemy, is sending them from heaven fruitful seasons so that their hearts could be full with food and with gladness. I'll give you a final example. I've used this before. It's the greatest example in my life. It impresses me and shows how delightful God is. I I've shared this with you before, that we walked out of my house one day, Ellie was very little, the wind was blowing around, and it blew her hair And she said, Dad, why is it so windy? And I answered correctly according to this passage, because God knows it feels good in your hair. Now argue with me. That's the kind of God that we have. Do you see how attractive he is? Do you see how lovely he is? Do you see how even if I may how seductive He is for you to join him and to tell him about other people? We confront and then we move into delight. We confront because we want people to delight. This is the example of witness that we see here that comes down through the ages to his church. This is the confrontation of our witness that we see, and this is the delight of our witness. Because Christians witness by confronting and delighting. And so if you are not delighting in your Lord, I will call upon you in this Just these final words, to put down your obsession with your career, to put down your obsession with your beauty, and that you would join Jesus Christ. And seeing God as your great contentment, as the only one that can give you rest, and the only one that really knows how to love you. Let's pray.