And before I read uh God's word, we'll be reading from Hebrews chapter twelve this morning. If you need a Bible, please raise your hand, I'll have one brought to you. I'm going to read a rather long section And while you're looking for that, please allow me to remind you to please be in prayer for continue prayer for Calvert. We'll we'll release more prayer requests. As the week goes by, not only for Calbert but for others, but also for Gary Brown, who fell and has a concussion. He's going to be out of work for a little while, which is a a great concern. So we want to pray for him and check in on him, please. We're looking at Hebrews 12, and we're going to begin in 18. It's been a little over a month now since we've been in the book of Hebrews. And I am sad to say this is the last sermon of this series. So let's begin in verse 18. And I'm going to just continue reading all the way down to the doxology. It's a little long, but I want to make sure we have it in our mind. For you have not come to the mountain that may be touched and that burned with fire, and to blackness and darkness and tempest, and the sound of a trumpet and the voice of words. So that those who heard it begged that the word should not be spoken to them any more, for they could not endure what was commanded, quote, And if so much as a beast touches the mountain it shall be stoned Or shot with an arrow. And so terrifying was the sight that Moses said, I am exceedingly afraid and trembling. But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem. to an innumerable company of angels, to the general assembly and church of the firstborn who are registered in heaven, to God the judge of all, to the saint spirits of just men made perfect, to Jesus the mediator of the new covenant. and to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better things than that of Abel. See that you do not refuse him who speaks, for if they did not escape who refused him who spoke on earth, much more shall we not escape if we turn away from him who speaks from heaven, whose voice then shook the earth, but now he has promised, saying Yet once more I shake not only the earth, but also heaven. Now this yet once more indicates the removal of those things that are being shaken, as though as of things that are made, that the things which cannot be shaken may remain. Therefore, since we are receiving a kingdom which cannot be shaken, let us have grace, by which we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear, for our God is a consuming fire Let brotherly love continue. Do not forget to entertain strangers, for by so doing, some have unwittingly entertained angels. Remember the prisoners as if chained with them, those who are mistreated, since you yourselves are in the body also. Marriage is honorable among all, and the bed undefiled, but fornicators and adulterers God will judge Let your conduct be without covetousness. Be content with such things as you have, for he himself has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. So we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, I will not fear. What can man do to me? Remember those who rule over you, who have spoken the word of God to you, whose faith follow, considering the outcome of their conduct Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. Do not be carried about with various and strange doctrines, for it is good that the heart be established by grace, not with foods which have not profited those who have been occupied with them. We have an altar from which those who serve the tabernacle have no right to eat. For the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin are burned outside the camp. Therefore, Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered outside the gate. Therefore, let us go forth to him outside the camp, bearing his reproach, for here we have no continuing city, but we seek the one to come. Therefore, by him let us continually offer the sacrifice of praise to God, that is, the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to his name. But do not forget to good to do good and to share, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased. Obey those who roll over you and be submissive, for they watch out for your souls as those who must give account. Let them do so with joy and not with grief, for that would be unprofitable for you. Pray for us, for we are confident that we have a good conscience in all things, desiring to live honorably. But I especially urge you to do this, that I may be restored to you sooner. Let's pray. Father, we do ask that your word would reach the motivatable motivational centers of our existence. We pray, Lord, as we As we study the per horatio of this sermon that you have given to us, we pray, Father, that it would result in your glory as we are conformed into your holiness little by little and progressively. We pray that that would happen on the spot this Sunday, and that we would give praise to your name, not only in worship service, but throughout our lives in Christ's name The preaching portion will focus on verses 18 through the end of the chapter, but I will mention chapter 13 at the end. We concluded our Advent series on Christmas Eve, and we're returning to the Hebrew series, obviously. This morning is the last sermon of the series. We'll start next week with a 13-part series on the book of Proverbs. It's been some time, but if you recall, the author here is giving us, like a good weatherman, forecast I hope you remember that analogy. That's where we left off. I kept repeating the normal Christian life. And that's where we pick up again. Over break, we wanted to do many things They were we did some things, but um they were thwarted. One morning we received news that there would be ice on the roads And wanting to head into DC to s to see the Museum of the Bible, we became concerned about being there for our allotted time. Um because of the forecast that we received we decided not to go and I think it probably saved us a great deal of of pain in sitting in hours of a commute. Maybe that was the wrong decision or not. not or or whatever, but that's the purpose of forecasts. A forecast tells us what is ahead so that we can prepare. And that's what's going on here. We are now in a section and we continue in a section of Christian forecasts of what you should expect in the normal Christian life. This author forecasts what is normal for Christians, and so that's why we're saying the normal Christian life. If you remember, just flip back to chapter 12. We saw in 11 through the witnesses, the cloud of witnesses, that the normal Christian life is a life of faith. It is that which is present virtually, which will be present by reality later. But then we see that the normal Christian life starting in chapter 12, verses 1 and 2, is a race wherein we look to Jesus for aid and assistance. as we keep running. We saw second that the normal Christian life is one of adversity and discipline. That was in chapter 12, verses 3 through 12 You see there the adversity there beginning in twelve and being encouraged that we have not striven as Christ has to the point of blood or martyrdom, and then to understand why we undergo such things We turn to the chastisement of the Lord, and thus the normal Christian life throughout all the centuries is one of adversity and discipline And then third, we learned in the past weeks that the normal Christian life says no to worldliness. Now that's in 1213 through 17. If you remember the examples, we started off in looking at Proverbs, turn neither to the left or to the right. Do not be like a bitter root, as quoted in from Deuteronomy, and do not be like Esau, who sold his birthright, if you remember that. And that was all examples of worldliness, worldliness in terms of turning to worldly religions, and we are to say no to them. The only religion that is true religion is Christianity. And we are to say no to worldly gratifications. We are to say no to both of them and say yes to loyalty to Jesus Christ. That's in verses 13 through 17. And this morning, the normal Christian life continues in verses 18 all the way down to 29. And there's three main things. The normal Christian life first is access to God. If you want to mark this out, you're welcome to. That's going to be 18 through 24. Verses 18 through 24. The normal Christian life is access to God In verses 25 through 27, the normal Christian life is a life that listens to God, does not reject his word. And then lastly, for this morning, the normal Christian life in verses 28 and 29 is a life of service to God, a life of pleasing Him. What a sweet ending and fitting. And so let's begin with verses 18 through 24. The normal Christian life is a life of access to God. I hope that you don't presume upon access to God. I sometimes get the impression that more so with young folks, that you think you can just have access to God. If you're not in Jesus Christ and you seek access to Him or you come face to face to Him, you will be devoured. He actually abhors you if you are not in Christ and made holy by him. I hope that you do not presume upon his mercy. That's what happens to a human being when someone's nice to you But here I do want to declare the gospel. I just pray that you wouldn't be presumptuous and be doing so So we have the normal Christian life is a life of full access to God. And the access will increase as in his return. And this point is brought out in 18 through 24. Take a look at the basic structure here I want you to notice something. It's really easy to understand this set of verses. They're going to come together very quickly for you. If you just notice that these two that this this what seems like a lot of verses is actually just two s sentences. It's in the original there's a sentence that starts in verse 18 and goes all the way to 24. I'm sorry, it goes all the way to 21. And then there's a second sentence that starts in 22 and goes down to 24. Those are just two long sentences. And so if you look at the beginning of the first sentence, a And then the beginning of the sentence, second sentence, which is twenty-two, you can see the structure very clearly of what's going on here, and there's actually a geographical contrast between mountains And their significance for you as a Christian. The first sentence, obviously 18, if you read them together, the intent of the author is quite clear. And let me just read them together. Okay? So verse 18, for you have not come to Mount, and the mountain here, if you were to read the description, is obviously Mount Sinai, although it doesn't even say mountain in the original text. It's that which you have come to. But that's what he's getting at, and so that's why the translators have put that in there. For you have not come to Mount Zion, and then if you go to verse 22, but you have come Um uh you have not come to Mount Sinai, but you have come to Mount Zion. And so he's using two mountains to signify a point that he wants to make Now, what is the significance or the point of not coming to Mount Sinai versus Mount Zion? There's a number of different points you could make if you wanted to But the point here, based upon the descriptions, the seven-fold description that is given in each account is access. Notice the descriptions. You can't match, if you were to look at that which followed 18 and then that which followed 22, you can't match up the description. In a one-for-one correspondence. But there's seven of each. And they're meant to be contrasted with each other relative to the kind of access that we would have to God. The first set of Mount Sinai speaks of distance, obscurity, fear, dread, and terror. So, if you take a look there, take a look at some of the words that may be touched and burned with fire and to blackness. And darkness and tempest, and the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words, so that those who heard it begged that the word should not be spoken to them anymore. As a bee, if a beast touches the mountain, it will be stoned or shot with an arrow. And so terrifying was the sight that Moses said, I am exceedingly afraid and trembling. Anyone that would appeal to this old covenant and say, I have a relationship with God I have access to him. And then if you were to turn back to that account, you'd say, Well, you can keep that access because that's terrifying. Anyone that would stand before Mount Sinai and say, I have a great religion. from the scene at Sinai, every aspect of the vision that we see next in Zion is one of access. And you've got to pick up on the words that he's using. here. The vision provides encouragement instead, contrasting the mountain for coming boldly. It's not Zion, it's heavenly Zion. It's coming boldly into the presence of God. The atmosphere at Mount Zion is festal joy. That's the focus. The frightening visual imagery of blazing fire, darkness, and gloom fades before the reality of the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem. The cacophony of the whirlwind, the trumpets blast, and the sound of words is muted and replaced by the joyful praise of angels in vessel gathering. Now where do I see that? I know you see in verse 23 to the general assembly in the church of the firstborn, right before that, I'm sorry, the heavenly Jerusalem, to innumerable company of angels. There's the angels. Where's the festival joy? 23 to the General Assembly. Now, you should have a little footnote there. You see that where it says a festal gathering. All right, that's what's happening here. It's not just an assembly of frowning angels. This is an assembly of angels that are are in great joy. In fact, you could think of Christmas. With the host of and the angelic host revealed, singing, glory to God in the highest peace and goodwill towards man. It's the same kind of gathering here It's a festival gathering in verse 23. The trembling congregation of Israel gathered solemnly at the base of the mountain is superseded by the assembly of those whose names are permanently inscribed in the heavenly archive. There's no obscurity, there's no doubt, there's no hiding of God, there's no absconding. They know and are assured of their salvation. An overwhelming impression of Of the unapproachability of God that we saw in Sinai as eclipsed, and the full experience of full access to the presence of God through Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant. Now I actually haven't said anything new to you. This is a summary, this paragraph here is a summary of the whole sermon. It's a summary of the whole homily of Hebrews, really. Notice all the themes it began with the angels, it's all the different themes that are there, and it consummates with Jesus Jesus giving us access. The way that it's put here in this passage is that Jesus speaks better than the blood of Abel speaks. You notice the speaking that's going on in Mount Sinai, and then there's a different speaking happening At Zion. Before, with the spilled blood of Abel, the human race descends deeper into sin and alienation from God's already protected presence. And now, with the blood of Jesus Jesus' blood speaks of better things, not of exile, but of access, intimacy, and restoration. All of that is accomplished in Christ. That's a geographical contrast, and the normal Christian life is made up of this: of knowing that through Jesus, being united to him as your great new Adam, that he brings you, he grabs you by the hand, and he brings you. brings you before the Father and you do not have an unclean conscience. Because you know that with atonement your sins have been purged and there has been a complete Remission, and that you are now written on your forehead, holy to the Lord, made a part of his special congregation. The normal Christian life is access to God through our mediator, Jesus. And I could go on with this. There's actually a whole biblical theology that's happening here, but I want to keep going. And let's just keep moving into the next point. First, the normal Christian life is access to God. In verses 25 through 27, I want you to see how this is closely allied to the first point: that the normal Christian life is a life that listens to God. All these points end up collapsing together. I'm taken back, in fact, by the remarkable juxtaposition between the access on Zion spoken in 18 through 24 And then this speaking of God, or the listening that we must do, the do not refuse. Notice that there. See that you do not refuse him who speaks, for if they did not escape who refused him who spoke on earth, much more shall we not escape if we turn away from him. who speaks from heaven. Just when you begin to put the comfortable blanket on of access, he comes out with 25 and he shakes you. That you might become unshakable. In other words, this is what is remarkable to me: the intimacy is accompanied by warning. It is a complex Christianity that I don't see today, at least within America. Notice the warning and the promise throughout the passage. The normal Christian life is a life that listens to God, as obviously stated there in 25. Don't refuse him who's speaking, who speaks. And he is going to warn us not to refuse based on a warning. If you refuse him who speaks on earth, and He's meaning the prophets there of old, and they didn't escape, how much more will you not escape from the one that speaks from heaven? Now what what is he referring to there? I think he's referring specifically to Jesus Jesus. And now he is the one from heaven who has spoken. Again, you can think of the Christmas story, and then Jesus ascending, sends the Spirit from heaven, who then fills his disciples to then give a word from heaven. And so you have Moses, in contrast, or the other prophets who are from speaking from earth. Now you have a word from heaven. And if they were not at they could not escape. The consuming fire of our God with all that he had spoken from earth, how would we ever seek to uh expect to escape from him who has spoken from heaven? And interestingly, this is also a promise. It's two sides of the same coin. The warning that he gives you here. Is also exactly what you want him to promise to you. You want a world where everybody listens to God. You really do. That's where things would be most beautiful. And yet you struggle yourself with refusing to hear him who speaks. And that comes together with dwelling intimately with him. Now that's a that's a A crowd, if I've ever seen one, a crowd of ideas, how do they ever fit together? How could they be friends or cousins? It says here, in fact, that the promise is that God will shake all things that are against him. He shook the earth at Mount Sinai. There's a shaking that's going on going on there, and he will shake heaven and earth. Have you ever been a part of an earthquake? If you haven't, then you think that the earth is to be relied upon And you can just go on without your day and you don't have to worry about the earth. You ought to worry about the people on the earth, but not the earth. But then if you go through an earthquake, you realize You could perhaps look at the whole world differently in what buildings could come down. Here you have to ask the question: if God were to shake the earth and only that which stood for God would remain, how much would remain? How much is in fact unshakable? How much of your life is unshakable? The shaking here, you could think of it as a sifting. That's another way that he puts the same thing. To shake is to s to sift. Has anyone done any sifting on the beach with those we used to just do it with our hands, but now they m actually make a sifting sand flee shovel. Does anyone use a s uh a sand fleece shovel? Anyone out there? Do you even know what I'm talking about? You know the sand fleas are. Okay, if you go down to where the water and the ocean laps onto the beach and you were to dig in, you'd get these little sand fleas, they look like little uh creatures from another planet. Little crabs. Sand crabs. I I'll show you a picture after all of you are looking at me like I'm crazy. I'll show you a picture afterward if you come to me. I'll show you on my phone. Anyway, they they you can dig those up and you put 'em on your hook and they're great for catching rockfish or pompano if you're in Florida or whatever it is. And and you need a lot of them because they fall off quite easily and so they've made a sand fleece shovel where you can scoop a bunch at a time, but you don't want all the sand. You put in the water and you shake and all the sand is sifted out and the sand fleas remain based upon the holes within the screen, just like panning for gold or screening for gold. And likewise is what this passage is teaching: the shaking of the earth in heaven will sift out everything that is not pleasing to God. Everything that is not pleasing to God. Everything that is a part of your life that is not pleasing to God will be burned up. And if most of your life is not pleasing to God, then you will barely escape through the flames, as it says in 1 Corinthians chapter 3. That's the image here. But here's the remarkable part. Isn't it amazing to you that I'm saying all of these things right after I told you that you have fooled? Access to God. The two go together within the author's mind. If you struggle with the tension, maybe that's a healthy part of the Christian life. The mountain section gives us access in 18 through 24. But then when we turn to 25 and see that the normal Christian life is not only access to God, but it is also listening to God, Then it reminds us not only about the access, but to whom you have access. We have access to a God who is holy, lest you forget. I get the impression sometimes that we get the idea that God, I remember actually there's a 19th-century philosopher on his deathbed, somewhat I think asked him if he was worried about his relationship with God, and he said, no, because it's God's job to forgive me. What presumption And we can struggle with the same thing. I wonder, in fact, if that's why the author has repeated it here. He's repeated this throughout. Listen to God. Do not refuse him who speaks, the one to whom you have access. Allow the two to always come together, lest you be presumptuous, and you, as a human being, are born presumptuous. I think might be his point here. We have access to what God is holy, lest you forget. That's the whole point. The reason why there's such a separation between you two is because you are unholy, because of your sin. And it just goes to show how we don't take our sins seriously. The holiness of God is not undermined by the fact that in the new covenant his people are invited into his presence in a new way. Sometimes we want to put the law against the gospel. The gospel accomplishes what the law could not, but the gospel is establishing us in the law The holiness of God is not undermined by the gospel. To think like that would be to make a radical mistake. It isn't that God has stopped being holy, God hasn't changed a bit. He is the same today as he was yesterday, as he is from eternity. It is rather that Jesus has opened a new and living path through the curtain going right up to God. in the Holy of Holies, right into His presence. It's only when we remind ourselves of God's holiness that we can fully appreciate the significance of what Jesus has. has achieved. These two must be conversation partners. That conversation in 18 through 24 must go together with do not refuse him who speaks. They must always be together as a Christian. Now that's a complex thing to do. It requires a great deal of maturity as a Christian to hold those things together. It's like keeping oil and vinegar in the same jar Things that want to pull apart in us, I think, because of our presumption. Only when we remind ourselves of God's holiness do we fully appreciate this, though. It is noticeable, in fact, if you were to look through the history of Christianity, that where thinkers have spoken of God without stressing his all-consuming holiness, the meaning of the cross is at least downgraded. And there is apathy in the congregation. And so that's why I believe that the juxtaposition is remarkable between the first point and the second. That the normal Christian life The normal Christian life is one of full access to God, and the normal Christian life is not refusing to hear Him who speaks. The two have got to go together. And we can talk about that more. But let's now move naturally into the final point this morning. For if we have access to God, if we are pre permitted re-entry to Eden Let me put it that way, re-entry into Eden, and God is still the same holy God, then quite naturally we would expect at the end of this passage that the normal Christian life is a life of serving God. It is a life that is pleasing to God. The three points are really just transitioning quite naturally into each other. And that really is the plot line of the Bible that the normal Christian life is a life of serving God. It's what every everything is moving back to. It's moving to a re-entry into Eden, not so that you can remain disgusting going back into Eden. It's so that you would be cleansed, that you would be atoned for, and then sanctified, that you would be restored as a human being according to God's design. It's the whole plot. How will here's the question. How will humanity be restored to their proper place before God? How will you be restored to your proper place before God? And what is your proper place? It's as a servant. That's what this is saying. And it's interesting the way that he puts it here. Take a look at verse 28. It's loaded. He says, therefore, since we are receiving a kingdom which cannot be shaken, that's motivation by the way, you're a part of something that can't be shaken. Let us have grace by which we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear, for our God is a consuming fire. This really interesting language based on this whole context. The word serve is actually you sometimes translated worship. Which explains the verse 29's description of God as a consuming fire. You can think about God as a consuming fire on top of Mount Sinai. That's fine. But Mount Sinai actually becomes portable in the tabernacle. and then stationary in the temple. And so it's all really connected. The Mount Sinai, I'm sorry, I just lost my Place. The consuming fire should remind you, therefore, of the tabernacle and the mountain of a worship service. They served If you think then of Nadab and Abihu being consumed by his fire, they served God as priests, but they did not serve God as God told them to serve, and therefore God consumed them both with fire In other words, to put it in context, they were shaken and nothing remained. And he's telling us Now interestingly, Nadab and Abahu were part of a worship. service. And so many early thinkers, when looking at this passage, would restrict this passage to a worship service. And they would say That the result of the letter of Hebrews is for you to realize that you must worship heartily on the Lord's day, which is definitely the case. I don't know that we would debate that. But I think that service to the Lord is at least that, but it is also much more. We should certainly worship God on the Lord's Day as God instructs. However, the context is not so restrictive. Do me a favor and take a look at Hebrews chapter 13. And look at verses 15 through 16 because it answers the question for us. We don't really have to debate about this. What does service look like? That's the question I'm asking right now. No. Therefore, by him let us continually offer the sacrifice of praise to God, that is the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to his name. I can't think of if that's not done on the Lord's day, then what is But and it's the same word there, speaking of the service to God, the sacrifice. But notice how it continues, and it moves out from the Lord's Day into Monday through Saturday But also do not forget to do good and to share. And then he uses the same worship language again. For with such sacrifices, God is well pleased. He has moved and he has made through Jesus Christ your whole life sacred, whether it be Lord's Day or other day. He's really repeating what he said in Romans chapter twelve, the first couple verses. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, wholly, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Saying the exact same thing. And interestingly, there's the same contrast in the book of Hebrews between the word that is spoken and that which is given and the world, and we are to not be conformed to the world, but to listen to him who speaks And he who speaks says, obey my commands, and we are therefore to offer up our whole bodies, whether Lord's day or any day, as a sacrifice of praise and of as service. And I can't think of anything more fitting for the end of the Sermon for Hebrews That everything would lead to really what is quoted or what is spoken in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 10. And if you would like to turn there with me. Ephesians chapter two, verse ten shows you again the end for which it's all done. For we are his workmanship. I'll start actually before that. For by grace you have been saved, verse 8, through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast. For we are his workmanship. We're his construction project created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. The consummation and the climax of our story and being united to Christ is for us to become humans before God again, re-entry in into heaven, which means that we are pouring forth good works of service and praise, that we have all become priests, and that every action, every movement of our lips An impulse of our hearts and every intention is being conformed into the image of Son, that our whole lives would be a smoke of incense going up into the nostrils of our God, and it would be fully pleasing to him. And it is only through Jesus Christ that that can be done. It can't be done through Mount Sinai, it can't be done through Moses, it can't be done Through those things that people mistakenly took as the substance when they were just the shadow, if you remember him talking about that in Hebrews. It's the whole point that Christ is better if you look on the front of your bullet. Christ is better than Moses. Christ is better than the angels. Christ is better than Aaron. Christ is better than the tabernacle. That he is the true tabernacle, the living tabernacle, the living and dwelling with us as God. And so it's quite fitting that the normal Christian life would consummate in this. The normal Christian life is access to God. The normal Christian life is not refusing the God who speaks, and those two have got to go together, Christian, or you will struggle with presumption. The normal Christian life is service to God. It's the whole reason why you've been pulled out of the world. This last point, service to God, leads right into chapter 13, and I want to close by saying a few words on that chapter. I had the option to go through this chapter, but I've decided not to. There's one extended portion in this that I've already preached on last Good Friday. Which has to do with the altar, Jesus going outside the camp, and so you can listen to that sermon. Otherwise, there's 20 different moral exhortations, and I don't want to do that. that. So I do want to cover a couple things though so that you can read this on your own and continue studying it. And I'm sure, well I hope by God's grace I'll preach this book again. So the whole point, as I said in the last point of service to God, the whole point is re-entry to humanity, or re-entry to Eden, where humanity is serving God again. The story has reached its climax and its denouement. Now here's chapter 13. All chapter 13 is doing is listing some areas in the Christian life. Where re-entry to Eden while still on earth will be exceptionally difficult for you as you continue on your pilgrimage. This the sermon series ends, but you're just gonna be in the wanderness. You're gonna be in the wil the wanderness. You're gonna that's a great I coined that. You're gonna be in the wilderness even after the sermon is over. And so there's even more of a forecast in chapter 13 of what can I expect to be the most difficult things that I'll face. He's already gone over some of that. But he's going to give you a few other things here, and and boy, did he hit the nail on the head because the first thing he mentions in chapter three is that we have got to let brotherly love continue. And I can't tell you of a more difficult thing to do. You know how difficult it is to live with other Christians? You know how nasty Y'all can be. You know how nasty I can be? And yet we gotta keep loving each other until Jesus returns or we die. Through thick and thin, hand in hand, we've got to travel through the wilderness together and not be broken apart in divisions. This includes not only those who have full membership within this community, but our children. Our families must remain intact, our marriages. We've got to fight To love each other. It's what it means to enter back into Eden. God is the example of holiness, and tell me that He does not fight For his love. And you also therefore must love. And love is this: that you would give up your life. And that's true friendship That you'd be willing to die for each other. That you'd be willing to kill your own desires that another person would flourish. That's chapter 13. That's the rest of our wilderness journey, and it's going to be really hard. Make no mistake. It'll be the hardest thing you've ever done. The second hardest thing he mentions is that you have to say no to worldliness. He mentions that in verse 4 where he says that marriage is honorable among all, and the bed undefiled, but fornicators and adulterers God will judge. You can think of Esau there and giving up your birthright and turning on Christ for the alternative of being able to have the pleasures of sin now. Make no mistake, sin is pleasure. Been there. Still there. But we must turn our back and say no to worldliness despite the strong lusts. And that'll be one of the hardest things you have to do in your life And it will coincide with how you love your family and how you love your church. And then there's another thing that's very difficult here. You wouldn't expect him to say this, he's focused on things we just generally admit, don't give in to worldliness, love. But what about this one? Verse 7. You need to remember those who rule over you Who have spoken the Word of God to you. Follow their faith, considering the outcome of their conduct. And then he repeats it in verse 17. Obey those who rule over you and be submissive, for they watch out for you. And those of you who do rule over, those of you who are who are officers in Christ's kingdom, let you do so with much joy and not with grief, for that would be unprofitable for you. And that's going to be really difficult to submit to the government of the church is the way that we put it in our membership bowels, and that's going to be really hard for you and the rest of your journey. And it'll be hard for officers to offer an example to the Flock. But it's what we have to be committed to, according to chapter 13. It's what it means to have re-entry into Eden. The nice thing is as we turn back into the pages and look retro prospectively at Hebrews, he has equipped us for everything that is to come. A forecast is that which is yet to come. And so he's given us the forecast and he's equipped us for To meet each of those things, whether it be worldliness or as an alternative to Jesus Christ, or whether it be the submission to the government of the church, or Or whether it be brotherly love, we know that this is going to be difficult. It's going to be like a race that we've got to endure. But we know that we can fix our eyes on Jesus because That's got to be a part of our normal Christian life. We've got to look to him for aid and assistance. We know that we were going to meet adversity and shame and Persecution. We know that all of those things are a part of our future, but in the midst of that, it is God's chastisement and fulfilling his disciplinary purpose that we would grow more into creatures that look like we belong in Eden. In the new heavens and the new earth, and so we know it's worth it. So we can keep putting one foot in front of the other, but not just for a long distance in a straight path, neither turning to the left or to the right We know that our reentry into Eden to walk with our holy God is only possible because of the holiness of our Jesus Christ, Him who was the pioneer who went before us and calls us home to the finish line. He's down there going, come on, we can do this And when we look in his eyes and we see what he has done, and how he has spread his arms and the holes that are a part of his body, because of the love that he has given to his brethren, of whom he's not ashamed to call any of us. We can, during the rest of this pilgrimage, no matter what happens, we can have thankfulness in our hearts, as it says at the end of chapter 12. That we would serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear or thankfulness, because our God is holy. Brothers and sisters, this is the letter or the sermon to the Hebrews, and I I hope that you've benefited from it. When you walk away, you think of thirteen chapters, you say, Well Well, how am I supposed to remember all this? I would like to give you something that I think is profound. It's been profound in my own life. I want to give you four verses that I believe capture the entire letter. And it's from a gospel. And part of it is from the mouth of a thief. And the other part is from the mouth of our Lord Jesus Christ. And I would love it as as as you continue throughout your Christian life to read this sermon to the Hebrews that you would compare it with these gospel verses from Luke chapter 23 verses 39 through 45. And I hope that you can hear a summary or in seed form the entire letter to Hebrews. Let me read this to you and then we'll close. Then one of the criminals who were hanged blasphemed him, saying, if you are the Christ, save yourself and us. But the other, answering, rebuked him, saying, Do you not even fear God, seeing you are under the same condemnation? And we indeed justly, for we receive the due reward of our deeds. But this man has done nothing wrong. Then he said to Jesus, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom And Jesus said to him, Assuredly, I say to you, today you will be with me in paradise. Let's pray. Lord Christ, this is in fact what we're looking forward to. We know that the spirits of just men made perfect, as this thief, through your grace, Lord, that they now are Paradise with you, having been completely made holy, the twinkling of an eye. Lord, we look forward to our the consummation of our holiness and the renewal of their bodies and our bodies and the general resurrection. Resurrection. Lord Jesus Christ, we can say nothing but two main things we pray to you. We beg you. To hold us up as we seek to continue this difficult race that you set before us. We ask that we would never be ashamed of you. And number two, we ask that you would come quickly. We pray these things in your name. Amen.