But I do ask that you please stand for the reading of God's Word. We're turning to Deuteronomy chapter twenty-nine. I'll be reading this morning verses fourteen through twenty eight. I make this covenant and this oath not with you alone, but with him who stands here with us today before the Lord our God, as well as with him who is not here with us today. For you know that we dwelt in the land of Egypt and that we came through the nations which you passed by. And you saw their abominations and their idols, which were among them, wood and stone and silver and gold, so that there may not be among you man or woman or family or tribe. whose heart turns away to day from the Lord our God, to go and serve the gods of these nations, and that there may not be among you a root bearing bitterness or wormwood And, so that it may not happen when you y when he hears the words of this curse, that he blesses himself in his heart, saying, I shall have peace, even though I follow the dictates of my own heart, as though the drunkard could be included with the sober The Lord will not spare him, for then the anger of the Lord and his jealousy would burn against that man, and every curse that is written in this book would settle on him And the Lord would blot out his name from under heaven. And the Lord would separate him from all the tribes of Israel for adversity, according to all the curses of the covenant that are written in this book of the law. So that the coming generation of your children who rise up after you, and the foreigner who comes from a far land, would say, When they see the plagues of that land and the sicknesses which the Lord has laid on it, The whole land is brimstone, salt, and burning. It is not sown, nor does it bare, nor does any grass grow there, like the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboyam Which the Lord overthrew in his anger and his wrath. All nations would say, Why has the Lord done so to this land? What does the heat of this great anger mean? Then people would say, because they have forsaken the covenant of the Lord God of their fathers, which he made with them when he brought them out of the land of Egypt. For they went and served other gods and worshipped them, gods that they did not know, and that they had not given to them. Then the anger of the Lord was aroused against this land, to bring on in every curse that is written in this book Book, and the Lord uprooted them from their land in anger, in wrath, and in great indignation, and cast them to another land as it is this day. Lord God, as we have already been contemplating throughout the service, here are yet another set of warnings. Attached to your covenant of grace. We thank you, Lord Jesus Christ, for taking and becoming the curse for us. We ask that you, as our King, would teach us through your Spirit this morning. And we ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Well, I think you should be able to answer this next question because of the obvious motif running through the service today. Do you know what we do when things are important? We give warnings. Life, for example, is important, your life. And so if a road is slippery when it is wet, the State Highway Administration will put up a sign warning people of the danger There are certain places in Philadelphia or in Pennsylvania that seems like the bridges freeze first, and people will warn you of such a thing. Because your life is important. And there are also warnings from God. For example, not just what we've seen here within this passage, and We know how Deuteronomy is structured as a chiasm, and so we've seen warnings before within this book as we're coming to the end of it. There are also warnings continuing after the advent of Christ Himself. For example, in the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus warns people that if they don't accept his words, then they will be like a house without a firm foundation, swept away by the storm, devastated. We just studied that this morning, in fact. What are some warnings that you have given people in your life? You could tell me afterwards, so long as it's not true. Well, we meet with warnings here. Warnings are all over our lives, and they're all over this passage. God's people are by grace chosen by God. We've seen that over and over again in Deuteronomy. He chooses them to bring about order and justice in this world instead of chaos and evil. And that, my friends. Christian, brothers and sisters, that is a very serious vocation. To be the foot that will crush the head of the serpent is indeed quite important. And so, as you would expect with important things, so too warnings come along with this. And that's what we have here within this passage. It's a continuation of fighting off the chaos, chaos, and crushing the head of the serpent. Really, what I want us to see this morning From 14 through 28 are two main warnings. And so this the uh if you wanted to outline the sermon, it's really simple for you today. Warning one and warning two There you go. Um really fancy. Warning one and warning two in verses fourteen through twenty-eight. So let's take a look at the first warning together. Take a look at look at your scriptures. with me. I'm going to spend some time now in verses 16 through 19. 14 is a bit of a transition and 15, and I preached on those last week. You're welcome to review that sermon. But we come to this parenthetical statement. For you know that we dwelt in the land of Egypt and that we came through the nations which you passed by, and you saw their abominations and their idols which were among them, wood and stone, and silver and gold. What Moses is doing here in verse 16 is he is rehearsing the Exodus But notice what he does, and it is consistent with the verses just prior, fourteen and fifteen. He narrows the whole journey down. So you know that he wants you to receive a very particular message and significance from his words, and he narrows that journey down to what they saw. And he gives the list of what they saw in verse 17. They saw idols made of stone, they saw idols made of silver, they saw idols made of gold. Does everybody know what he wants to talk about? Idols And now in verses 18 through 19, Moses will begin to tell you why idols are so important to talk about, what they reveal about us, the dangers that enter into our lives. And so he starts off in verse 18, if you take a look with me there, pronouncing that there is a real danger of our hearts, their hearts, the heart of humanity. humans and even Christians, of their hearts turning away from their God, even their God of the Exodus or the New Exodus, and serving instead idols and the gods of those nations. You've heard the quote before from John Calvin. It's heard so much it's almost unimpressive these days, but that your heart is an idle factor. And there is a real danger of that. It may begin with one person you see there in the verse, but whole families and tribes will be affected. That's how it works. Sin is never satisfied with a single person. It must grow. In fact, in verse 18, he expounds on this danger with the image, if you notice, and And perhaps maybe this image is not familiar to you, but it says a root bearing bitterness or wormwood. You know, Jeremiah's image that he gave of the cobalt with the extra something This morning is a good one for this. Extra neutron, I guess. I'll talk to him later about that. But if you if you'd like, you could just think of this as a kind of virus. Or poison. I'm going to choose virus because I've been watching pandemic on Netflix. And viruses are are on the forefront of my mind. Every time I drive by a goose or a duck these days, I don't think beautiful wildlife, I think, flu carrier. I'm gonna have to stop watching this show. But we could think of this as like a virus that would start with one person and spread throughout the whole community or like leaven, leavening the whole bread. As I mentioned in the Netflix show pandemic, it documents the way that nations are protecting their people from deadly viral outbreaks. And it is instructive for us as we understand the nature of sin. And particularly idolatry. Pandemics begin in animals, I'm not sure if you knew that, and spread to humans. And so we have people in Lebanon testing bats. We have people in Vietnam testing chickens. We have people in Louisiana testing ducks that migrate from Canada to Argentina. And all of this testing is to try to get ahead of the game every season. If they can detect the animal, then they would know what is coming for human beings. And if they don't catch it, it can be quite bad. The death rate can be enormous. For example, did you know that in 1918 there was a flu called the Spanish flu? Have you heard of this? An estimated 5% of the world's population died. That is an estimated 50 to 100 million people from the Flu. And that is the point here of Deuteronomy. The emotional reaction that I'm getting, ooh, is exactly the remote emotional reaction that should be happening here, which is why I gave that illustration. It is the point here in Deuteronomy. You have got to beware. You must understand what you're dealing with You must be aware of the danger of the moral infection that spreads. Even in one community member starts serving another God and their example, but it is applicable to all sins. And thus, what we see is God giving them a warning. That's the point of this. It falls outside of the main covenant document itself, and he is now giving motivations and warnings that they would keep that covenant of grace. Verse 19 continues giving us another warning of this section. Let me read that for you. And so it may not happen, you'll notice this, and so, and so, and so, and so it may not happen when he hears the words of this curse that he blesses himself in his heart, saying, I shall have peace. Even though I follow the dictates of my own heart. There's a little bit of sarcasm in there, perhaps, as though the drunkard could be included with the sober. And here's this next warning as to what sin can do to you. I'm sure you've heard sin is deceitful. You heard it last week from the pulpit when Elder Joe was up here. And here is a clear picture of it and what it can do. You actually could have a terrible flu that if other people are infected could kill them, and you could say I don't have the flu. That's the kind of thing that we have here. The language that he places, he says, I shall have peace even though I follow the dictates of my heart. Oh, okay. Right. But you know that we can get in that place because of the deceitfulness of sin. It inspired you know what sin inspires? Denial. So that it can hang on. And so, therefore, God warns us of this. As humans, we have a real skill. We are experts. In searing the conscience so that we are no longer worried about things. We are experts in rationalizing our disloyalty. Ask your parents when you first rationalized your sin. I bet you it was some of your first words. And you'll see that we are born for this. And so we're warned. And the warnings show us, therefore, not only in that example in verse 19, but in the other ones, that we have an origin to our problem, and that our hearts are prone to wander. We long to serve others besides God, the true God. And then it spreads like a virus amongst us. It is like wormwood or poison. And that it hardens the heart so that we live in denial. Now, those three things are deadly. And so therefore, he gives us a warning as we seek to live in covenant with God, this covenant of grace. Warnings are one of the God's remedies actually to avoid these dangers. That's why He gives them. But the other warning is one of the consequences of judgment, which is a further motivation, which moves us us into warning number two. Warning number two starts in verses 20 and goes down into 28. And so please follow along with me. The main idea is really stated in verse 20 for an individual fashion. And then in verse 23, it's given for how it will affect the whole community, and even those who are not God's people In verse 20, the consequences fall on the individual. And there's this sharp expression that you see here, starting off this new paragraph: the Lord would not spare him. Now those are devastating words that we must heed. Those are difficult words. The Lord will not spare him. The Lord can ple you can you can plead in this moment here at this time You can plead, you can hide, you can fight, you can blame shift, but in the end there is no escape unless he were to have mercy, which is the next chapter of Deuteronomy, I'll say. Every curse at this point, for the motivation through warnings at this time in the book, will settle on that person. And then verse 23 moves from the individual to the community represented by their land, and it should bring up visions of when we went through some of the details of what would happen if they violated the covenant. And how that made you cringe under the horror of it, of what a refined woman would be forced to do when she has to eat her own placenta. Here it's put in geographical terms. The once green valley, which imitated the Garden of Eden, will become a burnt wasteland like Sodom and Gomorrah. It'll be a picture of lost aspirations and hope. You will watch the land decay and you will say, that wasn't worth it. The judgment will be so hot, it says in verse 24, that when people walk by, this is where we get the idea of a by-word amongst the people, when they walk by, they will say, What happened? What happened to these people? What does the heat of this great anger mean? And the message will go out that it was because they chose to turn their hearts from the only God Yahweh to other gods. And that God's people turned their hearts away from him, and that those are the consequences in the covenant. And the Lord, therefore, would not only give warnings to his people, but when he would discipline his people, other people would learn. That God is a consuming fire, and they would learn about the greatness of Yahweh. You know, we can see these kinds of things worked out, this that's even after the advent of Christ, I'd ask if you could turn to Acts chapter 13 to see a more recent example of the same kinds of working. In Acts chapter 13, verses 8 through 12, we have Paul taking that message that we recited together. He was the one called as a vocation to bring the message of grace to the Gentiles. Well, there was one sorcerer who sought to get in his way. And in Acts chapter 13, he contradicted Paul, and you can follow along with me there. starting in verse 8, I believe. But Elimus, you see that, the sorcerer, for so his name is translated, he withstood them. Seeking to turn the proconsul away from the faith, Paul was pleading with them to understand salvation through Christ And then Saul, who also is called Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, looked intently at the sorcerer, and he said, Oh, fool of all deceit and all fraud, you son of the devil! You enemy of all righteousness, will you not cease perverting the straight ways of the Lord? And now, indeed, the hand of the Lord is upon you, and you shall be blind, not seeing the sun for a time. And immediately a dark mist fell on him, and he went around seeking someone to lead him by the hand. And now notice the response. to these kinds of curses that comes across come up come upon the one man who denies the words of God through the Son, Christ. And then the Proconsul believed When he saw what had been done, so and being astonished at the teaching of the law Lord. Both came together. The sorcerer, not heeding the warnings And receiving the curse became an example, just as Israel became an example here for those passing by, that they would not make the same mistake But they would embrace the grace of Paul's message about Christ and his gathering. Now that's from Acts chapter 13. They were astonished at the Teaching of the Lord. The proconsul therefore learned from the consequences which befell Elimas, and they repented. And you know, I've got to ask the question. I wonder if there are people around you that are like that sorcerer. I wonder if there is a mother or a brother or a sister or a cousin. They could be very close to you, but they are like that sorcerer. And they have turned obviously from the Lord. And I wonder what their life looks like right now. Sometimes they Things can go on looking quite well for a time, but it will devolve into chaos. And I and if it has, if the life if their life has become empty and scorched like a colorless landscape, I wonder if you're learning from their life. That you should not depart from the Lord. That what Jesus has communicated to you are the words of God, and you should hang on. I pray that you would be those who would heed even this section. Set of warnings, which are brought out with this idea of the geography and what would happen to the land. And thus we have two warnings from Deuteronomy. Like the warnings of our day, we have uh signs all over the place. This road is slippery, one wet. Or I saw one recently that said, Beware of falling rocks, that did not comfort me, even though there was a sign there And so too there are warnings from God here, which we are to be comforted by, and because it is an aspect of his love. They are a grace to the church to be sober and to be on guard, especially for today. We learn about how the danger begins, that our hearts are prone to wander. We learn that the danger spreads like a virus, infecting whole communities. We learn that we can be in denial. And so we must have self-examination and listen to the admonition of the community. And we need warnings, therefore. And you know what warnings are for those who are in denial? If equipped by the Spirit, cold splashes of water to the face that you can see reality again. And we learn that the Lord does not ignore it when our hearts turn away from Him. He brings all forms of judgment to some and discipline even to his people. We and others should use these judgments and these warnings to wake And if you speak to me personally, I could give you a lot of examples in my own life that could serve as warnings. We learn After you take all of this list, this enumeration of all the things we learned from those two warnings, over and above them all, there is a main truth. And it is born out of our understanding that warnings come along with those things that are serious and those things that are important. We learn over and above all of these lessons that God takes his covenant of grace. Very seriously. And do not tell me that there are not warnings under the administration of Jesus Christ. Christ, because he himself gives warnings to his people. He stands amongst the lampstands. Even today, his churches sending out warnings as a grace to you, not to drive you into the dirt so that you would never lift your head, but so that you'd be able to snap to it and see the reality of his grace again. That's the thing with chaos. When chaos begins, it it becomes frantic and You can't see everything that's happening. You start to become disoriented and dizzied, and you don't know your left hand from your right hand. And Christ is here to reorient you from the chaos. And he does so first by giving you a warning. It's where it begins And he does so through his word, and he does so even in the way that he conducts your life. I wonder who out there has been receiving Jeremiah said it during the confession time. Lord, bring to mind the warnings you've given us over the past And when he said that, I closed my eyes and went into confession of sin, and I could see throughout different moments in my life this past week little warning signs that I totally ignored And then I, you know what? By God's grace, I saw some warning signs that I obeyed. And those are the areas of my life that are the most fruitful right now. Because Christ knows what He's doing. He knows how to conduct your life. He created you. He saw you in the womb. Oh, that we would heed him. I mean, do you see Christ as just always disappointed in you and He just wants to make you feel bad about yourself all the time? Do you not know that He loves you? And that's why He warns you? Whether you're a father or not, don't you get the analogy that a good father warns their children? Hey Jack, don't dive off the diving board and go too far in a horizontal direction because I don't want you to break your neck Oh, you're so mean. Dad, you never let me have any fun. That could be the response, but it is from a loving, fatherly heart that I say such things. And I say it even now, Jack, wherever you are, be careful diving. And that's the way that Christ works with us. If you have misconceptions of what it means for him to warn you, I would encourage you to go back to the scriptures and look who Jesus Christ really is. Because there are people in your life that can misrepresent him. You ever met anybody that misrepresents somebody? Well, it happens all the time with Christ. Look at the way that Christ is with the women. Look at the way Christ is with the diseased. Look at the way Christ is with the little children. And receive warnings from Him, not from the fiction that you've created inside of your mind. And then you, I bet you would be more willing to receive them because you see them coming out of love. I mean, is there any doubt That Jesus Christ, the one who is portrayed as having been crucified, is there any doubt that he loves us? And is not his crucifixion himself a warning again? Against the danger of sin and what it costs and how much God hates it, and how much more He wants for you on the other side of the resurrection I keep saying the same thing every Sunday. You need to remember whose you are, and that He knows how to take care of you. We are God's people, and He is our God. Let us receive His gracious warnings. Now, I hope you noticed in the bulletin that we included a rather odd Confessing Christ reading this morning. It is because I want to apply the sermon beyond what I have just done to the office of elder. And I'd ask if the deacons and the elders could come up here now for the installation of Mark Donovan as we continue with the sermon. You can come right over here to the right. I want us to think about what we just heard from this covenant of grace In relationship to the office. It says in the bulletin, and you're welcome to follow along with me It says in the bulletin, for I have not shunned to declare to you the whole counsel of God. And then did you notice that it became a little awkward to confess because he was specifically speaking to the elders? Therefore, take heed to yourselves and to all the flock among you, which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to shepherd the Church of God which he purchased with his own blood. For I know this. That after my departure, savage wolves would come in. You guys need to come closer. This is all about you. About what Christ has to say to you. Hear these words from the apostle, all of you, for I know that after my departure, savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock. Warning one. Also, from even among yourselves, people will rise up and they will speak perverse things and they will seek to draw away Jesus' disciples after themselves. Warning number two. Therefore, watch and remember that for three years I did not cease to warn. everyone, night and day, with tears. Wolves shall arise from without, and wolves shall arise from within And so what we see here as an extension of the sermon, even within this installation, and making sense of the officers, at least in one aspect. The Lord gives us much grace, including these officers. The warnings are so great, the dangers are so great that men like you are dedicated to watching out over the flock. Otherwise, the flock goes out into the pasture by itself, there's no one there with the shepherd's crook, there's no one there to chase anybody off, there's no one there to be able to protect, and the wolves just have to have a nice big feast. That's the image that is given to us. That's what we're invited to think about. And therefore it is the duty of the deacons And as a kind of covenant renewal, I call upon you. Look back over 2019 and think now of 2020 and remember that you were called by Christ Himself through the election of His people. To minister to those who are in need. Do you know what happens if you're in need and no one ministers to you? Do you have any idea what kind of dangers you undergo in losing Hope in the kingdom and hope in God to the sick, to the friendless, and to any who may be in distress. Now I know that there's other aspects to your calling But I'm going to just highlight those. And that as we turn to the office of elder, it belongs to those in the office of elder. And since you're being installed today, I have a longer list for you. But I want you and I want everyone here to see it in context of the covenant of grace as revealed to us in an earlier administration. It belongs to those in the office of elder to watch diligently over the flock committed to their charge, that no corruption of doctrine or of morals would enter into the community. And because we take this passage seriously, it's because it acts like a virus. You must therefore exercise government and discipline. You must take oversight not only of the spiritual interests of this particular church, but also the church generally when you're called to do so. And you know exactly what I mean. You should visit people at their homes, especially when they are sick. It's when the devil can get a foothold. You should instruct the ignorant, comfort the mourner, nourish and guard the children of the church, and that you should set a worthy example to the flock entrusted to your care by your zeal. to evangelize the unconverted, that you would make disciples, and that you would demonstrate hospitality. All those duties which private Christians are bound to discharge, everything that I listed there is also applied to you within the scriptures. That you are, in fact, if I could summarize it for you, you are your brother and your sister's teacher. All of those duties which private Christians are bound to discharge by the law of love are especially incumbent upon you by divine vocation. Brothers, this is literally your calling. If you want to know what you're supposed to do with your life, I just read you the list. And these are to be discharged as official duties. That you are to pray with and for the people, that you are to be careful and diligent in seeking the fruit of the preached word. even among the flock that he's given to you. Now that fits quite well with what we see here in this earlier administration of the covenant of grace. Let me continue now, Mark, as we move towards your installation. This is uh Mark, this is not your first installation Because you have already been ordained as a ruling elder before. Mark served with us for six years, and then he took a one-year sabbatical and uh did not feel sorry for him because he went to New Zealand for a couple of those months. But he's learned a lot, and the Lord has continued to be with him, and he was re-elected. You nominated him. We uh sought out his credentials and placed him before you as eligible and you voted for him and elected him last week. And so the day has arrived. And you are now convened in the presence of the sessions, the session being convened in the presence of the congregation. I have these vows to to ask you. Mark Donovan, do you believe the scriptures of the Old and New Testaments as originally given to be the inerrant word of God, the only infallible rule of faith? And practice. Amen. Make sure you speak up so they can all hear you. Oh, I do. Okay. Do you sincerely receive and adopt the confession of faith and the catechisms of this church as containing the system of doctrine taught in the Holy Scriptures. And do you further promise that if at any time you find yourself out of accord with any of the fundamentals of the Of this system of doctrine, you will, on your own initiative, make known to your session the change which has taken place in your views since the assumption of this ordination vow. Do you approve of the form of government and discipline of the Presbyterian Church in America in conformity with the general principles of biblical polity? Do you accept the office of ruling elder in this church? And do you promise faithfully to perform all of the duties thereof, and to endeavor by the grace of God to adorn the profession of the gospel in your life, and to set a worthy example before the church of which God has made you. An officer if you do, say, by God's grace I do. By God's grace I do. Do you promise subjection to your brethren in the Lord? I do. Do you promise to strive for the purity, peace, unity, and edification of the church? Amen. I'd ask now if you are a member of Severn Run, if you could please stand. And if you're getting ready to become a member, you're welcome to take this vow also. Do you, the members of this church Acknowledge and receive this brother as a reinstalled ruling elder. And do you promise to yield to him all that honor? All of that encouragement and all of that obedience in the Lord to which his office, according to the Word of God and the constitution of this church, entitles him. Amen. You may be seated. Let us pray over our brother. Lord God, I ask you to watch over Mark Donovan The whole Donovan household. You protect him. You send your angels to surround him. That you use him Him in mighty ways, to shepherd your flock, to warn all of us of danger, and to Father in heaven, the new life of faithfulness that you give to your children is evident in this man and his family. We beg you that you will protect him, guide him, and train him And that we will follow his example as he follows you in Christ's name. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, I pray that you would protect uh this elder and all of your officers and your congregation from the work Of the evil one. Lord, the way that He works, we can have viruses and not even know it. So I pray, Lord, that as we continue To seek to glorify your name in this particular location and in this particular culture, that you would please make us aware when we are infected. I pray that you would give Mark and the officers a particularly apt wisdom in that regard. And I pray that as you reveal these things Especially to him, that you would also give him a heart that is full of love, that he would never seek to cure the flu through A legalistic or literalistic endeavor, but that he would apply wisdom. I pray, Lord, that you would give him knowledge of your whole canon I pray, Lord, that you yourself, as the only mediator between God and man, as we even lay our hands upon him today That you would be his teacher through your spirit. And that as we seek to make sense of his teaching, the only way we could make sense of it is to say he is taught by God Himself. Lord, this is what we need. Our seminaries and universities are bankrupt if you are not the teacher. Our churches are bankrupt if you are not the teacher. And those who are to oversee and s and look out for the flock are bankrupts and useless blinds guides leading the blind. And teaching us wisdom. Lord, for the sake of the glory of your name, for the sake of the purity and the peace of your church, which glorifies your name And for the reclamation of your sinner, upon which a thousand angels glorify your name, we ask all these things in the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. Don't go anywhere yet. I now pronounce and declare that Mark Donovan has been regularly elected. was formerly ordained and is now reinstalled a ruling elder in this church, agreeable to the Word of God and according to the Constitution of the Presbyterian Presbyterian Church in America, and that as such he is entitled to all encouragement, to all honor, and to all obedience in the Lord. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. This is just a picture of one part of the Christ, the grace of Jesus Christ. He ordains and he installs officers to oversee you because of the many dangers. It is one way in which you shall persevere in your faith, and not just persevere, but to thrive. Our God is so good to us, and his grace is so vast that I guarantee this: if the whole realm of nature were yours, it would be a present still too small for him. Let's stand and express the same sentiment with our final song in Christ alone