2 Timothy 2, 14-19. Remind them of these things, charging them before the Lord not to strive about words to no profit, to the ruin of the hearers. Be diligent to present yourself approved to God, a worker who does not need to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. But shun profane and idle babblings, for they will increase to more ungodliness. And their message will spread like cancer. Imeneus and Philetus are of this sort, who have strayed concerning the truth, saying that the resurrection is already past, and they overthrow the faith of some. Nevertheless, the solid foundation of God stands, having this sealed seal. The Lord knows those who are his, and let everyone who names the name of Christ depart from iniquity. Amen. Please pray with me. Oh Christ, you have inscriptated these words of your Apostle Paul for the benefit of your church, especially until you return. We ask, Lord Jesus Christ, that by your Holy Spirit that you would illuminate our minds and our hearts That you would work, in other words, through the preached word. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Last week our lesson from 2 Timothy was that God is not only faithful when he carries out his promises, but God is also faithful when he carries out his warnings. We said this because we were wrapping up the faithful saying in verses 11 through 13. And I hope that that passage was fruitful for you to meditate on this past week. I hope it remained in your heart and your conscience by way of the Holy Spirit. And I just wonder if you're already starting by the work of the Spirit in you to take Christ's warnings seriously. It's a good question for you to be asking this morning. Just go ahead and lodge it into your mind. Are you taking Christ's warnings seriously? You can keep thinking about that question as we go through this whole sermon. It's it's a good one. It really summarizes the work that we're going to do this morning. What I'd like to do is begin with just taking a closer look at this passage, fourteen through nineteen together. And then we'll see what use the Lord has of it this morning. So follow along with me, please. What I want to do is I want to start actually at the end of the passage and then work our way up towards the top. I think it'll be a little bit easier to understand what Paul is doing here. And so you can think of this passage as similar to building of a house. First, we're going to lay down the foundation in that final verse of 19. Then we're going to go ahead and put on the first flo floor first floor, and then we're going to cap the whole this is a rancher, not a second story. So we're going to cap the whole thing off with a roof. And you can just follow along with me in our observations as we We go through that. So beginning with the foundation then, down in verse number 19, did you notice in your scriptures that we have two quotations? Can I see a couple nods just to make sure our Bibles are doing the same thing? Yeah, so we've got some quotations there, and if you were to follow your cross-references, then what you would find is we have both of the quotations are from numbers The book of Numbers. And it is specifically dealing with the rebellion of Korah, which we we had a little segment of that within the bulletin a little bit earlier, and I said, please pay attention to this The Rebellion of Korah. Both of those, you could find them over lunch today if you wanted to keep talking about the rebellion of Korah. I'd encourage you to read all of Numbers chapter 16 But if you want to see where the quotations are explicitly taken from, it's going to be numbers 165 and numbers 1626. Now, I don't want to flip to numbers and read that whole chapter. I just want to tell you the basics of that story. Are there some people here who have already read The Rebellion of Korah? Is this new to you? Okay, very good. So I see some folks that have read the story before, and the basics of the rebellion of Korah is that Korah and his followers sought to usurp Moses and Aaron in their authority. I'm sure you saw that in the bulletin reading. The Korah claimed that Moses and Aaron unlawfully became leaders of the people. Korah has a famous saying that Moses has set him set himself up as prince above all the people. That was not meant to be a compliment to Moses. It's saying that he is grabbing at unlawful authority, and so Korah is questioning all of these things. And Korah, like all charismatic leaders, develops a following. And so he sought to displace both Moses and Aaron and to rearrange the authority structure. So what you end up seeing in the bulletin reading is that Moses calls on the Lord to judge between the two of them. Moses says in that bulletin reading from earlier If you die like everybody else dies, if you live and then you just die of old age, then I'm not who God said I am. This is Moses speaking. But if you're taken in some other astonishing way, then know who the Lord has set in this particular place. And so the story unfolds, and that's exactly what the Lord does. I'd encourage you to read that whole section. He caused the earth to collapse, swallowing Korah and all his family, and then all those who were in company with Korah or standing for the same cause Fire came out and burned them all alive. The rest of the people of Israel, they survived the ordeal. Because they had departed, that's one of the quotes from our passage, as well as what is commanded from Moses in the book of Numbers, depart from these people, depart from iniquity. Because they did depart, they were not swallowed by the earthquake, and they were not burned alive. Now later in the story, this This is a very important part also. It's not just about who's in charge or who has God actually given, who has God actually authorized. That's not the only question. The answer to that question is Moses and Aaron then. The other question is: how ought we to know this? How ought the congregation to know who's really in charge? Well, God gives them in numbers signs and seals. In order to establish that, he already gave the sign or the seal for Moses, and he would continue to give another sign specifically for Aaron. Now the sign for both of them was the earthquake and being burnt alive. Well, those people who were burnt alive were holding sensors They're no longer there because they're dead. They're burnt alive. But the censors remain. They took the censors, hammered them out like blacksmiths, and located them within the tabernacle as a memorial. Of who God has authorized and what happens if you rebel or seek to subvert the authority structure that He has put into place. That's the first sign where the hammered out censors. But there's a second sign And I'm sure you all remember this story about Aaron's staff budding. Does everybody remember that? So there's all of these leaders in this story, they all have a staff They turned the staff over, and the Lord says, Who's ever who's staff that buds is the staff of the one I've given authorization over my people Well, none of the staffs bud, except for Aaron, who grows a ripe almond. And so there you see the furtherance. of the story and rebellion of Korah. And that is the foundation. That story, the signs, the seals, what happens depending on which group you're in, rebellion, usurpation, and subversion That story is being used as a foundation by the Apostle Paul for young Timothy and for us as a church today. to understand how we are to view particular situations within the church. Now, we've laid the foundation, so let's go ahead up and look at the first floor within the passage. We know that in verse 19 he quotes this numbers uh story so that we would be oriented and have the right lens. Now let's the question we want to ask is, knowing that Korah's story is guiding us, who in do we see Korah in this passage? Do we see rebellion and usurpation and subversion of authority that has been rightly given by God in the passage? And that's exactly what you see if you go up one to the first floor He says, after verse 16, we'll get to that in a minute, but shame pro but um shun profane and idle babblings, for they will increase to more ungodliness. And their message will spread like cancer. Hymenaeus and Philetus are of this sort who have strayed concerning the truth Saying that the resurrection is already passed, and they overthrow the faith of some. So here you have two characters that have taken the role of Korah and those who are in his rebellion. And they are even overthrowing the apostolic faith of some of the congregation by teaching about the resurrection in a way that is contrary to what Paul has preached. You see the connection. That's the second thing that I need you to see, so that you can see the story that Paul is telling here and how the make sense of these various parts. So they end up becoming an example. You can imagine yourself as young Timothy looking at this, and Timothy's already going to start drawing conclusions, saying, Oh, yeah, I see these guys in the community I see the kind of work that they're doing among the congregation, and I need to make sure what? I need to make sure what? Well, that's what we get when we go to the roof. So Paul gives Timothy specific instructions and directives on how he should be conducting himself as a man of God. Listen to these beginning in verse 14. Remind them of these things, charging them, this is going to be to Timothy and those who have been placed, those faithful men talked about earlier in the passage. Charging them before the Lord not to strive about words to no profit, to the ruin of the hearers. There's one thing that they're not supposed to do. They're not supposed to strive about words. Now Listen, this isn't a bunch of nerds at a cocktail party with a concordance in front of them talking about biblical definitions of words. Bill has given us a great definition of what's going on here. They are shooting arrows. The kind of work that they are doing In the word wrestling that's going on among these people are calling into question the preaching of Paul himself That's why it's to no profit. That's why it's useless. That's why it's connected with the story of Korah. This is a friendly debate. That's not what is going on here. That's not the case that is before you. And so Paul 1 and 14 charges them that they're not to be striving about words to no profit, just like them And then if you move to 15, he gives you the positive instead of the negative. Instead, Timothy, what are you supposed to be doing? And what are those faithful leaders supposed to be doing? You're to be diligent to present yourself approved To God, a worker who does not need to be ashamed, like the ones I just talked about. Well, how will I do that? I will rightly divide the word of truth. Now there's different ways to look at rightly dividing. You can see four or five different ways that people have sought to use that metaphor. But it really, if you get down to it, it's just it's just taking a straight course. I'm not twisting. I'm not moving the pieces around in an unhealthy to form a mosaic that Christ never intended to be the picture of his redemption. I'm just I'm on I'm on the straight course here. And the straight course we know from all of the teaching that has been given to us in 2 Timothy is that Timothy would not leave behind the sound words that the Apostle Paul has specifically given to him. So that's what it would mean. It would mean that in the same way that the Apostles have handled not just the New Testament letters, but all of the scriptures. In the same way that the Apostle Paul understands the Old Testament, so too would you rightly divide the word, like him, understanding the scriptures as he has understood the scriptures. So that's number fifteen. And then number sixteen, we go back to the negative, but shun profane and idle babblings, for they will increase to more ungodliness, and then you can begin to see that it is going to spread. What does it look like for something to spread and to look like cancer or like Bill brought out, gangrene? It looks like more and more people join the company of Korra because they have become convinced by the error. That's why the conversation just needs to stop. That's why the word wrestlings just need to stop, because what you're doing is polluting the entire community. Turning them against the apostle. And you know what happens if you turn against God's man? Well, please read number 16. That is the passage that is before you. You can see the story, which is the foundation, and gives us the lens for how we are to understand the rest of the words. You can see the example of who Korah is in this case by Hymenaeus and Philetus, and then you can see the directives that are given to Timothy based upon this reality within this particular church. Now we can summarize all of this. I've said a lot of words. We can summarize all of this in our doctrine this morning. This is a little bit long, but that's okay. The church must build on the foundation of the apostles and prophets. Knowing that all those who rebel against God's authorized servants will be judged. Now, children, I don't expect you to be able to write all that down. You can see me afterwards But you could just write, we're to build on the foundation of the apostles. The church must build on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, knowing that all those who rebel against God's authorized servants will be judged. Build on the prop prophets and apostles, we will be judged. You could write those two things. That works, right? Okay. So that is our our summary of our teaching this morning. And I want to look at this under the foundation and the judgment. The foundation and the judgment. Has anybody here had the opportunity to do a new construction? Build your own home Anybody? It's becoming more and more rare, but okay, good. I see some. Very good, yeah. So by hand. Yeah. Yeah. Very good, yeah. So uh it uh differ there are different construction uh laws depending on where you are in the country or wherever you built. But in this area, for for example, if you were to start a new construction, you would dig deep into the earth And then you would, this is a summary, you would pour a concrete footer, and on that footer you will lay foundation blocks And this is an engineered system ensuring the security and stability of the home. Now, Jesus and Paul both use this kind of imagery in its ancient setting. I've just modernized it, but Jesus and Paul Use this imagery, this construction imagery, in order for you to better understand what's going on in discipleship and what it means to be a follower of Jesus Christ. They use the image of the foundation for you to understand what is required of you by Christ, for you to stay on the path all the way unto eternal life. Now, if you were to preach this, for example, in a local college, or just speak about this imagery In each other's homes, we may find that there's actually some cynicism and some doubt. Let me read to you, for example, Matthew 7. 24. Just let me know how this hits you. This is Jesus speaking, using the imagery in the context of the foundation, and he says, Therefore, whoever hears these sayings of mine and does them, I will liken him to a wise man who built his house on the rock. Now, in practical everyday life, what do you do with that passage? If you were to present it to your friends and to your family, what problems would they run into? The one that I see most often, even though we have this image of a foundation, is that people continually raise the question: well, whose foundation? And who do we know is right? Everyone out there who's charismatic and has umpteen PhDs tells us that they have the foundation. So which one am I supposed to listen to? That would be one example, for example, if I brought this up at my Crutchley Thanksgiving dinner Over at my aunt's house, just to the generalized family, they'd say, well, you know, who's to say what that who's to say whose interpretation is right of reality and of the Bible? I wonder if you run into some of those same things I wonder if you run on some of those same things with yourself. So we have an image of a foundation, but it seems to not do us any good because we wonder whose foundation are we supposed to be resting on? Most people feel therefore because they don't seem to have an answer, they feel insecure and unstable Everyone seems to have an opinion of who is but who is to know who we should believe, especially about important matters, and so we just set aside the whole idea of important matters and just have fun. It's really interesting to me, for example, when I was m well, I can start to say this now, much younger When I was younger, I would go to Barnes and Noble's children, there used to be real bookstores. It was a glorious earth. I would go to Barnes and Noble's or uh whatever the other stores were, and I could go and I could find a theology section. And if I were to go today and try to find it, it has been taken over by tarot cards and mysticism. It's very interesting to me that the human race does not seem to want to have to deal with these kinds of serious things. And they think there is no truth there. Everyone seems like they're unstable, and the whole age, even within ourselves, because we can't help but to be affected by the spirit of the age, seems to be running into the pilot problem. You know what the pilot problem is? Pilate says, Pilate said to him, what is truth? We all end up wrestling with that from John 18, 38. But not only does does pilot qu pilot's quote summarize the problem of our age, it lets us know the problem isn't new. And I guess that's obvious. But why else would Jesus and Paul teach on foundations and give the imagery of foundations and what you're supposed to set your life on, unless the society was struggling with what to build their life upon Now the question arises then whether then or now how can we be sure of who to hear Who is the authorized spokesman of reality? To whom should we listen? Who has the truth? Who knows how we should live? And this passage is der is um directly addressing that. In verse 15, if you take a look He speaks about the word of truth. There's this assumption underneath that Paul has a claim on reality and is authorized to be an interpreter for us of what God has said and what he's doing in the world. He puts it in terms of the word of truth. or the Bible. That's what he puts in that position. And you could even speak about this more personally. The Bible consists of many Authors who are authorized by God to speak on the most important subjects imaginable. And you could summarize it like some of our Dutch brethren, living to God by Christ. But that's what you have here before you in all of these scriptures. All of these different names that you end up seeing in these different characters are authorized by God to tell you about reality. That's the Christian answer. The question is: has God given us a way to tell that the Lord, the apostles like Paul, and the prophets are authorized spokesmen for God? I know they're in here, but how do we know some dingbat didn't just put this together? How do you know if you are with Korah or if you're with Moses, in other words? Moses was quite convinced of his, or Korah was quite convinced of his position. How do we know? We're still at the same question. How do we know what is the true foundation? Well, it's the same way from the story of Korah. There are many ways for this to be determined. All of it boils down to the Holy Spirit convincing you, but the Holy Spirit uses means. And one of the greatest means that he has used throughout the church to establish who has the authority to speak for God. And to represent reality and truth are those whom God has authenticated by his signs and his wonders. It's very important for you as a Christian to know. Ask yourself the question: whom has God authenticated with his signs and his wonders? Because that's how God thinks about this. When you look at the story of Korah, that's exactly what Moses is doing. He's saying, who's authenticated here? We'll find out. If you die like any other person, then I'm wrong. But if you get swallowed by an earthquake, then you are wrong. He's swallowed by an earthquake. You see the syllogism forming? This is a mosaic syllogism. Well, you could see this brought out explicitly too. I'd encourage you to write these things down, these passages that I'm getting ready to quote to you, besides the chorus story, because they're going to help you very much As we wrestle through living within our culture and figuring out who has the authority to tell us what's real and what to do. Number one Jesus of Nazareth was attested to us as the authority of God. It says in Acts chapter 2, verse 22: men of Israel, here's Peter, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested by God to you by miracles, wonders, and signs. which God did through him in your midst, as you yourselves also know. Do you see what he's doing there? Peter is pointing out how do we know that this Jesus of Nazareth is the one sent from God? Well, he was attested by God. How was he attested to you? How was he authenticated? Miracles, wonders, and signs. You can also in Acts chapter 5, verse 12, see that the apostles themselves were also also authenticated by God as our foundation. So now you have the cornerstone who is Jesus of Nazareth, and now we're going to see that it's the foundation of the Apostles. In Acts chapter 5, twelve it says, And through the hands of the Apostles many signs and wonders were done among the people. And they were all with one accord in Solomon's porch. The same quote that or same language that we see in Acts 2. 22 about Jesus and his authentication is then used about the apostles and their authentication. It is the reason why they were given the ability to bring people back from the dead and to heal them from different things. It was for the sake of attestation and authentication. It is a guarantee from God that these are my authorized agents And then you can move into Paul specifically. Listen to this from Acts 14, 1 through 3. Now it happened in Iconium that they, Paul and Barnabas, went together to the synagogue of the Jews and spoke that a great multitude, both of the Jews and the Greeks, believed. Praise God. But the unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles and poisoned their minds against the brethren. Therefore, they stayed there a long time, speaking boldly in the Lord. Now listen to this very carefully. The Lord was bearing witness to the word of his grace, granting Paul and Barnabas signs and wonders to be done by their hands. This, brothers and sisters, is the foundation. This is the rock upon which you are to build. Jesus Christ as the cornerstone, and I haven't gotten into the prophets, which I could, but it does say in the scriptures: both the prophets and the apostles are the foundation that you are to build upon. They are the ones that we must hear. Who is the authorized spokesman of reality? God through Jesus Christ and his authorized messengers, the prophets and the apostles. Now ask yourself, from Matthew 7, 24, whoever hears these sayings of mine and does them, I will liken them to a wise man who built his house on the rock. Just stop for a moment and ask if you are wise or not. Are you building upon the rock? Is your house set on the cornerstone of Jesus Christ and his apostles and his prophets? Is your foundation half and half? What does your house look like? Has it already started to collapse in some ways? If it has, I wonder if you have a foundation problem. That's one of the first things that inspectors look at when they come to check out a new house to make sure the unsuspecting buyer doesn't buy a lemon. Do they have foundation problems? I ask you the same question. Do you have foundation problems? And what a grace to see what Jesus Christ has given to his church. We're not a group of people that are characterized as sitting in the dark. We're not lost philosophy majors. We are found philosophy majors. How good is Christ to us that we might see even the counsels of God Himself to know who we really are, what our real ends are How we are to be in every way, whether with him or with each other. You have quite the treasure, brothers and sisters. The cornerstone and the foundation. So that's the foundation. We can see that Hymeneus and Philetus were striking against that foundation and contradicting Paul's doctrine of the resurrection. But I also want to point out the judgment here that is in the passage, not just the re-establishment of the found the apostolic foundation. As you can see from that last quote that I gave you from Acts chapter 14, we had unbelieving Jews who had set themselves against Barnabas and Paul. So the Lord Jesus Christ Grants Barnabas and Paul the ability to do signs and wonders that everyone would know who is authenticated and authorized. And as you can see in that last quoted passage from Acts 14, The Korah rebellion happens over and over and over again. The unbelieving Jews, Korah rebellion. Hymeneus and Philetus, Korah rebellion. Hymenaeus and Alexander the Coppersmith, Cora Rebellion. You can read about that later in Timothy 2 Timothy 2, 17, we saw that. What Paul highlights in our passage this morning is both that there are continual core rebellions, even up into our own day. But not just that, but that they are accompanied by judgment What Paul highlights in our passage this morning, practically speaking, is that we must be very careful with whom we join. With whom we are committed, with whom we are in company. I don't mean stopping by to have a soda with somebody. I'm talking about the thick sense of being in company with someone Yoked with them. Must be very careful. We must be careful. Of the company we have joined, or we will receive the end that they did, which is judgment. He does not mince any words here, bringing up the Korah rebellion. This is simply Paul's application of the Korah rebellion. God swallowed Korah and his followers with an earthquake, and he burnt them alive. If you were with them, if you had sided with Korah, then that would have happened to you. And so the message is separate yourself from all Korahs and his followers. Now remember from last week, Chase, one of our elders, stood up here and he said that he had been reminded by our confessional standards That every time a promise is given, a threat is implied. And when a threat is given, there is a promise that is implied. And that's the same message that we had last week when we looked at the promise of reigning with Christ forever and the faithful saying. And then the warning that was given to us, and if you deny me, I will deny you because I cannot deny myself. And we've got to realize that that thought in Paul's mind is continuing now. He already gave you the faithful saying, and he expects you as a congregation by way of the Spirit to know that if a threat is given, that you need to take it seriously, and here you have the threat. core of rebellion, earthquakes and being burnt alive, those are officially warnings that you would be careful with the company that you keep. That those that you side with, that the movements that you join, the flags that you wave, they have practical applications They have practical implications. It won't just be that you're wrong on paper. It will be an astounding result in the majesty of the Lord when He burns up all evil. We have to remember that God is not only true to his promises, but he is also true to his threats. He gives us his threats as gracious warnings here. Do you remember last week when I said my mom said, Listen, I see you, little boy, do not put your hands on that wood stove. And then I, you know, I didn't listen. But why did she tell me that? Because she wanted me to flourish. She was telling it to me because I was her child, and it was for my good. And God gives you these warnings for your good too, as his children. You must be very careful. This is not a game that we are playing. Christ tells us what will happen to those who spread evil like cancer across this world. Let me say it again to you. Christ tells you what he's going to do to people that spread evil like cancer across this world. Christ gives us examples of his actions in the past, of what he has done with evil people before. Now, why does he do that? Why does he do that for you as his children? The same reason my mother said, do not touch that wood stove. Stay away from it. Shun the wood stove, Crushley. So that we may avoid the same fate for our future. I'm beginning to paraphrase the book of Hebrews. And I encourage you to read that during a time like this. That you would not fall like they did in the wilderness. So ask yourself, are you careful with the company that you keep? Again, I'm not talking about stopping by and having a taco with somebody. That's not the case that is before us here. Have you joined, this is the real question, have you joined with those who subvert the apostles and therefore the gospel of glory? I want you to look out on the landscape of our modern lives or our postmodern lives. Please do this with me. Hang in there with me. I'm going to end the sermon soon. I just want you to do this one last thing with me. I want you to use your memory in all of your different experiences. And I want you to look at it all of the different movements that are in the land. I wonder, you don't need to just tell me out loud, but what comes to your mind of different things that are out there that you could join and be a part of that company? Who did you see? Now this is what I want you to do from the first point. I want you to hold those movements up to the mirror of God's Word. And when you do so, do you find that they subvert the prophetic and the apostolic message? And if they do, what is their future? And then my next question to you is, why are you entertaining them? Why are you entertaining them? Why are some of you even becoming tempted enough to join them and to associate yourself with them Now there are different cases that you have to consider when you're looking at this. I usually get common objections when I bring something like this up about associating ourselves or keeping company. And this really needs to be thought about on a case by case basis. Sometimes people will come to me, but I've benefited from these movements These movements have brought good things into the world. And I acknowledge with you that sometimes God draws straight lines with crooked sticks. I do not have a problem with that. That's not the case that I'm talking about. The Apostle Paul himself quotes Greek poets. It does not mean that Paul now stands up for Greek lifestyle. Nor would Paul condone what those poets were doing. So that's not what I'm talking about. That's not what I mean when I say you associate. That's a different case. Paul himself quoted Greek poets, but Paul did not join the Greek poets in their resolutions and endeavors. And that's what I'm saying to you here. Here's another thing that I'll say based on a little bit of a diff just uh continuing to think about this case is that you better be watchful Those bits of truth that you see within corrupt movements, they're there, I admit that to you. But I just want you to remember that the end of that bit, which is a bait, on the other side of it is a hook. And if you want to, go ahead and look out at your friends. Look at who has graduated. Look at who's in college. Look at who's a young adult now, and you go ahead and make a list of all those who just were first tempted by the bait, but now have been hooked. So you have got to be watchful with these kinds of things. How is it that you get any animal to come in so that you can kill them? Bait! And it's things that they like, it's things that we gravitate toward, like truth and mercy, and compassion and love. But it's bait. Deer love corn. They come up and I shoot them. And it's the same thing that will happen to you. All the proverbs bear this out that you are to watch it, that you're not to be like a silly little bird that doesn't know what they're doing and then gets snared. So I just encourage you to be careful, be watchful. Those bits of truth and those corrupt movements also act like bait. And where there is bait, there is a hook. And then the last thing I'll say, just based on different cases for you, practically speaking, is that you would know your spiritual age. When you are a young Christian, you are led astray more easily. One of the things I see happen is a person becomes excited about Christ for the first time. And then they want to dive into everything. And usually they're around people that have been Christians for a little while, and those Christians are reading certain books and listening to certain podcasts and that kind of stuff. And so you start jumping into all these intense debates about different things. And one of the things that can happen to you when you are young is that you can wade into waters that where you are going to drown. You have got to work on just getting those basics down. This is common sense. There is a tradition in my home. I didn't know that we were even really doing this. I guess I kind of did, but it wasn't stated explicitly. When the kids were real young, we'd have them doing chores right away. They would all set the table, and we would all sit at the table together, and everybody would have their own setting. Jack, when he was really young, we had to put him only in plastic things because he'd stain anything he touched from the spaghetti and meatballs he would throw everywhere. And he would give him this little plastic fork where he couldn't hurt anybody. And he'd throw it and then he'd just eat with his hands. You remember him in the Narthex, I'm sure. But you know what happened as they got older, and I didn't realize this was happening, but it was happening, as they got older, they got a fork and a butter knife. And they were excited. They'd still have a plastic cut. You know what happened when they got older is they would get a glass cut You know what happened if they got even older? They get a fork, a glass cup, and a steak knife. And that's common sense for all of us because we know that if we gave Jack a steak knife when he was too young, That he would cut himself and the people around him. Not knowing what he's doing exactly. But you get the picture. And it's the same thing when we're baby Christians. We have got to be careful and we've got to stay on that milk until we know it's time for us to go to that meet. Because if you jump too quickly, one of the terrible things that can happen Is that those people who are specialized in deceiving the masses will deceive you and you will end up in the company of Korah So we must be watchful in general about bait and hooks, but we've also got to be watchful, especially with our spiritual age. This is the good news of the gospel, by the way. This is good news for all of us to hear. But like we have been reminded for two weeks now, whenever there is good news, there is also a gracious threat Jesus Christ, brothers and sisters, this is amazing. Jesus Christ is working even right now to take away all evil from the human race. And it's going to be done. It's going to be done. It's already begun in each one of you. Jesus Christ is taking evil. From the human race. He's elevated our race already at the right hand of the Father. He is our race. That is our destiny But here is the implied threat. Woe to you if you are that evil. Woe to you if you are that evil. Gangrene will be removed, but woe to you if you are the gangrene. The church, therefore, must hold on to the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. And all those who rebel against God's authorized servants will in fact be judged. Amen. Please pray with me