Of Judges. Our reading this morning is from Judges chapter six. 33 through 40. We are cooking along on the service today, I tell you. Man. I'll have to add some pieces to the sermon. Judges 6, and we have a shorter reading this morning from 33 through verse 40. Judges 6, 33 through 40. Then all the Midianites and Amelekites, the people of the east, gathered together and they crossed over and encamped in the valley of Jezreel. But the Spirit of the Lord came upon Gideon. Then he blew the trumpets, and the Abi Ezrites gathered behind him, and he sent messengers throughout all Manasseh, who also gathered behind him. He also sent messengers to Asher, Zebulon, and Nephthal, and they came up to meet them. So Gideon said to God, If you will save Israel by my hand, as you have said, Look, I shall put a piece, a fleece, of wool on the threshing floor. If there is dew on the fleece only, and it is dry on all the ground, then I shall know that you shall save Israel by my hand, as you have said. And it was so. When he rose early the next morning and squeezed the fleece together, he wrung the dew out of the fleece, a bowl full of water. Then Gideon said to God, Do not be angry with me, but let me speak just once more. Let me test, I pray, just once more with the fleece Let it now be dry only on the fleece, but on all the crown let there be dew. And God said so that night. And God did so that night. It was dry on the fleece only, but there was dew on all the ground. Let us pray. Oh Lord God, I pray that through this preached word this morning That you would lead your people into maturity to where they trust you. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated We asked a very important question last week. In what ways have we started to call good evil light darkness and bittersweet? How in our homes, schools, and elsewhere have we used the instruments to start moving towards darkness? And one instrument we we labeled was euphemistic language. I wonder if you noticed that in yourself this week, the way that you talk about things and how it can be a cloak to continue or evolve in your sin. We want to take such questions seriously, we learned last week, because when the church calls good evil And evil good, and when the church puts darkness for light and light for darkness, and when the church puts sweet for bitter and bitter for sweet You are witnessing the canonization of the church or the worldliness of the church. And we take that seriously because that is not the grace to which Christ has called us Christ has made us his vineyard, giving us his spirit for the sake of producing good grapes. Now you can see that we're moving forward in the Gideon cycle this morning, and we have hit upon a very famous passage about Gideon and his fleece. And so it will be good to make some observations about this, and then some applications. So here's the first thing I want you to notice. In the earlier paragraph, the scene is in Gideon's backyard. But in verses 33 through 35, we are returning to the major plot line and story arc. Of this cycle. The Midianites, the Amelikites, and the sons of the East are still oppressing Israel, and they still cover the land with like locusts eating everything, like we described last week. But you can see that the plot has officially moved forward because you see that cycle talk The Holy Spirit is now given. We know that that's one of the signs that the cycle is moving forward when the eternal Christ sends his spirit to earth to accomplish his will. And that's what we see here. Gideon, it is said, you actually can represent it as he is clothed in the Spirit And then what you notice is that he even clothes in the spirit the people that are with him. At least that's the implication, because the same ones that are now behind him that are behind him, that are going with him. That's the repetition in the text. It says it just like that. Those are the same ones that just asked for Gideon's head on a platter. So we have a movement of the Spirit here among the church to join the one whom Christ has raised up to lead the church. And thank God, through Christ, that we have his Spirit. Now that's the first thing I want you to notice. And now here's the second thing. In verses 36 through 40, we have the famous fleece passage. It is important that we read this accurately. I remember how someone taught this to me. When I first entered to church by way of non-denominationalism and modern evangelicalism, and you know what I'm getting ready to do. I'm getting ready to tell you that though their heart was in the right place, their words were not making any sense. It did not represent what's going on here well. The fleece, please catch this. The fleece is not Gideon's way of knowing God's will. Don't lay out a fleece asking for God's will. That's not what he's doing here. Sometimes it is represented that way. That I will know his will by way of a fleece. If you even begin to think about it for a couple seconds, that doesn't make any sense. Here's the thing. Follow the narrative. We had to do this with Deborah, too. Gideon already knows God's will. It is crystal clear. Gideon has been trying to get out of what he knows God wants for a long time now, and this is another example. God wills what? That Gideon would deliver the people from the Midianites, the Amelikites, and the sons of the East. Isn't that clear already? It's clear for Gideon also. The fleece, instead, look at how it's talked about. It is not a good thing, brothers and sisters. God is extremely long-suffering and patient with Gideon. The fleece instead in verse 39 is a test. It is the same word used in the other places in your bulletin where we saw the testing at Merebah and Masah. Where they tested the Lord because they still did not trust him after all the righteous acts that he showed him. It is the same word. It is something where Gideon is aware that God could in fact be angry if he asks for another one of these things. He says that in the text. And then in verse 36 and 37, It really starts to flesh out for us what's going on within Gideon because he repeats a very important phrase. He says, as you have said. He already knows what God's will is. He is not convinced or sure that God will keep his word. And go with him in doing what he knows he's supposed to do in his call. Don't forget also Judges chapter six I'm sorry uh judges uh the earlier phrase within judges when Gideon beginning his cycle says in verse thirteen of chapter six But now the Lord has forsaken us and delivered us into the hands of the Midianites. Do you see his lens already? From chapter 6 verse 13. That's his lens from the beginning when he's speaking to the angel of the Lord. The Lord has forsaken us, specifically what the Lord said he would not do to Joshua and to Caleb and to Moses. Gideon is making sense of the Lord in a different way, not believing that his name should be Yahweh, which has to do with faithfulness to his people, and that is coming out in the tests of the fleece. Let me be concise. Gideon thinks that God is a liar. And God is working with Gideon out of the mercy of who God is. This is going to change in the next chapter. The lights are going to come on for Gideon, but only for a chapter. He is going to lead the entire nation into idolatry by chapter 8. You can see why this is about the canonization of the church. But it is a model on how we can flip-flop back and round, back and forth, but do not miss the message. Gideon does not trust God, and that is a problem. It would be a tragedy if God Himself didn't care for the people more than Gideon did, but he does. So just remember that when you're reading the book of Judges, this is not only about the canonization of Israel and the apostasy uh the how the church can become apostate. This is also about the faithfulness of our God. That's the other side of the coin. Last week, when we were looking at this same cycle, We ask the question, how could the people of God end up like that? How could they end up saying that God has forsaken them? How could they end up into idolatry? And we answered with a very minor way in which people do so, and that is euphemism. It's a tool that we use to adopt and to keep our sin. But here, however, what is being revealed to you in the center of the book of Judges by way of Gideon is a root of the problem. On how we move towards apostasy, it is there here is the root, and it is distrust and unbelief in God. Now, perhaps that doesn't surprise you, but it needs to be said because that's what the scriptures say, and we need to develop that. In other words, here is your doctrine this morning. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is unbelief or lack of faith in God. Unbelief or lack of faith in God. Now I want to unfold this a bit with an application point called testing, or a real a point called testing, and then we'll start to work that out a little while in the sermon. Let's just spend some time for a moment and think about this word testing. Gideon uses the word testing Which, as I've mentioned to you, evokes several famous passages within the scriptures. The primary reference is to the time when the Israelites doubted Yahweh for the tenth time and therefore were excluded from the promised land. It says in Numbers 14, 22, this, because all these men who have seen my glory and the signs which I did in Egypt and in the wilderness. and have put me to the test now these ten times and have not heeded my voice. That is a famous moment within the life of the church There are other famous moments, like when the serpent says, Did God really say? And that is related to this moment. But this is its own famous moment. And it is then codified in a famous psalm, Psalm 95, where it says, Therefore, as the Holy Spirit says Today, if you will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion, in the day of trial in the wilderness, where your fathers tested me, tried me, and saw my works forty years Therefore I was angry with that generation and said, They always go astray in their heart, and they have not known my ways, so I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter my rest. That is a song that was memorialized within the Psalms. and sung by the congregation of the righteous to never forget where the church can go. It was in a way for them to never forget the cycle of Gideon. And that is then picked up by the author of Hebrews. And it is said in verses 7 through 13 of chapter 3 of Hebrews: beware, brethren. Lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief. This is commentary on that psalm that he just that he quotes, that he'll quote in a second. Beware, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief and departing from the living God. But exhort one another daily, while it is called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. And here he then quotes the psalm, and the hardening due to the deceitfulness of sin is about moving more and more, maybe even in an incremental fashion, to a place where you do not trust or believe God. And that is what happened to Gideon and Joash that eventuated in a site to Baal in their backyard. That's the picture that is painted. It is the picture, therefore, of Yahweh who reveals himself and human beings who continue to doubt his word. Yahweh says, This is what I'm doing with the world. Humans say, I don't trust you Yahweh says, this is my created order of living, and then we doubt its goodness and his goodness, and we doubt that it is truly truthful, and that it is the true order. We doubt things as basic as the division between male and female. That's just another example of the Gideon cycle. To put it in context for you, there's nothing new under the sun. And this is the story of Gideon. He is a man who does not trust God, despite all that Yahweh has done and who he is. Joash and Gideon worship Baal and Asherah. They are both fertility gods. And they had or moved because of the hardening of heart through the deceitfulness of sin, they moved into worshiping those fertility gods. Why? Because they no longer trusted that God Himself would make them fertile. Whether it has to do with having children or if it has to do with having food They did not trust the Creator that he would provide for his people. Or why don't we fast forward a bit? Why did every disciple abandon Jesus Christ? You know that everyone did, right? When the shepherd was struck, they all scattered Because in the face of the horror of the crucifixion, they couldn't trust God the Father, Son, or Holy Spirit. Even the one who was the most cocksure. had the rooster crow three times on his denial of Christ. There is one alone who has never doubted the Father, and that was the Son. Now that is a brief history of humanity. Congratulations. And that helps us to understand by way of the whole canon What's going on here with the story of Gideon? But we still have some work that we have to do. We have, in fact, reached the heart of the problem: unbelief or distrust of God? And it demands that if we're truly going to benefit from a cycle like this with Gideon and this being revealed about us, it demands that we ask certain questions of ourselves. Because you are unwilling to admit that you struggle with unbelief or trust in God. I have never been in the Narthex and said How are you doing today? And then you say, I'm having trouble trusting God. If somebody heard you say it It would be like letting off a confetti gun and everyone would run because they wouldn't want to pick up the pieces And that's why we don't share that kind of thing. Or those are different reasons why we could keep stuffing these kinds of things. So you have got to start asking yourselves in light of this Gideon cycle: what distrust and unbelief resides within you? What distrust and unbelief reside within you? I speak to each of you in the Narthex. I speak to you in your homes. I speak to you when you're happy, and I speak to you when you are lamenting. And I ask you how you're doing. Especially in the Narthex, I can see in your eyes, especially those of you who are in high school. And going into college, this is not all the time, but I can sometimes see in your eyes that not everything is okay. That you are actually struggling with your faith in God and trusting Him. That you find it very difficult to remain a Christian That if we could see your inner thoughts, we would see that you have a level of shame to call yourself a follower of Jesus Christ. That's what's actually going on within us, and then there's what's on the surface. Now, I was away at General Assembly last week. And that meant that I had to prepare my sermon while I was there. In always 90, always 100 degrees and humid Birmingham, Alabama, night or day. So I had all these thoughts on my mind, and up s and then up to the pulpit on one of the worship service comes this lovely preacher. And he has so much to say that connects with what we're talking about that I want to share a little bit about what he said. And I hope that one day you'll get a chance to meet him. His first name is Elbert. What a great first name. And boy could he preach. Well, he brought up a quote from a book about a slave named Seth. And he said that this book, we can leave the preacher now, because now I'm just going to talk about the book because I looked up the book. Seth suffered much trauma from being a slave, and Seth, after being made free, asked this question Healing is possible, but could it ever become actual? Now let me let you in on the insight of what's going on here with that. That struck me. Because it's the same kind of question that we're talking about when I talk about looking at your eyes in the narthex, or when I ask you what distrust and unbelief resides within you. It's going to help us to get to the answer, or for you to start to find your own answers that you have buried deep. The question is born from a great insight into human nature. It was expressed by those slaves by saying something like this. This comes out elsewhere in the book. Freedom is my status, but trauma is in my bones. How could I ever be free? Do you see what I'm saying? It would be like a woman who had been under for years an abusive relationship and is finally free from the abuse And has her freedom, but is still carrying the trauma in her bones. Do you see what I'm saying? It's an insight into the human predicament. And it goes deep. And it ends up, come to find out, being a more specific manifestation of a larger question or statement that is raised within African-American churches that I have found very, very helpful. And it is this. They say, especially to the youth, Jesus may live in your heart, but your grandpa lives in your bones. Now what are they getting at with that? What this insight means is that as one author says If you want to have a healthy faith, then you must have an honest confrontation with the patterns of the past we carry deep within us. What were the patterns of the past that had impressed themselves on Gideon to such a degree to where he believed that the Lord had forsaken them? And that by chapter 8, he will go back to worshiping Baal and Asherah. And have you ever seen that witness in the church before? Is it present in the apostles? Is Grandpa so deeply embedded in the bones of Peter that Peter needs to be confronted after being restored by Jesus Christ? The answer is yes. Grandpa said, you don't eat meals with Gentiles, and Grandpa's still in Peter's bones. Do you see what I'm starting, you see this reality that I'm getting at? I'm pushing a reality on you that I think is a doorway to begin to start answering the question of what distrust and unbelief resides within you. Because I see what you say in the narthex But I know that based on who you are, from the anthropology given to us in the scriptures, that there is there are other things in your bones that default you toward distrusting God. And I want to know what those things are. I want you to know what those things are. Let me put it in a more contemporary and overused image. Our lives are like icebergs. There is only a small portion, I don't remember the percentage, there's some engineer here that knows the percentage of the iceberg which is visible on the surface. And then the iceberg that is below the surface. But engineer, am I not right in saying that the vast majority of the iceberg is below the surface? And that is why it is a danger to ships. With all of that in view What distrust is under the surface? That's the question. I know that you confess Jesus with your lips, but what is in your bones? That's the question. That's the question that's coming out of the Gideon cycle that you should wrestle with as a Christian. It's not a question that you ask because you've sealed your fate to destruction. It's a question you'd ask to be honest and to move towards health And to be able to help other people. It's the kind of question that you'd answer in front of a close Christian friend so that they can help you. Let me ask you a few questions that reside in the bones. Do you distrust God's will for your sexuality? God has a particular moral order on how male and female are to relate. And how male and male are to relate, and how female and female are to relate. Do you distrust his order? Does your attraction to the same sex feel more real to you than God's reality? And as soon as you finally get out from the grip of your family, you're going to go ahead and express that. That's in the bones. I hear what you're telling me in the narthex, but I know it's in the bones. And we need to talk about it. Because you are saying, and I'm not trying to be harsh with you, but you are saying that God is a liar. That's a very serious thing to say. So it deserves more conversation than in your own head or from people that already think a disordered way. So please talk to me or a Christian that you respect that actually knows God's border Do you distrust God's will for his creation? And what I mean by that is everything that we see going on within the world Do you trust? Do you no longer trust that there's going to be a good result here? Have you become cynical and skeptical? When you look around at life events, does God seem to have abandoned us? Listen, it'd be one thing if there were one event confronting you in the world that is very difficult to face. There are certain realities that can enter our lives, and you don't even intellectually process them, they can immediately cause grief. It would be one thing if you had one of those. But tell me there's not a machine gun fire of tragedy. Did one of those events get embedded? And cause you to take a left-hand turn or a right-hand turn on how you started to think differently about God and that maybe He's not good. Maybe He's not really present with us. Now that's a general statement about the general state of the world. What about you specifically? Here's another question. Did something happen to you? Do you know all of the horrors that happen to human beings? You're human. I wonder what horror may have happened to you Did something happen to you and you can't, no matter how hard you try and how many books you read or how many counseling sessions you sit in, you can't put the pieces together on how this makes sense On the one hand, and that God is good on the other hand. That is in the bones And so, if you've done a really good job of stuffing that into the marrow, you are still at least suspicious of God. He is like another abuser in your list of abusers. What about this? I don't remember when this sermon was, but it was sometime between now and 2010. But we reviewed the phrase, sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me, and we said that's a lie. Amen. Amen. And we changed it, and we said, sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will break my heart. Amen And this kind of Gideon cycle is forcing us to ask the question, what did somebody say to you? What did they say to you that did not bounce off? Remember that saying in middle school? I'm rubber, you're glue, whatever you say to me bounces off me and says it goes to you. It's it's better said than that. When you're in middle school it rhymes perfectly. It's in like I amic pentameter or something. But you get the picture, but we're not rubber. Because it there are some things that don't bounce off There's some things that go right to the heart and then we believe them about ourselves and about the world. And some of those things move us away from God. And I'm just wondering, what did somebody say that went to the bones that moved you into the Gideon cycle? Where you don't even bother putting out a fleece because you've already made up your mind that he's not trustworthy. You've already gone to another system to solve your problems and to make sense of your life. And that's usually called secularism among us. The other thing that we can do is start to direct our anger at God when somebody says something like that is usually from the words of our mothers or our fathers, but it can be from others. What I'm saying to you Is that those are iceberg questions that come out of this sermon? Those are the questions that are answered from the bones, and they honestly can't be answered in the narthex because the answers are so private Which means we've got to get together outside of the vertex. We must help each other to honestly confront Those things that are down deep in us, not to have a giant therapy session I'm not interested in just having warm and fuzzy feelings with you. I want us to have a lively and beautiful faith in God. Do you know how many times I have called you from the pulpit to do what God requires of you in your vocations? Let me count the ways. Do you know that I never mean for you to obey him? Begrudgingly, that I want you to do so because you love him and who he is and what he's doing with this world And that is what Jesus Christ is doing to your heart. He's making your heart like his heart, and he wants you to, out of the love of the Father and the Son, and the Spirit For the sake of God, He wants you to fulfill your vocation. But I don't think we can really Love God unless we start to wrestle with these kinds of questions on why we distrust Him. How can you love someone that you do not trust? Now I understand that that moves in different degrees. But how that's a that's a question for us. And this is what Christ wants. It is what he wants in us. It is what the eternal Christ is doing. By humoring Gideon as he lays out the fleece the second time. He is working with Gideon. He's working with each of the deliverers, being patient with them, that he might save his people. That the Christ might come from them. Christ does not delight in your pain or your unbelief. Christ does not give up on his sheep just because they have doubts. What does it say about Jesus Christ and his sheep? Does he not leave the 99 to go and save the one? That is the picture of who he is. Has that picture of who he is been skewed in your mind, has he become the kind of person who would not go out to save the sheep? Or is it, he might do that for other people, but he would never do that for me? Those are the kind of things that have to be pushed away through conversation, and we must adopt the truth. We must take it off and put on that which is good. Christ does not give up on his sheep his sheep, excuse me. Christ does not give up on his sheep. And here this might be a surprise to you. Christ does not even give up on his sheep when they wrestle with unbelief and doubts in him. And this is really starting to reveal who he is. He is a good shepherd. Is he not a good shepherd with Gideon? Has not God worked with Gideon answering every request for a test from the beginning, even as the angel of the Lord? Was not Jesus a shepherd to every betraying disciple? Did he not bring his words of love back to those very same people That crucified him. This is who you're dealing with. Do not be afraid to raise the questions that are in the bones and bring them to your Lord. He is the same today. He wants to feed your faith, and he wants to feed you whole. He is the great physician. But if every time you come into his office you never really tell him what actually what actual aches and pains you have. I mean imagine going to a physician. And never telling them that you can't feel your left arm and your feet always fall asleep. And so he just keeps giving you ibuprofen for your headache. We have to share with Christ what is in our bones. Now, here's the final question that I want to ask you. Thank you for bearing with me this morning. How can you begin to feed your own faith and the faith of others starting today? Really, I want to just make a very brief picture or argument that you need to begin to feed your faith. I'm afraid that we have neglected our faith in God. And what I mean by that is trusting Him and finding Him lovely. That, as the catechism says, that you enjoy him. Let me ask you a question. Do you enjoy anyone in your life? Could you please use that as an analogy for what your relationship is supposed to be like God, but to the fullest? And is your relationship like him like that with him? Because if not, then everything will suffer Let me give you a picture. And this is an argument. The picture is an argument for why it's so important for you to start feeding your faith by way of the word and prayer and fellowship and feeding the faith of each other. I uh watched somehow a bird cam that is set up in Florida. Are you all aware of bird camps where they put cameras in nests? And then you can sit there for hours and watch birds in their nest. Well this was one of uh I think it might have been an eagle and she ha she had little are there eaglets? She had little she had little eaglets. And uh I'm not gonna tell you what the eagle came in with to feed the babies, but you saw that video? Oh, okay. Yes, it was a house cat. Yeah, sorry. You said it, so I'll just say yeah. That totally destroys this image. But that's okay. You all will bear with me. And she feeds all the little babies, all the little eaglets. And now they're going to grow up to be strong England. Now that's my own image. But that is the image that was used among the Puritans for the people of the church in that day. To understand how important it is for your faith to be strong. So this is an allegory. The mother eagle is your faith. And if she is not strong and healthy, there are no other graces in your life that can do well. That was their point. Do you believe that as Christians we should be full of love? You will not have it if you do not have faith. Faith feeds love. Do you believe that Christians should have peace in the thick sense of that word? You will not have peace if you do not have faith. Do you believe that Christians Especially during this day, are supposed to be full of joy and rejoicing in the singing of psalms and hymns. You will not have that if you do not have the mother bird of faith feeding all of these graces. Love and peace and joy and hope are fed by the mother bird. So that brings up the question, are you feeding your faith? because of not, nothing else can be said. No matter what others say, I believe you, God. No matter how I feel, I know that you are good, God. And then no matter what we face, we can still have joy, we can have hope, we can have love, we can have peace. We can have patience. We can have self-control. The gist of this morning is this. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is unbelief or lack of faith in God. That's one side of the coin. And here's the other side of the coin that you have heard assume this entire sermon. The just live by faith. And the cry of the church is this: I believe, Lord, help my unbelief. Amen. Amen. Let us pray.