Let's now open our words to Psalm one thirty It's one of the shorter psalms than we've dealt with. But perhaps in another way, the uh strongest song Psalm one hundred thirty, this is a song of a sense. Out of the depths I have cried to you, O Lord. Lord, hear my voice. Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my supplications. If you, Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? But there is forgiveness with you that you may be feared. I wait for the Lord. My soul waits, and in his word I do hope. My soul waits for the Lord. More than those who watch for the morning, yes. More than those who watch for the morning. Morning. O Israel, hope in the Lord, for with the Lord there is mercy, and with him is abundant redemption, and he shall redeem Israel from all his iniquities Let's pray. Father, our prayer is simple this morning. May we know your forgiveness. Leave no one out. May they know your forgiv Know your forgiveness. Strike them in the heart this morning. In the name of Christ. Amen. You'll note that Psalm 130 begins with the superscript, a song of ascent. Psalm 130 is one song of ascent. It's among a collection that begins, if you want to flip back, to Psalm 120, and it ends in front here in Psalm 134. That is a collection. I want you to notice furthermore that the Song of Ascents is contained in Book 5. Book 5 of the Psalms began in Psalm 5 Psalm 107. And this is purposeful. Each book of the Psalter has major patterns and an overall contribution to the flow of the Psalms. as one writer has said. O. Palmer Robertson, I'm sure some of you are familiar with him. He contends that Book One of the Psalms confronts the world with the fact of God appointing Messiah. And you and you can think of Psalm two and how True that is. And book two tells the whole world of this fact that God has installed his Messiah. Book 3 portrays the devastation of God's people as the world rages against God's Messiah. Psalm 2 being played out in that whole part of the Psalter. Book 4 gives expression to the maturing perspective of those under a severe affliction from nations that are raging at the appointment of the Messiah. And here we are in Book 5, working our way in an ascent, so to speak. You could make an argument that all of book five is an ascent, and so of course it would make sense to place sense to place the ascent Psalms here. And Book 5 celebrates that God is finally overcoming sin and misery. On your own time, just look at how the Psalter ends in praise to God for His salvation. Salvation. You can see how 130 and 131 aim on the same notes here. O Israel, hope in the Lord. He shall redeem him from all of his iniquities, and the same thing is seen within 131. It is a major theme that runs through book five. The Song of Ascents captures the rising of God's people from their exile in sin and their literal exile. It could in fact be the Babylonian exile that in which this is penned, or just the exile still experienced due to the removal of God's presence in the Garden of Eden. You can think of the excommunication and exile out of the Garden of Eden, where Adam and Eve must descend all the way down in the journey to Egypt. There's an exile all over the place. It really is a description that is quite apt, not only for those humans were who what they were expecting. Experiencing within the scriptures, but any human being, including yourself. Exile seems to be the language that best describes the human predicament. Have you ever felt displaced? Have you ever felt on the outside all language of exile Have you ever felt that something good is out there in the world, but you just can't seem to reach it? One person shared with me that one day they were driving, And they had the windows open and the sunroof was open, and it was a beautiful blue bird day, and everything around them was shining and full of life and song, kind of not like today And yet, despite the weather on the outside, their inner weather swelled with waves of death is the way to describe it. Dark skies, fear, depression is what they felt. That was their inner climate. They went on to express that on such a sunny day it was a mystery as to how dark it can still remain inside. How exiled they felt from the birds chirping in the world around them. Many authors write of such an experience that We were never taken into Babylonian exile, but we all sensed that some kind of exile is present within our lives. And thus it comes of no surprise to find exiles through all ages turning especially to Psalm 130. The offeratory that we heard today. Was written by Martin Luther on Psalm 130 because it was one, if not his most favorite psalm. The same can be said of John Calvin John Owen considered this his favorite psalm, and in John Owen-like fashion wrote an over 300-page book on these eight verses. John Wesley was converted in hearing of Psalm 130. It is a dear psalm to men Many who are in exile, both in the past and in the present, and I suspect the future. That is how we are postured towards this psalm in exilic fashion. We will consider the psalm under this outline: the depths of iniquity And the depth of faith. Two divisions. It could be divided in other ways, but we're going to do it under this twofold manner: the depths of iniquity And the depths of faith. So let's start with the depth of iniquity. The psalmist represents his predicament in verse 1 by this powerful word, the depths. Out of the depths I have cried to you, O Lord. Depth is used regularly through the Hebrew scriptures, if you were to do a word study, for deep waters. In the Hebrew world, water was dangerous. They would have never opened the six flags. It was symbolized or symbolized chaotic death and separation from God. If you were to just follow that motif through this scriptures, you would see it all over the place that this is what water stands for. You know, we are fond of reading, I'm sure you've heard this. Revelation 21 2-4. Then I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. God himself will be with them, and And then it goes on to say this. And God will wipe every tear from their eyes. There shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more pain. For the former things have passed away, a true end to all human exile. And yet, did you ever notice verse one? Which I haven't read. Now I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth have passed away, and there was no more You see, within the Hebrew mind, the sea or water was chaotic and symbolized an absence of God God's presence and in being in a state of exile. No more see would then make sense to the Hebrew mind. If God is present and all tears are gone, then the chaos, symbolized by the turning waves of the sea, must be eradicated. At least symbolically. Now, the psalmist gives a few specifics about these chaotic, watery depths that I want to observe with you. First notice that the depths are related to our iniquity in verse 3. If you, Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? This is This is the predicament that he's in. Something to do with iniquities. Iniquities refer to both sin and the consequences of that sin. sin. It has that dual meaning and flavor. Both spices are present. Isaiah 30, 12 through 13 supplies a picture. Therefore, thus says the Holy One of Israel, because you despise this word and trust in oppression and perversity and rely on them Therefore this iniquity shall be to you like a breach ready to fall, a bulge and a huge huge wall, whose breaking comes suddenly and in the The sin is present, the despising, and also the consequences of the sin. Our building structures are different than what we would see here within Isaiah. But you could imagine behind the drywall or the plaster of your home Termites eating away the substance and structure of the wall or the roof. You cannot see what is happening. But then the wall or roof collapses and it's too late. That's the same picture that Isaiah gives. Or you could liken it to a tree. A tree rotting from the inside at once without warning. The tree will fall, and it can be too late. In Isaiah's case, the termites or rot of iniquity resulted in the collapse of the nation. In the case of Psalm 130, the iniquity resulted in Israel's exile to Babylon and guilt of sin In the case of all of the world, the iniquity committed by the first human representative, Adam, resulted in our expulsion from God's presence into the depths of sin and misery And what about the case of your own life? When you get a new phone, my phone cracked. I sat on it and it cracked. So I had to get a replacement phone, which is a model back, and it's driving me crazy. But even with this phone that's driving me crazy, when you get a new phone, one of the first questions it asks you when you go to Set up these apps are, would you like to share your location? And if you are true to where your actual location is as a human being And you were theologically minded, the pin would show up on the map in the depths. Every human life, in other words, lives at the corner of sin and misery. Not just misery. Not just sin, misery and sin, which is why he chooses deliberately as a psalmist to choose the word iniquity, which captures them both. All of your misery is a product of humanity's poor relationship with God. Garden of Eden, all is well. Garden after sin. A curse washes over the whole world that you would never forget your absolute need to repair your relationship with your creator. Have you ever looked at your misery as a goad for recognizing that you need a savior and to be forgiven of your sins? Sins. That is true wisdom. And so first the word depths is related to iniquity, but we learned something else here about the depths You cannot escape the depths by your own strength. And this is clear in this Psalm from the pleading: Lord, hear my voice. Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my supplication. The psalmist cries to the Lord, begging that the Lord would hear his voice, the voice of his supplications. Supplications is a fancy word for crying out to the Lord. For begging with all of your might to get the attention of someone who actually has the power to help you. And verse 3 supports this. Who could stand? Who could stand? If the Lord does not save you from the chaos and consequences of your sin, of your iniquity, then who in the world will save you? That's his sentiment. That is his message. It is the Lord alone upon his own voluntary decision that must Rescue us. Those are the kind of depths that are the depths. The depths cannot be escaped by human effort. Now, I know you've heard this before The depths can't be escaped by human effort, I know. But I s but it is a major human problem to continually lapse into thinking that you You could be saved by something else. No science. No technology. No medicine. No lighting of a candle at Mass. No liquor store. No marijuana dispensary. No Bermuda Beach. No boyfriend. No girlfriend. Singleness. Marriage. No human device or effort can rescue humanity from sin and misery. Everything has been tried under the sun All of our attempts are but a temporary illusion that will be popped with the pin of our deaths and judgment. And I have said this before. Let me just remind you. That the hospital will fail each and every one of you someday. One day it will go flat and you will be transported to the Morgue an aspect of our iniquity. Today people say, just look in inside yourself, man. Believe in yourself, man. But this is my problem. This is why this didn't work for me And for those that I know, anyone who truly knows themselves when they look inside, anyone who truly looks inside accurately and honestly Doesn't gain hope for the problem, but starts to despair more because you realize there is nothing within you that can save you from this sin and this misery. The problem becomes exacerbated. You become more and more frustrated, and the desperation becomes deeper when you look to self. Those are the depths of chaos from which this person cries, the psalmist. You can see from there's really nowhere to go from here but up. And so rightfully it's called a song of ascents. The waters of iniquity surround the human race. You cannot escape these depths by any human effort. And thus, this is the great question that the Psalm leads us to. Will God save? Will He forgive? Will he have compassion and mercy? Is that who God is? Will God leave mankind to perish in sin and misery? was penned in our shorter catechism. And of course we know the answer is that no, he won't. But he will send us And that's where we start to go as we ascend in this Psalm to the second point, the depths of faith, as we explore more of verses 3 and 4. Next, we see not only the depths of chaos doesn't leave us there. The flood subsides, and we see the depths of faith. The psalmist confesses his faith that God, by his mercy, forgives. That is the best And that's why we started our service with confessing our presumptuousness of his own. forgiveness or taking it for granted because it often isn't the most delightful thing we hear. Sometimes we'd much prefer a time in Bermuda. He says here in verse 4, this confession, but there is forgiveness with you, that you may be feared. Forgiveness with you was a natural or native Hebrew way of just saying God is forgiving. That's who He is. He has mercy and He pardons. There's a key passage that highlights Among them. But they hardened their necks, and in their rebellion they appointed a leader to return to their bondage. You can hear all the iniquity there. But then listen to this in this final verse. But you are God, ready to pardon, gracious and merciful, slow to anger, abundant in kindness, and unique You did not forsake them. That is who He is as a person. He is forgiving Of all the things that you have heard about God, God considers this the most important for you to know, will be my argument. If God is publishing one thing throughout the whole world, it is this: I am ready to forgive you of your sins. There are missionaries that are going in to tongue and tribe and nation with that one single message through Jesus Christ and His Spirit. God is ready to forgive you upon your repentance. I have provided through Jesus Christ a way for us to be reconciled. Can't you see? Though your sins are like scarlet, they could be washed today. In fact, this is not just an important confession or message which the whole world must hear. It is an integral piece in God's plan. God gives unmerited forgiveness in order to accomplish a plan. Notice how verse 4 caps itself off. But there is forgiveness with you. Why? In order that you may be feared. Now how does that make sense? Talking about all this love and mercy Mercy and compassion, and now we're talking about fear. This is not an abusive fear. This is not a slavish fear. This is not a coercive fear. C. H. Spurgeon does really well here. He says None fear the Lord like those who have experienced his forgiving love. Gratitude for pardon produces far more fear and reverence of God than all the dread which is inspired by punishment. And amen to that, Spurgeon. Well, this psalmist you can see there in four, he's confessing Who he believes God to be, as the most important truth known to mankind, as seen through the publishing of the good news and the centerpiece of his reconciliation And now he moves on in verse 5 to not only confess, but now to perform the faith which he had confessed. He performs through the individual action in 5 and 6 through waiting, which is just fashioning. Fascinating. I wait for the Lord. My soul waits, and in his word I do hope. My soul waits for the Lord more than those who watch for the morning. Yes, for those who watch for the morning. Waiting is synonymous with hope. You can see in verse 5, I wait for the Lord, my soul waits, and in his word I do hope. And it is like the duty of a watchman looking for the morning. Do you have that picture in your head? We don't use the word watchman now, but it's like a security guard on night shift. Here's an example from Song of Solomon 3, 2-3. I will rise now, this is the woman speaking. I said, and go about the city, in the streets, in the squares, I will Seek the one I love. So she's was sleeping, but then she couldn't sleep, so she got up and she decided to search the city. Streets for her love. The one I love. You see, they were on patrol. The woman looking for her beloved runs into the guards, the watchmen, who patrol the city at night, keeping the city safe. From the perspective of the watchman, You patrol at night because at night is the chaos and the robbery and the crime. You keep diligent watch. You're careful. You gain relief as a watchman when the sun rises, because now you can see everything. And everyone's up. And all eyes are watching. Like a community watch program. All is in the light. Your shift is over, and you can finally rest Yet in the meantime, as it says here, you wait. You wait with a sense of longing and yearning for the day to dawn. We see this in Romans 8, 24-25. For you were saved in this hope. But hope that is not seen, but hope that is not is seen is not hope. For why does one still hope for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we eagerly wait for it with perseverance. And this we do, apparently, by committing ourselves. Verse 5. Did you notice? We wait by committing ourselves to his word or his promises The great temptation, therefore, is to unbelief. God says, I will save you I will forgive you. I will wipe away every tear. You are forgiven. The years go by. And our surrounding culture repeats things like we hear in 2 Peter three four saying, Where is the promise of this coming? And Peter, of course, replies this way But beloved, do not forget this one thing That with the Lord one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some count slackness. But is long suffering toward us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. It has circled back to God's forgiving love The waiting in our understanding of the waiting that must continue to happen is that we must wait that God may show even more mercy to us. More people. Well, the Psalmist in four was giving us his confession And in 5 and 6, he started to live out his faith in an act of waiting. I wonder if you've ever thought of your faith as a supreme act of waiting. Read the book of Hebrews. And now he comes to this final seven and eight where he moves from confession to performance now to preaching. You can see him turning from having a dialogue just between himself and God, now turning to the congregation as the leader, and encouraging everyone to do and to have the same confession and the same Same performance that he has of waiting. Oh Israel, hope in the Lord, for with the Lord there is mercy, and with him is abundant redemption, and he shall redeem Israel from all his iniquities. All of Israel, verse 7, should hope in the Lord for the same reasons that the psalmist has expressed his hope. The confession in the In the same way in his performance. God is merciful, verse 7. And with God is abundant, not just redemption, but abundant redemption that could cover your iniquities. And he shall redeem his people from all their iniquity, sin, and misery. You can see that if you separate the initial prayers, verses one and two, Is this a calling out or pleading or supplication? If you separate that out as a kind of introductory matter, and then look at the rest of the Psalm 2 through 8. As the main section, you can see that the psalm is framed by iniquity, and within that frame is forgiveness. It's what the whole Psalm is about. It is an answer to our question, will God save us from our iniquity? The answer is yes. Yes. All those who put their hope in God, who wait on Him, will receive mercy and redemption. That's Psalm. Psalm 130. That is the depths of chaos in 1 and 2 and some illumination from verse 3. That is the depths of faith expressed in a confession Seen in his performance of waiting and him preaching to the people of God, the elect. Though we are exiled in sin and Misery. God forgives, God restores, and therefore we must wait on God. That is his message here. But you know, we are not waiting in the same way that the Psalmist is waiting here. We live many years after this. We've seen many things done by God and have heard of great works of God since then. Since the Psalms of Ascent, God has preached forgiveness throughout most of the known world, although there are many languages, if you go to the Bible Museum, that still need to be translated. So get to work, study. Students, become linguists. Here's the message. One of the difficulties that I have found with In covenant children, or those who are just finding out about the Christian faith, haven't grown up churched, is they find Christianity confus And that's a real shame. Because those who wrote, the apostles, and those who heard, found it quite clear. Clear enough to hear and to respond. So what was that clear message? You know, the same message of Psalm 30 is given in John 3. 16. Now hold on to this. This is what the New Testament is about. This is what the Old Testament is about. is about. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved from their iniquity, I'll add. Now that is a message you can get your head around. And so I expect to see far more interviews in coming with a profession of faith for covenant children coming. I spoke with one man entering a drug and alcohol rehabilitation center in remembrance upon this passage of John 3, 16 and 17. Psalm 130. And during his time there, he and God restored their relationship. Happens many times at Helping Up Mission in Baltimore. But this is what he said. I went into rehab with all the devastation that addiction brings to a life. I lost everything And if you know Addocks in your life, he's not joking. He lost everything. I knew I was in too deep to help myself. And so I turned to God. At first, I thought that I would ask God to fix my situation, and I did. First thing I asked for is God get me out of this rehab. Then I ask God to give me a good job, give me sobriety, give me the courage, the change of things I can, and the wisdom to know the difference. And restore my relationships, especially with my son. And this was interesting Because as he was relaying the story, he continued, and he said, of course, in doing all of this, I began to read the scriptures. And it became clear to me that although all those things in my life that I had lost are important, God was communicating to me that there's something else that must come first. God and I need to be reconciled. I must ask Him to forgive me I needed to ask for mercy. I did that. I realized that before anything else I needed Jesus Christ to bear my sins. The ones I did when I was sober, and the ones I did when I wasn't sober. That I may be forgiven and reconciled with my God and my Father. He got it right. That was the message of the New Testament. That was the message of the Old Testament. Was that hard to understand? That was the message of John 3. 16. That was the message of Psalm thirty played out in his life. It was the consummation of Book 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 of all of the Psalms played out in this And now he's addicted to God. By the power of Christ and the Holy Spirit. Now that's kind of an extreme case. You're not in rehab because you're sitting here. But we can learn from this. You may feel the pressure of fixing every other problem in your life. Human beings first and foremost focus on their misery. But the message here is that you must first focus on your sin. Which is all about how you are relating to your God. Here is the good news: you need forgiveness Either for the first time or you need to remember it over and over again every morning and every evening of your life. And God is forgiving. Amen, Amen. Let's pray. Lord, there's no single sermon that can plunge the depths of who you are, especially when we speak of your mercy and your compassion. And your forgiveness. But O Lord, we ask that you'd take us into these kind of depths. Replace our depths of sin and misery with the depths Of knowing your love, your mercy, and your goodness. And I pray this especially for our covenant children We ask these things in your name. Amen.