Our passage, the word to be preached this morning is from Hebrews chapter ten. If you could please turn there, and if you need a Bible, you could raise your hand, I'll have one brought to you. Special attention to the words penned by the Holy Spirit through the apostles, because it's the only way to have any authority for anything being said. And this morning we are looking at Hebrews chapter ten, verse twenty-six through thirty-one. It's an extension of a Big section on exhortation. And notice how closely we're getting to uh some of your favorite have a favorite chapter, chapter eleven, where we just get to consider faith. Here are the words now of ten twenty-six through thirty-one. For if we sin willfully after we have received the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sin. Of how much worse punishment do you suppose will he be thought worthy who has trampled the Son of God underfoot? Counted the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified a common thing, and insulted the spirit of grace. For we know him who said, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the covenant. the Lord. And again, the Lord will judge his people. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Please pray with me. Father, we ask for motivation. Lord, you have not only called us by your grace, but your grace has led us to have grit. And so we ask that you give us motivation to continue and to persevere. steadfast in your faith. In Christ's name amen. Put your finger on verse 23 From last week, because that's the launching point. Everything is connected back to that It's a motivation, 26 through 31, and continuing really, we'll see next week, is a motivation for you to obey verse 23. Let me read it to you in case some of you Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering. For he who promised is faithful. week and now he's going to provide us with uh the first motivation to be able to follow that. The motivation is particularly helpful for us In our Western culture, uh due to the way that we're brought up in this society, it's a society that's filled with all kinds of ideas For example, how many hot ideas have you heard just today? How many things has somebody tried to sell to you? I I don't mean literal products, although there's a lot of products being selling. I just mean an idea that somebody wants you to accept that this is okay or isn't this great or you should see this movie or that was too much How many things have already been given to you today? Just survey whether you were listening to the news this morning all of the ideas. Your life is a flood of ideas You're to the brim. Ideas about global warming. Ideas about race. Ideas even about what kind of pants you should wear. When I was younger, it was easy. My mother picked out my pants and I wore them. And from what I can tell in old pictures, y'all didn't have much choice in pants. They were all just kind of like the same size And color. But now we have slim fit and easy fit and relaxed fit and button fly or zipper fly or stone washed or acid washed or distressed or boot Boot cut or tapered. And then there's all these numbers, thirty one oh fives and I mean how do you you pick out a pair of jeans Like that. But these are all ideas that are given to you. Ideas that you have to consider. Ideas like today is a violent time in our nation. It's the most violent it has ever been. That's an idea that's being sold to you all the time, every time you watch the news. There's also this idea. Today is violent, but no nowhere like it was. That's another idea. It happens to be contrary, which makes My point e even more in living in a Western society, that you really have a lot of ideas and you have to do a lot of consideration of ideas. In in fact, the today is not as violent as others as a new thesis by a guy named Stephen Pinker, who wrote a book, Better Angels of Our Nature, and he points out, for example, that five hundred years ago, for public entertainment, they used to lower cats into a fire. That doesn't seem that violent to me. Considering cats but it is violent. I'm just joking. I'm kidding. It is violent So his point though is that we've actually come a long way. And that's important because it shows that you are not only flooded with ideas, but you're flooded with ideas that are contrary and that actually are disposable. So here's this guy's thesis, PhD. statements so he can get his degree, and how long will that research last? Those are the kind of things that you consider in Western society. One minute you are told to believe that there's violence, the next minute research suggests something something different. One minute you're told that the earth is warming up, the next minute you're telling it's just 10 year weather patterns. You get the point. Consequently, this is what's happened to you And this has been exacerbated because of your cell phone use. Consequently, you have learned to filter out most ideas and hold other ideas very loosely. You filter and you hold loosely. And so here is the dilemma when you look at a passage like this with your finger still on verse 23. It says, don't hold this loosely. Don't filter this out. Hold it fast. Hold fast your confession. That's the dilemma. With a mindset that's loose, with a mindset that is that is used to disposing, how do you do such a thing? Well, God knows that we struggle with that. God knows that they struggled with it, and so He's given us a major truth in this passage to help you who live a disposable lifestyle to help And here it is. If you dispose of your Christian faith, if you think of your Christian faith as if it's disposable, like ideas about genes or climate control or violence or some other thesis statement, if you treat your Christian faith like it's disposable, then you are not merely filtering out a belief. You are personally rejecting the Trinity. You are not just disposing of a belief. You are not just holding something loosely. You are rejecting personally the triune God. It is personal, it's not business. It's personal. For example, this could be another way to say the same thing just from the words of Jesus in Mark 8. 38 eight. For whoever is ashamed of me in my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him the Son of Man also will be ashamed when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels. That's personal. That's not just about a bunch of ideas. That's the point. So I want to begin. We're going to get to that and we're going to develop it even more. But I want to begin with just looking at some of the details and the connections of the passage so you can see how I came to that. And we're going to begin just with the first verse in verse 26. So I want you to observe the condition in verse 26. Notice for it If it's a conditional statement, the the then in my translation is not there. You're really gonna have to look at your Bible if you're gonna follow along here, because uh this is what I'm tea I'm teaching you So verse 26. There's a conditional statement that he gives, and the first thing I want you to notice is that he states the nature of the sin that would be involved in treating the faith with such disposability. The nature of the sin is that it's willful. You see that? If we sinned willfully, it's a willful sin. It's not a sudden sin from surprise and heavy temptation, as you see with Peter as he warms his hand by the fire. And denies Christ three times. I'm not talking about that. It's not from a temporary fear during persecution. You ever picture yourself what you would say if you had a knife to your throat? And they said, renounce Christ. You'd say, No, never. Then it's not talking about you. It's talking about something else. It's talking about a willful sin, not under a temporary fear of persecution where you face the flames or are faced with cruel torment. It's not when you're depressed and darkness is over you. It's not when you are depressed and you say things that you shouldn't say because your per perspective Is skewed. This is a willful sin, not some temporary state. It's not temporary blindness from sin and ignorance, which should be a huge relief to anyone who has a heart for teenagers. Because teenagers, by definition, are unstable, and you see them wavering back and forth within their faith, this passage isn't talking about them. They're not sinning willfully, at least most of the ones that I know. They're still just confused and they're still trying to make up their mind. One minute they are serious about the faith, the next minute they're not. Not speaking about that group of the people. Rather, he's speaking Here of a deliberate, longstanding, rational, and willful choice to reject Christ, the gift from God the Father. Now you can see the long-standing nature of this and the deliberation that would have to take place, and that it's not just some temporary You can see this in the season of the sin. See this in verse 26? He says, For if we sin willfully after we have received the knowledge of the truth. So there was some kind of teaching that went on where they were able to stop and consider what these apostles were saying. I'm going to weigh what you're telling me, and I'm going to choose to either accept it or reject it. There's a rational, deliberate consideration that's happening here. Jesus sent the apostles to teach the Hebrew congregation in person And the Hebrews considered and weighed the words, particularly in light of Judaism with the temple system. Jewish system correct, or is this apostle correct? They're weighing the arguments back and forth. They're going through this letter, asking those kind of questions. Like you, they had other religious options What he's saying here is that they weigh if they weigh the Jewish temple religion and they find that it's true and that Jesus is false and everything that his followers is false, then that is the sin willfully. That's what that's the picture here. And then it shows the consequences, lastly, of the sin, still in verse 26, after you've received this knowledge of the truth and you've been able to deliberate, there no longer remains a sacrifice for you. Now you've met this argument already in chapter 6. This should be somewhat familiar to you for him to say something like that. Here's the logic. If you reject Jesus, Since Jesus is the only sacrifice for sins, then you no longer have a sacrifice for your sins. That's the logic. And this is really just a repetition of that difficult passage. This is a reference again, if you want to go to other passages, to the unforgivable sin. Woefully rejecting the work of God in Jesus Christ. And it's because there's nothing to cover your sin if you reject the only thing that can cover you. If there's only one coat in the closet and it's cold outside and you reject that coat, you're going to be cold That's the whole point. So that's the that's verse 26, and that's the condition, the nature of sin, the season of sin, and the consequence of sin. You can really see the picture. Of what's going on with these people and the consequences that would face them if they will willfully and deliberately reject Jesus Christ. Now I want you to notice something else too. I want you to go to verse 28. Anyone who has rejected Moses' law dies without mercy on the testimony of two or three witnesses. Here, you should notice also, because of the way that the apostle has worked through this whole letter, do you notice the kind of argument that you have here? It's a from a lesser to the greater. We've seen this over and over again. It's a lesser to the greater in 10 at 28. Anyone who has rejected Moses' law, now look at verse 29. Here's the greater. Of how much worse punishment do you specify? suppose. So that's the lesser and that's the greater. If this is the case, how much worse will it be with this case? The apostle still has the willful sin in his mind. He hasn't moved on to a different topic Under Moses' leadership and covenant, if a member willfully sinned or rejected the covenant, do you know what the punishment was? Capital. It was capital punishment for w for willful sins. I only know of one exception with David uh in the sin with Bathsheba, and it seems as if that didn't go punish free because his son was killed. Numbers 3530. Whoever kills a person, the murderer shall be put to death on the testimony of witnesses. Witnesses, but one witness is not sufficient testimony against a person for the death penalty. You see that? It's a willful murder. It wasn't an accident where they have a city of refuge. This is a willful or premeditated murder. And the recourse was capital punishment. And he's saying the same thing here, but he's going a step further because it's lesser to greater. So follow the logic. You can see the greater and lesser argument now. If capital punishment was required for willful sin against a covenant mediated by Moses and ratified by the blood of animals. Then how much worse will the punishment be if you sin willfully against Jesus the mediator and against his blood of the covenant? Even if you would need some time to work out that logic, because I understand I've been working on this all week and you're Take the time to do that. You can see how the logic is coming together with the more and the less and the kind of argument you can begin to feel the power of what's happening. If this for Moses, how much more for Jesus? If this for animal blood, how much more for Jesus' blood? That's the whole point. And so up to this point You can see the nature of the sin that's involved, that it's willful, the season after much deliberation, and you can see the consequences that would result, particularly when you start to consider the greater or the lesser argument here with Moses going to Jesus. And this takes you into verse 30, and you can begin to answer this question. Look at verse 30. Look at how difficult that would be. If you're a non-Christian sitting here today, that's a difficult verse for you. If you're a Christian sitting here today and you had to read that to a non-Christian friend, that's a difficult verse for you. Look at the severity. In the face of the Father. There's no mercy in his eye. There's no mercy in his eye in that verse. How do we explain the severity? Because we are not speaking about disposable beliefs, we're talking about personal rejection and contempt. That's why the punishment is so severe. Now, I want to talk to you for a minute just about what contempt is. What is what is contempt? Anybody know what contempt is? Contempt is a belief and a feeling that a person is beneath consideration and even deserving of ridicule and scorn. look at you like that? You ever had anybody look at you with scorn and ridicule? How'd that feel? Me it incites anger. That's what's happening here. There's different degrees of contempt. You can be beneath consideration. You could be ridiculous. You could be despised. You could even deserve ridicule and scorn The Hebrew congregation had time to consider the work of the Father, they had time to consider the work of the Son, and they had time to consider the Holy Spirit. And maybe this is how it worked out with them. Maybe in the beginning they believed, but then when the Judaizers entered in and started teaching about the temple and about what the Messiah is supposed to look like, maybe Jesus became a little less plausible Has that ever happened to you? You ever have a doubt about Jesus run through your mind? When you wake up in the morning, you go, is it all this really real? Maybe that's what they were like. Maybe over time the Christian teaching moved from implausible to just downright silly. Do you ever feel silly saying some of the things that Christians believe. You ever had that experience when you're around a bunch of those bunch of people that don't believe Christianity and the truth that you just sound silly? Or you're afraid that you do? Well, maybe they did. And maybe it eventually moved from implausibility to sounding silly to eventually where they were, they thought, you know, this whole message about Jesus is insulting my intellect This can't be right. The Greeks don't profess this, the Jews don't profess this, those are the two leading nations in all the world at the time. How could I ever believe something like this? Have you ever thought that maybe these truths or have you been You can relate to this because all day, every day you were called to weigh between the work of the Trinity and other explanations of reality, which is plausible, which is silly, which is held as contempt, or which should be ridiculed. And here's the point. The point is that if you consider Christianity implausible, silly, or embarrassing, these are really personal statements to and about God, and it explains the severity. Because at this level, with deliberate rational choice that was in these people, it is looking at God and is saying, I hear what you're saying, and you're a liar. And God says, Okay, you shall That's the picture that we have. That explains the severity. And that's what's going on here within the passage. The personal relationship The personal relationship is placed on your plate so that you can have motivation not just by another string of ideas or words or sentences, but so that you can think about your personal relationship with the Try you in God and be motivated by that. It should cause goosebumps. Now I want you to look for the rest of the sermon on how personal this gets in verse 29. Look at how personal this gets in verse 29. Of how much worse punishment do you suppose will he be thought worthy? And now there's going to be two, there's really three things here, and we can group them into two. Look at the listing here. You notice the list? Trample the Son of God underfoot. Count his blood of the covenant, common and not a sacred thing, and insult the spirit of grace. So right there you got two persons of the Trinity. You got the Son and His work, his office and his work. You've got the work of the Holy Spirit, and then I'll show you there's an implication with the Father. Right there, it's personal. You got three persons in this verse, including verse thirty and thirty-one, where where we're talking about A personal relationship and personal rejection. This isn't about just ideas. Now, first in 29, there's a contempt for the Son. It says the Son of God there in verse 29 The Son of God underfoot. This is a word that a little phrase that has been used throughout the book of Hebrews. It's used in an all throughout the Gospel text, and it has a rich meaning. In Hebrews, if you were to just Flip through, for example, uh later, take a look at chapter one, just the first six verses, and notice the son being used there. When Jesus is called the Son or the Son of God, it's referring to his title of authority and absolute king. He's the one that created the universe. He's the one that created the new universe called the church. We've been through all that. He has absolute rulership and kingships See chapter 1. Jesus is ruler over creation and new creation. He has the right to put an end to the temple system and should be obeyed above all authorities that contradict him. Yet if you deny this, it is as if you trample Jesus. That's their picture. If you believe the authorities from the temple and not our message, from Jesus Then he's saying it is if you are trampling him underfoot. Now, what does that mean? It means Jesus is of no more value than the trash under your foot. That's what it's saying. No more valuable than the dirt you walk on. That's what he's saying. Now you notice a distinct difference in if you go out to dinner with different generations You ever notice different dinner practices? I honestly enjoy going out to dinner with mature generations because of the table manners that they've been taught. Have you ever noticed that? You ever notice that an older gentleman will still open the door for his wife? Or the younger gentleman, you gotta go open the door for his wife? I mean that's sometimes these are generalizations. Or you know the the um they'll take off their hat indoors. That's nice Some people don't know about that. Uh sometimes the chair is still pulled out. That's nice too. Or I love this. If you are in a restaurant with um with people that have table manners and they see a friend and a friend's coming over to the table you'll know what they'll do? They'll stand up to greet them instead of just sitting there still putting food in their mouth. I really enjoy that. If we were to apply this to Jesus, what these people are tempted to do and what they are doing, since they have deliberately and willfully sinned against him in his office as king, is that they wouldn't stand if he came over to the table. You'd literally say, Why should I stand for him? And you would never tip your hat to him because he would be a disgrace to you in that culture. You would have chosen. Jesus should have been crucified because he was a criminal and he deserved it. Those are the kind of statements that happen after a deliberate rational choice within the Now his atonement is another thing here that is pointed out. The atonement you can see here when we begin to begin to start talking about blood. So it's not just the Son of God that we're dec we're determin We're looking at here in terms of the personal nature of reproach. We're looking also at his blood, the blood of the covenant it mentions, by which he was sanctified, a common thing Notice it's moved from a from a sacred thing to a common thing. So now you're just going to treat it as if it's any other thing. It's like treating your mother's china as if it were plastic plates for hot dogs and buns. But to the extreme. This is referring to Jesus' priesthood. Jesus' blood was truly shed, but its significance, the blood of the covenant, goes beyond the blood to what his obedience actually accomplished. The blood signifies. Many different things within this context. His death was a perfect sacrifice, redeeming his church from their guilt and the remaining sin. The original recipients of this letter, they had a real concrete decision to make in regards to the priesthood. Was it just another man's blood, a criminal's blood, or was it did it have atoning significance what was taking place? Big difference in judgment Last week we looked at how there should be regular church attendance, and the thought is still continuing within this passage related to these healings. Hebrews. If the Hebrews return to the temple system after Jesus as King authoritatively said no If the Hebrews returned to the temple system after Jesus said that he was the final atonement and that the temple system was fulfilled in him, That he was their great high priest, then that return for these people would be a personal rejection of his authority, which is absolute as king, and a personal rejection of his priestly work. That is what is happening here. It would all be a personal rejection. They would, in essence, join the Jewish nation in saying that Jesus was a criminal and that he deserved to be crucified for impersonating the Messiah and undermining God. God's religion. Now there's one one other person in here. We've seen the Son, you see his authority as Son of God, you see the Son in terms of His atonement and His High Priest. But notice the contempt The personal contempt of the Holy Spirit. Again, we're focused on how this is personal if you reject. Apostasy is personal. Look at the rejection or the contempt for the Holy Spirit in verse 29. The word is actually used. And insulted or hold into contempt the spirit of grace. Let me just go through this quickly. One of the things you can do by a rejection of Jesus and His person and His work is to reject the message of the Holy Spirit because it's the Holy Spirit that delivers this message to you. John 16, 14. He will glorify me, Jesus says, speaking 1 Peter 1:12. Now listen to this. To them it was revealed that, not to themselves, but to us, they were ministering the things Which now have been reported to you. Through those who have preached the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven, things which angels desire to long into, long to look into. So when you reject the gospel message, what it says about who Jesus is and what his significance is, you reject the very work of the Holy Spirit and He takes it personally, he says here. You are insulting him. His wonders. What about his wonders? In mighty signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God, so that from Jerusalem and round about I have fully preached the gospel of Christ. The wonders accompanied the gospel so that it would be a kind of attestation that the words that were said were true and that they were from God. And here's what Paul says. Evil spirits went out of them. Those are the kind of things that were happening, and these people had a record of that. And you have a record of the work of the Holy Spirit. And when you look on your regeneration and you say, Well m Maybe that was just a crazy emotional experience I had. Despite all the regenerative fruit, that's insulting. It's insulting to him personally. You're not just tossing around ideas and Thesis statements from someone trying to get their PhD. You're insulting the very Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit. Any denial of the faith today rejects the personal wonder and the work of the Holy Spirit. Spirit, a rejection by scientists of miracles, which are only performed by the operation of the Holy Spirit, is insulting personally to the Holy Spirit. It's not a battle of ideas, it's a battle of people, a battle of persons. I want you to consider this with the Holy Spirit. Do you remember in Acts chapter 5 with Anoniris and Safari? And then it goes on and it says they lied to the Holy Spirit, proving that the Holy Spirit. Spirit is God, is one of the reasons we can use that passage. Think of how severe it was, just lying to God, lying to the Holy Spirit. But I want you to ask this: how much more severe is it for you to call the Holy Spirit a liar? It's one thing to lie to him, and it's a total other thing, very personal, for you to say you're a liar. That's what we're dealing with here. When you're tossing around these ideas, you look at God in the face and you say, You're a liar. Go ahead. If that's really what you want to play around with, is what he's saying. How much worse to call the Holy Spirit himself a liar. And now there is contempt for the Father also. You've seen the Son, you've seen the Holy Spirit, but in thirty and thirty-one there's an implication. You see the Father arriving back on the stage in 30 and 31. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. This is God the Father. And it's implied the severity because basically, you know, it's God the Father who executes and gets the whole plan going. It's out of his immeasurable Love that any of these things take place. And so it's very personal for you to reject his love. The Father sent his only begotten Son. We heard that earlier from John 3. 16. The Father grants Christ the Spirit because of Christ's obedienti. You say there's no miracles. The Father seeks you in love, and you personally reject his love. That's the picture. If you dispose of your Christian faith, then you are not merely filtering out a belief, you are personally rejecting God If the gospel has been offered to you as a covenant child or as someone who didn't grow up at the church, and you reject this truth of Christianity, this message of Christianity You are not forfeiting ideas. You are rejecting the persons of the Trinity, each one as they seek to work on you. Now I know, and I'll conclude with this, that some of you, um maybe somebody here, actually doesn't consider Jesus I don't know. I don't know what's going on in your heart. Maybe they actually are pretty close to rejecting him. Maybe he's already been rejected within your mind and your heart. And I would ask that you would just review this passage because it's pleading with you to reconsider. Hey, folks, this is not a light passage. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. You keep saying he's dead, but I beg to differ. But here's more likely. I'm looking out. We've all had dinner together. I know a lot of what you think. And a lot of you are not close to rejecting Christ. You have your moments. But you're not close. You're not moving in, you're not an apostate. What this passage provides for you is a call to watchfulness and carefulness. over your life. Do you know that sin always works to the height of its kind? Do you know what I mean by that? Sin always works to the height of its kind. I've said this to you before. A fleeting glance at a a woman that is not your wife, the sin that is in you that is is getting you to do that, it wants full-fledged adultery. It doesn't just want The glance. It's not good enough. So little tiny doubts from your indwelling sinful nature, if they grow to the height of its kind, moves to full apostasy In rejecting the person and the work of Jesus Christ, the work of the Holy Spirit, and all of the work of God the Father. So why would you even allow it in your front door? You must be careful, therefore, and watchful over your life and the lives of those who are around you. It is not a small thing to see a person defending Developing doubts about the person and work of Jesus Christ. It is not a small thing to send your children away to college and not check on them, because everything coming at them is opposite to what we see here. You are called to be careful in your relationship with God. And here it's saying because it's personal. When you choose to ignore his laws for your life, you are not this is what we do. Isn't it? When you choose to ignore his laws, you say, Well, those were his statutes and his codes. That reduces it to a set of ideas. Like the code of Hammurabi. I mean who cares about the code of Hammurabi? Except for research interests and how it might help us to understand the laws that are in the scripture. Research value, but it's not about ideas. You are saying, say it like it really is. Be brave. Have some courage. If you're going to ignore what God says to you in his law, then say this. Say, I don't respect you. I'm not loyal to you. Say that, because that's what's actually happening. I don't respect your authority. When you choose to be indifferent to Christ's blood, then what are you saying to Jesus? When you hear about his sacrifice over and over again You hear about his obedience, everything about him being a high priest, and you could care less. It doesn't really cross your radar throughout the week. What is that saying personally to Jesus about your Relationship with him. I'm not trying to guilt strick you. I'm not an Irish Catholic mother giving a sermon. I'm asking you to consider the personal relationship that is involved here Are you saying this? I don't really think sin is that big of a deal, Jesus. Say that to him. Do you know how embarrassing that would be for you? Jesus, I don't think sin's that big of a deal. You know how silly that is. If you if you were to say it to him, say it to him as you by faith picture him on the cross. I don't think sin's That big of a deal, Jesus. Is that really what you believe? Or maybe it says this, the fact that you don't care about a sacrifice. I don't think your death is that important. People die all the time in the movies I've seen redemption before. Will Farrell, he did something redemptive in his stories. A lot of redemptive stories. You're just like them. It's just another story. Your death isn't that important Me. Say it to him while by faith you see him on the cross. Say it to him when the tomb is empty. Say it to him in his new resurrected body. Say it to him after you remember the ditch you were in, and then he regenerated you and your children. When the Father gives you Christ and the Spirit in all things and you reject the invitation, is that not personal? It is not a matter of you considering a new thesis statement or ideas that the Father is soliciting to you. It is a personal relationship that He is offering, restoration. Now, I want you to imagine something. What if you watched a seven-year-old boy who had a dear, dear heart sit down at a table with a bunch of teenagers? And maybe this has happened to you in one way or another. Imagine that seven-year-old, you feel how awkward they would feel, not really fitting in, because they're not there, they don't really get that. The jokes. He notices that one of the older kids doesn't have a lunch sitting there. Everyone else has a lunch. And so the seven-year-old offers him his lunch. Teenager takes it, he looks happy for a moment, and then he takes the lunch and he throws it down on the ground and he steps on it, and all of the older kids start laughing at the same time. seven year old. Can you see that picture? Do you see how personal that is? Is that about ideas? Is that about the idea of called sandwich and the idea of sh Sharing and the idea of lunchtime. I'm not giving you a thesis statement here. I'm saying that was a personal thing that just happened There. And how much worse when God, through Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit, God the Father, offers you the gifts of eternal life and you begin to despise it. Or you begin to doubt it? Or the or it's not very important to you. Is it really that you don't you don't have time to consider the ideas, or is there something personal at stake here? I know that he's not weak, and I know that he doesn't have passions in the sense that his feelings don't fluctuate. Within those guidelines, how would he feel about that? Seeking to relate to you. And tell me that that is not excellent motivation for you as a Christian as you seek to be diligent and to attend carefully and watchfully to be able to put your finger back on verse 23. Hold fast the confession of your faith because this is personal. This is not about ideas. Don't walk away from here feeling guilty or driven into the ground. If you feel guilty, then you need to personally go to God and you need to talk to Him. Now I'd be happy to talk to you about guilt also. I want you to walk away instead, realizing that your faith isn't about ideas, it is about a personal relationship. And if you want to hold fast, then look at the very end of 23. He personal, who has promised to you, he is faithful to you. Believe in him. Really believe in him. This is personal. Let's pray. Father, the exhortations that your apostle gives us by your Holy Spirit in this letter are exactly what we need to hear. And so we do pray, Father, that you would give us the ability to hold fast, that you'd give us grit that flows from your grace. We ask, Lord, that we take it personally That we would consider this not just a set of ideas from one religion versus the next as if this were a comparative religion course. Personally, knowing your presence and relating to you personally that these are your words that came from your heart, that came from your mind. And we ask these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.