Turn there, please. Mark chapter one, twenty-one through twenty-eight, and I'd ask that you'd stand for the reading of God's word and for the prayer of illumination. Mark chapter 1, verses 21 through 28. Then they went into a Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath he entered the synagogue and taught. And they were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes. Now there was a man in their synagogue with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, saying, Let us alone. What have we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth? Did you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God. But Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be quiet and come out of him And when the unclean spirit had convulsed him and cried out with a loud voice, he came out of him. Then they were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying, What is this? What new doctrine is this? For with authority he commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him. And immediately his fame spread throughout all the region around Galilee. Please pray with me. Heavenly Father, we see your words here. We see the unique presentation to us of this man, Jesus. whom we have come dearly to know. But Lord, we ask that you would illuminate our minds and our hearts, that these truths would rest upon us, especially the vision of our Christ. I pray that you would cause within us for us to hold him to be the most excellent in all of the universe. And it is in his name that we pray. Amen. Please be seated. I hope I'm not the only one that had ha that has had this experience. Maybe some of you were not as confused as I was as a child, but I would oftentimes get lost in the grocery store. enough times to where my mother had to lay down basic ground rules that if uh I can't find her then I am to remain still and not go looking for her because it will be more complicated for her to find me if we're moving in different directions in the grocery store. And if all else fails, please go to a person at the front counter with one of those microphones. And uh perhaps you've you you've used to hear in department stores. There's a young man here with the last name of such and such that happened to me several times within the grocery store. I think it's an excellent image for the text that we're dealing with tonight with Jesus. I think uh as I as I pondered back on those moments of being lost in the grocery store It was really silly, wasn't it? In some sense. Uh but when you're that age, the the vastness of the grocery store and and your mom might be just around the corner on the end looking for things on sale But you lose sight of her all of a sudden and you feel like your whole world is lost and you become confused and frightened. And it's an excellent picture of what we experience as human beings within life. Basically, we have a sense that we've lost authority, people to guide us, and we have become confused and we have become frightened. in this vast universe, not really sure which way to go. I think a basic struggle of humanity is just confusion and they're not sure where to turn. Have you ever felt that way? confused and frightened, and that you need someone to show you an authority to protect you and to take care of you That's what it was like in the grocery store, and that's what it's like for me. And it's what we see here within the whole gospel of Mark, but especially within this passage. We see an authority. show up on earth that is capable of taking away all of our confusion, all of our fright, and our greatest enemies to where we feel That we can be at peace and that we are secure and that we know a way forward. Mark is demonstrating this in many different ways. If you get a chance to read the whole gospel, you'll see the authority of Jesus Christ and Him coming to save us from fear and confusion throughout the whole gospel. But just if you take a look with me, we are we're starting um late in chapter one with the passage that I chose. But Mark begins By showing that there is an announcement that the authority who will save us has arrived You see the announcement as written in the prophets, Behold, I send my messenger. Those who would have read this, that would have been hearing this gospel of Mark, which is really the gospel of Peter, these are occult these are collected sayings that Peter gave in Rome, and Mark compiled them. And here we see an announcement of this authority showing up and it's Jesus It's Jesus from Nazareth, and many people could not believe that this person from the country is the authority that will rid us of confusion and fear. But it becomes more certain for them as it moves just past announcement to where we see in verse 9 of chapter 1 that there is also the anointing. Anointing is a theme that goes all through the scriptures where you see Saul anointed as king or David anointed as king. And David given the Holy Spirit in that anointing. And here you see the special anointing, the fulfillment really of Psalm 2, the Son of God receiving the anointing of the Holy Spirit. the proclamation of the the pleasedness which he has with the Father to go out as one who has authority. to bring salvation and redemption to this world. And so you have the announcement, you have the anointing. And after the anointing you immediately begin with the acts proclaiming the authority of Jesus. That this is not just any old man. This is not even just any old young man who would have been about my age, younger than me, actually. These acts that Jesus are performing are showing him to have an authority over things that no one else has. So you have the announcement, you have the anointing, and you have these acts. And our passage that we're looking at this evening falls within the Acts where Jesus is revealing who he is. Jesus has revealed who he is already with the calling of the disciples. They leave their occupations and they come. You try that. Tell someone to follow you and get them to quit their job and see how effective you are. But Jesus was able to do things like that because he's special and he's revealing who he is. And we see something terrifyingly special about him here in this passage from verses 21 through 28. The main teaching that we see for us that the Spirit is giving his church is that Jesus reveals his authority as the Christ by His teaching and his commands. Those are the two things by which he's going to reveal who he is in this passage. He'll reveal himself in other ways later. But Jesus reveals his authority here as the Messiah or as the Christ by His teachings and His commands. For us to be able to follow this and to remember it later, you can break the whole passage into two parts, synagogue and Satan, the two S's. So that's how we're going to look at this passage together. We're going to look at first the synagogue, and then we're going to look at Satan. You can see first in this passage the synagogue. Take a look at verse 21 and 22 with me. Then they went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath he entered the synagogue and taught. And they were astounded at his teaching, for he taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes. If you have the opportunity to do a search on just Jesus teaching in the synagogues, what you'll find is that he did He would stop there and he would teach, and when he was teaching there, he would do two main things, and the response was always the same from the people. He taught as one having authority and not as the scribes. Can you think in your mind you've heard that saying before, right? He taught as one having authority and not as the scribes. Where's the most famous place that we see that? After the longest sermon. It's the Sermon on the Mount, and actually at the end of that sermon, the crowd summarizes what they've heard by that statement again. He taught as one having authority and not as the scribes. Well, when we see that statement, the way that we have to understand that based on the reactions of the crowds in other places is that first Jesus reveals his authority in his teaching and being a subversive teaching. So when they say he taught with authority, and Jesus is revealing his authority here, That he's that what they meant was that he taught subversively relative to the religious leaders of that day. The Sermon on the Mount is the most famous example, but if you want to see the practical effect of subversive teaching of Jesus Christ against the scribes and the Pharisees, you must look at Saul's life as he turns into Paul. Saul originally gains warrants from the Sanhedrin in order to persecute what he called a heretical movement of Judaism, which we would call the truth, which is Christianity. Paul gains these warrants and he begins these arrests. All of us know his story. And eventually he rounds up enough mobs and they go forth and they stone Stephen and the first martyr of the Christian church, his cloak. is laid at this young man's feet, Saul. Saul, after this persecution, leading the way for the destruction of Christ and his followers, is confronted on the road to Damascus. And Jesus says to him, Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me? Do you not know that you're kicking against the goads? And in that moment, and in the moments after, as Paul is able to see again after his blindness, he realizes that everything that he thought was serving God was actually working against God. In his zeal for the kingdom of God, he realized that he was the greatest enemy of God. And so when you look in places like Galatians or in Ephesians or these other epistles where he's writing his story and giving you his testimony in Acts, what you find is he says, this is a faithful saying, I am the chief of sinners. Because he was the murderer of the body of Jesus Christ. But in that moment, Jesus came and subverted the story that Paul understood all of his life. And said that your story is wrong. And what you're actually seeing as enmity against God is actually for the love of God You see, when Paul first looked out at all Christians, he saw them as enemies, and then after being confronted by Christ, he looked at the exact same people, and their meaning had changed to where he saw them now as the beloved ones. Those who were the true family of God and belonged to God, who were the continuation of the Old Testament church and the promise that had been given to Abraham, that they were not his enemies. Imagine how Paul felt And with Jesus subverting his way of thinking things, uh thinking about things, imagine how he felt about Stephen afterward. And about the pain that he caused Stephen's family in that martyrdom. So the subversion of the narrative here is not just uh an academic issue. But this is what Jesus would do in each one of those synagogues is he would go in and he would say, your religious leaders have misunderstood the kingdom. But let me tell you about the true kingdom. Let me tell you how it really is. And you can see throughout the Gospels the constant subversion that He's giving uh to the story that the religious leaders were telling the people, but that they were actually living a lie and oppressing the people. Woe, woe, woe to the scribes and Pharisees. Who strain a gnat but swallow a camel, who burden these people with things they cannot bear. And there are about twenty-six other things that he lists there with this subversion. The second way that he reveals his authority in this idea of he has authority greater than the scribes is that his authority is unlike the scribes and that it's self-referential. So, number one, his authority is subversive to the narrative that the religious leaders have been telling the people, but secondly, it's referential. And this is what I mean by that. If the scribes and Pharisees were teaching within the synagogue, they would have said, as Rabbi such and such had said. But Jesus would say, as I say. Do you see that difference there? And if you want to feel the difference a little bit, think about we we heard about the paralytic this morning from Matthew, but the paralytic here in Mark When the scribes and Pharisees questioned, what authority does Jesus act upon to forgive the sins of men? He does not refer to a commentary or to even God Himself or to some rabbi. He says that you know that the Son of Man has the authority to forgive sins. Get up and walk. And now this is a revelation of who he is. This is saying that Jesus' self-understanding is that he is not a typical man, that he has authority resident within himself. To be able to teach the law of God. And if he says that is the law of God, then it is the law of God. If he says this is what salvation is, that is what salvation is. Whatever he says is what ends up going. That's the kind of authority that we have here. This would have been recognized by that culture. And seeing him not as one who was relaying the message of former prophets, but as a prophet himself. I want you to think of Hebrews chapter 1, 1 and 2. That in the past, God had revealed his salvation to certain individuals, very specific individuals. That's why we call it special revelation. Only certain men, and those men would then proclaim it to all of God's people for salvation, and then that message would be written down and enscripturated, and we call that the scriptures. Now, those scriptures would be taken by other people who are not special prophets, and it would be commented on and explained and preached to all of the people. But what Hebrews tells us is that Jesus from Nazareth is not another person coming to comment on the message of another prophet. but that he is a special person that is receiving direct communication from God and is in fact God himself. who has been from eternity with the Father and knows the special, mysterious plan of the Father and the Spirit, and is now revealing it to humanity what the content of salvation is And he stands on his own self-referential authority. He has the authority to tell you what salvation is. And he does not need to refer to anybody else. And so Jesus reveals his authority as the Christ first in his teaching, his subversive teaching, and his self-referential authoritative teaching here at the synagogue. Now, before we move on to Satan and the commandments, I want you to think about this for a second, that Jesus is bringing in a subversive message upon his own authority. What does that mean to you? Have you allowed Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ, to subvert your story? Or have you do you already have a way of understanding your life And you made Jesus a minor character in a subplot of your big story. That's the danger that we have. And I'll put a name on it. Have you allowed Jesus Christ to subvert your Americanism? Or have you made Jesus a part of your story of being an American? Those are questions that we have to consider. The last time I saw someone be subverted by Jesus Christ, do you know what they did? They began searching every square inch of their life. It's like they took a light in all the darkness of their light, of their life. And they sought to figure out how may I make everything under the rulership of Jesus Christ. This person was asking about things that we would consider mundane and trivial, like a bathing suit. What does it mean to wear a bathing suit in the story of Jesus Christ? What kind of bathing suit should I wear? What kind of music should I listen to? What should my what about my sexuality? How does that work here? What does it mean to be a woman? What does it mean to be a man? What does it mean to be a student? What does it mean to be a father or a mother or a child? Ever Everything is being overturned. Everything is having a Damaskin Road experience Everything has to be reinterpreted, and all of the same items that are still in your life acquire new meaning as they get inserted in an entirely different plot, in an entirely different narrative. that you finally accept with the subversion that Jesus Christ has brought to your life. Is that what is going on with you? Have you allowed Jesus Christ to subvert you, or are you still trying to make him a minor character with a minor plot in your life? That's something to consider. Now, if you've grown up in the church, you've heard that kind of thing maybe a little bit differently than talking about narrative and that kind of stuff. Uh and if you have heard it for a long time, you may think all I'm trying to get you to do is to beat yourself up and feel guilty. Like I'm your like I'm a manipulative and passive aggressive uh Parent or something. But I know all of you, and I know you to be in the covenant of grace. What would you be guilty of unto salvation? You have already been You have already received salvation through Jesus Christ. So, my end goal, of course, in saying these things is not for you to feel guilty that you haven't made Jesus Christ the Lord of all of your life. In fact, if you feel guilt, if you feel that your conscience is bothering you, don't misinterpret that. It's the the guilt present or the the conscience being bothered in this moment if it has become sensitive, if I've scratched it a little bit. That you need to wonder you wonder if you really have a lot of him to subvert you in the way that he's supposed to Don't allow that to just make you feel bad about yourself. Recognize what the emotion is there for, the opportunity that He's given you right now It's the same it's the same or an analogous reason why he would give you anger. Do you know why God has gifted human beings with anger? It is an emotion that arises to give us energy and to have sufficient and a sufficient motivation to crush injustice. We have perverted anger But the Lord is angry, so it's not a perversion in and of itself. The emotion, the experience there is for the sake of bringing forth the kingdom. and crushing injustice. And it's the same thing with a scratched conscience. Don't fear it. Don't put it away. Don't push it down. And and don't just ascribe this to be being passive aggressive and trying to get you to feel guilty. If the conscience is bothered, see it as an opportunity. to have energy and motivation to begin self-examination and take the next step in your purity and your sanctification in the image of Jesus Christ. Give him your story. Ask him to show you the true story, to subvert you as he subverted the scribes and the Pharisees upon his own authority. just as he did there in the synagogue. Let him amaze you and transform your life. Allow the ember that is present, let him blow upon it and fan it that it would be a full flame. Let your conscience serve you in that way. But he not only teaches us here about his authority through his teaching at the synagogue with his subversion and his Self-referential authority. But he also teaches us about his authority, or he reveals he's the authoritative Christ through his commands. And we see this in the next part of the passage. Now there was a man in the s their synagogue, this is verse 23. Now there was a man in their synagogue with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, saying, Let us alone. What have we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth? Did you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God. But Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be quiet and come out of him. And when the unclean spirit had convulsed him and cried out with a loud voice, he came out of him. Then they were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying, What is this? What new doctrine is this? For what with authority he commands even the unclean spirits? And they obey him Here we see the authority of Jesus Christ being revealed as the Christ through his commands. His authority is revealed in the commanding of the demon. Which we'll get to in a moment. But notice how his authority is revealed first, not in that he's doing the command, but in whom he will command. What you have before you in this passage is a completely orthodox demon. You have a demon who would have passed the membership vows. He states here and knows mysterious information that even those around Jesus at that time didn't pick up on yet. It is later that Peter will finally confess Jesus as the Christ, but then deny him. And you see here the demons know who he is. They know that Jesus is the Holy One of God is what it sa he he calls him here. Now, what's interesting is that if you were to explore this a little bit, if you go to the Old Testament, what you would find is that there is another person called the Holy One of God. And it was Samson. And some people speculate, I'll say it that way. Some people speculate that what perhaps what's going on here, and the connection that Peter was trying to make in Rome and then Mark recorded here was that Just as Samson was the strong man and would be able to conquer evil, that is to say, the Philistines So too, Jesus is the strong man, and he is going to come in, and as you'd see in Mark chapter 3, he'll have the ability to bind who used to be the strong man, who is Satan himself. And now whether you believe that or not, that's why I called it speculation, I think you really need to think about that. I'm not certain about it. Whether you go that road or not There is still a proclamation of Jesus' authority as the Christ from the demon's mouth by just considering the Holy One of God relative to Peter's sermons and to the Psalms. In Psalm 16, the Messiah is spoken of there, or forespoken, and he is called the Holy One of God. And Peter picks this up in Acts 2, verse 27. As a part of his sermon. I'll start just a little bit higher. When Peter says, Men of Israel, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested by God to you by miracles, wonders, and signs, which God did through him in your midst. As you yourselves also know, him being delivered by the determined purpose and foreknowledge of God, you have taken by lawless hands, have crucified and put to death. And then he skips down and he quotes David from the Psalms. And he says, For David says concerning him, I foresaw the Lord always before my face, for he is at my right hand that I may not be shaken. Therefore my heart rejoiced, and my tongue was glad. Moreover, my flesh also will rest in hope, for you will not leave my soul in Hades. Nor will you allow your Holy One to see corruption. And we all know that it's the Messiah who never saw corruption because he resurrected. And so we see here Peter connecting the dots for us and taking the Messianic Psalms and showing that the Messiah is Jesus From Nazareth, and we're learning this in all of God's wisdom through the mouth of a demon, of a demon-possessed man. But that's not even the end of the story. Did you notice what the the the um the crowd picked up on? So the demon is making it clear for us, and we are definitely supposed to see this message that Jesus is revealed as having the authority and that he is the Messiah. through this command here and who he's commanding is revealing it. But do you see what happens to the crowd? There's a kind of ref reflect, a reflection that happens. Take a look at those verses again. Then they were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying, What is this? What is this? And then look at this next one. This should surprise you. What new doctrine is this? For with authority he commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him What in the world are they doing thinking about teaching again? Of course they just saw the spectacle. of the command with the demon, but now they're focused back up on the teaching that happened in the synagogue. To us that is strange. It is unfamiliar. It's like a stranger showing up to our house and we have we don't recognize their face and we don't know what to do with them. But if you were in this culture, you would understand the true nature of spectacles and of miracles. You know, if you're reading C. S. Lewis or or others, oftentimes they define a miracle as basically the suspension of natural law. And so axe heads don't normally float in water, but God is capable of suspending the natural laws so that axe heads do float in water in certain situations. But that is not sufficient enough A miracle as we see, as we accumulate all of the miracles and spectacles within the scriptures, what we see a true miracle to be is not just a spectacle, not just a sign, not just a wonder. It is always for the sake of a testing. to the message of the prophet as truly from God. And so a miracle is a supernatural act which is an attestation that what the person is saying is true and from God. And that is what they are picking up on here. And that ends up adding power to what we discussed within the first point. That if Jesus is capable of commanding demons out, and has control over the strong man, who is Satan, who has rulership even over the fallen angels. Then certainly the subversion that he gave, the other narrative that he gave in the synagogue, and his self-referencing must be listened to. We may not dismiss him. We may not dismiss him. And so we learn of his authority as the Christ by his teachings first. but also by his commands which then reinforce that his teachings are true and that we should submit to them. In other words, if you wanted to put this together into a kind of Israelite syllogism It would be, if one is given authority from God as a prophet, then God will authenticate their message. Jesus' message is authenticated. Therefore, Jesus has authority from God as a prophet. That's what I'm saying. And if you combine these two messages and what the witnesses are saying here What comes out of their mouth and what comes out of the mouth of the demons. The witness of the people and the demon. Jesus is the prophet. Jesus is the Christ sent from God. to have the authority to rule over heaven and earth. Do you see the heaven and the earth there? It's the proclamation that Peter gives in his sermon. That this same Jesus has risen and has authority over heaven and earth. It's what we see in the Great Commission. I have been given authority over heaven and earth. Not heaven as in just some abstract sense. The angels The principalities and the powers. Jesus has been given authority as the Christ over heaven and earth. That is what is revealed in both his teachings and in his commands, in synagogue and in Satan. And so we have a question before us with the very final verse, and then we'll end right on time. Verse number 28. And immediately his fame spread throughout all the region and around Galilee. And I'll also draw your attention to verse 22 again, and they were astonished. Here is the question for you, just to begin. Are you astonished with Jesus? Does he astonish you? Is he has his fame reached you? Astonishment is an experience. That we have of Jesus Christ. We were talking about different experiences at the officer retreat this past weekend, just yesterday. And Arch made an excellent point about repentance and about grieving. And he said, grief is an experience. When we talk about grieving over our sin, you wonder what that is. And people could give you 62 puritanical points on what grief is. But don't you know grief? It was Arch's point. Have you ever grieved? I mean think of the grief that you had you've had. Whether it's death or some kind of it's always some kind of loss. And there's an analogous relationship to that kind of grief, to grief over sin. Have you ever been astonished? Have you seen the Grand Canyon? Or were you on my boat that I had for a year before it sunk and I took uh the Fonces big raft thing out there right after a terrible thunderstorm like a dummy and there was a water spout that formed, a water tornado. That was astonishing. Have you been astonished before? Any any super uh any any natural just in creation been astonished? That's an analogous Experience to what we're talking about here in being astonished with Jesus Christ. And all of us want it. And it's the hardest thing to get. All of us are dying to get it. And we consider anyone who can give it to us, any little glimpse. And and and helping us being astonished to be our benefactor, to have given us a million dollars in some sense. I would encourage us to begin down that road now and seeking to be astonished by Jesus Christ. Aren't you tired of just having an intellectual understanding of Jesus? Don't you want to be astonished by him? Haven't we been doing the exact same things over and over again and it's never led to astonishment? We pick up our scriptures or we listen to our sermon and we read it just for a little bit. And we understand the words and we even look up the definitions, or we'll take notes in the sermon, but we never go past that. We never use our imaginations to meditate, to really seek it out. until we're astonished. What if this is the new goal? And it is. Don't read the scriptures any longer until you understand who Jesus is. Read them until you're astonished And if you're not astonished, then you don't understand the passage yet. That's the true standard of what we're looking for. And ask for the Spirit to minister to you in that. Ask him. Begin speaking with one another. You know, in our confession it says that after we hear a sermon, we are to confer with one another. We're to keep talking about this stuff, using our imaginations and setting our mind on things that are heavenly until we are astonished and more captivated with the heavenlies than we are with the things that are earthly around us. And it is at that point that we begin to recover the pristine glory of the bride of Jesus Christ. Beings who are meant for heaven living in an alien country is what we end up looking like. And so that is our encouragement this evening, that we would stop with this lie. You do not understand this passage until you are astonished. If you are still not astonished, then you must confer with your brothers and sisters and continue to meditate. And the Spirit wants this for you. The Spirit longs to wave his wing, so to speak, and to fan the ember into a flame that is bubbling into everlasting life and giving a multitude of fruits to where you're the largest plant in the garden. That's what he longs for. He just at this moment asks for you to repent of giving him that little bit of time and to spend more time with him. That you would be trained in righteousness and be one who is astonished with Christ. To do that, remember, Alan, five minutes over. To do that, please consider this as a beginning for you to meditate upon. I'm not just going to command you to meditate and then not give you something to meditate on. What we see here in this passage is just the beginning of a relationship that Jesus Christ has to Satan and that Jesus is crushing the head of the serpent and he's beginning now. He's casting out these demons. They have no power over him. They understand that he's come to destroy them. That's what the demon says here. Remember that you have an enemy that is roaming this earth, and it is the devil. Do not forget what the scriptures say about this. Your first enemy was in the garden, and he whispered to you a different narrative that subverted the one that God had given, and we believed it, and we've been in a tragedy ever since. And he did not let up. He continued. Consider the parable of the sower. The word goes out. Salvation has come. The mystery from God has been revealed by Jesus Christ. The word goes out and it lands near people, and little birds come and pick it up before they could get any of the seed into the ground to grow. And those birds in that parable are called Satan. Satan snatches the word from people that they would never receive salvation. And in the second one, he allows them to get excited for a moment, but then a trial comes and it burns the roots. And they collapse. And in the third one, the cares and worries of this world, choke it out. That's all his work. And it's not until you get to the last one where there's actual fruit. He is effective and he is malicious and he is your enemy. In fact, if you were to go and through the rest of uh if you go through Paul's epistles, you'll find that we have Jesus as represented even here, fighting not against just Sadducees and Pharisees, that's not even the main concern, but the principalities and powers which are in the heavenly places. And they are just the children of the devil who is causing all of this havoc, or in 2 Timothy 2, verse 26. It says that the devil is even to this day holding people captive. Recognize the strength of the strong man first. And use your imagination, scriptural imagination to do so. But then part two, consider that Jesus from Nazareth is even stronger than him. And what that will do as you meditate upon it is you will become astonished at the glory and the power of Jesus, who is more glorious and more powerful than the glorious and powerful angelic being named Satan. And you will for once, perhaps, see the excellency of Jesus. And the only response that you'll want to give is praise. Please pray with me.