Amen. I don't know that you'll be able to follow because you're in the dark, but I still ask, out of reverence for the Lord's word, that you'd stand on the money. And that you would just hear the word red. I'll be reading from Revelation chapter 21, and I'll be reading the first five verses There's a lot of imagery here, and that can help your memory as we're going through the sermon. So pay attention to the things that you can see And now I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no more sea. Then I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he shall dwell with them, and they shall be his people. God himself will be with them and be their God. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more pain, for all the former things have passed away. Then he who sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said to me, Write, for these words are true and faithful. On them. Please pray with me. Lord Christ, we pray that you would truly take this vision and place it into our very hearts. That as we see the glorious future even of our own selves, that we would begin to live that now. Unto your glory. In the name of Christ, Amen. Please be seated. This sermon is very much dependent on th the whole series from Advent. I'm still a little Uh echoey up here, Nate. The Advent season that we've the Advent series that we've been going through Is the we started off with the Gospel of Matthew, but then went into the book of Revelation right away. And we are doing so because Revelation is a vision from God's perspective. On the significance of many things, including Christmas. Really, I think it's better to say the significance of the Christ of Christmas And boy, do we need some clarity on these things. Existing on earth and not in heaven, you can lose your sight really quickly. Things can become dark and confused. There's so much propaganda. But through the vision given to John that he wrote down words that are true and faithful, we're able to rise above and to see things. To see the Christ. I think it's been surprising the reality before us, and it's been quite dramatic. There is a woman, the church, with twelve stars on her head, and she gives birth to a long-awaited king. It sounds like so many of the stories that we have grown up with, the good stories anyway, and the good movies. And in that nativity scene, there's a dragon waiting, longing to devour the baby. And I have mentioned to you for several weeks that I keep driving around and not seeing any nativity scenes. with dragons in them. Well, leave it to my mother. She sent me a text and she has placed a dragon in her nativity scene. So we have a lot of talking to do. It was it was quite funny when she texted that to me The baby is protected, however, in our next movement in Revelation that we did in the series. And the child grew to be a glorious king. Full of authority to take care of his people, the church. And last week we saw that this very same king has eyes of flame. And he sees all of his people and all of the work that needs to be done in all of their needs. And he lays the right hand of love upon them. And he stills their heart. He bestills their heart. Well that drama continues tonight. It's really the climax tonight. Night, the consummation as we enter here in Christmas Eve, preparing for Christmas. And I think that you may be surprised once again to find the significance of Christmas Because here within this passage, as we look at the consummation of the drama depicted, beginning with the nativity scene, what we find here, and I hope that you've seen it, is a wedding day. And it's a glorious wedding day. More glorious than any wedding you've been a part of. Even your own. That's just a shadow of what is to come. The passage really begins with that old tune, Here Comes the Bride. Did you see that there? Did you hear the imagery? The scene began in Revelation 21 with the bride. John turned our attention to her in verse 1. She's a glorious sight. He started off by speaking of a city. And he said, the new Jerusalem is coming down out of heaven from God. But then did you notice that we moved from architectural language of city to feminine form? Of a bride adorned. Glorious. It changed from angular walls and architecture to the glory of a feminine posture, of a of a bride adorned for her husband. That's what's present in the passage. Now we can really relate to that, can't we? As we think about the Christmas story now in terms of a wedding day. I mean, how many weddings have you been to? You've at least, if you're married, been to your own. How many times have you seen this sight in your lives? How many movies have you seen with a wedding that brought a tear to your eye? I've had the privilege of seeing brides enter the room sitting right where you are, and someone told me to stand, and I turn and see that door open. And there she is. And I quickly look at the groom and I see him crying because he wasn't expecting such magnificence and glory. I've seen brides enters, and I've been standing up at the front, putting my hand on the groom's arm, telling him to take a deep breath Because he got so nervous in the midst of her glory. And the glory of the moment. But of course, the most glorious wedding for me was my own. And I did cry as I saw the door swing open. And I saw my beautiful breath. We all have a heart that connects to those things We all have experiences of those, and those are some of the most significant moments in our life. A wedding. You could be a mother or a father or a brother or a sister or a child. And you know it's not just the moment, it's everything that leads up to here comes the bride. It's everything that In our lives, that leads to that moment. And we say the same thing in this passage. This is the last book of the scriptures. It's the last moment almost in the scriptures. There's so much that came before this leading to this moment. Think of the significance just within our human reference points. Think of the significance of the bride, just from the from the point of view of the bride's family. Think of the care that her mother gave while in the womb, natal nurture. Think of the care of both mother and father. Think of the care of mother and father and church to the bride as she was growing. Into a woman. If they were good parents, they would have seen, even as a baby, that she's kind of like an acorn, and they could see all the potential that one day she'd be a glorious oak tree in a in in a manner of speaking. She was guided, therefore, toward her end by her community, her family. She was guided into what it meant to be a woman in love with God. And a woman loving her neighbor, and she's glorious. That's what all the outward adornment represents It's the consummation of the work of an entire community in the blossoming of a woman Likewise in Revelation is the bride glorious. More so. Taking our cue from the scriptures, she is the fullest picture here in this moment of women in the scriptures. She is love. She is life. She keeps her family together like it mentions in Proverbs 31 through her motherliness and creativity. She's everything that we see in the hospitality of the good widow from the letter to Timothy. And biologically, even, God has given signs as to who she is. We don't hear this much within our culture because we ignore our embodiment. We ignore our bodies and we think we're just minds. But that's not how God thinks of you. He gives you a form and embodies you to be a sign as to who you are. And the very insides of her shows that she supports life and that she is meant to be fruitful and that she is to bring health, that life forms in her and that life is sustained by her She and her family then and her community build upon her God-ordained biology constructing by God's grace a glorious creature and her name is woman and here we see her as the bride. And she is adorned, it says in verse 2, for her husband. Well, that's the first part. Here comes the bride. But then we notice that there's a shift, because it's a wedding day, and there has to be two to make a thing go right. And so we see the husband. It says in verse 3 this: And I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. God himself will be with them and be their God. There's this loud voice in heaven announcing. And now John moves away. You can see the camera shifting as he focuses now on a tabernacle or a temple. A sacred house, as we just saw with the children, coming down. And the sacred house is God, and he has come to dwell with them, and his name is Emmanuel. Because he is with them. And this is the great groom, the husband And he is in his glory. And there are signs of his glory as we read through scriptures that capitalize even on his biological makeup. And it speaks to his role. He is typically stronger physically, and therefore he provides protection and nurture. And he's like a house in the mid-winter. The bride and the family can be safe and warm from the cold. The winter winds and fruitless trees outside the boundary of the house don't matter. They're not a threat because they live within the house who is the husband That's the picture. Because this is the consummation of everything that is said about man and woman before. That has to be the picture And there's so much more that we add to it. We don't usually get the opportunity, especially on Christmas, to reference Song of Solomon, but let me do it now And don't miss the sensuality, but that's not the only part. You can see the same description of the groom in the Song of Solomon. This is the wife speaking, this is the woman, she's the Eve. And he's the Adam. And this is what she says. And she's speaking about him as a man. Like an apple tree among the trees of the woods, so is my beloved among the sons. I sat down in his shade with great delight. And his fruit was sweet to my taste. He brought me to the banqueting house. He sustains me with raisin cakes He refreshes me with apples. Do you see everything that's present there in the groom? That he's the nurturer and the protector. He provides the shade from the hot sun. Because it's Adam and Eve now not in paradise, but under the sun. And that's the groom And of course, we see this exact same kind of refreshment offered by the groom in Revelation, and it's no accident because Revelation is the consummation of all of these teachings that we see, including Song of Solomon. I will wipe away every tear from your eyes. And he's speaking to his beloved, his bride. There shall be no more death, there's no more sorrow, there's no more crying, my dear. There shall be no more pain, for the former things have passed away, my love. Isn't it surprising? Behold the glorious groom who was Christ. Now that's clearly what's going on here. There's this consummate wedding. But we're looking at this in light of Christmas. And it makes sense to do so because you don't understand the beginning unless you can see the end. We call it 2020 hindsight. So consider this vision, this wedding day in light of Christmas. Aren't we reminded of John's earlier writing? You know, this is the same John that wrote John 1, 2, 3 and the Gospel of John. And aren't we reminded of what he said in his gospel about God coming to earth to dwell as Emmanuel, to be a house in our midst for us to run to, to be our dwelling? He says, and the word became flesh, and he literally says, tabernacle or house, special spaced amongst us. And we beheld his glory. He tabernacled or became a sacred house among us. This is how he operates. It's the first advent And here in this vision of Revelation, we see the end of the story: that although he ascended in his glory, that he'll be Emmanuel again coming down to dwell with us. But as you see the end, you understand the beginning or why he came in the first place and what his purposes were. Because all of it was worked out. You end up seeing that the Christmas story was a means to this end, this wedding day. God took upon himself human nature to rescue his bride. He made himself of no reputation, taking the form of a slave. He humbled himself even to the point of death on the cross. Philippians 2, 7 and 8. He gave himself for her that he might sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of water by the word, that he might present her to himself a glorious church. Not having a spot or a wrinkle. And that's from Ephesians. That's always in mind as Christmas is before us. He gave himself for her that she would grow into her glory. In other words, Christ was born to be a great husband for the church. And that's Christmas. It's not just the fact of Christmas It's the significance of Christmas. We're seeing the significance through God's eyes, through these symbols. That's the point of a symbol, is that you wouldn't just see the fact, but you'd see the meaning of it And so now we get to ask the question, well, then I'm kind of surprised. What are you saying then? What kind of story is Christmas? Tonight we realize on the eve of Christmas that the nature of the Christmas story is that it is a love story. About a husband and his wife. About a child that would grow up and take care of his bride A story of love between the husband and his bride, but not an ordinary husband. God taking upon himself human nature. While we were still sinners, to glorify us that there would be no more sin. It is actually a love story that transcends all cultures. Do you realize that? Isn't that so interesting? I actually, because we're more globally connected than ever. I hear of some cultures that don't celebrate Christmas. In fact, I just saw a Christmas story that didn't celebrate Christmas And they were honoring a Christmas movie with Buddhists. So it's no longer taken for granted. But what if the Christmas story is a love story? Is there a culture out there that doesn't have it? I mean, they may have misinformed it and twisted it and distorted it. But there are love stories out there. And this love story ends up showing up in many cultures. But it only comes to its fruition and its truth as we read about it in the scriptures. In fact, I just heard a story called The Three Seasons. Have you ever heard of this story? It's actually kind of older. It's from a Vietnamese culture. It's a Sundance film. Have you heard of this story? It's called Three Seasons. It's actually in subtitles, in Vietnamese language. And it's a story about a woman named Lan. It's a love story. Vietnam has changed into a capitalistic society of big hotels and money. It's not like the war movies that we see. It's represented differently in its modern self. And Lan longs to be among those who enjoy the good things in life. In other words, she hates poverty She, however, has no way out except to turn in her mind to prostitution. Haven't you heard this story before? I think in our culture it was with Julia Childs, uh not Julia Childs, that would be weird. Uh what's her what's uh woman's name? Julia Roberts, thank you. That's much more fitting. Yes. Woo, that got crazy. Erase that from your memory. Lon longs to be among those who enjoy the good things in life. She hates poverty. She hates it so much that she's willing to enter into prostitution. And here is the killer. This is the the real Drama of the show. Night by night she is invited into well-kept, safe rooms full of wealth and luxury. But she never belongs to the room. She is invited to beautiful after beautiful Grand Hotel, but she never can stay. She's only used by the people that live there. You see the picture? Do you see the drama? But this is a story also, three seasons, about a man named High. And High loves Lon. Lon feels guilty and he can't and she cannot offer herself too high But then High wins this kind of race called a cyclo, I think it's called. He wins this kind of race, and he's given a good deal of money. And his whole life really could change if he were to just take the money. He actually, if he wanted to, could have the woman like other people do. But guess what he does? He gives his wealth for Lan, his love. You know what he does? He rents a room in the elegant hotel that she always would like to belong to. And he tells her to meet him there. Do you know what's running through her mind? And that's what you're expecting if you were to watch the movie, is that there's going to be this scene. And she's expecting the usual treatment, but he demands nothing from her. The consummation of the moment is that she enjoys the room and she falls asleep without a care in the world. It's like she's at home. But when she wakes in the morning everything has changed She has changed. And she realizes she could never go back to that miserable job No matter how much she wants out of poverty, something changed in her because for the first time someone used their power to love her instead of use her. In other words, as one author says, she is changed by the transforming grace of selfless love. Now it is but a shadow of what we see within the scriptures, but it is curious to me that the story is present within their culture. Because it's so easily adaptable to see the grace of transforming love in Jesus Christ and the meaning of Christmas. Because Christmas is a love story that tops this. Don't you see in that story, or do you see that in that story it is but a shadow or a whisper of the greater Christmas story? Think of the Philippines verse again. Jesus Christ humbled himself for a group of people called the Church that were like Lan. Everyone longing to be out of poverty, poverty of spirit, poverty of emotion, poverty of psychological distress, physical poverty, everyone longing to be happy. But they couldn't find a place where they belonged. Only places where they were used, and where they used other choice other people, and they made terrible choices trying to make it in this world. It's the story of those That Christ gathers into the church. But then there's this one. And he comes along And Jesus Christ used all of his power and continues to do so to free his bride from sin and from misery. And it is in this revelation, here, that we see the height of the Christmas story. The one who was born in humility and died in humility was raised in glory to bring his love, the church, to her glory. That's what we have here in chapter one. That's how we have to then read the Christmas story with hindsight 2020. The glorious bride has found a home, and the home is Christ, who in Revelation 21:4 uses his power. And how does he use it in verse 4? To wipe away all of our tears. Do you know what kind of power it takes to take away tears from the human race? That is the church? Or to wipe away death or sorrow or crying? Do you know the kind of power that it takes? And he's using it all. For no more pain in his church, no more pain among his people. All those things, my beloved, have passed away You know, I have a a friend that I hope for you to meet one day. He's a pastor friend, and he reminded me That all of this revelation and this and looking it in light of the Christmas story is very much like the Edda James song at last. Have you ha heard that song? Do you know what I'm talking about? What's interesting then is since we're looking at it this way, Edda James song has become a kind of new Christmas carol. And so I offer to you this year, based on the significance of Christmas from the book of Revelation, Ed of James at last. At last, my love has come along. My lonely days are over, and life is like a saw At last the skies above are blue. My heart was wrapped up, clover, the night I looked at you. I found a dream that I could speak to, a dream that I can call my own. I found a thrill to press my cheek to, a thrill I've never known. Don't forget Song of Solomon. You smiled. You smiled, oh, and then the spell was cast. And here it is, the Christmas carol. And here we are in heaven. For you are mine at last. Christmas is a love story. It is a story promising that one day we will be at home at last. And I pray that as you celebrate Christmas, you would remember this destiny which is yours, O beloved bride of Christ. Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas. Please pray with me. Father, we thank you. We see now why the Apostle Paul could not contain himself in writing a pastoral epistle. But had to drop into praise and doxology for your wisdom of what you are creating and what you are doing through the Lord Jesus Christ. Lord Jesus Christ, you are our husband. You have been singing love songs to us. You are our apple tree. And you sustain us with raisin cakes. You are our home. And we are not just included, but we belong. And we look forward to the day when you, as our house, as our sacred house, will come down from heaven to gather us. To take us into your arms as you bride and to love us. And we will have no more spot. And we will have no more tears. We thank you, Lord, that we can see this story even in the Christmas story. And that it, in fact, is the only way that the Christmas story makes sense We ask, Lord, that this vision of our end, that you would stamp it upon our hearts for every moment of our life until we reach the end. And that we would begin to live out our glory now as the Bride of Christ. We pray these things in your name. Amen. Amen.