Please join me in turning to Deuteronomy chapter twenty-one. I'd ask that you'd stand for verses one through nine. Deuteronomy 21, verses 1 through 9. You're definitely going to need your Bible today. We're going to be going to Leviticus. Hallelujah. And we're going to go to 2 Samuel and some other places. So you'll definitely need your Bible. Chapter 21, verses 1 through 9. If anyone is found slain, Lying in the field in the land which the Lord your God is giving you to possess, and it is not known who killed him, then your elders and your judges shall go out and measure the distance from the slain man to the surrounding cities. And it shall be that the elders of the city nearest to the slain man will take a heifer, which has not been worked, and which has not been pulled with a yoke. The elders of that city shall bring the heifer down to a valley with flowing water, which is neither plowed nor sown, and they shall break the heifer's neck there in the valley. Then the priests, the sons of Levi, shall come near For the Lord your God has chosen them to minister to him and to bless in the name of the Lord. By their word every controversy and every assault shall be settled. And all the elders of that city nearest to the slain man shall wash their hands over the heifer whose neck was broken in the valley. Then they shall answer and say, Our hands have not shed this blood, nor have our eyes seen it Provide atonement, O Lord, for your people Israel, whom you have redeemed, and do not lay innocent blood to the charge of your people Israel. And atonement shall be provided on their behalf for the blood So you shall put away the guilt of innocent blood from among you when you do what is right in the sight of the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, we pray we've been we've already had this prayer and we pray that you would bring this home for us, that we would understand your atonement, that we'd understand your great work and what you're doing, that we would begin to see as you long as you as you have sent for us to see in the name of Christ. Amen. Maybe seated I want to start today's sermon off just with a review and try to remind you of some things that we've been doing here. We've been bouncing around a little bit in the summer. Between Deuteronomy and the Gospel of Mark and the book of Acts. So I want to remind you that we're still in a section in Deuteronomy where this phrase is controlling everything. Righteousness, only righteousness. That is the mark for the people of God. Righteousness is not an individual thing. Righteousness is primarily a community thing. In fact, I'm beginning to think that righteousness is impossible without a community. And so in chapter 19, although we're in 21 now, in chapter 19, we did learn That in the past, God provided cities of refuge. Do you remember this discussion with the cities of refuge? He provided those cities of refuge. You can flip back and see. My Bible titles it cities of safety. But either cities of safety or cities of refuge, God had provided to his people so that the innocent and their families can be kept safe. That was the righteous way of dealing with an accidental death Do you remember the story about the man cutting the wood and the axe head accidentally slips off? That gives rise to the cities of safety or the cities of refuge. And righteousness only righteousness provides for the innocent and their families In chapter 19, moving down now into verse 15, as you scan, take your finger through your Bible there, God continues to give righteousness only righteousness through instruction to his people on righteous courts. and the righteous rules that belong to the court. Here's the kind of questions that were being considered. How may someone be charged with guilt in the community? Can you just say it and it happens? No, that's not righteousness only righteousness. How many witnesses are needed in order to establish that someone is guilty? Can it just be one person? No, that's not righteousness. What if someone is a false witness? Do they receive what they wanted on that person that they were falsely witnessing against? Yes, that would be righteousness. All these questions are answered in those sections. Last week we moved from that court in Righteousness only righteousness to a larger setting. which had to deal with the instructions that were given for a righteous war. Righteousness only righteousness at wartime. If you do not have a military deferment, which can Consisted of various things where you could defer your military service, then you were to fight with hope and courage, as the priests would encourage you to do, and as the officers would encourage you to do And you were to do so according to the stated war policies, depending on who the enemy was. Some of the enemies were to be be subjected to the law of Harem and to be obliterated, to be utterly destroyed. Others had peace negotiations And only after a refusal there would enter into warfare. And that was last week's sermon. Now this week we're continuing those same kinds of discussions. Righteousness, only righteousness. But it's not applied to murder, like you would see in chapter 19. It's not applied to witnesses and false witnesses. It's not applied to lawful killing, like in warfare. There's a unique situation that God foresees and knows that will happen, and it is now applied to an unsolved murder. What happened if a body is found, but no one knows who committed the murder? And that's what we're seeing here within chapter 21, the first nine verses. I think the best way to divide these nine verses is into two parts. And so I want to look at a crisis. And then there's a crisis averted. And so let's begin to do that together as we come to understand what God is doing here in this passage and really through all of his scriptures through atonement. So first we see a crisis. This is how the passage begins in chapter 21. If anyone is found slain, lying in the field in the land which the Lord your God is giving you to the possessed, and it is not known who killed him, Then your elders and your judges shall go out and measure the distance, etc. In verse 1, you hear of a scenario of someone being found murdered and left lying in the field. That's the sense of it And that's a crisis enough. Murder is a crisis enough. But it's not the crux of the crisis if you pay careful attention to the language of this verse. Did you notice the extra description in verse 1? If anyone is found slain lying in the field, why didn't it just say lying in the field? Wouldn't that be enough? Why go on with the prepositional phrase, in the land which the Lord your God is giving you to? This extra uh description that we see here is emphatic. It places an emphasis upon a point that if you study the scriptures regularly, you should That the corpse is not just lying in a field, but in a field in the land which the Lord your God is giving you to possess. If if you were this group of people, you wouldn't have to do much study. You would know that this is a a major crisis, that there is a corpse in such a field. And the reason why they would see it, and maybe why we culturally can't see it is because they had eyes geared to being able to read the Torah, the first five books of Moses, and we're here in the fifth in the right way. They saw the Torah as as a total writing. How is it that you view your scriptures? Do you view Genesis, Exodus? Leviticus, numbers, and Deuteronomy is just a chronology. You should only consider step one and step two and step three and step four and step five. You can read it that way, but really it's meant to be seen all together. And really you're supposed to see everything through Leviticus. This is agreed upon by many, many scholars, and that's how they would have read it. You have to remember, in other words, that Deuteronomy is not alone. It's not a single book that is abstracted out of a total canon of what God has given to us. But it holds hands, in other words. The book of Deuteronomy actually holds tight hands with Genesis because they're on the outer edges of the Torah. And then we work in towards the center, towards Leviticus, which is the dead center of the Torah. And that's how they would read it. And if you connect all of those books, and if you especially look through the lens of Leviticus, then you would realize that the dead corpse has desecrated. That's the correct word in this context. It has desecrated or contaminated or defiled holy ground, the promised land, the sacred space that God has set aside for his sacred people. Are you f do you feel the beginning of the crisis? For there to be death in the midst of life It's largely lost in our culture. Is there a place that's sacred any longer amongst us? Is there a place where you feel like you've got to take off your shoes? Because it's too holy. Where you straighten up and you clean up your language. Because it's such a sacred space. I'm not sure of what those places are. If you know of those places in our culture, please tell me But it's largely lost with us. But during the time of Deuteronomy, sacred space and sacred time were familiar cultural concepts. Every little boy and girl would know. Israel had both. Israel had sacred time and they had sacred space. Israel had a calendar showing a weekly cycle of seven and multiples of seven, and they became holy days, which we've turned into holidays. They call them holy days or sacred time on their calendar. And Israel had sacred spaces, and the center of sacred space was the Holy of Holies in their tabernacle, and it moved outward into the promised land that God had given to them. And of course, sacred space didn't just originate in Deuteronomy, but it was from the beginning. Have you not realized that as you read your scriptures? Did you see the sacred spaces that were provided? When I say a sacred space in Scripture, what would you tell me a sacred space is? If you had to go back before Deuteronomy, can you think of any sacred spaces besides the tabernacle? What about the Garden of Eden? The Garden of Eden was a sacred space over which angels stood guard. Adam was actually created as a priest in that sacred space. To do his priestly duties, to serve and to protect, as to Eve. And as for sacred time, God rested on the seventh day. Did we forget that? Sacred space, sacred time, right there in the beginning. The whole Genesis account is put together poetically, and we miss that it is a liturgical service that is presented before us there because it is both sacred time and sacred space. And once we notice the sacred space that goes throughout all of the scriptures, and then you see this emphatic sentence that we see in verse 1. raising to our consciousness the idea of sacred space again. And then you realize that now there is a dead body in the midst of it You can see why I've titled the very first section of this passage, A Crisis. If you were to turn to Leviticus chapter 10, which I'd like you to do, let's turn to Leviticus chapter 10 together. I want to show you another example that is analogous to this of the violation of sacred space. It's not often that a preacher tells you to turn to Leviticus And this is the story of Nadab and Abihu in Leviticus chapter 10. Permit me just read a few verses here. Then Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, each took his censer and put fire in it, put incense on it, and offered profane fire. before the Lord, which he had not commanded them. The profanity here with the fire has to do with it it it being not sacred. It's it It's a defilement to the holy space because God had not commanded it. And so what ends up taking place? There's a crisis in the text. Anyone that would have read it originally, verse 1, before they even got to verse 2, would have gone And so we see, unsurprisingly, in verse 2, so fire went out from the Lord, and he devoured them, and they died before the Lord. And Moses said to Aaron, This is what the Lord spoke, saying, By those who come near to me, I must be regarded as holy, and before all people I must be glorified. And it is from here that we receive the impetus in the continuing book of Leviticus for the cleanliness or the uncleanliness laws. Because it has to do with sacred space, clean and unclean. Desecration or defilement. That's what we see continuing then in the Levitical narrative. In chapter 10, verse 8, there's the conduct of the priests, which I just showed you But then in chapter 11, it's going to be foods that are permitted or forbidden, and then it's going to move into clean and unclean animals because we're dealing with defilement and sacred space. That's a normal concept that you would understand if you read the Torah through the lens of Leviticus. And as with Nadab and Abihu, And their profane fire causing a crisis, so too with the corpse in the field of the promised land, there is a crisis. The profane fire cost Nadab and Abahud their lives. And as you can see, since we've already read through our passage 21, 1 through 9, If the guilt of the blood remains on the Israelites, they would pay a cost also And that's the crisis. We have a crisis. This is tough for us to get culturally, but there is a crisis here within the passage. As we move into verse 2, we can begin to see God's instructions on how to avert the crisis. And that takes us into our second main section here within this passage, which I've titled Crisis Averted. Of course, by the grace of God. Now, I basically just want to say this. You avert a crisis by the following. And these are the instructions that he gives very specifically. Beginning there in verse two. Then your elders and your judges shall go out and measure the distance The very first thing that needs to happen here is they need to discover which town or city is going to be responsible for this body found in the field. And so that's the first structure instruction that we find. It's the determination of the responsibility in verse 2. The elders and the judges were to measure and to find out Which city was the closest to the corpse, and this is going to establish which city has to take responsibility for the later instruction that's given in the passage. Once you've discovered who is responsible for performing the ritual to avert the crisis, now you must move into the performance of the ritual. The elders of the nearest city are to perform this following ritual, and you can just follow along in these verses, really, but I'm going to kind of paraphrase them. They would need to find a heifer or a cow which had not been worked or been yoked. There's different reasons for that. You can talk to me about after the servant if you service if you'd like. When we get to verse 4, notice what happens. The elders of that city must bring the cow down into a valley flowing with water That has never been plowed. It's kind of a Garden of Eden setting, really, where plants naturally grow and it's flourishing. And there the deed is to be done. Some say that it was a large pole, others say that it was an axe, but ultimately, in the end, whatever the instrument was, they were to break the cow's neck. And that be may be part of the explanation as to why the cow could not be yoked so that those muscles had not built been built up and that cow could be struck down very quickly. And then we see in verse 5, the priests enter the scene. And this is no mistake. You've really got to pay attention to it when the priests enter the scene. With the priests present, the elders of the city wash their hands, verse 6, over the cow with the broken neck. What a foreign ceremony for us. And then the elders must say verse 7, Our hands have not shed this blood, nor have our eyes seen it. And then there's an actually an imperative here. Atone for your people. And that gives us the sense of What the whole ritual is about, the whole ceremony about, is for the for the atonement to be made, and the recognition that atonement must be made for the for this murder Now, those are the verses. Those are the ritual that we see here. And I want you to notice three things about them. Just like we needed to notice something in the first verse, we need to notice some things in these verses here. First, notice that Moses gives extra time and description to the role of the priests. They don't waste words in the Hebrew Bible. Did you ever notice that? So whenever there is extra description, you must pay attention. It says that the priest is chosen by God to minister to God, even or especially perhaps in the context of controversy, which we've seen in all the passage. Passages before. Let me say that again. The priest is chosen by God to minister to God, even in the context of controversy. That's what it says. Number two, the elders of the nearest city do not break the cow's neck. In front of the victim's family, and then ask the family for forgiveness and show them sympathy. Did you notice that the whole account is not human-centered I'm sure they should be sympathetic for a family member that has been murdered and they don't know who the murderer is. But the whole ritual here is God-focused. And then the third observation is that the Godward focus makes sense because the cow is an atonement. You see that? Have you considered the word atonement? It's been in each of the songs so far, and there's all kinds of words surrounding that word, and you're starting to get a sense of it, and different images that are associated with it. Here in this passage, the word atonement is kiffor. Or kiffur, however you want to pronounce that. Have you heard that word before? Kiffur. I'll say it as we say it, kapor. Have you heard that? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, right. It sounds familiar because it's a Jewish holy day even to this day, Yom Kippur. Yom is the word for day, and Kapoor is the word for atonement, and it means the day of atonement. And we're seeing the same thing here. It's the same word for atonement. Kapor or atonement means to pay a ransom. Or to pay back a debt so that the relationship can be restored. That is its primary meaning in so many contexts. So that the relationship can be restored. What are the other ways that you have possibly heard this word? It does not just mean for you to be covered, so that God forgets. It means. That something is being done so that you and God can be reconciled. God is not forgetting about your sins for a time or temporarily covering you with the blood of whatever animals. It is a great drama that we'll get to here in the end, where God is reconciling himself to you Through the blood, because atonement must be made for reconciliation to happen. And that is symbolized even here outside of the temple. It's such a strong idea I mentioned to you that I wanted you to turn to 2 Samuel, and that's what I'd like us to do now, because there's a primary example here of atonement, so you can see how it's used elsewhere. It's used in the same way. And it's it's 2 Samuel chapter 21, and it's just the first six verses that I want us to look at together. 2 Samuel is right after 1 Samuel And you'll remember the situation because it's highlighted in verse 1 of 21 that they were in a major famine. People were dying in the land. Now there was a major famine in the days of David for three years. Year after year. And David inquired of the Lord. You should look to Psalm 4 if you want to see some of his inquiring And the Lord answered, David's been inquiring of him, why won't you give us rain? And the and the the Lord answers him and he says, It is because of Saul and his bloodthirsty house, because he killed the Gibeonites. So the king called the Gibeonites and spoke to them. Now the Gibeonites were not of the children of Israel, but of the remnant of the Amorites. The children of Israel had sworn protection to them, but Saul had sought to kill them in his zeal for the children of Israel and Judah. Therefore David said to the Gibeonites, What shall I do for you? And with what shall I make atonement, that you may bless the inheritance of the Lord? And the Gideonites said to him, We will have no silver or gold from Saul or from his house, nor shall you kill any man in Israel for us. So he said, Whatever you say, I will do for you. You see how there needs to be a reconciliation between the two in order for there to be a reconciliation between them and God in terms of rain. And then they answered the king, As for the man who consumed us and plotted against us, that we should be destroyed from remaining in any of the territories of Israel, let seven men of his descendants be delivered to us And we will hang them before the Lord in Gibeah of Saul, whom the Lord chose. Does this surprise you? The Lord would not send rain on the land because this wrong had been done, and that atonement needed to be made between these two groups of people. David asks them what is to be done, and he says, Send me seven family members, and we're going to hang them. And God is behind all of this, permitting it, and seeing it as the rightful thing that must be done. It is at this moment, as a modern person, that your sensibilities stand very outside of the very real world of the scriptures. You have been indoctrinated perhaps by our culture to deny what we were praying in our prayer time in Hebrews 9, verse 22. There is no remission of sin without the shedding of blood or atonement. It is a concept that cuts all the way through and is at the core of our fallen human existence. And it is something that we must grasp. That is an ultimate example in 2 Samuel 2, 1 through 6. You know, if you want to, we're not going to turn to this one, but turn to this at a later time in Matthew chapter 5, verses 23 through 26, and you'll see the same logic in the New Testament. In our Deuteronomy example, atonement is made or paid to God for an unknown murder. Here's the succinct statement. Through the cow, God is reconciled to his people, in a sense, through the cow. The cow is symbolic of a much larger drama that's going on. And that's why we see there with them saying, atone for us, Lord. You can see the main emphasis here is atonement in 21-9 in Deuteronomy. And at the end, we see that, and so you shall put away the guilt of innocent blood from among you when you do what is right in the sight of the Lord, bringing us right back to righteousness, only righteousness. Righteousness can only be had or obtained through the atonement. Do you see? And how it is restored It all comes full circle just within this one passage. It's a kind of microcosm of all passages, really, if you think about it. And this is what we have before us, therefore. If we read the Torah as it is meant to be read, if we can see with ancient eyes, so to speak, or biblical eyes, We see that when a crisis occurs wherein sacred space is defiled, then an atonement must be offered to avert the crisis. Those are the two points. Or in other words, without atonement there is no forgiveness of sin. Now, I hope that you can realize, or that you are remembering, even as the sermon is going on, I hope you realize the regularity with which this truth is given in Scripture. And not only the regularity of the truth of the atonement, but the emphasis, it is at the pinnacle and the consummate place throughout all of Scripture. After Adam and Eve defiled the sacred garden, animals were killed and they were covered with their skins. There's a question as to what's going on there because people aren't reading Genesis through Leviticus. Anyone who had been given Leviticus from the same author who was Moses would have read that section and realized, oh, well, atonement needed to be made. Of course. They would have seen it through the sacrificial system. After evil took over the sacred earth And the flood subsided. It was not until Noah offered a burnt sacrifice that it says that God turned his wrath away. Because atonement needed to be made. And in fact, we could go through all the major stories and see at the center of them as atonement. Abraham took his son Isaac to offer an atoning ram. And in place he finds in the thicket, or he Abraham took his son Isaac, and instead he finds in the thicket an atoning ram in his place. Judah. Judah was willing, after being sanctified through God's providence, to give his own life to make matters right between Joseph and the brothers. God builds a dramatic and symbolic religious system with atonement at the center. And I've said this to you in the beginning of the sermon. There are five books in the Torah. Now you know from studying Hebrew literature that that number five is key because it means that there's two on the outside and one in the center. It means there's their chiasm, that the whole Torah is in a chiastic structure. And do you know what we find in the center of the center book? Chapter 16 of Leviticus. Do you know what's in chapter 16 of Leviticus? The Day of Atonement It's at the center of God's thoughts, and so it is to be the center of our thoughts. And then we have a situation like in our passage this morning, which just continues, but emphasizes the penalty or the penal aspect. Of the reconciliation. And the lessons will continue right up to the most emphatic picture of them all, since Scripture is a continuous canon and whole. Jesus the Christ on a cross, not for his own defilement or sins, but for the transgressions of his people. How could you miss the significance and the meaning of Jesus on the cross if you read the Torah through Leviticus? If you understand all of the stories and the emphasis of every action in the Old Testament, how could you miss the purpose of the New? It's to see Him as an atonement for His people. And that brings us to a great crisis because Jesus has thrust himself into our lives. This is not a story in some distant land. This is the living Christ coming to meet you even now. And perhaps you realize that you are in a crisis. We've talked about a lot of things that are unfamiliar to you, which goes to show you you're not as smart as you think you are And God has a lot to say that you need to listen to. Because you may not have ever realized it, but you are in a major crisis. When these categories are introduced, your life is turned upside down and things change in the way that you evaluate. Let me tell you this: this entire world, this whole earth. Was created as a temple to the living God. Do you know what that means for you? Do you know where we are? We are on sacred space. God the Creator has created sacred space, and through your sin you have defiled the space. How many times this morning have you contaminated his earth? How many times in your past you are in a crisis I am so pleased that the crisis is only one verse in our passage. He knows how desperately the crisis is. By the time we get to verse 2 in chapter 21 of Deuteronomy, the crisis is already being averted. Grace is sent before we can even express the crisis out of our mouth almost. The message that we receive in the ultimate atonement, which every drama, which every bull, which every goat, which every cow down in the valley stood for is that Jesus Christ averts our crisis. That he offers himself as atonement for your sin, that you might be reconciled to God. It's that simple. A child could understand that. Do you realize your crisis? During the time of tithes and offerings, my my mind went off in prayer. And I was thinking of what it used to feel like to live like an unholy person, desecrating everything that I touched. And I wonder if you feel like that this morning. But then I also have this experience that I did not seek God. I was happy in my defilement. I was like a pig in mud, loving it. But he entered in And the very first thing that he did was very unpleasant. He made me hate the mud. He made me feel the weight of my sin and uncleanness. I felt so ashamed that it felt like my bones were breaking inside of me and melting. And I just wonder if that's where you are today. Because that's a good beginning. The God of the universe might be calling you to himself because he has set aside someone to atone for you. And he's making you aware that you're in a crisis and that you need atonement. Do you feel the uncleanness and the weight of your sin? If you don't, and if you think what I'm saying is a joke, I'm sorry to say that one day you will feel the weight. At the exact same day that you feel the judgment? Do you sense that all is not right between you and God? These are my final words this morning, because they are the final words of the scriptures. Turn to Jesus Christ and let him atone for you. Let him restore you. Please pray with me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you that you deliver such great truths with so much dramatic and vivid imagery for us to get our confused minds around Lord, we do pray for those that don't have not received forgiveness from you because really they have not asked. They may be running headlong in their sins. We pray for them this morning. Lord, we also pray this morning for those that you have atoned for. For, and yet are still burdened by the guilt of sin, perhaps from the attack of Satan. We pray that you would help us to rest in your atonement. We pray that we would believe that we were reconciled to you. And that would sober us, and that it would motivate us to live sacred and holy lives. Lord, you teach us in 1 Corinthians that actually, because we are indwelt by your Spirit, We together are holy space, committed to the Sabbath, your holy time, and to all other time as being set aside to you And so, Lord, we ask that these things would go down deep, that we would reenvision ourselves That it would begin with an act of humility and recognition that we didn't know half the categories that you were thinking, and that we would need to reconsider our own lives and reenter back into the strange world of the Bible. Lord, we ask that you teach us these things in many ways. Teach us through the animals in the Old Testament and the sacrifices. Teach us the emphatic placement of Your saints throughout the Old Testament demonstrating faith and resurrection faith. But ultimately teach us as we behold the Christ. And let us see you, Jesus, no longer on the cross, but as the ascended Christ, who through your Spirit is applying your atonement and redemption to your people. Cross the Land, across all races, tongues, and tribes. Your blood is covering us all, that we would be reconciled to the Father And the creation or the new creation of sacred space over this whole world for eternity of sacred time. We thank you for these things in the name of Christ. Amen.