Our reading tonight and the preaching will cover verses 23 through 27. Proverbs 27, 23 through 27. Be diligent to know the state of your flocks and attend to your herds For riches are not for ever, nor does a crown endure to all generations. When the hay is removed, and the tender grass shows itself, and the herbs of the mountains are gathered in The lambs will provide your clothing, and the goats the price of a field. You shall have enough goat's milk for your food. For the food of your household and the nourishment of your maidservants. Amen. Let's pray. Christ, you are wisdom himself. Any wisdom that we would have comes from you. So it is only right that we ask that you would pour wisdom out on us this evening. Help us to see how we are to conduct ourselves in our callings and in the great gifts that you've given to us. We ask these things in your name on them. You may be seated. When I was first learning to catch rockfish, I went to my father who has caught quite a few rockfish in his life and I asked him Are there any patterns that I could look out for to have greater success in catching these fish? And he gave me many patterns, but the one that is the most true and most reliable will be that they tend to feed. The feeding patterns are on the change of a tide, and they like to cluster around structure. Following those two patterns will put you in the ballpark of being more successful as a fisherman. That's very similar to what Solomon is doing here within the Proverbs. He's not giving you patterns on how to catch rockfish. Not exactly, although there's probably some applicability actually. But he is giving you patterns to be successful in life unto the glory of God. Last week we were looking at some patterns about a character called the fool. What is a pattern that someone who is foolish follows? Fools, the pattern that they follow, fools are hardened against the Lord's instruction. Even if you grind them with the pestle, we had a mortar and a pestle as the image from the proverb. Even if you were to grind this person with the pestle of discipline. or the pestle of jail time or poverty or any kind of affliction. The truth of the matter is, and this is the pattern, is that a fool cannot be separated from their folly Like a dog, they return to their vomit. That's important for us to be able to see. It's important for us to be able to detect that pattern. In different people throughout different times of our life. Why? So that we could choose our company wisely, the company of our children, so that we can watch out for foolishness in our own hearts And ultimately, so that we can turn to Christ to be saved from our foolishness and made wise in salvation. So that pattern is is exceptionally useful for walking through life and seeking Christ. Well you have a different pattern before you tonight in 23 through 27, but it's still something Christ is giving to you. That you can master your environment and walk through this life with confidence in serving Him. I want to get at this pattern that we see here in 23 through 27 by contrasting it. With another proverb that will help us to see the pattern a little bit more clearly. Christ gives us this pattern, and this pattern is to be imitated in our lives. And to see this pattern clearly We're going to look at another proverb from an earlier chapter. And this is what's interesting. The other proverb that we're going to look if look at, if you want to put your finger in chapter 24, verses 30 through 34, we're going to look at that and we're going to compare it to the proverb that's in front of us this this morning. And what's interesting about this, and this comparison, and Why it comes to mind to compare these two Proverbs is that the proverb that is given in chapter 24 at the end is closing out collection number six of Proverbs. Or closing out a collection. And this proverb that we have here is closing out another collection. And both are five verses long. And they both deal with a similar theme from opposite angles. So many scholars say these two really should be contrasted. Well, if they said it or not, that doesn't matter that much to me. I think it's useful. You'll see that it's useful once we contrast the two. So here's Proverbs 24, 30 through 34. And again, I'm just starting off by contrasting two Proverbs so that you can see a pattern, which I'm going to announce in just a little bit Proverbs 24, 30 through 34. I went by the field of the lazy man, and by the vineyard of the man devoid of understanding. And there it was. All overgrown with thorns. Its surface was covered with nettles. Its stone wall was broken down. When I saw it, I considered it well. I looked on it and I received instruction And here it is. A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest. So shall your poverty come like a prowler. And your need or lack like an armed man. The stage passes the vineyard of the sleeping sluggard. And there's a hostile creation that's on the move. If you let things sit, they don't just stay the same. They break down. There's a kind of entropy and law of entropy. It attacks the sluggard when he sleeps. Weeds of all sorts grow up. And they take away what was planted and given to this person. You can't, in one generation, make a vineyard like this. It had to have been passed down in the family. But just with one generation sleeping, all that had been given as a gift is now being taken down. Just from the rain and the erosion. The law of entropy, like an armed bandit, comes and attacks the sluggard as he lies in his bed asleep. One commentator says the ravaged vineyard serves as an example or pattern of any heritage that is lost through neglect. Now that's your first proverb from an earlier collection with the same set of number of verses that we have in our proverb. So now we're going back over to 27, and I want you to see the contrast. The first is an example of negligence. The second is an example of responsibility Be diligent to know the state of your flocks, and attend to your herds, for riches are not forever, and nor does a crown endure to all generations. When the hay is removed, and the tender grass shows itself, and the herbs of the mountains are gathered in, the lambs will provide your clothing, and the goats the price of a field You shall have enough goat's milk for your food, for the food of your household, and the nourishment of your maidservants. In this case, it's not a vineyard, obviously, but it's flocks and herds still within an agricultural society. And in this case, the Spirit shows The different pattern of the farmer and what pattern this farmer is going to follow as opposed to the pattern of the sluggard. Two different kinds of patterns In this pattern, he takes his responsibility seriously. The owner does not rest on his riches. He doesn't say, Well, I've got some money in the bank. Because that doesn't last forever. And that's you can see that in verse number 24. I didn't start with the top verse. I started with verse number 24. Riches are not forever. And then he goes on and he says, and neither is inherited status like royalty. He says that in 24, too, nor does a crown endure to all generations. So that's an important lesson for him to take, and he goes on and he makes up the difference. He doesn't rely on things that are unreliable. The owner diligently cares for his flocks and his herds. Verse 23. That's the main principle. That's the main difference between the two Proverbs. In verse 25, if you jumped over 24, in verse 25, the farmer has wisdom. And there's different words that are going on here for different types of grass and different kinds of seasons. It's a little bit difficult for us to notice it in the translation, but you see there they're trying to make the distinction with the different names they give. Hay is removed, tender grass shows itself, and the herbs of the mountain are gathered in. What you end up having here is a farmer who is attuned to the providences of God. Knowing when what season will produce what relative to the endeavor that he is partaking in in order to be successful. He knows when the hay is going to be available for his livestock. He knows when it will be the sweet grass for other purposes or the herb that he can gather in in the harvest. What you're really witnessing here is a picture of the farmer who has wisdom, and the wisdom is caught up in one word. Diligence and responsibility. Diligence or responsibility. He does not let the law of entropy destroy the gifts that God has given to him. I want to say that again. It's very important. For whatever reason, it happens every single day in our lives, and yet sometimes we don't recognize a universal law. That if you are neglectful, the law of entropy will take it away. And if you are diligent in Christ, that it may be maintained. Man, this is good wisdom. He acts in wisdom using the seasons to his advantage to feed his flocks. He manages the ecosystem of his possessions, gaining from all their production one act, building on another act. To the point where he not only feeds his own family, but he feeds those who work for his family. You see that picture there in verse number 26? The lambs are going to provide clothing. You see the connection? We have the grass. He's able to read God providences. That's a mark of wisdom. He then is able to feed his lambs, and his lambs are able to provide clothing and many other things. This is in a comprehensive list. And then verse 26 keeps going and he says he could sell the goats to buy a field. Well, you know what he could do with another field? Have more goats, more lambs, more grass for more goats, more lands. And you see the empire expanding. Well, by that time you have milk for everybody, verse number 27. Not only do you have livestock and the increase for him and his family there at the end of this passage for the food of your household, but also for the nourishment of your maidservants. Man, what a difference between the lazy person and the vineyard they inherited. And the wise person and their responsible diligence with the herds and their flocks. Now, this is a relevant pattern, even if you're not in an agricultural society. You don't have a vineyard. At least you never told me you did. I would be a little upset if you told me now you had a vineyard, because I would want to visit and enjoy the vineyard. So let me know afterwards. I don't know that any of you really have any flocks and herds to speak of. Sometimes maybe you get like a neat idea and you get a goat, but that's different. Than what's happening here. But the pattern is still relevant to you. God has been good to you, He has given you gifts. He has given you the gift of work at a particular company, maybe even your own company. He's given you gifts of family. He's given you gifts of poverty And the message here is that you must diligently take responsibility for those things that He's given to you. For if you neglected your work or your family, or if you neglected your property, it will be like that vineyard that collapses. So he calls you to something else and to recognize a universal law, even in the flocks and herds, so to speak, in your life. Now strangely, I'm on a little bit of a fairy tale kick with uh like the Brothers Grimms and I'm watching the Old Disney cartoons. They're all pretty interesting to me. And one of the more recent ones that I saw was Sleeping Beauty. Interestingly, when I'm thinking about when I was thinking about this passage, I thought, man, this is kind of like the story of Sleeping Beauty. Do we all remember Sleeping Beauty? It's also known as Briar Rose in some of the older folklore. It's a king and a queen longing for a child, and they finally have a daughter. To celebrate her birth, they hold a grand feast and they invite fairy godmothers to bestow blessings on the baby princess. And each of the you remember this? And each of those Fairies give the child a special gift, such as, well, she will have beauty, or she'll have grace, or she'll have intelligence. But there was a sort of a fatal flaw in the party. And that they never invited this one woman who turned out to be a witch, a kind of dragon. She was old and she was bitter. She was not invited to the feast, but she arrives unannounced and she's angry at the sight, so she curses the baby girl. declaring that on her fifteenth birthday, or maybe it's her sixteenth birthday, the princess will uh prick her finger on a spindle and she'll die. Now they were able to change that a little bit, and now she's just instead of dying, there's a little bit of mercy involved and she'll just sleep. Here's the point that I want you to notice if you go back and you watch the fairy tale is just ask the question, what happens when she sleeps? You'll notice in the cartoon or in the stories, the kingdom falls into ruin. I think it's interesting that the spindle, the thing that you would work on, And then she's able she goes to sleep and she's not able to work or do anything diligently. And the kingdom ends up falling into ruin. So too is that like our lives. If we follow the pattern of the lazy person in the vineyard, if we fall asleep on the job, then the gifts which God has given to us will fall into ruin. And we ourselves will be ruined. That's the universal law, the wisdom and the pattern that's being given to you here tonight. Now, of course that's relevant, and I wonder if you're just thinking like I really need to I really need to check out my foundation on my house or I I need to finally fix that leak on my roof. Maybe you are thinking about practical things like that. That would be good. But you know this is also relevant for the gifts that have been given to you, the gifts of grace. The spiritual gifts that have been poured out on you by Jesus Christ, do you know what will happen if you sleep on the job with regard to your graces? Christ tells us that this is true not just for the gifts of property and food, but of the gifts of your Christian calling. There's too many verses to even mention this evening. Listen to a couple of them, though. And if you want to look them up a little bit later, obviously you're welcome to. Here's 1 Timothy 4:13 through 16. And what I'm doing right now, just so you can catch this, is I'm saying Solomon in his wisdom, by way of the Spirit, has established a pattern that you might know a universal law, that you might navigate this world well for Christ. Now, if it's true, we should begin to see in other wise people that they have the same pattern. And that's exactly what we find. We go over to Paul and we see Paul Telling Timothy, Timothy, you need to have this pattern. And it's the same pattern as the person with the flocks and the herds. It's the same pattern in every area of life And here he gives it in 4. 13 through 16, he says, till I come, give attention to reading. Give attention to exhortation and to your doctrine. Now catch this. This is great. Do not neglect the gift that is in you. Which was given to you by prophecy with the laying on of hands of the eldership. Meditate on these things. Give yourself entirely to them, that your progress May be evident to all. Take heed to yourself and to your doctrine. Continue in them. For in doing this you will both save yourself and those who hear you. Now, if he wanted to do a contrast, what would happen if he neglects his reading? What if he doesn't fan the flame of his calling? Will he save himself or his hearers? Or will he become a liability to this congregation? It's clear, Timothy is being pictured here in the pattern. You can see the pattern. And he has a choice. Are you going to be the vineyard that crumbles? Or are you going to watch after your flocks and your herds? Hebrews 10, 24 through 25 is another one that I'll give to you. It says this about Christian fellowship and the importance of not neglecting it. And let us consider one another in order to stir up love and good works, not neglecting the assembling of ourselves together. As is the manner of some, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. There's even an argument here, I think, for not neglecting your worship on the Lord's Day. Do you see the pattern? Isn't it a gift that he shows you these universal laws that are a part of Anybody's life from generation to generation and that if in the power of the Spirit you could imitate and be a part of that pattern Then you know just from looking at former generations and their success that you'll also have a pattern of success? What a gift that Christ has given to us. We're going to move into a time of prayer in a minute. And our prayer is structured, I guess you know our prayer is structured by an acronym called ACE, A-C-T-S, Adoration, Confession, Thanksgiving, and Supplement. Right? I just want you to think about your lives and all of the supplication that you have made, all the supplies that you've asked for. And look at all that God has given to you. He's given you more than really you could ever ask for. Everybody sitting here in this room. God has given to you good things, good gifts And what he's teaching you here is that if you're not careful and diligent and responsible, then those good things that he has given to you will rot into the ground. I wonder what comes to your mind when you begin to think about your neglect. I wonder if it's located in your family. I wonder if it's your own spiritual life. How long has it been since you I've really enjoyed getting in the Word. Prayer. Diligently attending to the preached word. So that you're not a wreck. God has blessed you, and here we see that Christ has a calling for you. He doesn't just give you these things and then you get to rest on your laurels. He doesn't just give you his grace and his gifts and then you get to have a little folding of the hands and a little sleep. He gives you these things and then he gives you the power by his spirit to diligently and responsibly maintain them. And that's the wisdom that's given to us here tonight. God has blessed you. Therefore, in the name of Christ, I exhort you all to be diligent. To responsibly maintain the herd and the flock of the gifts that He has given to you. Amen. Let us pray. O Father, we thank you for this wisdom.