We have a sermon today uh on attitude. So um it oughta be good for all of us. Let's stand and we're gonna uh read together it's from Philippians chapter two and I'll I'm gonna read 14 through 17, but I'm really gonna focus on 14 through 16. I'll just read 14 through 16. This is 2, 14 through 16. Do all things without complaining and disputing that you may become blameless and harmless. Children of God without fault in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world, holding fast or forth the word of life So that I may rejoice in the day of Christ that I have not run in vain or labored in vain. Let's pray. Father, we ask that And you, Lord Jesus Christ, that your Spirit would illuminate these words to us, that they truly would be sealed to our hearts by faith. In Christ's name, amen. Please be seated We're continuing to look at our business partnership with God. I know you're getting tired of hearing the analogy by now I'm sorry. I'll come up with something. But the I see some new faces. We're going through a series where we are talking about our partnership with God. Now a partnership in the sense of a business transaction is different than when you're an employee. You care less. You get off at a certain time and you don't have to think about it any longer. And that's not true if you're a partner. The buck stops on your desk, so to speak. And Paul wants us to take our faith seriously, just as we would take a business partnership seriously. And we've been seeing many different aspects of this partnership Last week we took a look at the change of partnership, and the very first thing that was present within that passage was the goal of change. It's really important that we review the goal of change. There's also the motive of change and the power of change, which I'll get to in a second. But let me just remind you of the goal of change, because this is a continuous argument that the Apostle Paul is giving to us uh as Christians, uh or non-Christians, really. And and this were these were some words that I had quoted to you from Jonathan Edwards, a Puritan uh from the Northeast He says that Christ loved us, and we're thinking about the goal of change being Christ himself, that we are to be growing in the image of God in the image of Jesus Christ in a very particular way. And Jonathan Edwards says, Christ loved us, was kind to us, and was willing to relieve us though we were very evil and hateful, of an evil disposition, not deserving any good, but deserving only to be hated and treated with indignation, so too we should be willing to be kind to those who are of an ill disposition and are very undeserving. You see, since Christ did that, we too should be putting on that same thing. Christ loved us and laid himself out to relieve us, though we were his enemies and had treated him ill. So we also should love one other as Christ has loved us. We should relieve those who are our enemies, who have hated us, who have treated us with an ill spirit. You can see the point that he's trying to make there. And we went into the motive and began speaking about sincerity of heart, not doing these things out of compulsion or so that you look good uh which would be an ulterior motive, but rather that you're going to do these things willingly because you love the image of Christ and you want to be like him And then the last point that we saw last week was that we have the power to change because the Holy Spirit has been given to us. The problem is the faith. That we need to believe that the Holy Spirit actually changes us. We hear of a lot of different agents of change in our life Education, family environment, diet, essential oils, whatever it is that we brought up last week, but we know uh from these scriptures that it's the spirit that can only change, but it's the most difficult to believe that, because our world tells us it has to be a natural cause. And here it's saying, no, you need a supernatural cause. And it's very difficult as human beings nowadays to believe in the supernatural. Now, when you think about all those things, the goal of change, the motive of change, and the power of change, particularly the motive of change, you think about the sincerity of heart, not having to be pushed into something, but doing it willingly And the thing that we're talking about that's still right in front of our face is that Christ Hymn that we saw in 5 through 11, where Jesus was willing to give up this, and so too we should be willing to give up this. That's what all of this is about. But Paul takes one step further in this passage, developing sincerity of heart, and he says you must not only do it in an outward form, and outward behavior, but you have to have the same attitude as Jesus Christ. And that just took it to a whole new level. Having the attitude. So in other words, here we have before us in this passage the attitude of partnership. And I love how pervasive And uh the scope that God covers within human lies. He's not just interested in our outward behaviors. You know how easy it is to get away with things with your outward behavior You ever put on a nice space? But really inside, a hell has been unleashed. I think we're all very good at that. But God leaves no stone unturned, and so we're focusing on the attitude of partnership. I want you to see first the history of attitude That would be an interesting Netflix documentary. The history of attitude, the purpose of attitude, and the object of our attitude. And so let's begin with the history of attitudes. As I've already said, as we think about who we are supposed to be like, Jesus in his sacrificial generosity We must remember from past example that God cares for the outward form, but also the inner attitude Complaining and grumbling is immediately brought up in this passage. Do all things without complaining and disputing, or grumbling and disputing. The picture is a picture of what God's people have struggled with throughout their entire history. I'm sure that you can think of Bible stories Where there has been complaining and grumbling. And that's what the Apostle Paul is doing now. He is helping us to benefit now from the experience of those long ago. There's already been a precedent set and he's placing it before you. I want you to think, for instance, of Numbers 1422. You might want to write this down. This is a really interesting section, and if you were to read this and then do a little bit of research, it's interesting what you can come up with. It says in Numbers 14, verse 22 They have put me, this is God speaking, they have put me to the test ten times. Now he's speaking about his people. They have put me to the test ten times. Jewish scholars try to find the ten. Now he might just be saying they do it all the time. He could we just be saying that. But there are actually ten occurrences at least, of them putting him to the test. And each of the examples that are given of them testing God, it's grumbling and complaining. I'm not going to go through all ten. That would not be a good idea. Let me just give you a couple. Then they said to Moses, this is Exodus 14, 11, and 12, then they said to Moses, listen to this, this is amazing. I think what this Because there were no graves in Egypt, have you taken us away to die in the wilderness? Can you imagine somebody saying that to you? Or to Moses? Because there are no graves in Egypt, you've taken us out into the wilderness to dig a grave Why have you so dealt with us to bring us up out of Egypt? Is this not the word that we told you in Egypt, saying, Let us alone that we may serve the Egyptians? For it would have been better for us to serve the Egyptians than that we should die in the wilderness. Now this is right after a time when you had two beautiful songs written on the seashore of the Red Sea. I don't know if they had a guitar or a lyre or what it was, but that has gone out the window now. No more song. Now we have more of like a a heavy metal riff. And then you move into Exodus 15 verse 24, and the people complained against Moses, saying, What shall we drink? And then you have Exodus sixteen, verses two and three. Then the whole congregation of the children of Israel complained against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness, and the children of Israel said to them, Oh, that we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt. When we sat by the pots of meat, and when we ate bread to the fool, for you have brought us out into this wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger. Those are the kind of complaints that Paul is thinking about when he thinks about the complaining and the grumbling. And that makes a lot of sense, doesn't it? Because if he is calling a group of people to be sacrificially generous like Jesus Christ is sacrificially generous, then he's really called them into their own pilgrimage and wilderness, hasn't he? He's called them into their own track of obedience in the same way that the Son had a track of obedience. And he's saying that when you're on this track, listen, when we look at verses 5 through 11 and we see all the things that Jesus Christ gave up, Paul is admitting this is not going to be easy. This is going to be very difficult, but this is the life that God has promised to you. And while you're in the midst of this life, you think sacrifice is easy? You think this is going to be like a cute little kid paying it forward? This is going to mean blood, sweat, and tears, and while you're in the midst of it, don't be like the congregation who had their wilderness They were brought out in an exodus of sin and misery from the Egyptians. So too are you, do you have an exodus from sin and misery through Jesus Christ? But don't be like them in the wilderness complaining and grumbling. Really, what he's asking for here is for them to have patience. If you were to type in patience in the Oxford Dictionary, it says the capacity to tolerate delay or trouble or suffering without getting angry or upset. Patience. The capacity to tolerate delay or trouble or suffering without getting angry or upset. long suffering. David Pallison, who is a wonderful counselor with CCEF, he calls when we have trouble having patience, he brings to mind that the church develops false utopias He says, for Israel, the Israelites, what you kept seeing were the necessities of life for them. Food and drink. Right? Where's my water? Where's the food? And so you see water from the rocks and mana from heaven. But with us it ends up being something different. There are these expectations that we have as Americans that you will be called to give up If you're going to give up things like Jesus Christ gave up things. And so you're asking for a certain raise or situation at your job. Or you're not married yet and you long to be married. Or you would like to have security in your health. Uh you don't understand why it has to be this difficult. You understand you're older, but you'd like some kind of security Or you would like to see your children turn out okay. And what you end up finding is that there are seasons in the wilderness where those things don't turn out okay for quite some time. Now here's the difficult part. This is where it all begins. You have already a set of expectations and a false utopia in your mind as to what God owes you. He does not deliver to you in the time that you desire. And this is what you end up saying. God, your schedule sticks. And then it develops and it goes even further, and you say, God, you can't be trusted. I obviously need to take things into my own hands. Now that happens across the board. You can think particularly of like a conflict that you'd be having with someone. I've waited long enough for this person to straighten out their personality. I need to take things into my hands and I need to tell them how it is. And those are the kind of things that we're talking about here also. This inability that we have to delay gratification, to not be able to deal with trouble or suffering, because of these false utopias that we have created in our minds and expectations about our jobs or vocations, our marriages or our desire for marriage, security in our health or for our children And when he doesn't deliver, we say your schedule sinks. And now here is why this is such a big this is why this is such a big deal. And it's the next point, it's the purpose of attitude. That's the history of attitude, and we as a church can fall right into that wilderness mentality that the Israelites had. The purpose of attitude, I want to bring out a couple things here. For instance, As truly as I live, says he, all the earth shall be filled with the glory of the Lord. You know where that comes from? It comes from right before that numbers passage that I quoted to you. It's the whole reason why God is upset about them complaining. Let me read it to you again. He says, As truly as I live, says God, all the earth shall be filled with the glory of the Lord. And then he goes forward to deal with their grumblings. Now listen to it again. There's a similar statement in Matthew 5, 16. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. It's exactly the kind of language that we end up seeing here within verse 15 of this passage. Do all things without complaining, that you may become blameless and harmless, children of God without fault, in the midst of a crooked and and perverse generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world. It declares what our purpose is to be, as we are not complaining and grumbling. The complaining and the grumbling actually darkens and places a bushel basket over the light. We were once salt, but we lose our saltiness when that happens. We are supposed to be like the moon. The moon has no inner glory or illumination, but rather reflects the glory and illuminates from a greater source. It's exactly what the church is supposed to be. Here's the chain reaction that we end up seeing. We have aspirations and hopes. I'm going to tie all this together. We have aspirations and hopes. Delay or trouble or suffering begin. We begin to fear and to have anxiety that God will not do what he said he was going to do. So, fear and anxiety is really a result of believing that the future is out of our control now. And underneath of all of those thoughts that go through in a nanosecond through our minds as we deal with just about everything in life. The belief that's underneath of it all is that God is small, that God does not really care, that God doesn't have wisdom, that God doesn't know how to manage things. And therefore you will have to take things into your own hands. Look at all the declarations that are being made about God in the midst of your depression or self-pity or anxiety. What is fear but believing that there is something greater and more dangerous than God Himself? And that, do you see, do you see why that takes away the light? Can you see why it takes away the light? Every declaration that's made about God in your anxiety and in your fear Is pulling away from his glory. How so? Let me go back through the list and point it out. God is small What if people believe that about God? Is that glorious? Is it glorious that God is a small thing? Is it glorious that God is not caring? Is it glorious that God doesn't have the wisdom that you would actually need, so you're going to get a book from Amazon to take care of the difficulty? Is it glorious that God doesn't know how to steward and to manage his creation? It actually hits on all of the different points that we end up seeing throughout the scriptures. That God is supposed to be declared most excellent in his wisdom, that he is supposed to be glorious in the way that he cares about people. You end up seeing the exact same problem that throughout the scriptures that the world has been dealing with in all of its history, whether Christian or non-Christian. Think of Noah, for instance. Think of Noah. Think of Noah and his fate. Noah, there's no indication that there's been a torrential downpour or flood before or oceans to ride around in in your boat. And yet Noah decides he's going to build an ark, such and such cubits wide, such and such cubits long, and you know his neighbors were looking at him like he was absolutely crazy. And yet, he's there with the ark, and it doesn't rain. What about all the times that it didn't rain yet? And his neighbors are looking at him and saying, Really, Noah? The Ark? What if in that, what if his expectation that it would have rained on such and such a day when he was really getting a lot of heat from his neighbors? And he began to doubt God. God's not really going to do this. God's not really going to bring a flood. I've built this whole thing. I've built my whole life around him. I've dedicated all the lumber. I've done all this work for him. And where is he? He's not showing up. You can see what would begin to happen. He'd be saying the exact same thing of all those that are around him. If you look in in Second Peter, it talks about this It talks about how those, there are Christians that are waiting for the return of Jesus Christ and he hasn't shown up yet. Not in a flood, but in fire. And Peter says, I understand that they're scoffing and they're saying that he's not going to show up, but don't believe him. People didn't believe Noah either, but the floods came. This is a picture of the purpose of the attitude is that Noah is eventually vindicated and the glory of God's wrath is known across all of the earth. All of the earth. The point and the purpose of our attitude is from the from the Numbers passage, as truly as I live, all the earth shall be filled with the glory of the Lord. And that needs to be done in our attitudes. and our attitudes. The last is the object of our attitudes. So we have the history of our attitudes. You can see the purpose, which is the glory of God, and now you have the object of our attitudes. Now, uh take a look at the passage again. And it says in verse 16, holding fast the word of life. That's a really subjective interpretation of this. Holding fast the word of life would mean that you're holding on to it for dear life, and it's really about you being able to hold on to uh the glory of God and that he truly is ultimately wise and caring, that you you'd really be able to see all the excellencies of God. Holding fast to the word is a very individualistic and personal endeavor But really what's going on here, it includes that, but it's more. And most people that write about this verse point out it really should be holding forth the word of life. Holding forth the word of life. That's the way in which you would be a light to the world, is that you're going to be holding forth the word of life. Like a like a flowing orb for all of the world to be able to see in the attitudes that you demonstrate. That you'd be able to see it for yourself and hold fast, and that others would be able to see it also And you're like a luminary or star in the sky because of the word of life that has been given to you. It's life, it's not death. It's light, it's not darkness. And really, what it's pointing to is that you are to hold up the word as an invitation to life for all to see That the attitude that you have during the difficulties and the sufferings in your life would allow people to see the the inestimable or incomparable glory of every person of the Trinity. That's what it would mean to hold up the Word of Life. Otherwise, what you're doing is you're telling people with your mouth the gospel of Jesus Christ, and then you're complaining about your whole life that He manages in the next breath. And I don't understand how the two would ever go together. If he's the sovereign lord of the universe and he's the king of he's not just the king, but the king of all kings The complaining against the providences that he has placed within your life are directly contradictory to the gospel that you would preach to someone. And so you can see the importance again of the attitude that we should have. It should be that instead, especially in the midst of the suffering, we like Jesus Christ would say, Not my will, but yours be done. Even if we had to sweat blood in our Garden of Gethsemane, so to speak, there would still be that declaration about the glory of God. Now have you ever seen that with an individual that has death on the doorstep and they refuse not to glorify God? I've seen it. It's beautiful. It's a picture of true humanity It's the glory of humanity. You know, man and woman so throw themselves into the trash and they ruin their dignity. In so many different ways in life. But when you see that picture of faith, when faith, when death is on the doorstep, and they still declare God to be their God. It's humanity right there. It's perfection. It's the ideal that God always intended, and it's what He's calling us to We would hold up in the midst of being sacrificially generous, of giving up things that we never thought that we would have to give up We would hold up the glory of the Father's wisdom and his love for my life. Father, I don't understand what's going on here, but I know that you are ultimately wise. Let all of my doubts be wise, and you remain true in my life. And you have the glory of the Son. And it ties with the glory of the Father because it was God the Father who so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. And the Son agreed to come and give up his glory to set it aside in order to go through a great deal of sacrifice, even to the point of the death on the cross, in order to be glorified again by his Father. And we can talk about that, Glory. We can understand that there is a purpose to suffering. Do you realize that God Himself is not immune to suffering? He sent his son, and the son himself, being God, decided that he would suffer also. He's not telling you to do something that he himself did not do He's not like that. And you have the glory of the Spirit bringing sight to the blind-hearted. You have promises fulfilled all around you. There are people around you that would never go after God. Everyone in this room. Those are promises of the Spirit coming to earth and creating a new heart in people. These are all ways for us to see both the promises that have been fulfilled, that we might believe in the future promises that are given to us, so that we are always holding up the gospel as this glorious thing, even in the midst. Of our suffering. The gospel tells you this: that you're going to suffer like Jesus Christ suffered, and you are going to bear your cross. That's what it tells you. And yet, the translation for gospel is good tidings and good news. That's the great paradox of the human life, is that you will find good news and suffering for God and for his glory. That's what it means. It means that no matter who you are here today. You see the history of the Israelites, let's learn from their experience in the desert. If you're thirsty, God could bring water out of a dry rock, could you know that? You don't need it out there. If you're hungry, did you know he could just make bread grow out of the ground? Manna? You don't need to doubt him. You need to doubt yourself. You need to doubt your doubts. You can see how important the purpose here is for our attitudes also. If we doubt him at every point of doubt, listen to this just for a second. Underneath every doubt is an alternative belief. You get that? Underneath every doubt is an alternative belief. What do your doubts declare about God to this world? It declares that he's incompetent. Is there any glory in incompetence? Is there any glory in incompetence? No, there's not. So the point is for you to recognize not just the history, but to see everything that is at stake here with our attitudes. And then lastly, you have the object of attitude which is the Word of God. We set it forth for ourselves by holding it fast, the gospel message. We see how glorious the Father is in sending his Son, the Son's obedience and the sending of the Holy Spirit. Everything that you need for life and godliness. Is present. One person, I know you've heard the story before as a as I've come to an end. I know you've heard the story before. I can't not think about this guy. And it's Horatio Spaffer. He really glorified God in his attitude. You all know the story while he was crossing the Atlantic, all four of the Stafford's daughters died in a collision with another ship. And in the midst of that, when he crosses over the same spot in the Atlantic, right? And crossing over the same spot in the Atlantic He writes and pens these words, When peace like a river attendeth my way, when sorrows like sea billows roll, Whatever my lot, thou hast taught me to say, it is well, it is well with my soul. Do you hear the diff you hear what he's saying there? He's not saying you need to be uh glee And boun and and someone you love died and you're still gonna bounce around. He's saying that he's content with God's sovereign will. It is well with my soul. Though Satan should buffet, though trial should come, this blessed assurance control, that Christ has regarded my helpless estate and has shed his own blood for my soul Now I think he's on to something there, as we seek to have the correct attitude. If you notice that the poor attitude is tied to a lack of faith, staggering at the promises of God like a drunk person And now he says, let this blessed assurance control that Christ has regarded my helpless estate and he shed his own blood for my soul. The same thing that we see here in 5 through 11 ends up being not only an example for our life, but the example that would motivate us to have an appropriate attitude. In fact, if you want to, you could think of this. With all the doubts that you have that want to bring about that poor attitude. You know what hyssop is? It's an herb. that they would they would have dipped in the blood and they would have wiped their uh lintel in order for the destroyer to pass by You may want to, just as an exercise of faith, imagine that you have a bouquet, if you will, of pisa. And that you're going to dip it in each of the sacrifices that Jesus Christ has made, where he shed blood, and throw it on your death. This is what I mean by that. I say, does God really care for me? Jesus Christ was flogged. I'm going to dip it in the blood from the flogging and throw it on the doubt that he doesn't care for me. Did Jesus Christ care for me? Does he superintend my life correctly? Will God and Father care for me, the crown of thorns? The nails in his hands and his feet, the pierced side. The whole life of Jesus Christ is to instill and inspire faith within us That we would know that he cares, that we'd be able to hold on to that word of life with a real attitude and bring the glory of God in the midst of our sufferings. What a beautiful picture of humanity. What a beautiful picture of what it would mean to exist in sacrificial generosity like Jesus Christ. Let me pray now and ask that the Spirit would change us.