All right, brothers. So glad that you guys are able to be here. I hope everybody got a little bit of food. Let me go ahead and say a short prayer and then we'll get started with today. Father, you are awesome. You have given us your word that we would know who you are, what we should believe concerning you. And what duties you require of us. We pray, God, that as we examine part of your word this morning, you would indeed, by your Holy Spirit, show us how should we change our thinking of you and how should we change our understanding of our own lives and our own condition. We ask God that you will bless us and we praise you and thank you that we are made fit to receive your blessing. by the Lord Jesus Christ, His awesome saving work. And it's in His name that we pray. Amen. Alright, brothers. So if you recall the last uh this summer we've been going through a series called Recovering Virtue. Elder Vaughn uh had taken us in the last two Men's breakfast lectures through a a very brief understanding of Aristotelian ethics. What is it to How do we understand virtue, and how did they understand virtue? And if you guys recall what um Elder Vaughn had been saying to us, Aristotle's view of virtue. In in most parts, we'll sync up with what we understand virtue to be. Now, um it's important to remember that when we're having a conversation like this, we're talking about a whole lot of subjects, a lot of words can be used. So I'm going to try my best to make sure that I define all the terms that I'm going to use. And if you have a Bible, you may want to open it up to 2 Peter chapter 1. Most of this morning's talk is going to focus on verses two through nine. Might go through eleven. But mainly two through nine with the primary focus on verses five and seven. through seven. Anybody recall what Elder Vaughn was telling us about virtues? Anything stand out to you about the last two lectures that he he gave for us? This will be a participatory m participatory morning. Bob's off the hook. He wasn't here the last two. Do you guys remember uh Aristotle talking about the golden mean? Elderbron was uh reminding us that Aristotle is always looking at the balance between two poles, two extremes. You've got the vice and the virtue. And you're looking for a balance between those things to find the golden mean, the best possible scenario. So uh just an example like financial management, if you're talking about the characteristic of human beings in managing finances. There's two poles to that. You can have a bad poll and a good pole. And the idea is to find the balance, right? So we could say that uh maybe that hole is money saving versus money spending, and you would want the virtuous path would be the path that saves money properly and spends money properly If you're a person who only ever saves money, you become stingy and miserly and probably greedy because you have a an undue affinity for wealth or finances. Not saying that it's bad to manage money, but to manage it well. You want to make sure you have that balance. But then there's the other side, right? Profligacy. You could just be a spendthrift. You just spend a bunch of money you don't have. This is where credit and debt comes in. Credit's bad, kids. Don't get a credit card. Not less You know. So in in this kind of conception that Aristotle has Virtue, then, is the best possible path. It's the golden mean. It's the where humans should be if they want to have the most happiness. Well it it's a little different for Christians because we don't get to just kind of play a a thought experiment to figure it out. We trust that God has revealed Himself to us in His Word, and so He gets to define what it is for Virtuous living. What is it to be a morally excellent person? And so what I wanted to do for us in wrapping up this series is just take us through this What I really see as a path of virtue that Peter lays out for us. Let me go ahead and read for us. I'm going to start in verse 2 and I'll finish in verse 9. Grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord, as his divine power has given to us all things that pertain to life and godliness through the knowledge of Him who called us by glory and virtue. By which have been given to us exceedingly great and precious promises, that through these you may be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. But also for this very reason, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue. To virtue, knowledge. To knowledge, self-control. To self-control perseverance, to perseverance, godliness, to godliness, brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness, love For if these things are yours and abound, you will be neither barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. For he who lacks these things is short-sighted, even to blindness. And has forgotten that he was cleansed from his old sins. I'm going to do two more verses. Therefore, brethren, be even more diligent to make your call and election, sure. For if you do these things, you will never stumble. For so an entrance will be supplied to you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. First thing I want to point out is in verse 2 we have a greeting, a very common apostolic greeting, Grace and Peace, Karastai Irene. Grace is goodwill, loving kindness, favor. This is from our Lord. Irene is the peace, harmony, security, fulfillment. It's actually probably easiest to conceive as the Hebrew concept of shalom. So if you're familiar with Shalom, that was a greeting that they would have. What does it mean? It didn't mean like, oh peace, peace. It actually meant like contentment, fulfillment, wholeness. And so when uh Peter and Paul and the other apostles give this kind of greeting to us, they're basically saying, hey, remember, God loves you. There's good favor in God toward you. And your peace, your completion, your fulfillment is in him. Grace and peace be multiplied to you in what? In the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. And the word he uses here for knowledge is a very special word, epignoste. And it's it It's related to the word for knowledge, which we'll get to later, gnosis, which you may recognize that from Gnostics. Pharisees. They were all thinking that they had some kind of secret knowledge, a gnosis. Well, gnosis is not bad. The problem is that uh the Gnostics thought that they had a special knowledge that no one else had, that God gave them something unique, that only they knew about. This epignose is different though. It's a specific form of knowledge, which is precise and correct knowledge of the things that are ethical and divine. And when it's used in the New Testament, it's always used towards divine things or moral things. So he's saying, Grace and peace to you. Remember that God is good to you. May they be multiplied to you in this Particular knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. It's his divine power that has given to us all things that pertain to life and godliness. Life is zoang. You may recognize that word from zoo or zoological. It's study of life. Life is fulfillment of life. And oftentimes in the New Testament, when it's used, it's not just talking about the living and breathing like animals, it's also talking about ethical and essential life. In the Hebrew concept, this would be your soul, Nefesh. And then he says, godliness, you Sabian, and we'll get more into this when it comes in that path of virtues as well. And this is piety toward God. Godliness. It's really piety in religion toward God. So these things, life, godliness, are provided for us. And they are provided for us through God's holy and sovereign will. And it says, through the knowledge of Him who called us by glory and virtue. And you'll recognize glory, that's doxes. from which we get doxology, which is a word of glory or word of praise. And doxes is glory or honor or reverence Outside of the Bible in the secular writing, they would use this word for uh uh someone's opinion or an estimate of someone else. So if you want to say glory, um With God specifically about his praiseworthiness. This is where we see that God is eminently praiseworthy. In his glory. And then it said, we are called also by virtue. And this is the Greek word aretes. And aretes, this is Quite literally translated virtue, and we can understand it. This is moral goodness, moral excellence, particular moral excellence. This is the best possible way for And so God calls us to Himself through demonstrations of His praiseworthiness, His glory, and He's demonstrated His virtue, His moral excellence, His holiness. And he's done this in many, many ways. He does this through his works and he does this through his word. Now in in all of the Greek writing that uh exists out there, classical Greek writing, this idea of virtue is very important. There's a lot of people who have written about it. We already discussed briefly what Aristotle meant by these virtues. And so now I'd like us to just jump right in to verse 4. And we are going to start examining what it is that God is really doing and telling us in this passage. So, through God's self-revelation, this is that epignose, through the knowledge of Him. based on what he has given to the creature to understand, either through his mighty works in nature or his supernatural works in his word. He has given us knowledge of his glory and his virtue, and we have been given the exceedingly great and precious promises. And if you look there, what does it say are those exceedingly great and precious promises? That through these, those promises, you may be partakers of the divine nature. having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust, partakers of the divine nature. And this is this is a really important word that's related to the the Greek word for fellowship. You may know that word, koinonia This is a koinonia or koinonoi. This is a an individual who is a partner or an associate or a companion or a comrade. And what we should understand about this is that virtuous living for the Christian It's never an individual pursuit. It's not something you come up with on your own or figure it out as you're going along. It's actually walking alongside God. Right? So instead of walking alongside reason, as the Greeks may have said, where you you reasonably think these things out, you find the balance between good And you walk that middle path. We don't do that. We walk alongside the Lord God who tells us what the best path for us is. We are then made partakers in that way. And so we, being companions of his divine nature, we cooperate with God's Holy Spirit within us. This is our there is a sense in which we cooperate with the Spirit in our sanctification. I have to make absolutely We have to make sure that these two remain separate in our minds. When God saves us, that's entirely his viewing. We are not cooperating with his grace in any way for him to reach down into space and time and regenerate us into a new kind of creature. Yet in our sanctification, as we are moving along in this life, As he enables us more and more to turn away from sin and turn unto Jesus Christ. This is all happening as we walk along God. And so when we walk along God and we want to think about Christian virtue, what we're really doing is we're Imitating God's character. Everything we do as we're trying to live a Christian life is to live in a way that is coordinate with God's will, with his law, with his purposes. And so we are really blessed that Peter has made it pretty clear, in my opinion. How it is that a person should live such a life of Christian virtue, a life that is a companion life to our Lord, that is walking along with us And so looking at verse 5, this is where Peter lays out that path of Christian virtue. And I think of this in a way as though he's given us kind of a map. A map to help us understand the order and the importance of how we live, these virtues. So to live well, to live in a way that shuns lust and the corruption it causes, as you see there. Um right there at the end of verse four. To live in a way that demonstrates that we have the knowledge of God, particular knowledge of Him, and that we are called by His glory and virtue, then we must follow this This path. Each one of these virtues that Peter lays out, it flows from the first and it adds to the last, and it can it kind of is a palindromic passage. It goes both ways Right? I mean if you look if you look at this, if you have faith without virtue, what value is that? And we'll talk more about that as we go through this. And that's that's how I kind of want to examine these. I want to say examine these virtues in that way, but first let's look at this word add. Okay? Now sometimes it can be confusing because we talk so often about how uh little value we as humans have in in these kinds of things. We we can't really I mean let's think about it. We can't affect change in ourselves very easily. How are we going to affect change in others. We can't do that. But when we're saying add, when he's saying add, it really is not like um mathematical, right? It's not not just um One plus one equals two. It's not uh faith plus virtue equals happy life. This is actually uh supply is what I'm saying. Supply or supplement. Not just to add. Adding is in there, but when you supply something, you are uh taking it seriously Right? You you need to supply your vehicle with fuel in order for it to operate. No good just having a a vehicle without any gasoline because then w what I mean you've just got this expensive thing. on your yard. We are to take and understand that the Christian life is not stagnant. We don't sit still. We're not content where we are. But instead, we're always growing. We are always supplementing with the faith that God has given us. With new and increased devotion, new and increased love, and new and increased knowledge of who God is. And so, first we have faith. This is the very first thing. And we know it's first because he says, he doesn't say get yourself faith. He says add to your faith. There's an assumption here, a presupposition that God has already transformed you. You've already been justified. You have faith. You have the gift of faith, right? Ephesians 2, 8 through 9, for by grace you've been saved through faith, that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast. And we know from the word what faith is. I'm sure many of you recall Hebrews 11:1 when we hear the word faith. Now, faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. And the Christian life must be founded on a belief in God. We must know and trust who He is, who He's revealed Himself to be. But we must not be content merely to believe, right? We can't just say, hey, yeah, I believe that God is there. We have to have other things That work alongside faith and the trust that has been given to us. And the very first thing that we are told is that we must add to faith virtue. That word Aratane. And so if we're going to have faith and we want to be faithful in walking alongside our Lord We must add to that trust of him that he's given us, the belief that there is a God and that he has revealed himself. We must then add moral excellence. And so to understand moral excellence, I want to take us just briefly to Philippians 4. 8. You can turn there if you want, I'll just read it. Philippians 4. 8 uses this very same word, and it gives us a little bit of a helpful understanding of it. It says, finally, brethren, whatever things are true, whatever things are noble, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of A good report, if there is any virtue If there is anything praiseworthy, meditate on these things. That which is morally excellent, these are the good things that we should be occupying our minds and our lives with. And I want to point out to you that there's no such thing as neutrality. In this cosmos, there are good things, there are true things, there are noble things, just things, lovely things, praiseworthy things, as Paul is saying Saying here to the Philippians. These are the things that we should focus on. But there is the other side of the spectrum, and we we're helped in our ex examination of Aristotle to realize this. There are all forms, all kinds of immoralities, low and base things, worldly things that we could put our minds on, and this is not what we as Christians must do. If you are a person who has Christian faith It means that you believe what is true, you believe that God defines what is good, and so you shun those things that are wicked or evil, and you meditate upon that which is evil. comes from God. There's a quote from G. K. Chesterton I want to share with you. He says, When men choose not to believe in God, they do not thereafter believe in nothing. They then become capable of believing in anything. What you believe matters. What you have faith in matters. And so you must start with faith in God, trusting what He said, how He's revealed Himself. And you must then add or supplement that belief with what is morally excellent. And we get that from God. We get that from His Word. word. So I ask you, can there be moral excellence without faith? This is that palindromic part of it, right? You have to add to your faith moral excellence, but what is moral excellence without faith? There cannot be objective moral excellence without God. It's just impossible. I don't care what any atheist has tried to argue. You cannot have an objective moral standard Without there being an objective lawgiver, one who defines morality. Yet the world is full of this relativistic morality, right, or a subjective morality. It's not defined by a higher authority. It cannot be universally applied, it can never actually be applied to anyone, because every person then becomes the authority of their own moral goodness Only faith in the triune God, the true God, the God of the Bible, can supply a foundation for virtue So we have both of these are going back and forth. Now faith or belief should, if you if you believe in the right thing, You have a a right understanding of God. It should breed in us a desire and a longing for moral excellence. Because as I said before, we are walking alongside God. If you believe who God is and who you're walking alongside, it should make you seek after His character, knowing who he is and what he expects, so that you can do that in your own life. We trust that he is the author and the definer of moral excellence. And so Christians must diligently pursue discovering and finding moral excellence as God has designed it. So We have faith, we start with faith, we add to it moral excellence, and in order to know what moral excellence is, what do we need to do? With great diligence, as he has said before. If you look there in your scriptures, it You need to add to virtue knowledge. So we believe the truth about God, we believe in the true God, we believe what he says is morally excellent, and we follow after those things, we seek it, and in seeking that we gain knowledge. And this is that word gnosis. Knowledge, intelligence, understanding. Second Corinthians 4:6 says, For it is the God who commanded light to shine out of darkness, who has shown in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Faith is trusting the designer of the universe. It's trusting our great God to define what is morally excellent. And he has given us the clearest definition of this, the clearest knowledge of this in Jesus Christ, in the incarnation of the Son of God. We can look to him and to his character to see how we And what is uh the ultimate goal for all Christians is that we are conformed in after the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. We are no longer in the image of Adam, sinful, bent towards sin. So we have to add this knowledge. Knowledge, where where do you get knowledge about moral excellent morally excellent things? Where do you get knowledge about the character of God? 2 Timothy 3:16 and 17. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete. Thoroughly equipped for every good work. If you want peace in your life, you want to have that completeness in your life, you need to know what God has said in His Word so that it will equip you for the good work which it is moral excellence. So now that's this does not mean that every Christian must be a scholar, right? Adding to your faith virtue and to virtue knowledge. It doesn't mean that you must be the most educated person in all of the history of the church. But it does mean that in some way every Christian must be scholarly. Right? Your focus of your whole life may not be on scholastic pursuits, but you must have some characteristics of a scholar. You must know who God is, you must seek him out. You must know what he's like. What does God claim about himself? What has he said about his creation? If you're to have any hope of living a life of moral excellence, a life of virtue, you must go to his word to know. Now, virtue without knowledge is misguided and it's easily mistaken. It can cause unnecessary disputes and arguments. Think about all of those secondary and tertiary doctrines that people will get in these big arguments about we call it cage stage Calvinism. You wanna you wanna argue somebody into the ground about predestination when you you've obviously missed the whole point about what God God is doing to the human race in predestining some to everlasting glory and some to wrath. You miss the point if all you do is argue with somebody about whether or not it's true. Now uh also think about this. Uh if if you have uh an idea of moral excellence without knowledge, then there is a a possibility that you got it wrong. And what you're saying is something that's morally good, it may not be. We see this all around us in the world. Right? You you want to have a slogan that Some particular lives matter, okay. Have that slogan. But it doesn't work out that that's necessarily a moral excellence. Because once you start to talk about this subject and really work it out, you find out that to uh to set one part of the human race above the other, that is not moral excellence. No matter how it's being done. To have knowledge alone can be dangerous. There's many, many smart people out there. There's a lot of people that know a whole lot about the Bible. They know a lot about God's law. And They can make terrible mistakes if all they have is knowledge. Though one may know what is morally excellent and believe it truly to be by faith. Yet what good is it if they do not have the capability of actually choosing to live out that faith in a morally excellent way? And this is why Peter then says that not only do we got to start with faith, we're going to supplement our faith with moral excellence or virtue. In order to know what that is, we have to have knowledge, we have to know about God, and we need to seek that out, and we must add then to all of this self-control. This can be translated as temperance. In the King James Version, it's translated as temperance. It's the virtue of one who masters his desires and passions, especially his sensual appetites. It's the same word that's used in Galatians 5, in the fruit of the Spirit's passage. He says, But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace. Long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such there is no law. And self-control is necessary if one is to limit their behaviors and their thoughts to only what they know and believe is morally excellent. Specifically, what they know and believe is morally excellent in God's eyes, because that's what defines it. It for us. You could know everything about moral excellence. You could really believe it. You could have a good concept of virtue. But if you cannot choose the virtuous path over the wicked path, Then what good is it? What good is it to know all this stuff if you don't actually have the will to choose it? And this is why we have to add to all of these things self-control. Now the opposite of self-control is lust. And this is what has corrupted the world. That's what we're told in verse 4. Now, self-control is a very difficult virtue, right? That means you deny yourself. You deny your own desires, and this is not easy. It's not easy to say no to ourselves. Self-discipline is a it's not not really a popular concept nowadays. And in fact, what we generally think is that it's easier for us to be disciplined if it's coming from outside. of ourselves. Somebody else, right? If there's a law that says you must do X, Y, Z, well that makes it easier. Yeah the law says I have to do it, so I have to do it. But a much better way of living is to do what is right for its own sake. Fake. You do what is morally excellent and good, not because someone else is making you do it, but because you actually want to do it, because you are walking alongside the Lord who tells you to do it. Now that causes a conflict for some Christians because Oftentimes there are laws that are not morally excellent. Or there are laws that are less morally good than other laws could be. And so we have to to then be very wise and prudent as Christians to what does God want us to do when we come in those situations? And I think that might be a talk for another Saturday morning. instead of right now. So if we are going to have self-control, we're going to choose what is good over what is evil, is it any good if we just do it, you know, once or twice? Just one time? Is that is that good enough? Uh this is what I think easy believism has done for people. Is they think, yeah, you know what? I chose the morally good thing once. I I I stood up at the end of the the revival meeting and I I prayed the prayer that was on the back of the bulletin. I did I made a good choice. I had self-control one time. Now it's not just once. And this is why we need to add to all of these things. Adding to faith, to virtue, to knowledge, to self-control, we must add prayer. Perseverance. This is a great Greek word. I love it. Hupamone. It is steadfastness, constancy, endurance, or steadfast patience. In the King James, I believe it translates this as patience. And that helps us understand. Look at what it says. In in Luke 8:15, this word is translated as patience. He says, But the ones that fell on the good ground are those who Having heard the word with a noble and good heart, keep it and bear fruit with hupamone, with patience. We uh that's taken from the parable of the sower. And so if you are bearing the fruit with endurance, bearing the fruit with perseverance, with steadfastness, with patience, the first sign of trouble doesn't make you abandon your entire pursuit. This is to stand firm in one's convictions. And though it is difficult and even painful, this is what we're called to do. We are called to exercise self-control throughout our lives. Does that make sense? There's never gonna come a point in your life where you can kinda let go of your self-control. Just, hey. Sometimes, I mean, if if you ask some folks in that season of life, there are areas of self-control that God takes away for you. I used to live with my grandmother and learned a lot of those areas of self-control. that had been taken from her. And yet she still was one of the most godly people I've ever met. And she tried harder than anybody I've ever known to control herself Because she was aware of certain things like for example, she had Alzheimer's. She could get really angry really, really fast. And though she may go off and say words I never even knew my grandmother had heard before. Shortly after that, she would know that something was wrong. She could tell that something had happened that was off, and she'd apologize. She wouldn't even remember what she'd done. She just would know that something had happened. Perseverance, self-control through the end. We must create a pattern of self-control. That lasts our entire lives. This is a tremendous challenge, but it's not impossible. It requires all of the virtues which Peter has listed before it. It requires faith. It requires a knowledge of what is morally excellent. It requires you to know what God is expecting of you. Self control is very important. And so we must persevere in it and endure in it and be patient not only with ourselves but also with others. And to do this consistently Is true perseverance, consistent self-control. But it doesn't end there. Even to our self-control, there's something else that must be supplemented. And he said We must add to perseverance godliness. Eusebian. And godliness is uh is could be translated as reverence or respect. I prefer the translation piety. towards God. Piety is probably a really good way of understanding this. And it helps us if we know in the Septuagint, the Greek version of the Old Testament, This word that is translated as godliness, Eusebian, is the word that represents the phrase the fear of the Lord. So that should help you understand what the New Testament authors understood about Eusebian, about godliness. It is the fear of God, the fear of the Lord. And we know in Proverbs 1. 7 that it tells us the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and instruction. And perseverance is greatly motivated by this sense of reverence and piety toward God. We persevere in our self-control not only because of the natural benefits, which are ours through self-control. But because we really do believe that this is a way that we glorify God and enjoy Him. This is a way that we show God that we believe who He is and we believe in His praiseworthiness. We believe what he has called good is indeed good. We believe that what he has defined as morally excellent, as virtuous, really is virtuous. And we know what he commands and forbids because we seek his goodness. We seek to find out what it is that God defines as morally excellent. And without godliness or piety, our motivations will be off. Our virtuous living will inevitably become a pursuit of selfish ambition rather than one which gives glory to God. We will think of ourselves as special because of our self-control, or special because of our our patient endurance, our our perseverance. We'll think that we have some kind of special knowledge, like I mentioned about those Gnostics. We'll be very, very taken with ourselves if we do not have this virtue of piety towards God. To pursue this life of Christian virtue for the right reasons and with the proper motivations is, in a sense, to try to live out the first table of the law. You guys know what is the first table of the law? It's the first four commandments of the Ten Commandments. And we probably know, most of us, the summary of that, right? The summary of the Ten Commandments? Well, the summary of the first table is Somebody's mumbling something. Love the Lord your God with love your heart, mind, mind, and strength. Yep, heart, mind, soul, and strength. Love the Lord your God. That is the first table of the law. And so, if we are going to love the Lord our God with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength, we must first have faith. We must believe what God has said. We must understand what is morally excellent as God has defined it. We must add to our faith and our virtue knowledge. Adding to our knowledge self-control to self-control, perseverance, patient endurance to perseverance, our godliness. This is how we love our Lord. And it affects us very much so, this piety towards God. It empowers us on our journey of sanctification along this very path that Peter is talking about But our piety towards God will also affect others because a Christian cannot stop loving God. We love God, we trust God, we love Him for His own sake. We don't love him just because of the things that we we hope he'll do for us. We love him because of who he is. We don't love him just because of the grace that he extends to us. We don't love the grace, we love the God of grace. And he has given to us these virtues. Now, I want to point out that there are some groups of people who would think that this is the end of it Right? That piety or godliness is the end to which we have been given all of this knowledge and faith, to which God has given us and defined moral excellence. But that's not the end. Because we must also add to godliness brotherly kindness. And you probably know this word. This word is the same word on the the very best kind of cream cheese that ever existed. You know the word, Philadelphia. It's the best cream cheese out there. Philadelphos, this is brotherly love, brotherly affection. And now we can see this is now taking us to that second table of the law. And what's the summary of the second table of the law? Love your brother as yourself. Love your neighbor as yourself, yeah, or your brother. So the first table, love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and love your neighbor as yourself. Romans 12:10 Be kindly, affectionate to one another with brotherly love, in honor, giving preference to one another. And this is the love that we have for each other. A love that is not based on the other person, right? It's never based on the other person's moral excellence. It's also not based on our own moral excellence. We can't say, oh, I love you, and that makes me so much better than others. No, this is a love that is based on who God is. And so we must understand that we love others for God's sake, for Christ's sake. We love others because God loves them. We love others because God loves us. We don't ever have the right to tell ourselves that we're something special because we're loving other people and loving them well. To have all of the virtues up to this point and to stop would be to experience a very selfish Christian religion. We cannot fool ourselves and try to assess the state of our Christian walk based only on our private and personal experience of our own religion. Now, if you wonder, or you struggle to see your faith in action, you can always do a self-assessment. You can always ask yourself, how many people have been affected by my faith so far? Maybe maybe limit it. Say how hey this year, so far in 2022, how many of my neighbors have experienced the love of Christ through me? Can you think of any situations in which your love for Christ compelled you to do something which showed his love to someone else? To a brother, to a sister? Perhaps ask one of your closest friends, one of your intimate companions, ask them. Because sometimes our own perspective of ourselves can be off. Maybe we just don't think about that in that way. Ask somebody that's really close to you and say, hey, do you see the love of Christ working itself out in me? Ask them if they see God using you. for his glory. And lastly, brothers, to all of these things, to all of these virtues, to brotherly love, to brotherly affection and kindness. We must add love. And you're probably familiar with this term because it's kind of hard to be a Christian and not have heard the word agape. Agape is a very special kind of love. The textbook definition is affection, goodwill, benevolence, or charity. And the King James Version helps us because it translates agape almost every time as charity so that we can understand what it is. John 15, 10, the Lord Jesus Christ says, if you keep my commandments, you will abide in my agape, in my love. Just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. John fifteen, thirteen, greater love has no one than this than to lay down one's life for his friends. Romans thirteen, ten. Love does no harm to a neighbor, therefore love is The fulfillment of the law. Agape is very unique to the Christian world. It is not a concept that the Greeks had. They did have a concept of agape, but not in the way that the Christians have really fleshed it out, this idea of unconditional love, this idea of a love that is bound to something higher. And something greater. We love in this way because God first loved us. And this is why it's the last and greatest of the Christian virtues on this path. It must be a true and unforced love. It's a genuine desire to see those around you, even those that don't have any particular connection to you. This kind of love is a desire to see them blessed by God or protected by God or made whole by God. Brotherly kindness and brotherly affection, this is easier for us to understand, right? We're all related. Familial love. Now, some some families it's easier to love than others. I understand that. But because we are brothers and we are in the same family, it's easy to love Well, I should say. It's simple. It's simple to know that we should love one another. Maybe it's not always easy. But this is different than that kind of familial love. This is the love we have for all things which are God's. Everything. Even those who are not of the elect, we must have a kind of love for them. A love for our enemies. We pray for those who persecute us. We love God most of all. And in so loving Him, we love all that He has done and all that He will do. We may not fully understand it, but this love of God drives us not only to love others, but to love Him even more. This is the kind of love and devotion to Christ that shows itself as a love that's willing to sacrifice ourselves, sacrifice our well-being for someone else. We are willing to give of what is ours without any fear or without doubt. We love because He loves us. So we have practiced love by showing brotherly love and kindness to the household of God. This is where we can really work out what it is to love someone. And that kind of brotherly kindness, that brotherly affection and love is the result of our piety and our godliness. Understanding how God is glorified through our behavior, through our self-control, persevering in it. God's glory motivates our patient endurance, our perseverance to continue. In self-discipline, refusing evil and embracing the morally excellent. And we know what all those things that are morally excellent are, because we have sought them from God Himself in His Word. And through his word, his spirit has given us a great faith, a trust in what he's told us about himself and how we must live. And so, brothers and brothers, this is the key to a fruitful Christian life. It is the Christian path of virtue. May God bless us with all that we need for life and godliness as we continue on the path of salvation that He has put us on. And if you need encouragement, just remember what it says that he who began this good work, he's not going to leave it. He will finish it. So as you go through this life, take courage and encouragement. Know that faith first is the certificate of his good will toward you. That you believe what he says in the the Bible is a good sign to you, and you should take that and trust it, that that means he is now in the process of sanctifying you, making you more and more I'm going to go ahead and say a quick prayer and then we'll open it up to some questions and answers before and if you need after the prayer, if you want to head out, that's perfectly fine. But I think of the plan is to probably wrap up around ten o'clock, okay? Let me go ahead and pray for us. Father. We thank you first for preserving for us and giving to us your word that teaches us all of these things. This path of virtue is difficult There's nothing easy about it, and yet it is so simple, Lord. It makes perfect sense. It is eminently reasonable. So I ask God as we as we go into this time of question and answer, would you give us greater understanding? Would you help us To see more clearly what it is you are giving to us in this virtuous passage. And I pray, God, that as we leave from here, That you will grant all of us a greater joy and enjoyment of this calling, the calling you have made to us, that we should know your glory and your virtue, and that we should live in Father, we we want to please you. We want to praise you with our every thought, word, and deed. We know that this is not possible except through your whole Holy Spirit. And so we beg you, God, that you would give us the grace to submit to you and to submit to your Spirit within us. Pray this in Christ's name.