We'll read till twenty eight verse ten. Acts twenty seven, verse thirty nine. When it was day, they did not recognize the land, but they observed a bay with a beach, onto which they planned to run the ship if possible. And they let go of the anchors and left them in the sea, meanwhile loosing the rudder ropes, and they hoisted the mainsail to the wind and made for shore. But striking a place where two seas met, they ran the ship aground. And the prowl struck fast and remained immovable. But the stern was broken up by the violence of the waves. And the soldiers' plan was to kill the prisoners, lest any of them should swim away and escape But the centurion, wanting to save Paul, kept them from their purpose, and commanded that those who could swim should jump overboard first and get to land, and the rest, some on boards and some on parts of the ship And so it was that they all escaped safely to land. Now when they had escaped, they found out that the island was called Malta. And the natives showed us unusual kindness, for they kindled a fire and made us welcome because of the rain that was falling, and because of the cold. But when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks and laid them on the fire, a viper came out because of the heat and fastened on his hand So when the natives saw the creature hanging from this hand, they said to one another, No doubt this man is a murderer, whom, though he has escaped the sea, yet justice does not allow to live. But he shook off the creature into the fire and suffered no harm. However, they were expecting that he would swell up or suddenly fall down dead. But after they looked for a long time and saw no harm come to him, they changed their minds and said that he was a God. In that region there was an estate of a leading citizen of the island, whose name was Publius, who received us and entertained us courteously for three days. And it happened that the father of Publius lay sick of a fever and dysentery. Paul went in to him and prayed, and he laid his hands on him and healed him. So when this was done, the rest of those on the island who had diseases also came and were healed. They also honored us in many ways, and when we departed, they provided such things as were necessary. Let us pray. Lord Jesus Christ, all authority in heaven and earth has been granted to you. I pray that you would give permission for your people to hear and to receive your word. I pray that you would therefore remove the evil one and his influences from our midsts. I pray, Lord, in other words, that your preaching would be effective. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Well, last week we witnessed Paul's sea voyage. Luke recorded the actual historical event, but you can tell that the sea journey acted and still acts as a living parable. The main point which stood out was that Jesus Christ stands by his church as they carry out their great commission. We therefore must let courage possess our souls. That has really been, if you look underneath of each sermon, for the past five sermons, it's really been the message of the total end of Acts here. Let courage possess your souls. Ever since Christ told Paul, I stand by you, that has been the message. And that will continue this morning, really. This week, the Great Commission and Courage are still the focus. And this is quite fitting, if you think about it, as we approach the end of Acts here. Let's begin by making a few observations on this Running aground and the happenings on Malta, and then there's a few applications that we should take from this passage this morning. Observation number one. After Paul is washed ashore, he, the crew, and the other prisoners received warm hospitality from the barbarians or the natives. As Paul gathered some sticks for the fire, a viper came out and struck Paul's hand. This has all stood out to us in the initial reading. Paul shook the serpent off into the fire. The natives reasoned in verse 4, I hope you caught that, that justice caught up with him. Now that's a capital J justice, because this is a lowercase g god of theirs. Their reasoning, you understand it. They thought that since Paul made it through the storm, but then was bitten by a venomous viper, he truly must be a murderer. You and I, in our kind of agnostic age and atheistic age, we may have said um maybe we wouldn't, but our age would have said, that guy's got some real luck there To make it through the storm and then to be bit. Well, they looked at it through a different lens that justice the God caught up with him. And yet the narrative has to change. Because when Paul shook off the stake, and then nothing happened, they had to draw a different conclusion, as you can see in verse number six. They decided that Paul is a god. Now this should all be reminiscent to you of Acts chapter 14, when uh another group of pagans did the same thing They went a little bit further in trying to offer sacrifices to him. Paul tore his clothes and rebuked them, and none of that happens here. But they're both doing the same thing. The pagans, in other words. See that Paul is not just some guy, but is either divine himself or has a divine connection of some sort. There's some kind of resonant authority with this person where it far be it from the gods being against him, they're actually for him. That would be the way maybe they would say it. So, summarily speaking, the natives see that Paul has some unique power over serpents in this case, and that either he is a god or is associated with one. That's the first observation. Now here's the second one. Besides Acts chapter 14 being evoked here, I hoped that you would have Luke chapter 10 evoked. And we had that reading in the bulletin earlier, so you could see the connections and the similarity in the language, similarity in the acts, similarity in the context. Then the seventy returned with joy, saying, Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name. And he said to them, I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven Behold, I give you the authority to trample on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy that's the interpretation of that, over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall any by any means hurt you. And this is what we see with Paul. And it is a continuation of the same context that we have seen with Paul as he fulfills his commission. The natives were half right, in other words. The fact that Paul shook off the serpent and no harm came to him is a witness. It is a witness of a kind of authority or power which Christ had given to him as an apostle. It is not an authority to be a snake handler, literally. He didn't retire to a pet shop and he was in charge of the snake section. As Luke says in Luke 10 19, Behold, I give you the authority over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall by any means hurt you. We already had one witness of that fact of making it through the storm. The natives were going to misinterpret that, and so another sign is given that they might draw the right conclusion. It has certainly been demonstrated the entire time, actually, that there is an authority that has been given to Paul by way of Christ. And that this is not just a story for the past, but these things are given to you today to contribute to your strength as a disciple of Jesus Christ when you live in an era When you will be bit. Paraphrasing from Genesis 3. 15, we could say something like this, in fact, as our doctrine this morning. As you continue the Great Commission, take heart. Speaking to the whole church, let courage possess your souls. Why? Though the serpent bruises your heel, through the authority of Christ, you will crush his head That has been the message of the church from the very beginning, and it's progressively happening. The serpent may bruise your heel, but you will crush his head. That would be another way to summarize what we see before us today. Well I believe we need to develop that a little bit in just some applications. I have a few points that I want to bring out with that. One is let's just have a discussion for a moment about authority. It would be a good discussion to have. It's not a discussion. I'm preaching. I'll take that back. I'm going to preach to you about authority. Uh, and then I want to apply that to our callings. And we'll come to a close. So the very first thing is authority. Let me restate our doctrine this morning. Though the serpent bruises your heel, through the authority of Christ, very important, through his authority, you shall crush his head. We don't often stop to think about the word authority. It rolls off of our lips all the time. We take it for granted and we count on it. But we don't often get a chance to really talk about it, even from a biblical perspective The word in our passage is exusia, and it refers to authority that is delegated. For example When Christ says, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth, in Matthew 28:18 It is the same word from Luke 10, which I'm telling you is a lens to understand what's going on here with Paul and his commission and the commission of the church. And for even further context is Daniel 7. Now Daniel 7 is very important to this whole account. Daniel is given visions. Do you remember this of four beasts? Each representing nations which God has given authority or empowered. The first was like a lion with eagle wings. The second was like a bear with ribs in his mouth. The third was like a leopard with four heads and wings, and the fourth was a kind of category-defying animal. And so attributes are described: iron teeth and ten horns. God gave these beasts, which were nations at the time in domination, authority and power for a time. They had temporal authority is what we would call it around here. And yet, at just the right time, each beast, including the last terrible beast, was slain. Daniel seven verse eleven. I watched then because of the sound of the pompous words which the horn was speaking. I watched till the beast was slain, and its body destroyed, and given to the burning flame Then to him, going down to now verse 14, then to him, Jesus Christ, really, was given dominion. And glory in a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom is the one which shall not be destroyed. Daniel seven fourteen In other words, the Father has given Christ all authority in heaven and in earth. And his kingdom rule has begun and it shall come to fruition in due time. as you heard Chase speaking to the element of time and the judgment of God. That's a little bit about authority. There's so much more that could be said on that. But that's a summary of what surrounds what's going on here at this time within the book of Acts, and Paul's commission and our great commission as a church. Now that's authority. Think about authority as our next point of application in relationship to the extraordinary calling of the apostle. And what we're going to do is we're going to work our way down into your callings. When Paul casts the serpent into the fire, I want to start looking through the lens of authority. When Paul casts the serpent into the fire, it is simply a sign of what we are taught elsewhere. Jesus Christ gave Paul and the other apostles authority, under his authority, to overcome the evil one. Sometimes you can see that in the form of healings, of dread diseases, and especially when they were amongst Samaritans in the casting out of demons and devils. Satan, in other words, and it is assumed, was permitted a measure of power in the ancient world and really throughout the world. As Paul shook the biting serpent from his hand, it stood for Satan's authority or power lessening. I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven. Rome was blind, and that's where he's headed. But upon Paul's arrival, Christ himself would grant them sight, those who are his elect to be gathered out from the darkness. Remember that language? Do you remember that language from Acts chapter 26, 18? That's just two chapters away. One chapter if we think that we're just starting with 27. What does Paul preach? To open their eyes in order to turn them from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins. and an inheritance among those who are sanctified by faith in me. That is how he characterized the commission. He characterized it with permission having been granted to the evil one at the center, and Christ Giving power to his preachers to overcome even the strong man who had taken over the house Paul would say in 2 Corinthians later 4, verses 3 through 4, but even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing, whose minds the God of this age has blinded. Who do not believe, lest the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine on them. Christ, however, despite all of those permissions granted to Satan and his kingdom Christ, however, is in authority even over him, of course, there's no comparison, and he gave Paul and the apostles at just the right time power over the God of the age. That clarity and illumination would result. The illumination of the Spirit. They preached Christ And Christ released men and women and children from the captivity of the devil. That's how it worked. But the power was always coming from heaven. That's the point. That's where the authority is. And this has everything to do, not just with an extraordinary calling, like an apostolic calling. But ordinary callings like you have. To understand your life, you need to realize that Christ has granted you authority in your callings. Sometimes when we talk about vocation or calling around here, it sounds like we're just talking about a neat philosophy that helps us to categorize things so that we can talk and be articulate. But we're talking about reality. That's really what's going on. Seeing the world as God upholds it in its moral order Sometimes, for example, we speak around here, and I don't know if you remember this, but we speak about your calling as that God has given you different domains in your life. Have you ever heard that language before? Have you heard that you have different domains? God has given you different domains. Have you paid attention to the language of domain? Domain is derived from the idea of dominion and authority and power that you have that in that particular jurisdiction is one way we've been talking about it around here. And as Christians, in short, Christ gives you his spirit to progressively overcome the serpent in the domains of self-governance In your families, in the church, and even within the civic realm. That is an authority that has been from Christ granted to you. Now, when we start to think and develop our ideas of our calling under the notion and the reality of authority. Then something ends up being revealed about us modern people that is troubling. There is a forgotten part of our calling And we all raise our hands and we say we're reformers. And if there's something forgotten that's supposed to not be forgotten, then it's time for reformation. And I'll just mention this to you. We acknowledge Christ's authority theologically But we must make the observation that functionally and practically we often live by the patterns and mindsets of this world with regard to authority. And how we get it. We think that the kingdom is advanced and that power is exercised when we develop skills, for example I want you to just think for a moment about wanting to be powerful. I'm not even talking about for the sake of being evil. That can be a problem. But let's say you want power and authority to do good things How will you gain the power? How do you think you gain authority? I usually will hear, I need the skills to pay the bills. And we think that there are particular institutions in our life that can grant that authority and power to us, and then we are authorized to then act. And some of that can be lawful and legitimate, but some of it is really missing the mark when we start to look at how the scriptures teach us about the authority of Jesus Christ, from whom all authority flows. Some of you think if I could only become an apologist, like Greg Bonson, those of you who like apologetics, you know that name. If I could only preach like Charles Spurgeon, but also have the truth of infant baptism If I could only be like a missionary, like whoever, because I've seen them and their power. And so what do we do when we want to s when we want to search and find it? When we want the power and the authority, we usually turn to universities, we turn to seminaries, we turn to mission agencies, and those none of those things are wrong I'm just saying that it's quite possible that because we have forgotten the scriptures, we need to retrieve authority that we no longer have the cart before the horse any longer. There's nothing in and of those institutions themselves that can make you powerful or give you authority. It is misplaced. If we have a PhD behind our name, we have authority. We should bow the knee. We should submit. We should trust their blogs. Now there's nothing wrong with training and becoming degreed. It's a means to a particular end. But the card is in fact before the horse if that's your train of thought with authority. The truth that we see throughout all of the scriptures is that it is the Sun It is Jesus Christ who must grant authority before any victory will be won. The Psalms are a testimony to this. David is not able to have victory for the kingdom of God, so what does he do? Does he turn to science or the university to credential him? He turns to the Son himself, and he pleased in a kind of lawsuit, saying, Please let it be so. May I have the authority, permit me to overcome your enemies. And then one day from heaven, the Son says, Amen. Let it be so. As it is in heaven, so it shall be on earth. And the head is crushed. I mean it's really quite simple. Do you really think that a seminary or a university should receive commendation for the advancing of the kingdom of God in an ultimate sense? It's a secondary sense, is it not? If there is any success in any of those institutions, who ultimately gets the credit? That's what I'm asking you. Is it not Jesus Christ? Now that's that's uh everybody knows that. That's platitudinous. But I'm asking you functionally, if you talk like that and if you live like that, where does the authority really come from? That's where we can really begin to see the reformation is when we realize the cart has gotten out in front of the horse. Christ must grant authority before any victory will be won. And some of us honestly do not believe that. I'm going to ask you this. This is this is going to be a difficult question if you take it seriously. Okay? A couple questions. Do you think that when you have the skills to pay the bills, that you can go out there and defeat Satan and his kingdom? But you try all the time. You think because you have a PhD that you can make advances. In all of those different domains of your life without asking for permission first. And that's the point Do you think if you get a communications degree, or if you have an MDIV, or if you read Calvin, that you can overcome Satan just by those means? I'm not saying that they can't be secondary. I'm talking about primary stuff here Getting the cart before the horse is wrong. Do you know how to really bring change and reformation? Is it from those things? Or is it something else? Do you know where we need reformation because that has been our mindset? If that has been your mindset, and I have struggled with it myself. There are two ways in which the church needs to reform. And the very first thing is to gain some humility. Without the permission of Jesus Christ, you can accomplish nothing. And I'm not just talking about evangelism in Enron County. That's fine. I'm talking about every domain that has given to you for the sake of dominion. You must humble yourself and realize that only if Christ gives you permission to overcome the God of this age as it shows up in your personal life. And in your family and in your church and in your civic society, it is only then that there will be any advances of his kingdom Now that's a tough thing to grapple with, but it leads to a second reformation. If you realize that, if you have true humility, do you know what your first action will be? Devotion to prayer. There could be no other action to be taken except the first action, which must be prayer. The sign that we learned that lesson is that we become a church, like we see in Acts, that is devoted to prayer. Not just the apostolic word, but devoted to prayer, asking Christ, bringing our pleas and our petitions and supplications Bringing our lawsuits, so to speak, before Him for permission to accomplish His will on earth as it is in heaven, and then looking out on the horizon to hear, Amen, let it be so. And seeing what we have always prayed for come to fruition before our very eyes. But it would be sent from heaven. I have seen people, and so have you, give speeches with thousands of words, and all of the words fall to the ground as powerless. People walk away, and all they can think about is if they're going to get Chick-fil-A or McDonald's on the way home. No thought to the gravity of the words. But I have also seen give Christ give people permission to speak. Speak and with three words make grown men cry. I remember speaking to a brother who was deeply entangled in all kinds of stuff. And what came out of my mouth was, Jesus loves you. And it had nothing to do with me. I just watched Christ give authority to the words as he collapsed on the floor in tears. In repentance, in seeking hope again in Jesus Christ. And I know that there are more stories out there like that. But have you been able to see them correctly? What if those three words came from the mouth of a communications major? What if they were from Princeton Theological Seminary? Well then we know actually they're way off. But Where's the power and the authority coming from? I'm not denying the secondary means that Christ uses in the advance of his kingdom. But I'm asking you to not get the cart before the hort the horse. And therefore that you would recognize there is a need for a renewed humility among us if you think you can accomplish anything outside of him And then the first act of humility is prayer. Lord, would you please grant that? What is the difference between the thousands of words and the three? It is the authority and the power of Jesus Christ. Are you called to live before God personally? Are you called to a family? Are you called to a church? Are you called to Annerunnel County If you want any power or authority, then authority and power must be given by Jesus Christ. And here is the Reformation. Ordinarily, he grants that through prayer. Has the serpent entered your gardens? Are his fangs embedded deeply in the ones that you love? And in your area. Do you see his work? Do you see what the God of this age is doing? And the blindness that has resulted across the land and the confusion? Do you want to cast him into the fire? Do you want to crush his head? Then we must pray and ask for permission. And it must be a prayer that is devoted. It must continue. We must be steadfast, as it says in Acts chapter 2 in our prayers. And the foundation for all of that is as we said from the very beginning. Though the serpent bruises your heel, It is through the authority of Jesus Christ that you will crush his head, especially through prayer. Let us pray.