Beginning in verse 44. While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell upon all those who heard the word, and those of the circumcision who believed were astonished. As many as came with Peter, because the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out on the Gentiles also, for they heard them speak with tongues and magnify God. Then Peter answered, Can anyone forbid water that these should not be baptized who have received the Holy Spirit just as we have? And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord. Then they asked him to stay a few days. Let us pray. Lord, you give us these sacraments as signs and seals for our edification that we might be strengthened Along with our children in serving you. We know that you give your word for at least the same reasons. And so I pray for strength for your congregation this morning. Strengthen your flock that they might serve you. And may baptism serve as a means to that end. In the name of Christ, Amen. It's great to see all of you. It's good to see all your faces. Last week we put some hard work in, didn't we? I had about um Since last week, almost everyone in fear called me Pastor Crutchley We put some hard work in. We wanted to be clear about what it means for Jesus to be judged because there's a lot of stories going around. And we also wanted to know what it meant for us to be given remission from our sins. What we did was we used Abner and David as an analogy to help us see that Jesus as the judge Is from a perspective, if we were to do an analogy to a modern-day genre, it would be the Western. And I have officially seen my first Western. High noon. Excellent, excellent flick. I'm on to John Wayne. I'll keep you posted. The perspective of a Western with Jesus as judge led us to say that there's a new sheriff in town. And some of you were right to tell me, I didn't know this because I hadn't watched Westerns yet. You said, well, if he's the new sheriff, then I sign up as a deputy. I didn't know what you were talking about. But now I get it, and uh I want the tin star too. He has come to set everything right, and this is a message of good news. It is a message of good news to everyone There have been others throughout human history who have been installed at all sorts of levels of leadership that were meant to bring justice to the town of the earth. But they have largely strayed. Our entire culture sees this. I told you a story about one man I met at a nursery. who said these things. And now is a great time for us to speak up and to tell folks there's a new sheriff in town. If you're looking for forgiveness or compassion or mercy, if you're looking for justice, there's one to turn to. But we must not only speak up, we must also live up. Our message must be matched by our life, and the principle is just too simple that no one listens to a hypocrite. Well this week we're developing those same thoughts, but we're going to take another step here I want us to develop those same thoughts by considering not just being baptized, but being baptized in the name of the Lord. That is throughout the scriptures. And it's what happens next year in the account with Peter and Cornelius in 44 through 48. So let's run through that for a moment. Follow along with me in the scriptures. It's actually if you were to pay attention to the details, I find it funny what's happening here. being a preacher, I look at Peter here and he looks to me like he hasn't really driven the nail home. He's on like his second point of his sermon And before he can get to his third point, or maybe he's at the third point and getting ready to draw the application and the conclusion, he can't finish because the Holy Spirit interrupts him. And that is funny to me. The Jews were astonished when they saw the interruption and exactly what was happening to these Gentiles. If you were to ask why they were astonished, the answer is in verse 45 with the single word also. You see that there? Jesus was giving the Spirit to the Gentiles also. What this means is that the Jews acknowledge that what Jesus did in Acts chapter two on Pentecost in Jerusalem with the Jews Which was largely anticipated, if you understood the prophets, he was now, and they did not anticipate this, performing the exact same thing with Cornelius and his household, who were Gentiles. Now, this was a revelation for them in understanding the work of Christ. Truly, this is truly what Peter was realizing right there on the spot, and so too the other Jews, whoever Whoever believes that God ordained Jesus as judge will be given remission of sins Whoever, that's the emphasis here. Whoever. And that you'll see on the pages of the New Testament, the church trying to work that out. Because it's pretty unexpected. So then Peter realizes this, and he therefore says in verses 47 through 48, Can anyone forbid water? And he commanded them to be baptized, but not just baptized, baptized in the name of the Lord. Now, a lot of this is familiar to us now. We've seen this kind of thing happening over and over again within the book of Acts. There's a repetition to this. We see again that not only are Jews being given repentance unto eternal life, But so too are the Gentiles. That's actually how it will be summarized later in the Book of Acts. They are given they've been given repentance unto life The question that I want to ask this morning, however, is why is why is baptism, not just baptism, but baptism in the name of the Lord? How can, if we were to examine that phrase, how can we better understand What's going on not only here, but what it means to be the church, what it means to be a follower of Jesus Christ. Is there something we can learn from our baptism and our baptism in the name of the Lord? In other words, let me put it this way. I keep saying that our culture is increasingly post-Christian. Do you know what I mean when I say that? It means that at one point this this culture relied heavily upon the presuppositions of Christendom, and that they have now moved out of that and they're relying upon the presuppositions and framework of something else. Well, if you had to explain to someone who is post-Christian, who has really no experience with the church or anything like that, who's operating off of a different set of presuppositions, a person who himself or herself is host-Christian, and they said, What is baptism? Why do you do that? I mean, how would you explain that Is it just a private religious ceremony? Is that how you think of it? That's a good question. Does it have anything to do with those outside of this room? Is it truly just a private thing that we do? Why do we baptize? Is it important? How would you explain to them the importance? One of the problems that we're wrestling with as the church is that we are to be in the world and not of it, but we often are in the world and very much like it. And so we can begin to misunderstand the purpose and the meaning of these things like baptism or what it would mean to go to church or to be a part of the church. And so we're really trying to work those things out. When I was growing up, I was taught that you go to church on Christmas and Easter. That's pretty much what you do. And you know what church was all about to Christmas and Easter family? It was about the fun. My parents had in dressing me up in a little sailor suit with white sandals. I do have pictures of that But is that really what the purpose is meant to be? You see how the culture can twist the original intent that God has for his kingdom. Well we want to untwist And try to understand why we have baptism in the kingdom of God and baptism specifically in the name of the Lord. How does this help us to understand our Christian life? Let's try to answer this from the passage and then we'll move into some lessons. First, I think it's rather obvious, and you should too, that baptism is signifying cleansing. Water does that, right? If you have dirt, wash your hands. If your sins are being remitted or being removed, a great way to symbolize that is through cleansing water. That's the total context of this passage, right? If you believe you will be given remission of sins, one of the ways to signify that would be water. But I want to focus on a second meaning of the symbol, and there are many meanings Water is also a symbol showing that we and our households are consecrated in political allegiance to the Lord It is also meant in that way. And you can see that throughout the scriptures, as well as in Paul's day amongst the Greeks or the Romans. This is in continuity, uh most importantly, with the use of water in the temple. All of the utensils The priests, anything that was meant for worship to God was consecrated through ceremonial washings. And what you see here is the same kind of thing. There is a consecration, a dedication, showing that they are allied to the Lord. That's why it would be called they're baptized in the name of the Lord. They are baptized in allegiance to Him. Baptism in the name of the Lord is a sign showing that you and your household are consecrated in allegiance to the Lord or King in all of your life. And here's perhaps uh Something that's surprising to you, it is a political action. I mean, what else could it be if you're declaring allegiance to a king? It's a political action. And it's good for us to realize this. I wish the NVA would realize this. And this is what I mean by that. When I go to the MVA for a license renewal or whatever it is that I have to do there, it's the it's the worst day of my life But right before you are done and you're eager to get out of there and the smile starts to return back to your face, they bring up on the screen registration for voting. And they ask you, or the screen asks you, three different options, if I remember correctly: Republican, Democrat, and Independent. And this always frustrates me. Because as a baptized Christian, I need one more option. It needs to say monarchy. I have full allegiance to the king and his crown. I do not have full allegiance to any of those parties. If I vote, it will be to use them for the sake of the church. Amen. And that's what I mean by a political action. From this passage, we see that there really are two meanings to baptism in the name of the Lord. We learn that the use of water is to show that Jesus has cleansed or given believers the remission of sins. But our focus this morning is that it is also a sign of political allegiance to the crown and kingdom of Jesus the King. That's what you saw here. It was a family dedicating in allegiance to King Jesus. Political action. Political subversion, really. So this week, let's take a look at that, at some lessons that we need to draw from realizing that baptism is a sign of political allegiance to the crown and kingdom of Jesus It is a consecrated washing to allegiance. And I want to do that by two main points. Responsibility to be a polis or city on a hill, and a responsibility to the children in the city. So we have two responsibilities based on this signification, one of the significations of baptism, a responsibility to be a city on a hill and a responsibility to the children in the city. Let's start with the first responsibility. Christ gives us the image of a city on a hill in Matthew 5. I wonder if any of you are familiar with that section. He says that a city that is set on a hill cannot be hidden. The idea of the church as a city and baptism as a political act, they go hand in hand. I wonder if you can see the link between the church as a city and baptism as a political act as being bedfellows. City and politics linguistically have the same root City in the Greek is polis, and a citizen is a politices, I think I pronounced that correctly. So you can see where the idea is coming from. Polis, politics. Politics fundamentally considered, and the way that I mean it right now, no matter how many ways you've heard it, I mean it in its fundamental consideration That it is the culture or way of life of a separate society or people. It is their way of doing things as citizens, as a total community. Baptism as a political act, therefore, reminds us that we are a separate city from those other societies around us. And we have the responsibility to maintain the integrity of our city, the city of God. Do you have some experiences with being involved in what feels like a very different society than your own Because that will be an analogy of what I'm talking about here. We're a part of one society, and there are many other societies out there. We have a responsibility to keep the integrity of our own. What societies have you felt that are different than yours? Can I tell you one? Yes, of course I can, because I have the microphone. Here is one we went uh a few years ago when you were allowed to go on cruises, we were taken on a cruise. One of the stops was a very different place. I've never been out of the United States, but when I landed in Miami It really felt like I was no longer in the United States. And to make it worse, because the only thing I had really heard about Miami that was for some reason famous in my mind was South Beach. So we went to South Beach, my wife and I, and all of our children, and we stepped out onto that beach, and it was just filled with a very different society. Everyone was beautiful. Everyone was young. For some reason, while I was I I swear there was like thousands of people, I think, is the way it felt, just staring at how large my stomach was. And all of them, I didn't even know you could have like a nine pack. They had they had I couldn't believe every tattoo was placed perfectly We tried to escape as quickly as possible, realizing that we we really don't belong here. Started going back up off off the beach and off of the beach there are all these clubs. So Ferraris are picking are pulling up and rappers are getting out with gold teeth and I'm just like, what is happening here? We need to get back to the ship. So then I flagged down an Uber We all I get the whole family in there, and then the guy tells me he can't take us to the ship. So I get all the family out. We finally find another one. I get all the family back in And I I say, we need to go to the ship, and the driver says to me, no able inglés. I said, great I got off Google Translate, typed in what I wanted to say to him. He took me to the ship on the way. I typed in a bunch of other things in Google Translate so I could try to talk to him about Christ and Those kinds of things. But I tell you, it really felt like a totally different world. I mean it was obvious that we did not belong. And whether it's Miami, I've also heard similar things to those who have visited the sovereign lands of the Cherokee Nation. I feel uh have a similar uh experiences in Chinatown and New York if you move past just tourist spots. Or some of you have experiences like that, and you can see the difference with the Amish in Lancaster. We have examples of different societies and cultures and cities And I think you really get the point. You all have your own experiences, and I encourage you to draw upon them to understand what I'm saying here from the scriptures. That likewise, that is what baptism today is reminding you of. Baptism is reminding you that we are not a subculture in America. That would mean that America is our main culture, and we're a subculture of it. That is not true. We are not an American subculture. We are not one section or district of a secular city. We are a sovereign land, if you want to put it that way. We are entirely separate. We are entirely a sovereign kingdom of God on earth, a separate city, and citizens of the king who owns all land And we'll claim that of must claim all of them at a certain time. That is the first meaning of baptism, that we have a responsibility To hold forth the integrity of the city of God as the citizens of the city of God. Now there's a second responsibility, and that is to the children that are in the city. Can you imagine a city that neglects its children? And neither will we be a city that neglects our children. This is the reason why we baptize our children. I should say it's one of the reasons why we baptize our children. There are several reasons, and you heard some of them from Chase this morning. We don't baptize children because we think they have made a profession of faith. You've heard that over and over again this morning. We believe that at the age of discretion they will need to profess that Jesus Christ is Lord. If they do not, they will receive the discipline of the church. If they do not repent, they will be removed. We do not believe that water is magically regenerating them. We've made that clear over and over again. Our children are baptized instead as a sign that you are committed to raising them up, not as a Democrat. Not as a Republican, not as an independent, but as a monarchist who lives for the crown of Jesus Christ. Now, what I want to do now is I want to show you a passage from Acts that really puts this in perspective. So you're going to need your Bible, and I will give you permission to use your phone as long as you keep it on silent. But please turn to Acts chapter 17 verses 6 through 7. I'm doing this because I want you to have this in your mind and to know where it is in your Bible. Acts chapter 17, verses 6 through 7. Here is a situation where the gospel has entered into Thessalonica and some have become followers of Jesus. I want you to look at the underbelly of what's happening in this society. But when they did not find them, they dragged Jason and some brethren to the rulers of the city, crying out, These who have turned the world upside down have come here too. Jason has harbored them, and these are all acting contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying, there is another king, Jesus. Do you see what's going on here? You see the political overtones and the political nature of the gospel itself, if we understand what I said fundamentally is what politics are. And this is the exact responsibility that we have to the children in our city. Imagine how difficult it will be for Jason to raise his children in this city. He will need to have an entire community who continually says to his kids, We understand that this entire city follows Caesar and does this, that, and the other thing. But Caesar is not our king. That is politically subversive and dangerous and would earn your death in that society. Which is why they're trying to get them out of town. And we have nothing less here. Just I'm trying to get the significance across to you of our responsibility to our children. In our allegiance to Christ in every area of life. We must lead our children in all of their life to live for Christ in opposition to any Caesar that shows up on any day. Let me say that one more time. In our allegiance to Christ in every area of life, we lead our children in all their life to live for Christ in opposition to Caesar. No matter which Caesar shows up in our day. Now I want you to think about that. Really take that to heart. What will that require of you? What will that require of you? It will require of you more than knowing the right answers. You will need to show yourself a people who unrelentingly stand for the truth so that your children And the children of others can always see an example of someone who is taking the kingdom seriously. We have enough obstacles as it is The way the technology is put into a narrative and used for the Caesar of today. And just think of all the other thousand ways in which our culture has the advantage. Not really. But on the face of it, they have the advantage. You do not need to give them one more advantage by showing our children that you don't really take this seriously. We need to stand for what Christ has said about the way that we should use our time We need to stand for the way that Christ has said that we are supposed to use our spaces and how we think about our material property. We need to stand for the way and the calling that Christ has given each one of us in our individual vocations. We have to search out the scriptures and have His wisdom and stand for it, no matter what And some of you are going to say to me, I get it, but then when I'm in public and I live for Christ, it feels weird. Well, when I was in Miami, it felt weird. Welcome to Miami. I think that's a song. And that's what you're called to. That's our responsibility, just the beginning of the responsibility to the children that are in our city. This morning, Christ teaches us some of the reasons for baptism. There's so much more to talk about, but it is at least a sign showing that those who believe are cleansed from their sins. And what we have focused on is that baptism is a political act showing our allegiance to crown and kingdom. And with these two truths come two responsibilities. And we focused on the second responsibility. We are called to be a sovereign kingdom with our own polis or city. Let's get used to that idea. You are not a subculture. You're not an American subculture. You are your own sovereign land like a Cherokee nation. We are called, secondly, to practically acknowledge why we baptize our children. It is a sign of our dedication to raise them as citizens of the city of God, and this is our hope and our prayer, that as we do so, Christ will pour out his grace, that at the age of discernment our children will profess that Jesus is Lord. That they too would join us in allegiance to Christ and not just be raised in allegiance to Christ. An ultimate question that we've already started to consider, but I want to leave you with before we go to the supper, is when you think about all of that, and you think that of everything that is against our children, let me ask you. What is one main help that Christ has given to them? Is it not you? Is it not you? Let us take it seriously. Let's pray.