Through all of those verses in this evening's preaching will be kind of a two part two parter First Peter chapter one, verses ten through sixteen Of this salvation the prophets have inquired and searched carefully, who prophesied of the grace that would come to you, searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ who was in them was indicating When he testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ and the glories that would follow. To them it was revealed that, not to themselves but to us, they were ministering the things which now have been reported to you. Through those who have preached the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven, things which angels desire to lock in to look into. So it's important to see it together. Therefore, gird up the loins of your mind. Be sober and rest your hope fully upon the grace that is to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Christ. As obedient children, not conforming yourselves to the former lusts as in your ignorance, but as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct, because it is written, Be holy, for I am holy. Holy. Let's pray. Lord Jesus Christ, you worked through the apostles then in making sure that through your spirit they would speak clearly And that your people would understand. I pray for nothing less today that your apostles, through your Holy Spirit, will stood be will still be able to minister to us We ask these things in your name. Amen. Popular music on the radio, like on 1031, has a format. In fact, I think all popular m music has a format to where at least at some point in the song you're going to hear a chorus. The chorus repeats throughout the song, and it takes us as the listeners back to the main thought or the idea, and it plays with the other lyrics that are part of it. Depending on who you are, you will remember different choruses in your life. Perhaps you'll remember the chorus It Is Well With My Soul or the refrain But for some of you, the thing you remember most is Call Me Maybe, or Dancing Queen, or whatever other chorus is out there that are a part of I hope that you have noticed that there is a kind of format to 1 Peter also, that there is a chorus or a refrain that keeps happening over these past few weeks And it has been this. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. It keeps coming back to that The chorus has been praise and thankfulness to the God and Father for all of the what they call grace, the gifts that He has given to us as His People. Just think of what we have gone over these past few weeks. He has given us mercy by giving us a second birth. It's interesting in that part of the passage right there, I believe, in verse 2 That when it speaks of the second birth, it doesn't mention the Spirit. Leads us to believe that as he speaks of Jesus' resurrection, but the focus is less on the Spirit and more on the power of the Father through the Spirit. The same power that raised Jesus Christ from the dead raised you from the dead also. and your conversion and regeneration. God the Father, through Christ and His Spirit, raises us to new life. God the Father, in addition, has prepared an inheritance for us as his children. Christ said, Today you will be with me in paradise. And apparently, according to these verses, it is God the Father. Father, who has prepared and planned that inheritance. Just as uh even if we die, in fact, he will raise us from the literal dead, so that we may live forever in paradise. With him. That, of course, was a part of the promise to the thief. And of course, number three, those who turn their back on God permanently inherit nothing. We read of that happening in the scriptures. And so this is another reason why we give praise to our God. Because He preserves us. He preserves us and He makes us strong. Stronger. How? Through trials and suffering. That's what we focused on last week. Our faith is strengthened in order for you and me to stay in the race and to cross the finish line. And to receive the prize. That is the Father's doing. That's why it doesn't say, Blessed be Duane. It says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, or blessed be Brad. because the credit goes to our God. The prize. When you cross the finish line, you receive the cup or the wreath. Another name for the prize in this context, if you take a look at our at what ends in verse 9 and then starts to pick up in verse 10 is salvation. Salvation is the prize. It's what God the Father is doing through Jesus Christ and His Spirit We receive at the end of the race God's final salvation from all sin and all misery. And that's glorious. When you start to work that out into the specifics, it is blessed be God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. In our passage this evening, Peter is focused upon this salvation. You can see him pick it up in verse 10. Of this salvation. He wants to talk about this now. But he's going to do so in a very specific way. And I want to contextualize this a bit so that you can understand why he is proceeding the way that he is. First, Peter is seeking to strengthen his congregation. Remember that. We saw that in the final chapter and almost the final verse of this letter. He tells us the author's purpose. It is to strengthen his congregation. He wants them to be certain that God the Father has sent Jesus Christ to bring them final salvation. And that is why they say that Jesus is their Savior. And that's why we say that Jesus is their Savior. our Savior. Here's the problem, though. During Peter's time, and actually during our time also, others denied that Jesus was the Christ. They denied that Jesus was the long-promised Savior. In this context, they didn't deny that there was to be a Savior. And that there was to be a Christ, they just believed that Jesus was not it. That's why they crucified him. And this is the thing. Peter says that Jesus Jesus is the Savior, the long-awaited Christ. And so we have to ask the question, or at least they ask the question, and I'm sure that it comes up within our mind also: whose message is true? If you were in their situation, how would you determine if Peter's message was true or the religious authorities who ran the synagogue? Can you imagine being in a debate between the people you always grew up in your Sunday school teacher? Teachers saying there is no that Jesus is not the Christ, and then a new group of leaders rising and they're saying that Jesus is the Christ, how would you know? Which one would you give yourself over to? That had to be going on within this congregation. And there's enough clues for me to be convinced of that. You know, it's interesting, there is a similar problem today. I mean, we are Christians and there are still Orthodox Jews. And one says that salvation has has come in Jesus, and the other says that salvation is still a mystery, and who knows who the Christ is, still present today. You would find if you had to answer that question going back to it, how would you answer it? If you were in their situation, how would you determine if Peter's message was the true message? I believe that the way Peter is answering that is this. He's saying you must find a common authority between the two groups. What did the prophets say, and how did it work out? And that's the topic. You notice that's what Peter is doing here. He says, of this salvation, but then for the rest of the paragraph, his fa Focus is on the prophets. And that's why I believe his focus is on the prophets. Because he's gaining he's going to a common source of authority to prove from that common source of authority that his statements that Jesus Jesus is the Christ are true. And hopefully over the time in our sermon you'll become more and more convinced of that. So that's our topic. You could see a flashing sign above me if you want that says the prophets. And that's it's not pointing down. It just says the prophets. And that's going to be the topic that we have today. So let's begin in verse 10 and tr seek to understand what Peter is communicating. First, in verse 10, you can see that the prophets inquired and searched carefully concerning this salvation. Who were the prophets? Well, if you were to just look through Peter's letter, he quotes Isaiah 40, 6 through 8, and he also quotes Psalm 118, and he considers David a prophet if you were to look at Acts chapter 2, verse 7. There are other prophets that are quoted throughout his letters. If we look at Peter's other sermons, for example, in Acts chapter Chapter 2, we see that Peter is focused on the prophet Joel immediately after the Holy Spirit gives them the gift to speak in different languages. These prophets in verses 10 and 11 of our passage Carefully searched and sought for the truth of this salvation. They knew that salvation would be through the Christ, but they, as you can see see in verse 11 didn't know all the what's and the when's and so they searched when would the Christ arrive to suffer and bring the glory of the kingdom. That's what Peter is Saying here. You know, we receive lots of glimpses of exactly what Peter is saying. These various prophets waiting to figure out when will it happen? Who is it it going to be? Let's just look at a couple passages together to flesh out what Peter has consolidated in very short sentences. Let's take a look at Luke 2. 25, for example You'll need your Bible today. Luke two twenty-five. Matthew, Mark, Luke. These are the kind of stories that you would hear during Christmas time. This gentleman's name would pop up But let's look at these accounts through the lens of what Peter is telling us about these prophets that had searched diligently and carefully for the what's and the w wins. Let's try to put some some meat on exactly what Peter is saying here. And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon And this man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him. And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. You see how he's waiting. And so he came by the Spirit into the temple, and when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him according to the custom of the law, he took him up in his arms and blessed God and said, Now let me Now listen to this. This is exactly what Peter is talking about. I wonder if Peter had Simeon on his mind. Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace according to your word, for my eyes have seen Your salvation. You see, the same language that Peter is using was used by Simeon, which you have prepared before the face of all peoples, a light to bring revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of your people Israel. Now, if you go down to verse 36, there's a prophetess, and she essentially says the same thing that I wonder again, is Peter have her in mind? Now there was one, Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Thaniel, of the tribe of Asher. She was of a great age and had lived with a husband seven years from her virginity, and this woman was a widow of about eighty-four years And coming in that instant she gave thanks to the Lord and spoke of him to all those who looked for redemption in Israel. You can see in the background there that's another one who is waiting for the consolation of Israel, the salvation of Israel, a light to the Gentiles. Those are two main examples. Let me show you another one. This one stands out even more. Let's turn to Matthew chapter 2 to see another example of what Peter is talking about. And I'll begin at the top of chapter 2. When we look at this passage, again, look through the lens of prophets that are searching out carefully the what's and the when's of the crest. Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod, the king, behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem. Jerusalem saying, Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east and have come to worship him. That in itself is interesting enough. Where they were looking at the stars to determine the arrival of the Christ. But if we keep reading, it becomes even more clear. When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. So it was common amongst the religious authorities, the scribes, the Pharisees, those who studied the Scripture To be studying to try to figure out when or what who the Christ was and when is he to be born. And that's why Herod calls them all together. So they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet. Prophets. See that's so important. Because it's the prophets who have told them this. But you, Bethlehem in the land of Judah, are not the least among the rulers of Judah, for out of you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my And that's a quote from Micah. So that starts to flesh out for us who the prophets were and what Peter is saying here within these This passage in terms of searching out with a careful inquiry the grace that would come to them, searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ who was in them was indicating when he testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ's and the glory that would follow. You can see just these examples are people that were actually doing that. Those prophets looked and they looked and they looked and they looked. But then they finally realized, verse 12. Now that's only partially true for Simeon, because he was able to see the light of the Gentiles before his eyes, but still in infant form. or child form. Not all of the fullness, like the Mount of Transfiguration, or all of the things that would be revealed That would be to a different generation. It would actually be to this generation. And so we see Matthew covering this as he records the words of Christ. Which say the same thing that Peter says here. But blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears, for they hear. For assuredly I say to you that many prophets and righteous men desired to see what you see and did not see it, and to hear what you hear, and they did not see Not hear it. He's speaking about the grace and the fullness that had been given to that present generation with the revelation of Jesus Christ. Who he was, who he is, and what he is to accomplish. In fact, if you were to continue to read verse 12 here in 1 Peter, the things the prophets were looking for, the what's and the whens, that that generation were to witness. The things that they were in hopes for, that they only saw visions of, according to verse 12 with Peter, they came true, and they are being reported to everyone. By the apostles. Do you see that there in verse 12? To them it was revealed that not to themselves, but to us they were ministering the things which now have been reported to you, speaking to you. To his congregations, through those who have preached the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven, a reference to Acts chapter 2 and Acts chapter 1, things which desire angels desire To look into. The prophets desired to look into the what and the when's, and so too did the angels. But during that generation it was all revealed, and the prophets are reporting the revelation that has happened. All that was promised was starting to come to be, and they were reporting it. This is the exact same tact. This paragraph that we see here, this is not a new paragraph for people. This is the exact same tact that Peter took in his sermon in Acts chapter 2. The whole crowd, Peter Peter said, uh Peter speak in speaking to the whole crowd took that took this exact tackle. I'm going to turn to Acts chapter 2 once I get done stuttering. Let's turn together to Acts chapter 2. You can see his we've already told you about some parts of his sermon there in chapter two. 2. He quotes starting in verse 17 the prophet Joel to show that these things have come to be, which Joel had promised And when he was speaking to the whole crowd, I'm going down into to chapter two verse sixteen. with Joel. He essentially was saying to, if you were to go through this these paragraphs, he's essentially saying to the crowd, hey, you know you all know the prophet Joel. Remember what he said and what we're all waiting for? It's here. That's what we see in 216. It's happening before your face is a summary of that whole quote. Then, if we were to go to chapter 2, verse 36. Hey, y'all know how David prophesied that the Christ will be raised from the dead? Guess what? It happened. Jesus was raised. And verse 36 is worth reading, and I'll back up just a little bit so you can see Peter's argument. Therefore, being exalted to the right hand of God and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he poured out this which you now see and hear. Get them to understand what's happening before their very face. For David did not ascend into the heavens, but he says himself, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand so I make your enemy Your footstool. Therefore, let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made this Jesus whom you crucified both Lord and Christ. This is an inductive sermon, and that is a statement of the main point by Peter. And now when they heard this, they were cut to the heart. Can you see why Peter would discuss all this stuff about the prophets within the passage in 1 Peter? Do you see why he would bring all of those things up? Peter is simply reminding his congregation of the original sermons and the reports that he gave to them and convinced them with in the first place. In other words, when you turn to Acts chapter 2, verses 36 through 31, why did the people there repent and believe? Why did they move forward to receive the baptism of Jesus Christ? Because they were cut to the heart. That was the next verse. They were cut to the heart that Jesus is the one that the prophets talked about. That was the argument, beginning with Joel and working through what David, the prophet. had said in all of the Psalms, they became convinced from the prophets that Jesus is the one, that he is the consolation of Israel, what Simeon saw, that he is the salvation of Israel, that he's a light to the Gentiles. That Jesus is the Christ and that He would bring worldwide salvation from sin and misery. He was reminding them on why they were condemned. I guess you could say perhaps Peter was saying, hey, listen, you guys are losing your assurance that Jesus Don't you remember my sermons? But we all know that that's a difficult thing to remember a pastor's sermons, right? Do you remember what I talked about this morning? Nope. Just kidding. It was Palm Sunday. Peter's congregation needed to be reassured. They needed to be reassured that his message was the authentic message. Original question. How do we know? How do we know that Peter is the one telling the truth? They had other religious authorities in their life. If Peter's message corresponded with the message of Because that was the common authority. They gave themselves over already to Joel or to Isaiah. And and you really, isn't this just a reminder of what we saw in other places within the New Testament? Isn't this exactly the way that the Bereans handled the same I wonder if Peter learned from the Bereans or the stories Paul and Silas told about the Bereans. In Acts chapter 17, verse 10 through 11, this is what it says about the Bereans. Pay careful attention to this. Then the brethren immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea. When they arrived, they went into the synagogue of the Jews. These were more fair-minded than those in Thessalonica, in that they received the word that Paul and Silas were preaching with all readiness, and they searched the scriptures, the New Testament. Was not written yet, so they searched the Old Testament daily to find out whether the things that Paul and Silas said were so. It is exactly what Peter is setting his congregation up to do. He's saying, listen to my words. Is what I'm saying to you so, just as the Bereans discovered with Paul and Silas, do you discover the same thing with me? And now, do you know why the Bereans examine Paul's words that way? Because they knew that God had spoken to the prophets. And that was the heart of the Bereans. That's why they're called noble or fair-minded. This is must have been a part of their heart. If God says it, it's true. Therefore, this is a baring in speaking, I must evaluate everything in reference to God's thoughts about it. God shared his thoughts with the prophets, didn't he? And so I'll compare what Paul and Silas have told us here in this synagogue with what the prophets have said. And now you can ask that same question about Not being a Berean, but they are a good example for us. How do you determine what is true and false within your life? Isn't it reasonable to check with God? And see what he thinks about the matter. And if you had to do so, we discussed this in Sunday school this morning, but it just came up again By God's providence. But if you wanted to find out what God thinks, where would you find God's thoughts? Shouldn't we find them in the Old Testament prophets, like the Bereans? And if the apostles are reporting on the fullness of what the Old Testament prophets expected, and in this passage by Peter, he says that he and the other Apostles are guided by the Holy Spirit. They spoke from the Holy Spirit, it says. Can't we get God's thoughts from the apostles also? So, here's the last question that I have for you. What has God told both the Old Testament And the New Testament prophets. There is a single truth that has changed the whole world. Jesus Is the Christ, our Savior from sin and misery. Be reassured, Christian, of It's from this truth that is laid as a foundation in this paragraph that next week we'll begin on verse 13 with the therefore. What's the therefore? Therefore, anyway. We can start to look at that next week. Because of these truths, because Jesus is the Christ, we can begin to sober up and rest our hope fully upon the grace that is through him and no one else. But we'll talk about that next week. Let's now go into a time of prayer.