This morning I'll be reading verses eleven through thirty-five. twenty three beginning in verse eleven. But the following night the Lord stood by him and said, Be of good cheer, Paul, for as you have testified for me in Jerusalem, so you must also bear witness at Rome. And when it was day, some of the Jews banded together and bound themselves under an oath, saying that they would neither eat nor drink till they had killed Paul. Now there were more than forty who had formed this conspiracy. They came to the chief priests and elders and said, We have bound ourselves under a great oath that we will eat nothing until we have killed Paul Now you, therefore, together with the council, suggest to the commander that he be brought down to you to morrow, as though you were going to make further inquiries concerning him. But we are ready to kill him before he comes near So when Paul's sister's son heard of their ambush, he went and entered the barracks and told Paul. Then Paul called one of the centurions to him and said, Take this young man to the commander, for he has something to tell him. So he took him and brought him to the commander and said, Paul the prisoner called me to him and asked me to bring this young man to you. He has something to say. to you. Then the commander took him by the hand, went aside, and asked privately, what is it that you have to tell me? And he said The Jews have agreed to ask that you bring Paul down to the council tomorrow as though they were going to inquire more fully about him, but do not yield to them For more than forty of them lie in wait for him, men who have bound themselves by an oath that they will neither eat nor drink till they have killed him, and now they are ready waiting for the promise from you So the commander let the young man depart and commanded him, Tell no one that you have revealed these things to me. And he called for two centurions, saying Prepare two hundred soldiers, seventy horsemen and two hundred spearmen to go to Caesarea at the third hour of the night, and provide mounts to set Paul on and bring him safely to Felix the Governor He wrote a letter in the following manner, Claudius Lysius, to the most excellent Governor Felix, greetings. This man was seized by the Jews and was about to be killed by them. Coming with the troops I rescued him, having learned that he was a Roman. And when I wanted to know the reason they accused him, I brought him before their council I found out that he was accused concerning questions of their law, but had not charged anything against him deserving of death or chains. And when it was told me that the Jews lay in wait for the man, I sent him immediately to you and also commanded his accusers to state before you the charges against him. Farewell. Then the soldiers, as they were commanded, took Paul and brought him by night to Anti Antiph Antipatris. The next day they left the horsemen to go on with them and returned to the barracks When they came to Caesarea and had delivered the letter to the governor, they also presented Paul to him. And when the governor had read it, he asked what province he was from And when he understood that he was from Cilicia, he said, I will hear you when your accusers also have come. And he commanded him to be kept in Herod's Praetorium. Let us pray. Father, we have learned by now that by way of your Son, our great ascended Lord You intend to encourage and strengthen your believers, your people by your word. And so we pray that you would do that this morning. You alone know all of the hearts here in this room today. You know all of their struggles. You know the number of every hair on their head. I pray that you would by your spirit make your words strong, that they would be strong for you. In the name of Christ, Amen. Please be seated. Now I hope you remember it has not been too far. In the past. The last time I was here a couple weeks ago, we determined by the scriptures that in one sense, the hope of the church is in life after death. Here are some of the things that we learn from the passage. Upon death, our bodies lie in the grave, but our souls or spirits go to be with Christ. Upon Christ's return, we are all raised in new bodies for the day of judgment, and this therefore gives us a future hope. But not just a future hope, but also a hope for our loved ones, our Christian loved ones, even now, who have died, for they are in fact with the Lord. That's a summary of our last time together from earlier chapters in Acts. And as you can see, we now move into Acts chapter 23, verse 11, and following. I want to begin by making a few observations, and then we'll get into a single application today. This is a very important passage, and it deserves you meditating on it for some time. There's a lot here Each week, here's observation number one. Each week, I try to humbly offer you the lens through which you should understand the passage clearly This week, that lens is verse 11. And it's no mistake. I mean, it's, you know, it's no coincidence that we have the words of Christ here. And this ends up being the lens through which we should view all of the pieces, really all the way to the end of Acts. It says this, but the following night the Lord stood by him. And said, Be of good cheer, Paul, for as you have testified for me in Jerusalem, so you must also bear witness at Rome. Those words are rich in fullness. It seems that Jesus is just telling Paul to be in a good mood, that Jesus is a kind of glass half-fool kind of guy. But that's not really what's going on here. He's not being trivial or trite and just saying, Cheer up, Paul What you have to know is that this word that he's using here, if you were to look at it elsewhere, it is legitimately translated courage. And that's how I'd encourage you to read that this morning. Take courage, Paul. I'm with you. Together we will finish your commission. That's really a summary of what Christ is telling him. Take courage, because I'm with you. In other words, Luke is emphasizing a major scriptural theme, and it's this. The Lord's presence results in the courage of his saints. Now, what this should do is it should connect you to other points within a kind of constellation of scriptures. It should connect you with the theme. It should evoke, in other words, other passages in your mind. That's why we read our Bibles regularly, so that when we're reading one scripture, it can evoke all the other ones with which we've become familiar. Here's one from Joshua 1. 9. We've already had one in our past in our bulletin from Deuteronomy. But here's one from Joshua 1. 9. Have I not commanded you? Be strong and of good courage, do not be afraid, nor be dismayed, for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go. Here's another one from John chapter sixteen, verse thirty-three. These things I have spoken to you, that in me you have peace. In the world you will have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. And we see it again in Hebrews 13, verses 5 through 6. These are just a sampling. Let your conduct be without covetousness. Be content with such things as you have. For he himself has said, I will never leave you. I will never forsake you. So we may boldly say, the Lord is my helper. I will not fear. What can man do to me? Well, that's our first observation, is just noticing the lens connecting us to this major theme running through the scriptures. You get a real sense from that first observation of what Christ wants you to have faith in. That he's with you. Now, when we wear that lens, what we can do now is to see the place of all of the pieces left in the passage. You can see why Luke is recording what he is recording. What he is essentially doing, in other words, is he is showing that God does not leave his people as orphans. And it's going to be substantiated over and over again with this account, with Paul. He does not leave Paul to fend for himself But here's the interesting thing that you may not be used to, because up to this point in Acts, you're used to these miraculous resurrection events. And now in this kind of moving and transitioning into a post-apostolic era or preparing for that You're going to see the ascended Christ work through ordinary, secondary means to accomplish his will on earth as it is in heaven So just start to notice all the little ordinary details as evidence of the ascended Christ being present with Paul. Christ works in such a way to alert Paul's sister's son. To tell the commander that then they would be able to put together this guard in order to bring him safely. That's the ascended Christ. The Roman commander, verse 23, called for two centurions, saying, Prepare two hundred soldiers, seventy horsemen, and two hundred spearmen to go to Caesarea at the third hour of the night and provide mounts to set Paul on and bring him safely to To Felix the governor. Now, who's behind that? The end of the chapter ends with Paul before a major Gentile governor as a witness. To the resurrection of Jesus Christ. How else would he get a hearing? And Paul is completely protected from the Jews even in that place, verse 35 of chapter 23, he is placed safely in Herod's praetorium. If there's ever a safe place, it is there. Among all the ordinary ways of life, Luke records the ascended Christ keeping his word. All of the details are just supposed to be the repetition of that phrase. Right at the top in verse 11, I stand with you. But it is happening in ways that we may not think of. Or we may be afraid to think of them this way. But this is how the ascended Christ until his return stands with his people. You know, this is a historical account. I'm not trying to take away from that. In verses 26 through 30, you'll notice that Luke even got his hands on official correspondence and court documents. Between the commander and Felix. But nevertheless, these things are never just historical. They're never just something that happened in the past. They're always timely for his people. God does not intend for this to be only historical. This account is meant to strengthen the disciples of every age. And so it is with that that we can say our teaching this morning is this. Christian, be strong and of good courage. For as the Lord stood by Paul, so too does the Lord stand by you. particularly in all of your vocations. Christian, be strong and of good courage, for as the Lord stood by Paul, so too does the Lord stand by you. That should fill your soul with delight. It should broaden your chest and open your eyes to the enchantments of this world because Christ is in it. Now what I would like to do in unfolding this for us, making it a bit more personal, is I want to start with a review of what courage is. That's really going to be a review from a past sermon. And then I want to talk about the foundation of courage, and then I have some questions for you. Although it sounds like an archaic relic to some, here we find the word courage again, just as we had heard of it before when we were looking at what I called the cardinal virtues of the church. You have cardinal and theological virtues. Here we see once again that courage is at the heart of Christianity. Peter uses the word perseverance and captures the same idea in his letter, his second letter. in chapter 1 verses 5 through 6. But also for this very reason, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue. To virtue knowledge, to knowledge self-control, to self-control, perseverance. That's a kind of courage to be able to go through something, to have a stamina or fortitude. And you'll remember that courage is just one part of a group of virtues. Christ, through his Holy Spirit, gives us good works to do in our vocations or commissions, like we see here with Paul. We are meant to be fruitful in righteousness, but such fruit will not ripen, however, unless we are prudent. Even if we account for all of the circumstances, troubles will in fact arise. A frost or a blight might enter the orchard if we use a farming analogy. And we therefore need courage or fortitude or steadfastness or perseverance in accomplishing the work. But here's where we move into the second point rapidly. That's a review of courage. You learn from these scriptures that you will lose your courage. You will become faint of heart if you do not believe that the Lord is with you. There will be something that'll catch you. I promise. And so if you are to nurture anything, nurture your faith. That the Lord has not forsaken you. I know what it looks like sometimes. We'll get into that in a minute. And this is what I'm calling the foundation of courage, which is our second point. It's really beautiful, this picture of virtuous living that Christ creates in us and manifests as we are his garden. But here we see a picture being continually added to. If you don't believe that the Lord is with you, then at some point your heart will fail in your calling. I remember meeting a woman to whom this happened. A driver hit and killed her daughter on a local Florida road. And the daughter uh died in the accident. She was trying to cross over to a convenience store. The mother, as you can imagine, was not able to reconcile the death of her daughter in the goodness of God. It was too much. Eventually, she wanted nothing to do with God. She said something like this: I believe in God, but I believe that He's cruel. And I don't want to be near him. And from the looks of it, he doesn't care in any meaningful way to be near me. You can hear the heart cry of the woman under the pressure of that accident. Now I tell you this because I met this woman at my stepfather's funeral, and some of you have heard this. For those of you who have not, my stepdad several years ago was crossing the same street, was hit, and killed. And so you can imagine That due to all of those similarities, all of the memories with regard to her daughter rushed back in. But she had the courage to attend that funeral, nevertheless. But no change in faith. I, of course, was clueless. I was just trying to be helpful to the family in conducting the service. I never know who's really sitting out there and what they're thinking anyway. I didn't know any of it at the time. In God's providence, nevertheless, Christ led me to preach a sermon at the service, acknowledging That some people make sense of evil in the world by attributing evil to God. Some people, that's their model on how they make sense of all the facts. We all have models and frameworks to make sense of the facts Some people choose this model. By God's grace, I continued in the sermon saying, God taking upon himself human nature and dying for his people, however Does not fit well with that model. If we are honest, saying that God is cruel and has abandoned us does not fit the facts of the crucifixion. It does not fit the facts of Jesus being called Emmanuel, which is God with us, not God abandoning us. God did not orphan us. Well, interestingly, and this is all just over my head, it's Christ's divine action working in the funeral. God used those words to impart grace to this woman's soul. I found out afterward. She got in touch with my mother, and my mother told me what had happened. Her faith in God actually was rekindled to a bright light. And I want you to guess with me, what did she do next? She's starting to believe that the Lord had not abandoned her, but has been with her through it all. What do you think she did next? She had the courage to start to live for him again. It's exactly what we see within this passage. She is the embodiment or the example of our doctrine this morning. Sometimes I'm philosophical with you, and sometimes it's best to just give you a story. Because that hits the nail on the head. At first, she came to see her daughter's death as proof positive that God was an absentee father. Once she realized that that was not true, courage refilled her and she began to live again. That's the message. The same thing that happens to Paul. And now I wonder if some of you have lost heart. And if you have, I hope that you can begin to see probably why you have. I wonder if the slow, incremental temptations of the world have led some of you to just give up. I wonder if you started the race strong, but the side cramps have brought you to a slow walk. And now you're contemplating just getting out of the race. You're going to go to the bleachers. I don't want you to consider this unusual. I actually think it's kind of usual right now in the world. to go through that, to feel the side cramps, to want to go to the bleacher. If you want a summary of our age, the environment in which you live as a Christian, trying to continue to run the race by the grace of God, if you want a summary of our age, Then it is an ongoing assault of this very teaching that you're receiving this morning. If they could catechize you, if they could write their own scriptures, Our society, if you wanted to join them and have a membership meeting when you come up to join the world in their worldliness, you would confess: God is not with me. God is with none of us. He has forsaken us. That's their confession. There would be some more subtle positions like, well, he makes a great decoration in the house, but never put him in foundational work. He's an accoutrement. And then they would give you the offer of the alternative. Put your trust in our empire. Look at our technology. Isn't it amazing? Look at our scientific advancement Look at our military. We're always watching. We never leave you nor forsake you. Look at our economy. Look at our government. You know that that's the truth, that that's really what's going on in your environment. It's not as if you're finding The race difficult because there's nothing pressuring you in your environment. Right now it feels like you're running into a headwind And it's for good reason, because that's actively what the world is seeking to do. And with that in mind, I want to encourage you right now, first. That we can see that clearly in the midst of this social environment, Jesus Christ is with his church. Because three years ago, if I would have said the same things about technology and science, etc. You would have nodded at me, but you would not know deep down in your heart how you're really supposed to be thinking about all of those things. Because prior to these world events, we were all sitting in our idolatry. And now it is clear and becoming more and more clear. It is dawning upon us. That the ascended Christ is active right now, shaping his church, to be able to resist those temptations and to teach their children how to do the same, that his church will continue until he returns. Christ is revealing through many world events that our nation is for our benefit. And we thank God for the United States of America. But let me just be clear with you, once again, they are never meant to be our God. Science has is in fact useful, but it is not divine. And the government is a grace of God, and we do need to learn that more. But it's never God's replacement. That's a pretty big picture on how Christ is working what I see across the globe. Him working with his church, reshaping and reforming us out of our idolatry. Finally, our prayer meeting prayers being answered for us to be renewed and reformed. But you know, there's also a bunch of just really small ways that Christ works in our lives. He does not leave us nor forsake us in so many ordinary details of our existence. I want to leave you with um I want you to see something. We already saw how Paul's sisters Son is an example of that kind of detail. I want to show you one more as a kind of model for how you should be conducting yourself in your life. Turn to Acts chapter 28, verse 15. I want you to think about this deeply. I want you to ask the question, what lens is Paul wearing? What lens is Luke wearing? Is it not the lens of verse 11 that we looked at this morning in order to interpret all events within their life? Take a look at this. 28 verse 15. And from there, when the brethren heard about us, so that's fellow Christians, they came to meet us as far as Afi Forum and three ends. When Paul saw them, he thanked God and took courage. What does that mean in the robust sense? He is now starting to witness all things in his life through the lens of knowing that the ascended Christ will never leave him nor forsake him. And so when these brethren come, he does not thank them at first, but he thanks God, because he knows that it is God who is sending these people, and he therefore takes courage. How many details are in your life right now that Christ has orchestrated that you might be able to continue? What little bit of encouragement will you receive by just a word at the gas station and you know that was from Christ? I wonder, but I think we can begin this morning by just saying, let's start to have these new eyes. They are eyes that are dedicated to a single doctrine this morning. It's not good enough for the head. We must begin to see everything through these things. In other words, it is time to take heart again Not just because we're optimistic. We are strong and we are full of courage Because the Lord stands by us, just as he stood by Paul. Do you really believe that? If you do, you must look at everything through that light. Let us pray.