Let us now turn to Acts chapter twenty. We'll be looking at verses eighteen through thirty-one. And we will be standing for the reading of God's Word. Acts twenty. eighteen through thirty one. Paul has just sent to Ephesus and called for the elders of the church. Paul was, if you remember in the scriptures, Paul was in a hurry to get back to Jerusalem and so So he did not want to sail into the port of Ephesus, so he stayed out on the edges and had the elders come down to him. And that's what we see in verse 17, and then we pick up And when they had come to him, he said to them, You know from the first day that I came to Asia in what manner I always lived among you, serving the Lord with all humility, with many tears and trials Which happened to be which happened to me by the plotting of the Jews, how I kept back nothing that was helpful, but proclaimed it to you, and taught you publicly and And from house to house, testifying to Jews and also to Greeks, repentance towards God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. And see, now I go bound in spirit to Jerusalem, not knowing the things that will happen to me there, except that the Holy Spirit testifies in every city. saying that chains and tributations await me, but none of these things move me move me, nor do I count my life dear to myself So that I may finish my race with joy, and the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus to testify to the gospel of the grace of God. Of God will see my face no more. Therefore I testify to you this day that I am innocent of the blood of all men, for I have not shunned to declare to you the whole council of God. Therefore, take heed to yourselves, and to all the flock among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to shepherd the church of God which he purchased with his own blood. For I know this that after my departure savage wolves would come in among you, not sparing the flock. And from also from among yourselves men will rise up, speaking perverse things, to draw away the disciples after them. themselves. Therefore watch, and remember that for three years I did not cease to warn everyone, night and day, with tears. Heavenly Father, it is only by the illumination of your Spirit that we could hear these things, understand them, and care. So we ask that your spirit would blow out any apathy within our hearts as we hear your word, and that we would have roots that grow down on the spot here in this service. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Please be seated. One miserable summer You ever had a miserable summer? My mis you haven't. I my summer was miserable because we went to Chinkate for work. Work had dried up in Maryland, so we We went to Chinkateek, Virginia. And if you want to know the essence of Chinkateek, Virginia, it's on a t-shirt that you can get at any Surf shop and it says I gave blood. And it has a big mosquito and it says Chinkateak, Virginia. And so we landed a job on a Chinkate Sound putting building a huge deck for a gentleman. And the sound in the summer has very, very low water Which means it's just filled with mosquitoes. And so if you can imagine trying to make nice cuts and remained and remain patient while building something with your younger brother and your father. While being eaten alive by mosquitoes, it does not work This ends up being an excellent picture of what we end up seeing within this passage relative to witness. Today is the last witness sermon. for now. We'll move on to a different series next week. We'll be going through the book of Polybians through the summer. Here we see something surprising. We see mosquitoes Mosquitos in the midst of witness. Just when you thought you were just trying to it was bad enough getting your head around witness and everything that it involves. Uh not only that do you not only do you have to get your head around it, but also there'll be mosquitoes. And it really raises the question, what did you expect witness to be like? Did you expect that you would have a jolly little conversation with whomever you run into And it's just going to go great from there. I don't really think that is our ex expectation on one level, but it might be on another. I think we expect it to go so badly that sometimes that's the reason why we don't engage. And other times we think it's just supposed to go so well, which is why we're so surprised and discouraged when it goes so badly. But here within this passage, we end up seeing that it's actually a part of God's plan. That the task of witness is passed to us, the church, but you must recognize that That your witness will be in the midst of a great deal of confrontation, opposition, and oppression at various levels. I want to look at this in three different ways. I want to uh see the task of witness, the progress of witness, and then the opposition of witness. So the very first thing we see in this passage is the task of witness. You see a task commissioned actually in verse twenty-four. Take a look at the verse with me. But none of these things move me, nor do I count my life dear to myself. so that I may finish my race with joy and the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus to testify to the gospel of the grace of God. You see here a ministry that was specifically given to the Apostle Paul. He didn't just think this was a good idea. This was a specific job that had been given to the Apostle. In fact, being called apostle is indicative of him having a job. This should remind you really of the beginning of this series. If you were to flip back to the beginning of the book of Acts, you see in miniature or microcosm here in chapter 20, amongst Paul, what was true of all of the disciples from the beginning. Uh those uh eleven and then the twelfth uh uh is also true of Paul. And if you remember in a in the beginning of Acts Jesus, or Luke writes about Jesus until the day he was taken up, after he through the Holy Spirit had given commandments to the apostles whom he had chosen. That Jesus also presented himself alive after his suffering for forty days, giving them many infallible proofs. You can think even of the the uh Easter season where we saw Jesus with Thomas presenting himself. Thomas to establish him as an apostle. The witness that was taking place in the Gospel of John that we saw during the um a Good Friday and the Monday Thursday. Going all the way back to there, you see this work that Jesus has done amongst his disciples. And here in Acts, before he ascends, he says that I will send great power to you, who is the Holy Spirit. And it's not that they would become a physical conquering kingdom, but rather right within that verse it says, but you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has Has come upon you, and you shall be witnesses to me in Jerusalem, and all of Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth. We understand the commission that had been given to the disciples. And it comes of a bit of a surprise, even to the early church, that the Apostle Paul is given a similar, exactly the same really, commission also in being called An apostle is someone who is an eyewitness to the resurrected Christ. So how is it that we could say that Paul is amongst that number? Obviously, the original saw Jesus For 40 days after he had resurrected, and so they're obviously apostles. Well, the riddle is solved when we see Paul in Acts chapter 9 converted We see after in chapter 8, when they laid Stephen's clothes at Saul's feet, Saul originally gained warrants for the arrest of any of those who were followers of Jesus Christ. He receives these warrants. He goes out to arrest followers of Jesus or those from the way. And then in chapter 9, Saul is confronted on the road to Damascus. Ananias received a vision about the future of Saul, and Saul is chosen. This is right in the same Acts chapter. Saul is a chosen vessel. Jesus says, Saul will be my chosen vessel to bear my name before the Gentiles, before kings, and the children of Israel. We know that at that point he spent some days with the disciples in Damascus, and he immediately began preaching Christ in the synagogue. And so the very fact that he sees the risen Lord on the Damascus road puts him into a position where he can be an authoritative witness of the resurrected Christ. And then Jesus gives to Paul the specific ministry that the others had. Peter mostly to the Jews, Paul to the Gentiles. Those were the two great missionaries that we see represented in this Acts of the Apostles. It's here that you see Paul laying out his ministry, and earlier you could see the commission given to all the disciples and to Peter. So you have two mainstreams of apostles. Here you also see the task performed by Paul is the same as those original apostles. For example, Paul here in this passage speaks of the power of the Spirit. You can see this in the Spirit telling him that he must go to Jerusalem and face many things. You can think of the way in which the Spirit had spoken to him in terms of going to Macedonia. You can see it here specifically in verse 23. He also represents his ministry in verse 19 as a ministry of humility And what that means here is that he is understands himself to be a true servant of the Lord in the same way that the disciples did. Ascended glory, and so too Paul sees himself in the exact same way. You see that Peter and the other disciples went from house to house, even during Jesus' ministry. ministry and afterward, and in verse twenty here, you see Paul picking up the same kind of ministry also as an apostle. You also see in verse twenty him speaking publicly and going from synagogue to synagogue, just as you would have seen Peter do going from the temple or from synagogue to synagogue. You also see Paul going to town centers. confronting people and yet delighting. You see him uh confronting and delighting in God in the Areophagus, and running out the hall of Tyrannus, and teaching, as it says in verse twenty-six, the whole council of God. God. Really laying out, as we see in Luke chapter 24, how all of the Old Testament had to do with a single person. In other words, that the biblical story is pointed, everything moving like a an ancient war vessel or a trireme all to the beak of the ship who is a little bit more than a Jesus Christ, all of the ribs of the story, the ribs of the prophets, all leading to this one man, his work. Paul would unfold as we see in verse 29. the entire council of God, the beginning of God's plan to the end. And perhaps the most startling thing that you end up seeing here with Paul is that his life is not thought of by him, but rather just the race that was in fact given to him, which really is in the language of a debt. Not only did the original disciples think of themselves as being indebted to work for Jesus Christ as he had given them that commission and then ascended into his glory. And then when he sent his spirit to those first disciples, it was confirmed the kind of work that they were to be doing, speaking the truth to all the nations. They certainly thought that they were indebted to work for Christ. And that until they had finished their job, the debt would remain. And we see the same thing here again with the Apostle Paul. He has been given a race. There is a specific finish line where Jesus Christ has set. And he must race there, otherwise he has fallen short of his race and has not paid the debt to Jesus Christ that he owed. This is a great image for us, in fact, as we think about witness going forward, as a debt. You have a debt to humanity Paul could stand before all of the elders of the Ephesian church and he could say that I have fulfilled this set and I am free of the blood of all men. You know, it's the language of a watchman, like if you were to look In Ezekiel. Watchman is required to stand guard, and if they see the enemy coming, they would alert the entire city to be forewarned and therefore forearmed. And Paul is saying here, I have blown the trumpet. I have warned everyone. And if you want to count yourself unworthy to re and reject this, then your blood is on your own hands. It's exactly what he has said to people. But for him, he has served his Lord. And the same question goes out to you as we think about witness. Is the blood of anyone on your hands, because you have kept your Mouth shut. We've talked in different ways in which you're supposed to open your mouth. Last week we talked about the importance of confronting and also in delighting. And that really moves us into our next point. You not only have the commission to the original disciples and to Paul, but look at what he's doing here. He's actually moving now into the progress of witness. The apostolic band is getting ready to end. Paul will go to Jerusalem and eventually his life will end as he goes eventually to Rome And here you see him taking the baton, as it were, and handing it to the Ephesian elders. The same kinds of responsibilities that you see in the original disciples Everything that we have heard in the series and watching these men go from Jerusalem and Judea and to the ends of the earth, being in a microcosm scene within the Apostle Paul himself, he now takes those responsibilities. He packs them into a baton and he hands them over to the early church as represented in the elders. There's an immediate responsibility that falls upon us here As we see the second point, which is the progress of witness. It was not just for a time, but it continues. The apostle passes the baton. You can see in just take a look in verse 28. Therefore, take heed to yourselves and to all the flock, among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to shepherd the church of God which He purchased with His own blood. This is a s just this is specifically to the elders. If you were to look through at this out the scriptures, what you end up finding, and the reason why this is spoken to elders, is because the elders in person particular have the responsibility for the ministry of the word to protect the flock to hold the flock and keep them pure both in the what what they believe and what they teach and also in what they act They, in other words, are to keep shiny the apostolic foundation, that there would be no corrupt word entering in or something changed. And that holiness would be upheld. You can see this as clear demarcations of the elder in 1 Timothy and in Titus. This is obviously their responsibility, and it is condoned even by the Holy Spirit here who is said to have chosen these elders. But you know there's also a responsibility here implicit to the congregation. If you were to go through, there's a special sense in which the elders have this, but if you were to go through all of the qualifications of the elder and then look throughout the scriptures to see if those same things are said informally to the congregation. You will find a great deal of overlap. For example, as an elder, it is my responsibility to exhort you to live in holiness and to obey the apostolic teaching. But it also says in Hebrews 3. 13 that you are to exhort one another. And in fact, if you were to look up the one another passages, you would find a great deal of responsibility that you have to one another. another that is also mentioned of the elders. And you not only have it to yourselves, but you also have this responsibility to the world. For instance in 1 Peter 315. But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and always be ready to give a defense to everyone who asks you a reason for the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. Do you see what's happening? The Apostle Paul is just like the original Apostles. And the Apostle Paul has all of those responsibilities, and some of them, a great deal of them, except for the Those things which are extraordinary amongst apostles is passed to the church to continue for the ages to come that the gospel would go out. So in other words, as the Apostle Paul follows Jesus Christ, you follow Paul. Is as witnesses to this world. The fact that it progresses has been a huge argument throughout the entire series. And that's what I'm just trying to establish again here. That witness did not stop with the apostles, but it continues with us. And perhaps the greatest image that we see is not what is written down specifically In this passage, but what undergirds every single word. And that is that the Lord Jesus Christ is ascended and is working through his apostles and through his people In order to minister to the entire world. And why is he doing that? And why would you have confidence that Jesus Christ still cares whether or not people hear his gospel? You can think for instance, if you needed a verse, Hebrews four fourteen. Listen to this. Seeing then that we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, he has passed through the heavens. The ascendant Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession, for we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses. Now this is true for those who have not entered into the church and those who have entered into the church. In fact, Paul the Apostle ends up being the great example of this. In 1 Timothy 1:15 through 16, he labels himself in order to convince you that witnesses of the utmost urgency For you as the church to continue to bring the love of Jesus Christ to the world through his gospel, he says, there's no one that should be excluded from hearing my message. From hearing the message of the apostles. If there is anyone that you think is too big of a sinner who does not belong, they're not as big of a sinner as I was. I was murdering those who were the followers of Jesus Christ. I am the chief of sinners, he says in 1 Timothy 1, 15 and 16. And so if you happen to run into someone who is a eunuch, Who has been sexually modified and yet the Holy Spirit has indwelt them and they are professing faith in Christ, then you must witness to them. You must bring them into your church and embrace them. That's the vision that we end up seeing here. That's the heart that we see of Jesus Christ that we are to carry forward. You are to carry the heart of Jesus Christ as a reminder that He loves sinners And is calling them to himself, and he did not stop in sixty AD. But he continues today. And it is through your mouth, it is through your confronting It is through your love. It is through your prayers, as we saw in the early church, when the upper room shook like an earthquake. It is through your fellowship, both your witness amongst each other and how you treat one another and how you would witness out to the world. Now, everything that I just said was a review of all the Servants. So hopefully that wasn't new to you. That was all a review of the witnessing series, all of the different parts. Undergirding every single piece was the work of the Father, the work of the Son, and the work of the It's Trinitarian witness. The added element that we see here is something that undergirded everything that was gone had gone before, but comes out in just an explicit statement by Paul. You not only have the original apostles commissioned and Paul commissioned, and then Paul passing that commission on to the early church, first to the elders and then the congregation, but you see that this task of witness. Will take place in the midst of opposition. He says it explicitly. Look at the latter verses. When he's finally saying his goodbyes, getting ready to get on the ship. Therefore, verse 25. twenty eight, take heed to yourselves and to all the flock, among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to shepherd the church of God which he purchased with his own blood For I know this, that after my departure, savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock. Also from among yourselves men will rise up, speaking perverse things, to draw all the way to disciples after themselves. Therefore watch, and remember that for three years I did not cease to warn everyone night and day with tears. Tears. Is it a little surprising to you this element? Is it surprising that it was so real to the Apostle Paul that he would do, he would warn them night and day with tears? Do you have tears for the security of the church? If you have not had tears for the security of the church, perhaps you don't really view the situation as the Apostle Paul Painted here. I'm not talking about the church at large. I'm talking about Seven Run right now. That's what we have to understand. This is a warning that is coming to us from God's Word. That there will be in the midst of us trying to witness, we will seek to witness with our words and with our lives as families. And there will be those from without And there will be those from within that seek to reduce you to nothing. Now let's talk about this for a minute, the opposition of witnesses. In verse 29, you have those coming without, savage wolves. I grew up on the Eastern Shore, and I don't know that you could call this a privilege. But on certain hunting property there would be certain livestock and there they weren't wolves, they were dogs, but this gives you the picture. You don't want to see a dog grab a sheep and Drag it out of its pen by its neck. It's quite unpleasant to watch a wild dog do that. This is the image that he chooses. He uses the dragging imagery in verse 30 for those who are within. So you not only have those from without coming to Like a savage wolf, you also have those within trying to drag you out. And the image, I think, of drag is still that wolf image, like a wolf dragging a bloody sheep out away from its flock So that it could devour it when it's isolated. And that is a warning for us to take this opposition seriously in the midst of our witness. Do you see everything that we do as a church is a witness. Everything that we do, the way that you talk to one another, the way that you related to each other this morning, what we taught in Sunday school or didn't teach. All of it is a witness. It's either corresponding with the apostolic foundation and with the intent of our risen Lord Jesus Christ, or it is not. And what we end up finding is we find these little holes springing in churches, little like a boat, little leaks that begin to fill up and no one pays any attention, and before you know it, you're in an emergency emergency situation and the entire vessel is getting ready to go down. Now you say, well, you know, we've been around for 25 years and really haven't had to deal with that. Actually you don't know the church history. if you think that's true, because we've had to deal with it multiple times, and thank God you had a good session that knew how to discipline before I was even here And let me remind you of the apostolic churches. I've given you this argument before. If you're not scared right now about what it means that you're thinking about witnessing, then you don't understand the situation. I had the uh perhaps the best mentor. I had several really great mentors. And and I'm just thinking of my last who holds a place in my life like no other, who is Arch. And he uh we we work together and he trains me to where I could be qualified. qualified to perhaps take this church and and be elected to this position. But and you would think because of how good of a a man Arch was, that the training would be good and that we stand at But let me scare you even more. The Apostle Paul planted the church churches in Corinth and in Galatia and in Ephesus, and he raised up Timothy. And I'm no Timothy, and Arch is no Paul. And yet, when you read in the record of the scriptural testimony about those churches, the Corinthians he had to write several epistles filled with ways in which they had become Not to mention in chapter 15 they are denying the resurrection from the dead. And if no one resurrects from the dead, then Jesus didn't resurrect From the dead. And if Jesus didn't resurrect from the dead, then he wasn't the Messiah, which means you're all fools. And we should still be waiting with the Jews for the real Messiah. That happened in Paul's church plant. Under his leadership, or in Galatia, a totally different gospel, discrediting the merit of Jesus Christ's work. It wasn't good enough. It needed to be supplemented by something else. And then you have the elders here. He warns these elders night and day in tears, and yet by the time you get to Revelation, the book of Revelation The church at Ephesus has lost their first love, and Jesus is getting ready to remove their lampstand. The opposition to witness is serious, and it didn't stop in the first church. You know all those fancy terms you hear where you get frustrated when theologians talk like error And semi-Pelagianism and Pelagianism. You know when you feel like throwing rotten fruit at somebody when they start saying those kind of words? They're just names of people that have corrupted the church. That we're trying to stand up against. They're all heresies. They're all people who had a goal to whether they rose up from inside the church or they came from outside the church, they sought to attack the witness of its church in its heart of hearts. And you know where that That was every single corruption, every single apostasy, whether here or any other church always boils down to this, which was the framework of the entire series. on witness. It is a corruption of the person of Jesus Christ, or it is a corruption of the work of Jesus Christ or the words of Jesus Christ. Arianism, corruption of the person of Jesus Christ. Pelagianism and semi-Pelagianism, a corruption of the work of Jesus Christ. up later. Look up any church in church history, all the heresies. It all ties back to the corruption of Jesus Christ. Now doesn't that hit to the heart? That you're being warned not only that you will be opposed, but there will be people among you and those who come from without To corrupt the very person that has given up his life for you. He means so much to you right now because you understand his sympathy and his heart for you from heaven and what he has saved you from What he's making your life into now and what it used to be, and yet there are those who will be among us and those who will come from without where you will lie against him. You will lie against his very person. You will begin to discredit the great works that he has done. Think about that in our own day. There are many different ways that we We could do that. And there are a lot of different options that I can lay out, and they would be so familiar to you, but let me lay one down that's not as familiar. The secular American vision You want to focus immediately on Unitarianism or Mormonism or whatever it is, and that needs to be focused on, I tell you. But don't forget your very the very air that you breathe in the secular vision of America. America is seeking t for you to be totally satisfied what wit with what it has to offer so that you do not need Jesus Christ in any way whatsoever. What do you need to be saved from? America has made you so comfortable you have no idea. When you talk to someone on the street, you say, through Jesus Christ, you could be justified before God, and they say, Well, why would I want that? All I need is a college education. Now I think you can feel the power of that, and you understand what then is happening Is that they're telling you that Jesus Christ is not necessary. They are attacking exactly his person and his work. And when we begin to believe those things, we begin to falter in our witness in terms of our holiness. We end up looking just like everybody else in the world because we had first accepted the corrupted teaching There's nothing really to say here except that this is a warning. It's a warning for us as we go forward. We're not in the game Candyland. We're every Around every corner is a uh, I don't know, a peppermint? I don't know. Thick game just seems very nice to me. And and this isn't nice The opposition is real. You have the task that was originally given to the disciples, but it progressed to us. What a great responsibility that we have. And to make it even worse. There will be opposition in the midst of it. I want to leave you with a time of self-examination. It's a time for you to consider whether or not you've sprung leaks and you just have not been Paying any attention. Whether it's you as an individual or you as a community, how are we doing in our witness? Are we already being uh ravaged by savage wolves in any way whatsoever? My last chinkotique story. When I was younger, I'd be on a boogie board and I'd head out. And my family is an it's a off the road vehicle section, so we'd take the Eddie Bauer Bronco and we'd park and there'd be fried chicken there and and the parents would stay back and eat the chicken and And we would go out with our boogie boards and then I'd get hungry out in the middle of the ocean. And I thought, I'm just gonna go back and get some chicken. And then I'd go back to the beach with my boogie board and I would not see the truck anywhere and then I look and it's like half a mile that way because of the beach drift. I think we're all familiar with that whether you're a fisherman or a Surfer or just a swimmer in the ocean. There's beach drift. It's exactly what we're talking about here and how the opposition works. Is that without knowing it you can be a half a mile down the beach toward a possibility? Some churches, for instance, don't publish a public confession like we do. Nevertheless, they still do have a confession. And so I would ask you as you are entering into this time of self-examination to see where the beach drift is within your life or with us uh within us and as as a community is to read the shorter catechism, even through the archaic language, get through it. Look at it and see if you disagree agree with any of it. And then if you do, please come and speak to me. Because it is an indication that you have already started with Beach Drift. The shorter catechism lays out what we represent to be the true understanding of the Scriptures, and it revolves around the person, words, and works of Jesus Christ. And so to look at that and to disagree with any part of it is already to be moving down the beach. If you disagree with any point, then you should be concerned. And I know that that sounds strong, and I imagine that in some of you your heads right now you're disagreeing with me. But I challenge you just to examine yourself See if you disagree with just a shorter catechism, and then come talk to me about your disagreement. And let's not find if you are disagreeing with the work that Jesus Christ has done, or his person, or his words. The other thing can be looked at too, instead of focusing on what you believe, focus on your actions, because it's a representation of what you believe. A lack of holiness, apathy toward God, deceiving, being defensive, murdering people in your heart, unresolved marital conflicts are all signs of beech drift. All of them. When you're driving in your car and there's a song on the radio but you haven't heard it because you've been telling a congregation member off in your mind the whole time. time that's beech drift. And here's the last bee drift that may surprise you. All of this warning with the heart that you have as a human can make you feel lonely and scared and anxious and frightened. And here's the last thing that I have to say to you. It is beach drift to forget that God loves you. It is speechdrift to think that Jesus Christ has let go of his church. Jesus Christ is our great ascendant protector He is the one that will work through the elders and through the congregation in order for us to be healthy. He will be the one that brings repentance. He will be the one that accompanies this word and other words. He will be the one that accompanies the sacrament to seal it to your heart, that your faith would be stirred up. That you wouldn't have the anxiety and the anger. That's what happened to me even this morning, as I was thinking of the last touches on this sermon. I was uh displeased. And I had to go into prayer. And this is what I had to say to my Lord Jesus Christ. I had to say, please help me to believe that you love me. me and that you're not just sending me up there by myself. Now that's my problem. But you have the same kind of thing. Whether it's as a head as a head of your family Or working in this community? Or figuring out how in the world you're going to believe Christianity when it sounds so implausible to you, although you've been raised up in the church, how you're going to make it through? Any of the anxiety, the anger, and the inattention, the snapping that happens between us is a sign that we are orphans and that God does not care for us. If we truly believed, So don't start with that beach drift either. Here's the final warning. You must be killing sin. as you've heard, or sin will be killing you. It will also be killing your witness, and it will also kill this church. Let's pray.