Amen. Sorry, Pat, I just couldn't pray for Navy. Passage that we're up to today is Matthew 21, verses 1 through 17. So I would invite you to turn to that. And uh that is the the verses, the series of verses. That we'll be looking at today. It's easily worth several sermons in order to look at what's here. I just simply can't delve into the depths of it. We hope to hit it as we have been the previous So here we see in these verses Jesus is trying to Triumphal entry into his capital, the city of Jerusalem. Matthew 21, beginning with verse 1. Now, when they drew near Jerusalem and came to Bethpage at the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples, saying to them, Go into the village opposite you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied and a colt with her. Loose them and bring them to me. And if anyone says anything to you, you shall say, The Lord has need of them, and immediately he will send them. All this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet, saying, Tell the daughter of Zion, Behold, your king is coming to you lowly and sitting on a donkey, a colt, the foal of a donkey So the disciples went and did as Jesus commanded them. They brought the donkey and the colt, laid their clothes on them, and set him on them. And a very great multitude spread their clothes on the road, others cut down Down branches from the trees and spread them on the road. Then the multitudes who went before and those who followed cried out, saying, Hosanna to the son of David, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna and the highest And when they had come into Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying, Who is this? So the multitude of the multitude said, This is Jesus, the prophet from Nazareth. Then Jesus went into the temple of God and drove out all those who bought and sold uh in the temple, and overturned the tables of the money changers, and And he said to them, It is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer. But you have made it into or it a death. Of thieves. Then the blind and the lame came to him in the temple and he healed them. But when the chief priests and scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children crying out in the temple and saying, Hosannah to the son of David, they were indignant And said to him, Do you hear what these are saying? And Jesus said to them, Yes. And you never read, out of the mouth of babes and nursing infants, you have perfected Praise. Then he left them, went out to the city of Bethany, and he lodged there. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that cometh. from this word. No one, to my knowledge, is better at helping you get your mind right than a Marine Corps drill sergeant. Within twenty-four hours of falling into his clutches, the only thing in the whole wide world that you want to do is make him happy. And I don't know Of any Marine Corps sergeant who a drill sergeant who is ever happy. His constant reminder is this, boy, you better get your mind right. And from his point of view You you don't do anything right. As a matter of fact, you have never done anything right. You don't know how to tie your shoes, you don't know how to walk, you don't know how to talk. You don't know how to think rightly about anything. Your mind is so much mush. The world is better off if the world would be better off if you just curled up and died. And he's had there to help you understand that. Because you see, if you don't get your mind right, in my case, you will never be a naval officer. You will not get to fly navy airplanes. And most importantly, right at this particular instant, you will never please me. Your humble drill sergeant, Sergeant Matab. Mayor, full blown, hundred percent Native American, whose favorite words were to call you Peachy One. And he he could send chills Right up and down your spine saying that. The only answer to which you ever got away with anything was yes, drill sergeant. Yes, sir. As anyone who has ever gone through any of that will tell you, military boot camp, officer training, special forces training, anything like that, is first and foremost a matter of the mind. It's first and foremost a matter of the mind. You have to change the way you think. You have to, again, get your mind right, and when you do, all of a sudden, new possibilities are open to you. Things you never thought of What you could do become possible. If you'd have told me when I was seventeen years old at six foot four and a half, one hundred and thirty-five pounds that I could swim a mile through cold water, I would have just laughed at you because my favorite mode of swimming was to sink. And but I did. Why? Because that sergeant was out there. But it also means in that that all kinds of possibilities open to you that That had you not changed the way you're thinking, you would have simply precluded them as being uh plausible, as being possible. And brothers and sisters, the scriptures make it abundantly clear that a big part of becoming a Christian is getting our mind right. To really know Jesus Christ Means we have to change our minds. It begins with putting away the old sloppy way of thinking, that brain full of mush that we start with. And it grows by getting on board with him as he presents himself to us in the scripture and as he guides us through our lives, so that even more than with a drill sergeant, we discover that submitting to him and Submitting to his will opens up for us whole new avenues of potentials and possibilities. It opens up for us a world It's for the purpose of getting our mind right that God sent his Son into this world. life from his incarnation and birth, every event that happened to him, every word that was spoken by him was carefully crafted by God To reveal to us something about him. There was a reason why Jesus was born in a manger in Bethlehem instead of an ice born. There was a reason for all of that trip to Egypt and for the slaughter of the innocent children and the arrival of the three kings. Those things didn't just happen Throughout his life, Jesus' steps were directed by God. There was nothing left at chance. There was no detail missing from the script. The script of his life was written before the dawn of the creation of the world, and the outlines of it were revealed in uh in visions to the old testament Prophets. They told people before it happened what his life was going to be like. They wrote it down in the scriptures. That were preserved to this day. So throughout all of his life, especially as we read in Matthew, we read that Jesus did things in a certain way so that it might be fulfilled that which was spoken by the prophets. Jesus' life on earth, his life, was to be un We can skip over that. We can read all the details of Scripture and we can say, boy, that was nice. You know, Jesus was born in a little stallion method. Bethlehem. But we re we we forget that that is revelation itself. It's not just a nice aspect of the story that we jump through so we can get to the things that Jesus said because that's the real revelation. No, his whole life was revelation. Particularly the things that he did. Perhaps even more More the things that he did than that which he said. Jesus' life, death, and resurrection were for our instruction. So that we may ponder it, that we may learn from it, so that we may put away that mush that we have for brains. That we may begin to think right. And here in these verses, here in chapter twenty-one of Matthew, we see this intention in spades. Three times in In these few verses, three times we are told that whatever was going on was in fulfillment of Scripture. It is to be understood as the fulfillment of Scripture. It is to be recognized as An aspect of this drama, this this play, if you will, this metaphor that Jesus is acting out before our minds. Verse seven five of the seventeen verses are either a quote or a paraphrase of an Old Testament text. Five out of seventeen. That's you know just slightly less than one third. It's almost as if Jesus is getting up close to us as that sergeant you And he says, look at me. Have I got your attention? Get your mind right. This is who I am And this is how you must think of me. So let's start with where he starts in this passage. Let's start with with the entry into Jerusalem. As I said earlier, I simply do not have time to go into all of the details of this. I can only give the big picture. But first of all, let's look at how carefully Jesus Stages the event. He sends his disciples ahead. He tells them exactly what they are to see and to do. Why? Because it's all been arranged It's all been arranged. There's the donkey and the colt just waiting for him. And Jesus had to enter into, Jesus had to enter into There was no other option. It's part of the play. It's part of the metaphor. That's the way it's been planned. Because Jesus Entering into uh Jerusalem in this special way uniquely identified him. Now the Gospel of John, well, in a And the way that he presents it shows that this was not the first time Jerusalem, Jesus had been to Jerusalem. But this is a special entry. This time it was special. Because God is here revealing something. This time the people of Israel were to be told by his action Your king is coming to you. That's the prophecy. Your king is coming to you. How do you know that? He's sitting on a donkey. That's why the donkey was chosen. An earthly king would have ridden something else. He would have been much more grand. He would have been saying, look at me, see how high I am. He would have distanced himself from the people because he was by his very nature to be considered separate and glorious more so than the king than the uh people whom he was to rule. But not the king of Israel. Now his coming was to be immediately recognized because God had already Already told them your true king is going to come to you on a donkey's foe. Now there's much to learn from this. Riding on a donkey's foal, may Jesus more ex accessible to the crowds. He probably had to lift up his toes in order to keep them from dragging in the ground. A donkey's colt is a is a a small animal. They're dog That are larger than donkeys. And so he he was not high lifted up. He was right there with the people. And that said something. He was not elevated beyond their Reach, he was coming as one of the people, identifying with them in a donkey. That's what that's what people used as a beast of burden. But the major point here is not so much Those are things we can learn from it, we can benefit from, we can rejoice in those details. The major point here, though, is not that. The major point is that the way he came into the kingdom could not Be mistaken. He was the rightful king of God's covenant people. He was the king of his church. And that is what we need to focus on. Jesus came to Jerusalem, which is another detail that has to be Jerusalem in scripture has a significance far beyond It's mere earthly reality. It was the physical representation of the heavenly city of God. Mount Zion was where all of the nations were to learn of God and to obey his commands. That's what the prophets taught. It was always designed to be a city on a hill, and was to be, it was illustrative of what Jesus said about that. It was to be a beacon. David says it was from Zion that the people were to declare his deeds. It was to be the center of worship, the place where God God's mighty actions were proclaimed. Micah tells us that it was from Zion that the Lord was to rule the world. He was to rule over the weak and the remnant. on the earth from Zion. Isaiah tells us that Zion was to be a base from which messengers would be sent out into the nations. And it was from Zion that the children of God would be the true offspring Of Jerusalem. And they were to evangelize the world. See, Zion, Jerusalem, symbolized more than just the capital city of Israel. And therefore it was more than just Jesus coming into his capital city. There's much to be thought of there. The royalty of Jesus, yes. But the event, the revelation of that event, means more than that. You see, Jerusalem was more than just the place where Jesus' throne room was Jerusalem existed as an earthly metaphor for the church of God. It stood for all that God was going to do in the world to bring out his good It was the earthly incarnation of the heavenly Jerusalem from which God dwells, from where God dwells, and from which He sends His messengers, His angels. So Jesus was not going into Jerusalem just to sit on a throne The worst thing that would have happened is that if he just went into their Jerusalem, sat on the throne, and caused Israel to prosper, then we would be without a savior, would we not? Jesus was going to Jerusalem in order to bring about the great day of the Lord. He was going there to make her people happen. At long last. This was his mission. And of course, his death and resurrection was a part of what came. But if that had not happened, this was what he would have established. He was going there to at long last create Israel to be what they had already been always been designed to be. A nation of priests, a holy nation, a people who were set aside to God's glory, a people through whom the perfection of God's creation would at last be restored to the earth. He proclaimed all of that by coming as this king, because that's what this king was prophesied to do. Sitting on a throne. Sitting on a donkey, coming into Jerusalem was the herald of that great day of the Lord when all of these good things were going to happen. And what he's saying to the world by coming on that donkey is, you see what I'm doing? Now get your mind right. I have come to make you more than you ever possibly thought you could be. This is immediate this is why Jesus immediately goes to the temple. We have to connect those events. Matthew differs from Mark here. Because Because Matthew is driving home a point. Jesus comes to Jerusalem. He comes to his church in order to make her great. That's what we just talked about. But in order to do that, Jerusalem must first be purified He must drive out all of those who defile her by bringing the world into her holy precincts. Jerusalem is Understand this. Take a look at chapter 11 in Revelation if you can get up open real quickly. There's a very enigmatic and somewhat uh obscure story that is told there. Because John here is given a measuring stick by the angel. And he's told and he's going to measure the temple. Now go measure the temple. Okay. So a measuring stick is a big long stick, probably about six or seven feet high. We don't really know how long a cubit is. But it was a measuring stick, and then he was go precisely measure the base of the temple. And he did that He was told not to measure the court of the Gentiles, not to measure the very place where Jesus went to drive out all of those money changes. And sellers of doves. Now, why was he told not to measure that? Because the temple here, as I've said already, symbolizes the people of God, the true people of God, the elect people of God. And that's an exact number, folks, for all of you non Presbyterians, non-Reform people out there there is something called election and predestination. There's a fixed number that God is going to bring into his kingdom, and that number is just enough to fit within the temple. And so the idea of the fixed dimensions of the temple that he is measuring here was speaking of that precise number, which is the true church of God, his true heaven. Heavenly Jerusalem. It is there that the temple in that temple that God dwells with his believers, and thus only those who love him from their hearts So the exact dimensions of the temple represent the exact number of God's elect. But the court of the Gentiles. You see, the court of the Gentiles was because those people couldn't come in. They were allowed to pray out there, and it was considered part of the uh temple complex. But that is the part in John's vision. That is given over to unbelievers. It is given over to those who name the name of Christ, who name the name of God, but their heart is in the service of Mammon. For it is they who will trample the holy place. It is they who turn it into a den of thieves. They are Christians in name. But their lives an abomination are a desolation to the sacred precincts of the temple. These must first Be purged. When judgment comes, they must be stripped away. We are taught here by symbology By a metaphor, by typology, as Jesus comes into Jerusalem and immediately cleanses his temple, we are taught here that when Jesus does finally and foot Come back to Jerusalem. When the Lord Jesus Christ comes again, he's not going to be riding on a donkey. He's going to come with a legion of angels, he's going to come with the sounding of a trumpet, and the first thing he shall do is cleanse his temple Judgment begins with the household of God. And when Jesus entered Jerusalem that first time 2,000 years ago, He was coming to reveal to her how to make how she could be great. But he first had to make her holy. And therefore he immediately drove from the temple all of those who had turned it into a den of thieves. The last thing we see Jesus doing in this passage. Is healing the blind and the lame. Seeing the people shout for joy as he does so Here we have a picture of him coming into a city, having purified his temple, and immediately revealing what God intends to do for the whole world. Brothers and sisters, he took people who were defective and their whole being. He took people whose minds were mush, who couldn't tie their shoes the right way, who never got a crease straight in their pants ever. Excuse me, trousers. In the military, men wear trousers, not pants. Those people Couldn't do anything right. Jesus came into this world to fix that. He came to make them whole, to make them well. Because this is the plan of God, and this is the conclusion of all history. Jesus says this so clearly. He came into the world not to condemn the world. But to save it. I came, he says, in order to set the prisoner free, so that the lamb may walk, that the blind may see. I came to take away the misery which sin has brought upon mankind. And to bring about the healing of the nations, to tear down the walls of hatred and enmity that sets one man against another just because that person is from a different race Or from a different economic status or a different tribe, or they just say just because they talk funny. He came to take away the sting of death. To enable people to live a flourishing life, to enable people to live an eternal life. You see, the ministry of the true Jerusalem is that It is to be a place where people who have been purified from the sins of this world are able to then go forth and bring healing in them the world, so that it may apply itself to the task which our Lord here symbolizes is to be its meaning. We like our Lord have not come into the heavenly Jerusalem in order to sit on thrones and watch TV. The people of God are to be afraid. force for good, a force for healing, a force for reconciliation. And we have to get our minds right about that If we don't do that, if we do not embrace the calling that Christ is here showing us, it's to be the witness of his the the understanding of the metaphor that he is acting out. Then in fact we are denying him And we, just like that first Jerusalem, are rejecting him. And what we're really saying is that we don't want you, Jesus, the God who comes to us riding on a donkey, we want the God of Mammon. We'd rather be with those people selling stuff in the court of the Gentiles. than to be with you, sitting on the temple steps, healing those who come to you. That brings me to the last point I want us to consider today, and that is simply this. We're commencing today the final section of the Gospel of Matthew. And we must see it as a coherent whole. What we're reading here today in chapter 21 does not end until chapter 28. It does not end until we see This drama acted out, this choreographed set of circumstances until we see Jesus ascending into heaven and leaving his people with the Great Commission. We must understand that the earthly Jerusalem that Jesus entered into that day on that first Palm Sunday was not then his true Jerusalem. In fact, In fact, the entire city, the entire race had become a den of thieves. The city was like the temple. It was given over to things of men and not the things of God Like Adam and Eve in the garden, the people of Israel had listened to the teachings of the serpent, and therefore when their true king came through the gates, they did not receive Receive him with true faith. That was part of God's plan also. For Jesus had to die in order to become our true high priest. But nevertheless, the drama had to be played out. And now we see that that judgment which fell on Jerusalem in 70 AD When the entire city and the temple in particular was destroyed in in fulfillment of Jesus' own prophecy, was because they did not receive their king when And he came through those gates riding on a donkey. Brothers and sisters, Jesus by his birth, death, and resurrection. has now constituted his visible church, has constituted us. Us. We're all in this together. Has constituted us as his earthly Jerusalem. We now stand where Jerusalem stood on that day. We are to understand that we are first and foremost priests and kings in this world, and we are to live and love and work in the name of this Lord of our Lord and High King. And that our purpose on earth is to be a city unto which people are drawn. By our life and actions. First and foremost, and by our proclamation, in order to substantiate our life and actions. But we must get our minds right about this. And this picture We see history and we see ourselves. And the question we have to ask ourselves is this is how am I receiving my true king Am I receiving him as he comes to me with the intention of changing me and getting my mind right and opening up all manner of new possibilities in my life? So that I can discover that I can do things or God can do things through me that I never thought possible. I have to submit to him and I have to trust him and I have to follow where he sends me or where he goes. Or am I in this picture among the Those who are buying and selling in the court of the Gentiles, calling myself a Christian, but in my heart a servant of mammon. It's a question that is confronting By the life and actions of our Lord Jesus Christ in Matthew twenty-one. Let's pray.