Now when they drew near Jerusalem and came to Bethage at the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples, saying to them, Go into the village opposite you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied and a colt with her. Loose them and bring them to me. And if anyone says anything to you, you shall say, The Lord has need of them And immediately he will send them. All this was done that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophets, saying, Tell the daughter of Zion, behold your king is coming to you Lowly and sitting on a donkey, a colt, the full of a donkey. So the disciples went and did as Jesus commanded them. They brought the donkey and the colt, laid their clothes on them, and set him on them. And a very great multitude spread their clothes on the road. Others cut down branches from the trees and spread them on the road. Then the multitudes who went before and those who followed cried out, saying Hosanna to the Son of David, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest And when he had come into Jerusalem, all the city was moved or shaken, saying, Who is this? So the multitude said, This is Jesus, the prophet from Nazareth of Galilee. Let us pray. Oh Christ, may your word go out, may you make it effective, and may you, Lord be our King, not just with the words of our lips, but in our hearts and in our hands, and all that we walk with our feet. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated Children, I have a question for you. I'm wondering if you are the kind of person that enjoys parades. For the longest time, my family and I have enjoyed watching the Macy's Day Parade I like seeing the giant Snoopy almost bouncing off the buildings over there. I guess that's in New York City But even more than that, children, we enjoyed the parade that is in our local town in Saverna Park. We're fortunate and blessed to have a Fourth of July parade And uh those who go through have fancy cars sometimes as a part of an auto club. They'll throw my children candy on the streets and they'll run out and grab it One year, we even had a mission barbecue truck come by, and I'm not sure if this was sanitary or not, but they threw us sandwiches Uh otherwise you get stickers and coupons and t-shirts. I wonder if there's ever been a parade that you've gone to that you've really enjoyed like that. Well w what you have in front of you this morning in the reading that I just gave you is a parade. And children, it's the most important parade that has ever happened. And never will happen on the face of the earth. There's actually two most important parades, if you will. There's this one and there's the procession when Christ returns. But this is right up there, tied with that one, a most important parade. And I wonder whether you're a child or not this morning. I wonder what this parade means to you. You've heard about the triumphal entry. I wonder what the significance of the triumphal entry is to you. Well Jesus didn't start here on this Mount of Olives that we read. You can search these things on YouTube. You can see the Mount of Olives today. He didn't start there though. He started his ministry and spent large uh a large portion of his time, probably ninety percent, in a region that was far north of this Called Galilee, all around the Sea of Galilee. And at a certain point, if you wanted to, on your own time today, you could go back to Matthew chapter 16, verse 27, and you could see that there's a real shift. Where Jesus is going to move from northern Galilee, and he's going to head south about a hundred miles to Jerusalem for this very event here. He and many other pilgrims, you've seen the crowds present in the passage, for example. On his way to Jerusalem, he enters into all kinds of instruction. If you were to read chapter 16 all the way to chapter 21, you'd see Jesus teaching over and over again, trying to prepare his disciples for what he himself must face in his crucifixion. In his death, in his resurrection, what it means for us to be his disciples as he ushers in his kingdom. And right there before he enters into this, he even heals the blind man, saying, All of us will have illumination here soon as to who I really am. And that brings us to the Mount of Olives and what we see here in this particular passage. And in fact, the Spirit intends for us to learn here. That Jesus Christ declares himself to be our King whom we are to trust. Jesus Christ declares himself to be our King, whom we must trust. That's what this passage that we've selected this morning, the Spirit, seeks to teach you that this morning. Now what you have here, if you divide this passage up into two parts, is you have the prophecy of the king, and then you have the parade of the king. And that's how we'll look at this and unfold this passage this morning. So please follow along with me. I hope you have your Bibles open on your laps. So we can look at the prophecy of the king and the parade of the king. And the first thing that I want you to notice about the prophecy of the king is that Jesus Christ arranges This specific scene with the donkey and her foal, he arranges all this symbolism to show that he is the long-awaited king that was prophesied about throughout all of the scriptures. You can see that this is what Jesus is doing, especially in verses 1 through 3. Now, when they drew near Jerusalem and came to Bethphage at the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples, saying to them, Go into the village opposite you. And immediately you will find a donkey tied and a colt with her. Loose them and bring them to me. And if anyone says anything to you, you shall say, The Lord has need of them, and immediately he will send them. You can see the pre-planning That Jesus has put into this event because he knows that he's dramatically getting ready to create a scene where he is declaring what his identity is. He sends the disciples to a nearby village. And they must look for a donkey and her colt. Apparently he has pre-arranged this with the owner that they would know what is being talked about here. And he tells the disciples that if anybody says something to you, then you would just let them know that the Lord has need of them. Now, here's a big question for you when you look at this. Why does Jesus do all of this procurement? We could, in a way, divide the first eleven verses into two Uh all the way to verse six could be the first portion if we wanted. And we could say that more than half of this passage is devoted to the procurement of a donkey. Why does he want to do that? Why is he taking all of this time to send and to gather? Well, take a look at verse 4. We don't have to guess. There's an editorial comment written by Matthew here, and he says, as a paraphrase, that Jesus is arranging a scene to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet. And then the question is, well fulfilled what? And that's where we turn to that prophecy in verse 5. Tell the daughter of Zion, behold, your king is coming to you, lowly, and here are here's why he's arranging the way that he is, sitting on a donkey. A colt and the foal of a donkey. You see what he's doing here. It's as if that uh Christ himself is creating a living parable. It's as if Christ Himself has decided that He's going to have a play. And He puts all of the props that He needs up on the stage so that everybody could see exactly what He's enacting, like a prophet of old. He is the fulfillment. He is declaring that he is the answer to this prophecy. It says that the king will come and he'll be sitting on a donkey, and guess what Jesus is doing? Jesus has ordered for the donkey to be brought to him, and he will be the one that sits on it together with the foal. He is the fulfillment of all of the hopes and the aspirations of those people in waiting for God's Messiah. And that's clearly seen in verse 5, which I've already read to you. Now that's a quote from Zechariah 9:9 Where the prophets have we've seen this kind of thing before. The Lord gives insight to prophets where they are able to see the eternal counsels of how God will accomplish His will through His Son. And here you see that we will know who the Christ. Christ is and who our King is when he comes riding in on a co with a donkey and the foal of a donkey. And that is exactly what Jesus does here. Now we could have turned to Isaiah, we could have turned to Genesis 49, and we would have seen similar prophecies. All of those passages would be would reveal the heavenly counsels of God that one day a king with all authority shall be given to restore his people and this world. And here's the great news for you this morning. Jesus arranges this entire scene to declare a single thing to you. I'm Him. I'm the King. I am the king. I remember when I was in seminary that a professor of mine asked me a curious question. And I wonder how you would handle this question and how you would think of it. He said, Can you imagine what it was like for our Savior and King Jesus Christ to read the scriptures? And the reason why he was asking that is because he's saying when he would be reading the narrative, he'd be reading the narrative and biography of his own life. What would it be like to be in a Bible study with Jesus? Genesis 49. If you like that passage, that's about me. Isaiah, that's about me. Can you imagine what that would be like? Can you imagine what it would be like to read the Psalms with him? And he would say, This is these are my affections. This is my soul laid bare before you. And then when we would read about the sacrificial lamb, which will come up in this upcoming week, he'd say, I'm the sacrificial lamb. Boy, would that be a good Bible study. I think I would only want to study my Bible with him at that point. There's no one out there but him that knows the Bible like that. And that's true not just for those things that I just mentioned, but all the prophecies that are being brought up here by way of Zechariah 9:9. All of the prophecies of God providing a king to rule over heaven and earth That's the biography of Jesus Christ. And that is what he is playing out here in prophetic fashion. by them by the sitting on this donkey and having the foal of that donkey next to her. Now, up to this point in the gospel, if you go back and read it, you'll see that Jesus didn't make these kind of declarations. He engaged in what some people call the messianic secret. He didn't want people, especially the leaders, to know who he was just yet, because it would provoke them, and it wasn't his hour to provoke them. Well guess what he's doing now? He's beginning the provocation. And this whole next week together, brothers and sisters, we're going to watch the Lord conquer through his humility. And I'd encourage you to join us in all of the services. But here it has begun. The secret is no more. And he has revealed the secret in a dramatic living parable. In the gathering of props like donkeys, in order to prove his point. And that continues to this day. Jesus Christ is no longer in his humiliation. He's no longer keeping who he is a secret. His work has been done Even right now in this sermon, Christ is speaking to you through the words of this sermon, letting you each know that He is the King of heaven and earth, and it has been authorized by God the Father Himself. I just have one question for you, therefore. Does that mean anything to you? Does that change anything for you? That Christ is your King. Well, it certainly would change things for this group of people, though they didn't know everything that would change for them just yet. We can begin to see how these people respond if we turn to our next point: that not only is there the prophecy of a king, but there is this parade that forms in verses 6 through 11. And so let's now turn to the parade of the king. The crowds from Galilee, now this is a hundred-mile hike with a pilgrimage with all of these different Crowds, he has all of these Galileans around him. It's uh it's enough of a crowd that by the time they get down and enter into Jerusalem, there will be said that they shook the city, that there's such a commotion going on around him The crowds from Galilee are gathering around him because they have seen, heard his teaching. They've seen certain miracles that he has done And they are recognizing, if you take a look at these verses, they know exactly what he is doing when he is setting up this scene with the donkeys. Take a look at verses six and seven, for example. So the disciples went and did as Jesus commanded. They brought the donkey and the colt. Now look at these next set of actions. They laid their claws on them and then set him on them. And a very great multitude, there's that Galilean crowd, spread their clothes on the road. Others cut down branches from the trees and spread them on the road. And then we'll get into this in just a moment. Where they begin to sing to him. Jesus was communicating something by way of this enactment, and the crowds knew exactly what he was communicating based upon their actions of the palm trees and their clothes being on the ground. They thought exactly what Jesus was communic was seeking to communicate about his kingship, and they chose to recognize and acknowledge it in their actions. These people knew the scriptures. You know, there's certain people from my generation that if I start to quote an 80s song, they'll sing it. Because they just know the 80s. Well, God bless these people. They knew the word of God and not they're. And they knew exactly what Jesus was doing here. They saw the scene that Jesus was staging, and so they spread their clothes and their palm branches on the road. And can't you see that the scene is the same scene that we read earlier in the bulletin? With Jehu, Samuel saying that you've been anointed by the Lord. They lay down their clothes, they blow their trumpets and say, Jehu is king. And it's the same thing going on here from 2 Kings 9, 12 through 13, as well as other places. And that wasn't enough. It wasn't enough to just put the palm branches down for their king. They began praising Jesus from Psalm 118, a specifically royal psalm, ushering the king into the city. And it celebrates the chosen king authorized by God Himself. You see that in verse nine here Then the multitudes went before those who followed them, and they cried out, saying, Hosanna, the son of David. That's a royal mark that he's the Davidic king. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna and the highest, the one who will save us, the one who will deliver us. This is our king that is before us. All of the crowd does that, and they finally reach the city of Jerusalem. I'm not sure if you notice that when you get down into ten and eleven. Take a look at those verses with me. And when he had come into Jerusalem, there he is. He's outside of Jerusalem, and he enters into Jerusalem with all these Galileans And the whole city was moved or shaken. And they asked them, they asked the crowds, this is the opportunity to get down to the truth. Who is this? Where you're seeing antithenal responses from the s from Psalm 18 about this person riding this donkey. And the answer. Look at the answer there. So the multitude said, This is Jesus. He is the prophet from Nazareth of Galilee. The northern Galileans answer that Jesus is the prophet, the one Moses promised who would be like him, the long-awaited ruler and deliverer of his people. And I think there's actually a little bit of a um jab here saying he's from the north, not from the south. He's from Galilee. And with each of these actions by the crowd, we witness their acknowledgement and recognition of Jesus as King. And so, because he is their king, they enter into procession and parade and celebration of his royalty. In celebration of him taking the throne, Jesus sets the scene bringing prophecies to their minds. They recognize and lay down their clothes and palm branches in subjection. They sing praises to Him as their Savior and their deliverer. And all of their excitement shakes Jerusalem as they enter the city. Here is their Savior and King, in whom they must place their trust. It's inspiring. It's inspiring. But if we look closer, isn't it also a warning? It's not only inspiring for us to have a king before us and to see people recognize it, but it becomes a warning that we would make sure that we truly do trust our king. When we look at what this group of people singing his praises will do over the next set of days. Luke tells us that this same crowd will be challenged. It's going to start pretty soon. Jesus is going to flip over the money changer tables in the temple as he continues to fulfill the prophecy. He's then going to accurse a fig tree that has a lot of leaves but no fruit, just like the temple. And then the the Pharisees and the Sadducees are going to start in on him And there's going to be a lot of pressure, all the way to the point where not only these Galileans, but his own disciples will desert him. Well boy is that a flair for us to to be warned of what is present in our own hearts. The same people laying down their clothes on the Mount of Olives and singing psalms to Christ will be the same people who shout, crucify him. Crucify him, crucify him. Now what does that tell us? We must be careful that we do not just know about Jesus as King. We must really entrust ourselves and trust Him as our King. It tells you that above all things, the human heart is deceptive. And that you must watch your own hearts. I remember this day. I remember the triumphal entry from when I was a young boy. I grew up in the Roman Catholic Church going to St. John Evangelist right there in Saverna Park. And the smells and the bells always were kind of exciting to me. And I was especially excited to receive this little palm frond, is that how you call it? This little palm thing on this very day where I would attend that church with my grandmother. I thought they were neat. But ask me this question. Jesse, do you really believe that Jesus Christ was the King when you held that palm? No, I didn't. I definitely didn't. Not when I was young. It was not a token of what I actually believed. Now some of you have trusted in Christ as King And you acknowledge it with your lips. But I would just encourage you, not as a discouragement, but a c encouragement for you to make sure that you're not holding today when we pass out the palms later That you're not holding a token of his kingship with your hand, but denying his kingship in your very heart. And I encourage you to do some self-examination. Do you really trust Jesus Christ as your King? Now some of you are saying, yeah, I really need to see. I'm not actually sure if I'm a Christian. I d I need time to think about that and I need to talk to somebody. I would love to talk with you about that, by the way. Some of you are saying, I am a Christian, I believe, but oh Lord, would you please help me in my unbelief? I'd say that's most of us. You would probably further say, Lord, I believe, help me in my unbelief. And these last five years have really shaken my confidence. And I would encourage you to remember the um of all things uh the shorter catechism. And just what it means for Christ to be your king. It's a good summary for us to remember. It says this: Christ executes the office of a king. In subduing us to himself, in ruling and defending us, and in restraining and conquering all his and our enemies. What would it be like if that were really true? What would you be like in your psychology as a human being if you really believed that? Just listen to the last part. He rules and defends us, and he restrains and conquers all his and our enemies. And that's not just true on the pages of Scripture. When these early disciples looked at him as their king, as the resurrected Lord. And then he ascended into heaven and he is at the right hand of the Father. They didn't just say, oh, well, he's king on the pages of Scripture. They saw, as they sought to fulfill the Great Commission, they saw the king, though in heaven, acting here on earth, fulfilling that summary. Taking out governors who sought to get in the way of the gospel, flinging open jail cell doors Allowing people to have ears to hear, and their hearts to be changed. All the work of the king. They themselves, though having arrested Christians earlier like Saul Are subdued by Christ the King on the road to Damascus. And I'm here to tell you this morning. That Jesus Christ is not just on the pages of scriptures. He is active in your life just as he was active in the life of those early disciples. You don't believe in just a literary Christ. You don't believe in just a dead Christ. You believe in a living Christ who is here even with us right now by his Spirit working these truths into your heart. And boy, do we need to hear that because if you're just around in our society, it's very easy to lose your confidence. I don't care what news channel you watch, none of them give us hope. But imagine after each newscast, the newscaster stops and says, Yeah, all these things are happening, but I want to remind you of something. Imagine this on prime time. Jesus is on his throne. Could you imagine? Well that's your job. Your job is that even after you hear all that stuff, uh if you hear that stuff in your families, how many people here are struggling? With the effects of sin and misery in their families. How many people here are struggling with the effects of sin and misery just with the medical conditions? Whatever it is, you go ahead and create the list. It's our job to apprehend by faith that Christ is our King. He's on the throne. We can return to that catechism statement and we can remember that just as he subdued me in real life, not just on the pages of Scripture, so too will he defend me. So too will he restrain and he will conquer not only his enemies but our enemies. This is a sure thing. Though the king would ascend to heaven, his disciples watched him subdue, rule, defend, restrain, and conquer. And I'm telling you something right now. Do you know what he's going to look like when you see him again? Do you know that he's not going to be on a donkey? He's going to be on a light horse. Conquering In complete justice. That's your king. Now I have declared the word, and may the Holy Spirit grant you these things by faith May you believe like you've never believed before. When you held that palm today, may that physical token be a reflection of what is actually driving you in your inner core and being. May you truly have faith that Jesus Christ declares Himself to be our King and that He is our King. And may we truly put our trust in him. Amen. Let us pray