Will you please turn with me now in your Bibles to Isaiah chapter forty-two, and please stand as we hear the Word of God read the first four verses of Isaiah forty-two The word of the Lord. Behold my servant whom I uphold, my chosen one in whom my soul delights. I have put my spirit upon him. He will bring forth justice to the nations. He will not cry out or raise his voice nor make his voice heard in the street. A bruised reed he will not break, and a dimly burning wick he will not extinguish. He will faithfully bring forth justice. He will not be disheartened or crushed until he has established justice in the earth, and the coastlands will wait expectantly for his law. Pray with me. Heavenly Father, how gracious you are in giving to us your written word. May we indeed We recognize as we study it that these are the living words of the living God, and so grant us humility and faith and obedience We commit our study to you in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. When I was working at the FAA in Oklahoma City One of my co-workers came to work every day wearing a bright yellow button on her lapel that said, Ask me about my grandchild. One day I did that. What was I thinking? We happened to be riding together in a van on a business trip to Dallas. And she just happened to have with her 50 pictures of her grandson and a story to go with each one. I'm glad the trip lasted only three hours. Have you ever wondered why some grandparents get so excited over their grandson or granddaughter? Why they seem to have an endless supply of stories and pictures. Why they love to go on and on telling you what that child can do and what he's gonna be like when he grows up They obviously see something about that child that pleases them, that impresses them, and they're hoping to impress you, to bring you to see and appreciate all the delight Things about him, perhaps to get to know him. But of course, it's not just grandparents who are eager to show and tell you about their favorite person. Parents can be that way sometimes. Their children. A newlywed husband is often that way about his bride. A woman in love will go on for hours telling you about the man she hopes to marry And all these examples are but dim reflections of the Lord's eagerness to show you and tell you about his favorite person. As we see in our text today. Notice God says, Let me tell you about my child. Let me show you a picture of my child, who he calls here my son. Servant. Behold my servant. Look at my servant. I'm pleased with him. He's my chosen one. My soul delights in him. And all through these verses the Lord is boasting about his servant. He says, when he grows up, he's going to bring justice to the whole world. He says that in verse 2. Again in verse 4. He will bring forth justice to the nations. He'll establish justice in the earth. And there are other wonderful truths about this servant, who is also his son. That the Lord will tell you about. If you stay long enough to listen, if you'll stop long enough to look at the pictures he has to show you. There are four truths in particular that the Lord wants you to see about his servant. And not just in passing, as it were, shuffling through the pictures, but he wants you to consider his servant. To appreciate him. Notice he begins with the word, behold, look at my servant. God has some pictures, some word pictures about Jesus to show you. And he wants you to look at these pictures And keep looking at them until you come to enjoy and appreciate this very special person, until you come to delight in this one that God Himself takes so much delight in lighting. The word behold appears over a thousand times in scripture, usually to call attention to some important truth or person Behold the virgin shall conceive and bear a son. Say to the cities of Judah, Behold your God. Behold, your king comes to you meek, riding on a donkey. Behold, I lay in Zion a stone, a precious cornerstone. Behold, I tell you a mystery, we shall not all sleep. Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin. And twice in Isaiah, the Lord says, Behold my servant. The first occasion is here in Chapter 22. The other is in chapter 52. In fact, turn with me for a few seconds to Isaiah 52, verse 13. There the Lord says, Behold, my servant will prosper. He will be high and lifted up and greatly exalted. Just as many were astonished at you, my people, so his appearance was marred more than any man, and his form more than the sons of men. Thus he will sprinkle many nations. Kings will shut their mouths on account of him, for what they had not been told then they And he goes on then in chapter fifty three servant would have been But now going back to our text in chapter forty Notice the word behold in the last verse of the previous chapter. The Lord says, Behold all of them. He's talking about all the false religions. Now I know if you have the King New King James, the word behold isn't there, it says indeed. But it's the same Hebrew word, behold, look more closely at all the religions or philosophies of man, scrutinize them, and you'll see that all of them are false, worthless. Empty. But by way of contrast, now in our text he says, Behold my servant whom I uphold. Look at my servant. Look at Jesus. Consider him. Think about him And notice the differences between all false religions and this one who is the truth. You've beheld what's false, now behold the truth. Servant. Over and over in scripture, the Lord calls on us to behold this servant, the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. Look at him. Listen to him. Delight in him. God delights in him. And you should too. He is worthy to receive your attention. In fact, there is no subject more worthy of your attention. And he deserves your undivided attention here in his house, for it's here that he deserves promises to meet with you and with all who call upon his name in truth. And really isn't that our whole purpose in coming to church in some ways? Meet With Jesus, we're responding to God's invitation, to his command, to behold Jesus, to give him our attention, we would see Jesus. Our prayer every week we come that God's Spirit would reveal Jesus to us, that we would see Him, rejoice in Him, have our hearts drawn out to Him There's really not much reason to come to church if it's not to behold Jesus. All week long, our attention is on earth and things. We think about ourselves, our appearance, our homes, our studies, our business, our recreations, our food. And those things are necessary. But don't you find it disappointing that you have to spend so much time studying and working, traveling and shopping, cleaning House, fixing the car, and fixing the car. All those things keep us From giving our attention to the Lord Jesus, who should be our first love. That's why God's word so often urges us to make the effort to remember Him, to behold Him. That's what He said So many of the troubles we face in life we bring upon ourselves simply because we don't think often enough or be Obviously there are times when we have to think about ourselves. God's Word does call us to times of self-examination, confessing our sins, recognizing those areas of our lives that we need to change. But even those times of self-examination are meant to turn our thoughts of Christ, who alone can take away the guilt of our sins, and who alone has the power to help us change our lives. When we look only inward, we get discouraged. The Lord would have us then look Upward. Self-examination should always be Christ's examination. You must look to Jesus. And behold him. If we don't look to him, our self-centered thoughts will drive us away from him instead of drawing us through. And so our text joins with many other scriptures And urging us to behold the Lamb of God, to behold God's Son. Notice here that Jesus is called God's servant. Hold a servant. The first thing God calls to our attention about Jesus is his humility. He is a servant Of course, there are many servants of God mentioned in Scripture. God speaks of my servant Abraham in Genesis 6. 21. My servant Job, Job chapter 1, verse 8, my servant David, 2 Samuel 7. 5. So all of them were sinful servants In Isaiah 41, verse 8, the nation Israel is called God's servant. Go Israel too. It was sinful servant. Servant. But Jesus was God's perfect servant, highest of all servants, for he served God perfectly in all that God sent him to do He served God in the office of the prophet, faithfully teaching all that God gave him to prayed in John 17, 8. The words which you gave me I have given to them As a priest, Christ offered himself as a perfect sacrifice for sins. He said in John 10, 15, I laid down my life. For the sheep. And his king, Christ, fought against Diabolus, the enemy of Mansoul, and triumphed over him for the empty tomb. Now is the ruler of this world cast out And in John 17, as Christ was about to return to heaven, he reported to the Father, I have finished the work you gave me to do. He was an obedient servant, submitting his will to the fathers, even to the point of death. In fact, his submission to God's will, even to the point of death Is singled out in Scripture as the hallmark of humility. The Apostle Paul wrote in Philippians 2:5, and Jesse just preached on this a couple weeks ago. Have this attitude in yourselves, which was in you in Christ Jesus, who although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, taking the form of A servant. And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. All through the Gospels we see this conscious attitude of servanthood displayed by Christ. I delight to do thy will, O God. The Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for men. He served God and he served men And if Christ, the King of Kings, was humble enough to serve others, surely you and I shouldn't hesitate to serve one another in the church. We shouldn't hesitate to serve sinners who need help finding a savior. We shouldn't hesitate to subject our own personal interests to the interests of others. Especially to the great interest of the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Problem is we so readily slip back into our old habits. We want to be We want others to put us first. We want to appear better than others. We want others to look up to us, to do things for us But far better would it be for us to be like Christ, who was a servant. Instead of waiting for others to serve him, he tied a towel around his waist melt and washed his disciples' feet and then commanded us to do the same. Christ was a servant Behold my servant, God says. Look on Jesus. See his humility, his readiness to give himself to others. And then learn from From him to serve one another, behold the humility of Christ. Secondly, we see in our text the beauty of Christ It's a a beauty that God the Father so deeply appreciated he readily called him my servant. God is so pleased with Jesus that he claims him as his own my servant Now we usually don't think about a servant, that position of a servant or assistant, secretary, or aide. To be much valued. Except, in certain cases, there is prestige in being presidential assistant or White House aide or Secretary of State. To be servant of a king really is a great honor. And to serve the King of Heaven is the highest honor of all. And God gives And then the next in the next phrase he acknowledges his his appreciation of Christ even more explicitly when he says, He is my chosen one. in whom my soul delights. This is a truth that is expressed by God the Father several more times in the New Testament. He even spoke it from heaven, saying Repeatedly, this is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. When the Father looks on his son, his soul Jesus is so beautiful, so delightful a person. God the Father is always pleased with And let me point out here, because I think it's significant, that the Lord juxtaposes this phrase, in whom my soul delights, with the phrase, my child You see a truth here that is sometimes overlooked, sometimes even denied by some reformed writers Namely, that God's election flows from God's delight. You see it? Christ is God's chosen. And that is related to the fact that God's chosen Now, Reform theology has always been careful to teach that God chooses him whom he will save not on the basis of anything in men That makes them better or more deserving than those he passes over. The sinner in no way attracts God's attention or persuades God to choose him God's not inclined towards certain sinners because of their humble spirit or useful life. Our confession says, those of mankind Who are predestined to life, God chose, before the foundation of the world, unto everlasting glory, out of his mere free grace and love. without any foresight of faith or good works or perseverance in them or any other thing in the creature as conditions or causes moving him thereon Man cannot earn God's favor. Election is independent of all such things. But we must not conclude from But there's no reason at all behind God's election that it's purely arbitrary as if God flipped a coin over each sinner and chose to have And rejected the heads. No. Deuteronomy 14:2 says, The Lord has chosen you to be a people for his special treasure out of all the people on the face of the earth. God treasure The people he elects. His peculiar love is tied in with election. Now obviously, we can't look into the mind of God and figure out why he chose one person and not another person. But whatever lies behind God's wisdom and reasoning and choosing certain people People for salvation, we know that it has to do with his special delight. That truth is brought out in this verse. God says, my chosen one in whom I serve the lights. The love of the light is closely connected to election. So that in scripture the terms are used almost in the change of God's election. And God's love. Of course, God had very good reason to choose his son, to pass by all other men and angels, and choose Jesus. Jesus for the mission to which he sent him, as a prophet, priest, and king, to bring sinners to himself. But God had delighted in Himself all through eternity past And that deep inscrutable fellowship within the Trinity that our poor minds vainly trust. try to grasp. But the obvious implication here is if God the Father chose Jesus, if God delights in him and appreciates his beauty, then how do we How can we fail to delight in him and choose him and appreciate his beauty? Psalm 2 warns everyone that God has chosen his son and seated him as king. On Mount Zion, and given to him all the nations as his inheritance, with authority to break them with a rod of iron, shatter them like earth and iron. And the conclusion of that psalm is now therefore show the Discernment, take warning, serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice with trembling. Hiss the son, lest you perish. If God delights in his son, God has chosen his son, then you had better delight in him. You had better choose him. Of course, the positive side of that truth is that once you have put your trust in Christ, it's a great comfort to know that He's the one God is chosen to be prophet, priest, and king. Your trust is in him. You're trusting the one that God divides in. God is pleased with his son. That must encourage anyone who's looking Christ to represent him in God's courtroom. As Christ argues your case before the Father, if you have The humility of Christ, the beauty of Christ, thirdly, our text draws attention to The spirit fullness of Christ. Notice the end of verse 1. I have put my spirit on him. Father who chose Jesus for service and equipped him The Lord will not let Jesus He says in verse 1, Behold my servant, whom I uphold. With all the power and wisdom of God, Christ. is upheld to the outpouring of the Spirit upon him by the Father. If the Father had not upheld him, how could he have endured the painful and shameful Death of the cross. Hebrews 9 14 says, It was through the eternal spirit that Christ offered himself up as a sacrifice on Calvary. Those dark moments. And God the Father hid his face from the Son, and the Son was deeply troubled. In that hour, the Spirit of God sustained him to carry through with the mission he had been sent. All that Christ has done as our Savior, He has done through the Spirit. He was conceived by the Holy Spirit His ministry began when the Holy Spirit descended on him like a dove. In his very first sermon, Jesus preached from Isaiah 61:1, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me. joining me to preach the gospel. And such was his whole ministry. On the cross Jesus offered himself up through the Spirit, Pentecost. He poured out on the church the Holy Spirit. And we've received from the Father. And even today, it's by the Holy Spirit that Jesus carries out all that he does. Christ had and has the Spirit of God in full measure. Behold, my servant, I have put my spirit upon him. And maybe you've never considered this, but everything you have ever done for the kingdom of God, you have done through the Spirit. He is what makes the difference between success and failure. How often are we frustrated in our efforts to serve the Lord precisely because we lack the Spirit because we have so little of the spirit. That's why our lives are not nearly as fruitfully free of light. God tells us in His Word to pray with the Holy Spirit. And don't you often sense your need for the Spirit, your lack of the Spirit? But Christ does not lack the Spirit He has the spirit in formation. He's never frustrated in his efforts. He pours out his spirit to accomplish whatever he purposes, whether to prosper the preaching of the word, to gather his elect from the ends of the earth. Build and beautify his church, God says of him, I have put my spirit upon it. Behold God's spirit. Behold his humility. Behold his beauty. Behold his spiritfulness. And then fourthly, finally, behold his attendance. Really this is the main emphasis here. He will not cry out or raise his voice or make his voice heard in the street of bruise, read. He will not Not great, and the dimly burning wit he will not extinguish. God is saying when this servant comes, what will stand out about him is his den And indeed, in his gospel, Matthew repeatedly testifies to the tenderness Christ. At one point he even quotes this entire passage in Matthew twelve, verses fifteen and following. We read, Jesus withdrew from there And many followed him, and he healed them all, and warned them not to make him known, in order that was spoken through Isaiah the prophet, my people Saying, Behold, my servant, whom I have chosen, my beloved in whom my soul is well pleased. I will put my spirit upon him, and he will proclaim justice to the nation He will not quarrel, nor cry out, nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets, a battered bee he will not break off, and a smoldering wit he will not break off out until he leaves justice to victory and in his name the nations. You see how Matthew interpreted and applied this Isaiah He notes that Jesus was not interested in fame. He didn't ask those he healed to go spread his reputation everywhere. Just the opposite. He had no desire for earthly glory. Because Matthew observed that about Jesus. He thought back to this passage, which foretold that Messiah would be unassuming, gentle. retiring, not extroverted, not forwarded. How different Jesus was from other religious believers. And the Jews marveled at that. They said, no man ever spoke the way this man speaks. Jesus spoke with authority. And yet his authority didn't come from raising his voice or railing against his opposition the way so many preachers today do to gain a following. Matthew tells us Jesus did not qualify Warl or raise his voice in the streets. Just the opposite of what most people look for in a leader. He was me He was lowly. He came riding into Jerusalem in a donkey. What kind of a king is this? He's a tenant. It's true. He did confront sinners with their sins. He did proclaim God's law powerfully. But once the law had done its work of breaking the heart, Jesus He was the tenderest of sympathizers. The bruised weed he was careful not to break. The dimly burning wit he was careful not to extinguish the word course are figurative, but they show how sensitive Jesus was in dealing and hurting people William Hendrickson in his commentary writes: What a contrast between the cruelty of the Pharisees and the kindness of Jesus, between their bragging and his reserve, between their vanity. Jesus was tender, sympathetic toward the weak and weary. He came to compromise To cheer them, to reassure them, to restore their failing hearts. And to continue that, our text says, until, or Matthew says, until he led justice to victory. In other words, Jesus is still showing tenderness and compassion to people. And he'll continue to To do so until God's world is redeemed, until Israel's Savior is known as the world savior. How completely different this servant of God is from other men indeed from us. When someone offends us, a natural reaction is to want to get even. Even if we can't do anything about it, we we hope that God gets what's coming to us. Even in the church, when your brother or sister offends you, you you you kind of secretly hope it doesn't get away with it. And you keep watching to see how the Lord's going to break that That person. Praise be to him who sees what ruse greeds we are. And he's careful not to break us. He's careful not to stomp on us, lest We'd be broken further. He treats us gently. He carries us as a shepherd, carries home a lost sheep. He bears and forbears. He gives and forgives. He's tender, he's gentle, he's compassionate. Which raises the question if the Lord Jesus treats your neighbor so gently Why are you hoping your neighbor gets what he deserves? Behold God's servant. Be kind to one another tenderhearted, forgiving one another just as God in Christ has forgiven. The fruit of the Spirit is gentle. And it's our high calling as God's servants to be gentle. The people all around us, even in our homes, who are bruised weeds, dimly burning wits, who are Wounded inside, hurting from broken relationships, who need friends, who need reassurance, who need acceptance, who need hope And we who have Christ living in us have that privilege of showing to others tenderheartedness, even as we see in this picture of God's strength. Behold my servant, God says, not only that you might grow to delight in him But also that in beholding him you might become like him. It is a warm invitation to think often about your Savior. His humility, his beauty, his spiritfulness, his tenderness. Consider how he has served you. And then consider how he would have you serve one another. What a glorious servant Jesus is. What a perfect example. God delights in him. Then we'd gladly spend this whole day telling you about him, showing you pictures of him in his word. Behold him, then may your heart rejoice at the sight of such a beautiful Savior. Yeah.