Let us turn now to the word preached. We're into the second collection of Proverbs, which is Proverbs 10. If you need A Bible, please raise your hand and I'll have one brought to you. And we'll be looking at the first five verses. Chapter ten The Proverbs of Solomon. A wise son makes a glad father, but a foolish son is the grief of his mother. Treasures of wickedness profit nothing. But righteousness delivers from death. The Lord will not allow the righteous soul to famish, but he who casts away the desire of but he casts away the desire of the wicked He who has a slack hand becomes poor, but the hand of the diligent makes rich. He who gathers in summer is a wise son. He who sleeps in harvest is a son who causes shame. Pray with me. Father, we thank you for these truths. And Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you give us these in your spirit. That your salvation is not just you atoning for us. But for you sanctifying us. We thank you for both. We thank you that you care about all the minutiae of our life, including our finances and the way that That we think about riches. And we pray that you would transform us, that you would make our hearts committed to these truths that you share with us as our Heavenly Father. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. There's a gentleman that I know that grew up working in a kind of wastewater management facility. Where in order to cleanse the water there are large tanks of chlorine gas that have to be hooked up to these tanks in order to for it to take place, which when the actual transfer of the gas is now going to be infused within the water, it's actually quite dangerous. He would carry, he said, a um ammonia bottle on his hip, because when you spray ammonia You can't it's an odorless and tasteless gas. So when you spray ammonia, it'll form a white cloud so that you can see. So when you if you can imagine hooking up a fitting and then having to tighten everything down for your dear life You'd want to spray the ammonia to see are there any leaks within the fitting. And he said that there was happened a couple times where he would spray the fitting And all around him would light up in a white cloud, showing that he has been breathing in toxic gases for some time now. And that is an image, actually he gave to me, an image of what is happening here this morning with the book of Proverbs. In relationship to you as being A financial being. You live within a materialistic culture in America, and the proverbist, Solomon, is going to spray that spray in the air, and you are going to find that There is a lot of toxic and odorless gases within our American culture regarding finances, and you have just been breathing them in your whole life. There's a lot of change that needs to take place here within the lives of especially the church in regards to finances. We're only going to deal with a couple this morning and I'll tell you about a way we're going to deal with more of them at the end of the sermon. But the author sprays in our lives to check for toxic a toxic financial mentality and practices. Here's a question for you. As you consider this sermon. Do you have a distinctive Christian financial philosophy? Have you, in mentoring and discipling those around you, have you taught them a distinctive Christian financial theology Because that's what's being given here. There's left there's no rock uh unturned by Christ. He seeks to sanctify even the smallest portions of our life. But this happened And here's the big idea. You can see on your bulletin that I've got three points there, and here's the big idea. To be money-wise, you must have a Christian ethic, a Christian theology, and a Christian practice concern. Those are the three things that we see within the passage. Those are the developments of these stanzas that he has in verses 1 through 5. We'll see an ethic, we'll see a theology, and then we'll see a practice. Now, just by way of introduction before we get into those actual points, I want to point out something because we are now moving into a new section, and part of the purpose of the sermon series is for you to be able to read the book of Proverbs better. And so you notice that it says the Proverbs of Solomon at the beginning of chapter 10. That's an editorial remark showing you that a new collection has begun. And this is going to take us all the way into chapter twenty-two. Very interestingly, there's three hundred and seventy-five Proverbs within this section, which is the same numerical value as the concept. within Solomon's name. That's not a coincidence. This is all on purpose. This is put together, remember, he has made a house. and has laid out a meal for you to be able to come and feast. He has in an ordered way put out all of his tableware and silverware. And that's the kind of thing that we expect here. This needs to be studied. I'm going to give you a sermon, but you really need to study these things and have further dialogue reading through the book of Proverbs over and over and over again. and speaking about it together as a family. Now I want you to also notice that in verse 1, before we get into the main teaching and two through five. Verse one is set up in a way that you should recognize from what we just went through in the first nine chapters. Here you can see the carryover first, and that there is a contrast throughout this whole contrast. passage and really throughout this whole collection between the between the wise and the fool. We were already introduced to that in chapter 9 and that's going to continue through this section And then number two, notice how the motivation is present in verse one. He's starting off by saying, please listen to me again. Don't turn off. That's really important. It could even be the case where my personality turns you off and you wouldn't be able to hear these words. I'd ask that you'd work through that so that you don't miss the good thing that he said. He has something for you this morning. You need to lean into it. You need to burn your boats and commit to what he's saying. Otherwise, you won't hear it correctly. You'll be blinded. Interestingly, when he seeks to motivate us, he does so in verse 1. Notice how he calls upon himself as father and as mother to the youth. He's motivating you with ten. There's a couple different ways to motivate people. A lot of the times when we motivate, we motivate through divine obligation. The fifth commandment says you're going to honor your mother and you're going to honor your father Or do not commit adultery, and Saturday Night Live picks up on this kind of divine obligation and this attitude and says, could it be Satan? With the church lady, how she catches every moral fault. But here notice how there is a a div a tenderness that is present within the passage, and there is a divine obligation, that the two are always brought together within the Proverbs. The motivation is tender family affection I have a wonderful example of this for my grandmother. Whenever I would uh have a a period of time back talking, my mother she'd say, Jesse, go get the keys, we're gonna go to Baskin and Robin. She'd sit me down and we'd have an ice cream together and she'd talk to me and she'd say, You really oughtn't you really shouldn't be speaking to your mother that way. But it was in the context of that sweet relationship and I always heard it from her. And that's the context here. I just want to point that out by way of introduction. That he is placing before you a tender relationship and you You can think of the tender relationship that you have with your shepherd Jesus Christ as he calls you to consider the obligations that you have to him. Father, I'm your shepherd. And let's remember that as we go into this. Remember that Jesus in Luke nineteen forty-one drew near to Jerusalem and he wept over it because they were We're not listening to him. And he, with that same tender and affectionate heart, puts in the mouth of Solomon to call upon the son to consider his relationship to his father and his relationship to his mother. And he brings up joy and shame. Joy and grief are opposites, the joy and grief of the mom and the dad are really talking about a kind of inheritance here, that the that the son is Is inheriting something that's being passed down in the family, and it's precious. It's a treasure. And your parents are pouring everything into you. Don't squander the inheritance. All that's present there in the introduction, for you to just listen. For you to just be able to listen, to commit your heart to this. Don't get distracted. Don't check your phone. Turn it off, vibrate. Now let's move into this teachings proper. And if like I mentioned, it begins. Once the heart is receptive to the instruction, we can hear our first key point in being money-wise. Which is that there is an ethic. And here's the main point. To be money-wise, you must have a Christian ethics, and this begins in verse 2. Treasures of wickedness profit nothing, but righteousness delivers from death. Verse 2, contrast the treasures of wickedness with righteousness. It's two ethics that are being placed here, or two financial philosophies the financial philosophy of the wicked and the financial philosophy of the righteous. by which the wicked accumulate their wealth and the consequences of their financial methods. Let me say it one more time, because these words are not used this way in our culture. Let me say it one more time. Treasures of wickedness refers to the way by which the wicked accumulate their wealth and the consequence of their financial methods If you were to look up this term for the wicked, Resaim, it's a category just like we met with the uncommitted or the scoffer. We've been introduced to different kinds of personalities. So to speak. Here is a new one. The Ressaim, if you were to look through the rest of the wicked, the wicked are always spoken of in terms of how they are in a community, which is a real shocker for an individualistic society like us. You are defined in how you relate to the larger family and the larger community. The wicked are always spoken of in this way. In Proverbs and In 10. 3, they are greedy. In 10-6, they are violent. In 12. 6, they threaten innocent life. In 12. 5, they are deceitful. And in 1210, they are cruel. These are all communal relationships. And very interestingly, I'll give you a challenge this morning. Read through the Pauline epistles. Notice the lists that he gives once he gets past telling you about the work and person of Jesus. Jesus Christ will move into the his sanctifying influence on you and what Christian ki Christian life is supposed to look like. Notice how all of the commands are community commands. That they imply you being a part of a larger family in order for you to even have an ethic that way. The same thing is present here in terms of wickedness. You can see this partially in verse 2, when it says it's a play because we're dealing with finances, treasures of wickedness profit nothing. There's a play here, profit nothing. They bring no advantage, and since this is a communal context, they bring no profit to the community. They bring no advantage to the community. The treasures of wickedness, rather, are obtained by wickedness, and they're obtained by defrauding and undercutting other people. They hurt the community as they grasp for financial gain. And this could be at a national or global level even. That's what wickedness is. It's always defined in terms of community. However, righteousness delivers from death. And now I hope that you can see what's really going on here in this passage once you realize this is a communal setting, and you can think of the church especially Hope this is more clear because righteousness is this term that came up in the very first sermon, which we translated justice. It's the same word here, but translated righteousness. It's the opposite of wickedness. It's a communal attribute, and this was defined in the first sermon as to establish a right social order by disadvantaging yourself so that others flourish. And now it's in a financial context. So, for example, the context of righteousness was Leviticus 19:17, and it says, You shall not hate your brother in your heart. You shall surely rebuke your neighbor and not bear sin because of him. And their overarching context, because it's righteousness and a community, and disadvantaging yourself, is that you would disadvantage yourself By moving into a conflict, a difficult conversation with someone who is sinning, that's hard. But you would disadvantage how you feel and your comfort levels in order to help a wandering neighbor That was the social application that I gave you in the first sermon, and here it's being applied to a financial ethic. In other words, the righteous, the truly righteous. By Christ's grace and the Holy Spirit, they deliver the community financially. They deliver them from with their financial ethic from death. It's the opposite death of shalom. So you would bring the person into wholeness and the community within the wholeness because of your financial practices. It's really not an individual thing at all. It's a community thing. The righteous deliver the community to shalom and away from death because of their financial ethics This is the ethic. This is the main emphasis, is that it's communal. I hope that's coming through. The community can be like a small family, or it could be an extended family, like a church. It could be as big as a global economy. However, you contribute as a financial citizen, the point is that in whatever context or community in which you are a financial citizen, that your ethic doesn't hinder the community but makes it flourish As God defines. Are you individualistic in your finances or are you communally oriented? Are you wicked or are you the righteous That's what's being placed before you here in this kind of ethics course that he gives. But don't think, however. That your Christian ethic alone safeguards and upholds the community. That would be thinking far too much of yourself. Your financial wisdom is an instrument in the hand of God. It's the only reason why it works, because he's the one that establishes the moral order, even the financial moral order. To be money wise, therefore, you must not only have a Christian ethic as I just mentioned, between the wicked and the righteous, but you must also have a Christian financial theology, which is the second point within the passage. the in the as we move on to the the next verse. The theology you can see in verse three, this should be very familiar to you because we've seen this throughout the Proverbs where he states something and then shows how the Lord is the one that upholds this righteousness. So take a look in verse 3. The Lord will not allow the righteous soul to famish, but he casts away the desire of the wicked. The Lord upholds the financial moral order. He even does so now in a lot of ways. I've seen a lot of crooks collapse. That's God. And just as seen in earlier uh Proverbs, the only reason why chaos and evil, that picture of the ocean seeking the episode, to climb up further and further on the shore and swamp out your house. The only reason why those don't why that doesn't overtake the chaos, it doesn't overtake our lives is because God has said, this far and no further He is the one that upholds even our financial the financial chaos that could happen within our within our culture. Yahweh stands behind the created order and has decreed that his will of love Now I want to look take a look at just a couple instances of this. Take a look at Proverbs 2311. There are so many examples of this, so I'm just going to show you a few 11 and 12, he who loves purity of heart and has grace on his lips, the king will be his friend. The eyes of the Lord preserve knowledge. But he overthrows the words of the faithless. You see how active he is? We saw this already also in chapter 3. Let's take a look just as a reminder, chapter 3, verse 26. For the Lord will be your confidence and will keep your foot from being caught. Remember these promises to us of how the Lord will establish our ways And in 333 he says it again, the curse of the Lord is on the house of the wicked, but he blesses the home of the just. Humans are not making a better pla this world a better place because of their philanthropic practices. You can't just get a fundraiser on MPT and change the world by selling a great 12-set DVD st DVD thing or Life on the Chesapeake or something. This is not humanistic. And the Proverbs could come off like that if you read it wrong. But Yahweh is present through the whole book, and he is the one that establishes these. particularly in the only mediator between God and man who is Jesus Christ. You should think particularly of his kingship here. Many cry aloud for peace and perfection in this world, but the only way to attain it is through Jesus Christ. He's the only way in his salvation. You must ally yourself to him. Repentance, faith, obedience Jesus as Yahweh stands behind the financial created order. That's part of his great judgment. Don't you hate crooks? Don't you hate those people that call folks in Florida and scam them from their savings accounts? Don't you hate all that? The only one who can end that is Christ. That's what we mean by judgment. Jesus will come, he will return one day, and he will remove all of those who have not in repentance allied themselves to him, all those who are financially unjust, all the crooks. That's what we look forward to. He's the one that upholds the moral order. That's why you could commit yourself to the financial ethic of Christianity, even though it looks like you're becoming more and more poor and everyone is taking advantage of you. Because you know that in the end that's not truly the case. In John 16, 33, these things I have spoken to you. Is it okay? Would it be okay if I said I have overcome the financial World. Would it be okay for me to say that? Yeah. Because he has. Specifically in verse 3, the Lord will not allow in the end, remember because these are Proverbs, in the end The Lord will not allow for the righteous soul to be famished, but he will cast away the wicked desires of the wicked in the end. But we do know that he gives us a great grace in showing us how these collapses already take place. I can think of many people that have been caught red-handed with their hand in the cookie jar. You can see the Christian ethic and that the Lord upholds this ethic. But all of this, honestly, is been kind of like a college ethics course in that it's been very general. We're just gaining some principles here. There are more specific financial practices, though, that we can see in this next passage, which is very helpful to us. What are the specific financial practices that the Lord upholds or frustrates? Now, in this next part of the passage It's just one among many. There are a multitude of financial practices throughout Proverbs. We're just going to focus on these. These are just the taste. We'll look at the other Proverbs later. And here's the final point. To be money-wise, you must not only have a Christian ethic. Wicked versus righteous, that is to say, established within community. You must not only have a Christian ethics, you must also not only have a Christian theology, that is to say, seeing this isn't a humanistic endeavor. Jesus stands underneath of it all and upholds the moral order. But you must also have specific practices. So the whole passage moves from general down to specific. I hope that you can see that. And here's the first truth. Man, this is not good news for some of you. Practice hard work. There it is. And that's really the opposite of a get-rich quick scheme. That's the concept. No get rich quick. Hard, depression era, work ethic. Verse 4 contrast the diligence versus the sloth in chapter ten, he who has a slack hand becomes poor, but the hand of the diligent makes rich. See that there, it's right there. A slack palm or sloth denotes carelessness, it denotes negligence. Behind this statement is the very Hebrew idea that chaos, as we've been speaking about, Is an ever-present reality. We talked about entropy that is always present and that it threatens to undo the created order. And if it is left unchecked by diligence It will destroy all of your hard-earned wealth for you as an individual and as a community. You allow one generation to go by who is a sluggard. Whatever generation takes over this church. If they're sluggards, within one generation we will just we'll we'll see that picture of the vineyard that had been overtaken by vines. It's a law of entropy that is at work, and the way to counter it is with the with Jesus Christ upholding his moral order is through the Spirit being diligent. Hard, hard work. Somebody who's willing to make agonizing decisions and lose some sleep. In contrast, you have the hand of the diligent, you have the hand of the diligent making rich. Diligence includes thoughtfulness and results in not only wealth in this passage, but as it says in the rest of the Proverbs, godly power. Those aren't bad things. Prestige, not a bad thing. Jesus has both of those. And he says that we'll be resurrected in glory. Because this is not a selfish, individualistic endeavor. Power and prestige are used for the sake of the community, for the glory of God. And all of these things can be brought together through diligence with Christ or underwriting it. The point is that the money-wise practice hard work for themselves and the community, and they're not slugs. Seeking a get-rich quick scheme. The image of a child withering away in their parents' basement eating Doritos is not the only application of this pattern. That's kind of the obvious one because we have a movie called Failure to Launch. There are limitless applications to how we need to be diligent and to not give ourselves over to get rich quick. That would include not making money off of someone else's back through someone else's get rich quick scheme, which we really have to watch out for as Christians. Now, I'm not a stock market analyst, I'm not an expert in the stock market. I'm sure you're better in the stock market than me, but I just want to give you something to think about And this is the the the kind of thinking that you should be having dialogue about within your own homes as you consider yourselves as a financial being As Christians, we must be careful of which stocks we own. Some say it's not okay to be in the stock market at all. I can't find them, I can't get there. But I would say that you have to be careful on which stocks that you own. Let me give you an example of what I'm talking about here. When companies put money in your pocket by defrauding others and have To be to your knowledge, you must withdraw or get the company to do something in my mind. You really have to think through this. Write them a letter, make some kind of change. Listen to this example. According to the New York Times in 2015. The drug called Derafrim was acquired by Turing pharmaceuticals. Turing, instead of working hard to increase sales through salespeople, They decided to raise the cost of each pill from $13. 50 to $750 a pill. This is not the only pharmaceutical company that does this. We'll probably talk to Brad afterwards. He probably has a list because of the industry that he's in. It brought the annual cost of treatment for the patients who relied on this drug to hundreds of thousands of dollars a year. Obviously, if you are a shareholder, your stocks just went up because they have to have these pills in order to survive. Those who had parasitic infections, in this case, will suffer if they don't have it, they will die. Our society does not allow that to happen, and so what they do is insurance covers it, but insurance premiums now go up. Across the nation. So if insurance covers it and then the premiums rise, now the entire nation is paying more in insurance premiums so that a person's stock could go up. This is the train of thought that I'm having And I want you to get into a dialogue on Christian financial practices with the overarching world, particularly the stock market. Just an example to get you thinking. Like I said, I'm not an expert in the stock market. Maybe there's facts that I've left out, but in that case, if the facts are, as I said, you're making money off of somebody else's back. Because the pill shouldn't be $750 Here's another example. Those of you who, and I mentioned this last week, those of you I'm speaking especially to those who are high school, college. Those or of college age who are already working, those of you who want YouTube channels, everybody wants a YouTube channel now because they know that this little four-year-old boy named Ryan who reviews uh toys makes five million dollars a week. Those of you who want YouTube channels, your content, if you are going to have one, this is just another example, trying to become more specific. Your content should be worth the money that you would receive from advertising and affiliate programs A basic question should be: what value am I adding to the lives of my audience, and is my income commensurate to that value? Because if it's not, I'm defrauding the community Moreover, what this will mean is that it will take you years of hard work to actually have something in your life to offer me that I would want to pay for. Because that's the way things work. You would have to have the requisite character and expertise and experience to be able to truly offer us something. The product would be valuable only after hard work. And this is actually the consistent testimony of the most successful YouTubers is that it has taken them years. already being experts within their fields, and then years as a YouTuber for them to have anything to offer somebody that is truly beneficial to the community. And that's what you're looking for. Not a get-rich quick scheme. When you mention, look at me, youth. When you mention YouTube to me, I can see the glimmer in your eye that you think you're going to make a lot of money without putting a lot of hard work in. I can see it. That's not how it works. Don't even do it. Don't even go down that road. Become good at something through hard work and then have something of value to offer other people. Don't make money off So they're back-tricking them through affiliate programs. Now, interestingly, Solomon not only says that you have to have a hard work ethic Something of value to offer. Solomon says, he adds a qualification in verse 5. This is really important. He says, not only must you be diligent and not be slack, But he who gathers in summer is a wise son. He who sleeps in harvest is a son who causes shame. Not only must you work hard, but you must work at the right time. When the iron is hot That's when you iron the clothes. It's when you strike. I don't remember that saying. I never even had to heat an iron. Okay. The w the wise son, like the ants, so sorry The wise son, like the ant, gathers at harvest time. And you can think, I'll move through this pretty quickly. Think of the story of Joseph. Read this story this afternoon or throughout these this week. Reread the story of Joseph with this passage in mind. He not only knew about the upcoming famine, and he not only planned for it, but in his planning planning, he acquired I've pro it might be all of the land, if not all, most of the land of Egypt in the process The result was increased wealth for the house of Pharaoh, increased wealth for Joseph, and he fed the entire known world. And that is a picture, of course, ultimately, of Christ and His wisdom and how He feeds us all. through his wisdom that he worked hard and he did it at the right time. When the fulfillment of the time came, Jesus Jesus Christ in his diligence stood as the great Joseph and still does offering to feed all the nations that come unto him, all of you who are weary and heavy laden, and we would do no less with our financial stewardship. The foolish son is the one who sleeps at the wrong time and causes shame. The idea is of a person in a state of sleep so deep, traumatic, and narcotic-like that they are totally unconscious of it. of their surroundings, blinding to the time of life in which they are in, that now is the time to strike, to be establishing yourself within a career. That is the That's the picture that we have here. Thus when the moment is ripe, they don't take it. They sleep in They sleep in. And it brings shame to the whole community. The shame is of course in relationship to the parents. You can see there this is a To match up with the very first verse. He who gathers in summer is a wise son, and he who sleeps in harvest is a son who causes shame that goes back to the makes the glad father or the grief of his mother. You can see this is a unit therefore. But it refers also not just to the to the failed attempt in uh not getting things done, but it it refers also to the failed attempt at life really. To character defects. Think of someone going off on an entrepreneurial venture and it never comes to be. It's always failing in the end. That's the picture that we have here of this, and it's meant to be distasteful that you would not want to be this person. It's meant to be motivating that you would rather be the righteous. And he gives you clues on how you might do this through Jesus Christ and his spirit. Financially serving others according to God's standards yields life. Serving yourself may yield immediate gain, but in the end it will in fact yield death. That's the first point. That's the Christian financial ethic in a nutshell. The theology is that the Lord stands behind this moral order, so it's a sure thing. He promises to you A child's industry and forethought, lastly, give temporal wealth, joy, and social standing to their community. This is the specifics of the practice. However, sloth produces poverty, and shame and slugs become a weight, dragging the community down. Now I want to close with it's not really an application. I guess it kind of is. It's something where I want you to just consider thinking some more about this. I want to bring up a couple statistics to you in closing. Interestingly, from the pulpit Or in the public, the deadly sin in America is lust. We have a lot of focus on that. We have entire ministries that are set aside for sexual immorality. Very little will I hear somebody confess, and people will confess right to that. But very little will I hear somebody say, I'm greedy. I have financial problems. Not in the sense of like I'm broke, but as in I'm not serving or or living to God's glory with my financial I don't really hear that. And that is very surprising to me when I look at the scriptures on how powerful wealth is as a corrupting influence when exposed to a corrupt human heart. Now listen to some of these statistics. I think we should be more on edge. The mere fact that I don't hear it tells me that finances may have had their work on the Christian church. Church. Because one of the effects of finances on the Christian church is to blind them to thinking that they have a problem with finances. That's interesting. Go ahead and look through your scriptures and look for greed next to blindness as a word search. You're going to find it quite a bit. It causes a blindness. Listen to some of these statistics. There's just a couple Five percent, we are five percent in population, if you were to count everybody, we are five percent of the world population. But we have thirty-five percent of the world's resources. Isn't that interesting We have the highest average salary in the history of the world over every other country in existence at present. We ingest more food daily than any other country in the world. My point is that we are in danger of being materialistic, of being blinded to the fact that we have problems with our Christian philosophy on finance. that we might actually not have a good functional Christian ethic or theology or specific practices that undergird it Wealth actually is not the danger. If you were to bring money into the room and spray the ammonia bottle, you're not going to see a cloud of white. It's when the corrupt human heart enters into the room near wealth that we begin to see the problem. It is your human heart that clings to wealth as a God. What we can end up doing is finding our fundamental security and our significance within within treasures of this world as opposed to in God. We may have even forgotten to what that's supposed to look like, to where we're blinded that we have in fact made money of God in terms of significance And security as opposed to Yahweh, the true God. Matthew 6. 24 says, No one can serve two masters For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. And very interestingly, Jesus then says, You cannot serve God and mammon Mammon is a word for money, but it is also a term for a local God because of what can take place within our hearts with regards to money. Now, this is what I want to do. This is more of a long-term application We've missed Lent. It happened four days ago, so we can't just do a Lent thing. But I would, in the spirit of Lent, which is to turn away and repent of our sin for which Christ has died. I'm going to send out a teaching each week dealing with ourselves as financial Christians relative to the Proverbs, because there are 10, 20, 30 other Proverbs that are present here on financial finances and they need to all be in dialogue with each other. So for the remaining weeks that are left in Lent, I'll be sending that out to the congregation to you. If you're interested in being on that mailing list, if you have any doubt that you're on the mailing list, please make sure you talk to me afterwards or send in uh send something to the email that you see on the back of the bulletin. I bet That through these lessons, if we lean into what the Proverbs teach us and we spray that ammonia bottle, I bet there is a leak in your financial fitting. I bet you that there is. And this is a great opportunity for us to be conformed more into the image of Christ, because that is our great joy. To live in the house of the wise and not of the fool. We will spray the ammonia detector, and through the grace of Jesus and His Spirit, our spiritual oxygen levels will rise. And the toxicity will decrease. And this is our my final word to you. Our goal at Severun is to let our financial lamps Shine before the world, that they would glorify our Father in heaven, and therefore that we may bring joy to our Heavenly Father and not grief through Jesus Christ and His Spirit. Let's pray. Father, these are very practical words and they get into very dear and and And private matter within our lives? Father, there's so much to learn, so much to be revealed within your church in regards to money and finances Father, we ask that you would help us to understand what it means to be stewards. Show us what it means to have wealth and how to use it properly. We pray that you would take the blinders off through your spirit. And I know that this is only going to take place if we humble ourselves before your word. And so I pray for humility for all of us. I pray, Father, that we would be conform to your image. In the name of Christ, Amen