Prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves. You will know them by their fruits Do men gather grapes from thornbushes or figs from thistles? Even so, every good tree bears good fruit, but a bad tree bears bad fruit A good tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a bad tree bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Therefore, by their fruits you will know them. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, there is record of you protecting your people from the beginning. You gave them a warning even in the garden. And Lord, here we have another one. I pray, Lord, that your people, your congregation would take these things to heart And that by your spirit we would be a people of discernment, that we might also be a people of the way. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. You may be seated I think you've heard it said that men only go a few minutes without thinking about the Roman Empire. I think some women have tested this and they'll randomly say, What are you thinking about now? Is it the Roman Empire? And strangely, men will say yes It is the Roman Empire. And we see the Roman Empire in a lot of our movies. I think of like Gladiator or whatever it might be And we have a certain sense of what that might be. We often call it the glory of Rome. That's at least how I was thinking about it in my head until I started reading more and more with regard to the Sermon on the Mount and what it would mean to be the people of the way. Part of the way in which the world learned about Christians or the people of the way was how they contrasted with people of Rome. Let me read to you an example of the contrast. One of the practices of Romans was infant exposure. Infant exposure was a widespread, legally tolerated Roman custom where unwanted newborns, especially girls, deformed infants or those from poor families were abandoned on dung heaps, trash piles, roadsides, or in remote areas to die from exposure, starvation, animal attacks or to be picked up by strangers often for slavery or prostitution. So that's the Roman Empire and a regular custom. And then what we end up finding within ancient literature and also recorded within paintings is that Christians would go to where these children were exposed and they would save them. They would pick them up if they were already dead, they would bury the children. If they were not dead, they would take them into their own homes. If they were sick, they would tend to them. And this is the people of the way. It ends up being an excellent example of the kind of thing that we were talking about last week and what Jesus is getting at in the Sermon on the Mount. He said last week in the Sermon on the Mount that we are to be the people of the narrow path and not the broad. I have defined that, just in the way that Matthew has laid this out by way of the Holy Spirit, that the people of the way are the people of the Sermon on the Mount. They are the Beatitude people. And the Beatitude people are not just stuck on the pages of this scripture that is here. You can read about how they acted throughout history In fact, I you know I don't recommend any books but the Bible. But this is something that I'm picking up to go ahead and discover more and more of these stories about Christians in the earlier world. It's called The Air We Breathe. how we all came to believe in freedom, kindness, progress, consent, science, and other values that we have within our society To put it in another way, you want to know what began the idea of caring for children? Christians, the influence of Jesus Christ and his Spirit by way of his congregation And this book is laying out all of the different ways in which the people of the way have made their mark throughout society. Now That is really good for you to remember, and I think it's a great way for you to review what Jesus is talking about with the narrow path people This is not just an abstract truth. This is that God has set up you as a group of people to not just be in the world, but to be for the world. to be for the world, to not destroy his image, but to act and to believe in such a way and to have aims. to where you encourage and you make his image to flourish on earth as it is in heaven. That's a way of summarizing that last part. Now, as we move into our last sermon, But our but as we move into this week you can see just when you thought it was going to be tough enough, because it's a narrow path and a narrow gate. You not only have to not only to be the Beatitude people, but you actually have enemies that are working against you to deceive you as to what the narrow way actually is. To in in a way to say this broad way Is the narrow way. That's essentially what the message would be. And so that's what we get to look at this morning. We get to look at another warning from Jesus and a test. from Jesus. And that's actually our two main points here as we break down this passage, seeking to continue to be his people that are for the world. You know there's a lot at stake here. There's a lot at stake. A lot at stake. And if you'd like to see some of the differences, I do encourage you to go ahead and pick this up. There are other ones too. Evangelism by Michael Green. And this one here, the air we breathe. So let's look at this passage together under the warning and the test. The warning and the test First, what we see here in this passage, starting in verse number 15, is that Jesus does warn us as his disciples that there will be false prophets. I was almost tempted to state that as deceptive false prophets. It seems like a little bit of an overkill. But the reason why I originally wanted to put it that way is because they're false prophets, but they're trying to make you think they're not. So it's worse. It would be easier if someone just had a t-shirt that said false prophet, or if it was obvious But that's the thing with impostors is you don't know that they're impostors and usually until it's too late. So Jesus does warn you here that there is this kind of false prophet, and he does so in verse number fifteen. This is the warning. He says, Beware of false prophets. And then he tells you One of the reasons why he has to warn you about this is because of the nature of how they conduct themselves. They say, he says, they come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves. So that's a really serious situation. This is not a new situation, however. Have any of you had the opportunity in reading through the scriptures to know how often false prophets are a part of the picture? I mean we do have a false prophet that meets that definition as soon as we enter the garden and what the serpent says to to Eve and what Adam ends up believing. And that will continue on in some of the most important books in laying down exactly what God is doing in this world in Deuteronomy. There are warnings about false prophets and tests. to evaluate them. That will continue on throughout the scriptures, especially in two main books I've noticed. And that is in the books of Zechariah and Jeremiah. In fact, I mentioned those specifically because they pick up the exact language that Matthew uses here within this passage. This passage where it says false prophets, that is pseudo prophetes. Pseudo prophetes, that's a false pseudo or like pseudonym. False, and then Prophetes, obviously that's prophet, right? So it's a false prophet. Now if you look at the Greek translation of the Hebrew Bible, you'll find that exact terminology in the Septuagint, in other words. in places like Zechariah and Jeremiah. In your Bible, it will just say in those places of Jeremiah, it will just say prophet. The context tells you they're false, but it just says prophet. However, if you were reading the subtuagent, it spells the whole thing out for you so you don't miss it, and it does say pseudo prophetes Or false prophet. We find that especially in Zechariah and Jeremiah. I encourage you to read those accounts just so you can see what they were like. In summary, false prophets, especially in Zechariah and Jeremiah, are those who claim to speak for God, but they are not God's messengers. So that's a really serious thing that they're doing, but they are claiming that they are his messengers. Their messages originate from their own minds, not from God's mind. They originate from their own dreams. You might want to call them delusions at this point. They originate from their own imaginations, rather from the Lord, and they often contradict God's true word especially by promising false peace, false security, and false prosperity. Now it sounds like I just described modern happenings. But I'm telling you, I'm still just talking about Zechariah and Jeremiah. So you really see how this continues. This kind of character keeps showing up. within the history of humanity and there's really not much change in them. Now, if you were to continue on, what I'd like to do is just share with you as we're considering this warning, the scriptures and where it talks about these false prophets, just so you can see how regular it is and that you would take the warning to heart. So not only have I taken you all the way from Genesis and the Garden, all the way up through Zechariah and Jeremiah, we can go ahead and jump over into the New Testament and see that false prophets are talked about there also. We already read I already read one to you from Acts 20, 28 through 31, where the Apostle Paul warns the Ephesian elders that there will be those who uh he says, for I know this, that after my departure wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock. And here's where the deception comes in. Also from among yourselves. Men will rise up speaking perverse things to draw away the disciples after themselves. And he gives a warning at the end of that passage, and he says, Therefore, watch. Therefore watch. And Jesus is doing the same thing here in his passage when he says, beware. Therefore watch or beware. Be wary if you want to put it that way. Well, this continues not only within the writings of Paul, and I'm not going to give you all of the references, but John picks this up also. When you do have the opportunity to look at Zechariah and Jeremiah, you'll know that false prophets are associated. with unclean spirits. When you turn to first, second, and third John, you'll see that John picks up the same language Bringing together or binding together the idea of false prophecy and spirits that need to be tested. Imagine you've heard that before Test the spirits. Well John says, for example, he says, beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits. And now notice how he locates false prophets right next to this. He says, Because many false prophets have gone out into the world. By this you know the Spirit of God. And now he's going to give you a test to know if there's a false prophet or not in his particular historical situation with what he was struggling with. The whole letter is really about this. But he brings up, he says, every spirit that confesses that Jesus has come in the flesh is of God. And every spirit that does not confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is not of God. And this is the spirit of the Antichrist, which you have heard was coming and is now already in the world. Now that's a if you receive that letter as a congregation, I imagine what you would think think was, wow, we really need to be watchful We need to be really careful. And that is the point here of this first point is that this there are these warnings that Jesus has given to us Not only from himself, but also from those whom he has legitimated or given the authority to teach us, namely the apostles. This continues even outside of sacred scripture. I wonder if you're going to be surprised by this, but if you had the opportunity to read an ancient historian named Josephus In his writing, sometimes titled The Jewish Wars, he talks about false prophets as being part of the problem during the collapse of Jerusalem. Now listen to this. There are many actually who think that Jesus had this in mind when he was warning them about false prophecy, that if they did follow the false prophets on the broad way, they would in fact end in destruction. in the same way that is described here in 70 A. D. Listen to this. Josephus records and he says, the soldiers also, speaking of Roman soldiers. The Roman soldiers also came to the rest of the cloisters that were in the outer court of the temple. There were women and children there, and a great mixed multitude of the people had fled there, about six thousand in number. But before Caesar had determined anything about these people or given the commanders any orders relating to them, the soldiers were in such a rage that they set the cloister on fire. By which means it came to pass that some of these were destroyed by throwing themselves down headlong. And some were burnt in the cloisters themselves. So you have 6,000 people. Some tried to save themselves by jumping, and others just burned alive. That's the message. Now you what you want to do, and Josephus is going to bring this out for you, is why did six thousand people decide to gather there? Why did they think that would be their place of safety to go to the this part of the temple? After mentioning that not one of them escaped with their life, he says, a false prophet was the occasion of these people's destruction. Who had made a public proclamation in the city that very day that God commanded them to get up upon the temple, and that there they should receive miraculous signs of their deliverance. And there it is. That's the same kind of thing. So whether it is in the sacred scriptures or it's in in just the these histories that we have that are passed down to us. We see, and really what I'm trying to give to you by way of just giving you this history is you need to take Jesus' warning seriously That it that it's not just about ideas being shared with you. This has real life consequences. When he says that they're wolves and they're ravenous. And they're dressed up like sheep. You need to watch and be warned. Now that's the first thing that Jesus gives to us here is that warning. And it really shows us that we have to be careful as his congregation to not be like his congregation was described in Hosea 7, verse 11. In Hosea chapter 7, verse 11, God's people were described as silly doves. Perhaps you've read that and you've wondered, what do you mean, silly doves? Well, what it means is that you're easy to catch. You're easy to trap. You're easy to be taken advantage of. You're easy to dominate. And uh you're you could you could picture kind of like a bird, as particularly a dove, if any of you have experiences with doves, and I know all of you have tons of experience with doves. But they're just naive and they're easy to get into a net. Yesterday we were cleaning the back porch from the three-inch thick stack of pollen that had accumulated there. And I was spraying out the floors and the table, the the table that's in the center of our back screen porch. And so I opened the two screen doors that are on side of the porch. And wouldn't you know it didn't take very long till there was a bird there trapped. Not able to find its way out. I had to get a broom, easily corner it, easily grab it with my hand, and then release it. And the same picture is given to us from the Old Testaments where in the old testament where we are encouraged not to be like that bird. That we watch, that we are careful, that we train ourselves in the Spirit, and we train our children in the Spirit to walk through this world with discernment. So that we are not taken advantage of and easily caught or snared by those who deceive. It really shows that as Christians we must exercise discernment and as John says, test. the spirits. Test the spirits. Now, you have the warning, and Jesus being who he is, so gracious and charitable to us, he not only warns us of these of this situation, but he also gives us a test to be able to over time know who these people might be. And that's the next point that I'd like us to move into now. The situation that Jesus paints here is difficult because the real nature of the person is hidden. He'll pick this up in the there's a bad tree and there's a good tree. He'll talk about the nature of something there that is hidden. He talked about it as They look like sheep, but they're really wolves. And the difficulty of the situation is that it's all hiding from you. It's not exposed or disclosed. It's not made manifest, at least at that moment. And so what Jesus does is he gives you a test to where you could see what is it that really lies beneath. What kind of thing or kind of person is this truly? And the test that he gives is judge them by their fruit. He says this in verses sixteen through twenty. It's worth reading in its entirety. He says, You will know them by their fruits Do men gather grapes from thorn bushes or figs from thistles? Even so, every good tree bears good fruit, but a bad tree bears bad fruit. A good tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a bad tree bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Therefore, by their fruits you will know them. Do you notice what he's emphasizing here? Do you see the bookends in that paragraph? The bookends are, you will know them by their fruits. That's the first sentence. The final sentence is, therefore, by their fruits you will know them. What do you think he wants you to know? By their fruits you will know them. Now he gets into why he says that in the beginning there, or that center or the core of the teaching here, but the outer limits are the main lesson that he wants you to take. And it is the main test. By their fruits, you will know them. This is not the first time that Matthew has brought this up within his gospel by way of the Spirit. You'll remember that John the Baptist brought this idea up earlier, using the exact same language, especially about throwing into the fire. Bad trees. Matthew chapter 3, 7 through 8. It says this. But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he said to them, Brood of vipers. Who warns you to flee from the wrath to come? Therefore bear fruits worthy of repentance. So here you have a group of people who are dressed in religious garb, who are who are showing themselves publicly to be the religious leaders of God's people. And yet John sees through them and he says, you are a bunch of snakes. And then he reveals to you how he knows that in that there is no fruit that goes along with perhaps words of repentance. Maybe they talk a good game, but there is nothing there that you can see where they actually are believing or are committed or are loyal. In fact, what you end up seeing is the opposite. And of course, we know that these Pharisees and Sadducees have become a target for John the Baptist and for Jesus, and for good reason. I think it was one of the graces of Jesus to point out Hey, guess who you can't trust? It would be this group of people, especially in what they're teaching at this time. The Pharisees and the Sadducees. We've already heard examples of them in the Sermon on the Mount, that your righteousness would exceed the righteousness of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. And he has all of this discussion about hypocrisy. Now, how close in your mind is the concept of hypocrisy with the idea of sheep and wolves? In the exact teaching that Jesus is giving, there are ravenous wolves who dress themselves up in something that they are not. Isn't that hypocrisy? It's the same kind of thing. So these are the different so now you can start to look at the Sermon on the Mount when he starts to talk about hypocrisy. Or you have been taught this, but I tell you this. You can see all of this is these are the these are fruits coming from a group of people that show to you that this is not teaching from God. This is not what God intended. And I'm here to straighten that out as the as the one who reveals God's mind. Jesus stands there on the mountain as a great symbol. I'm the one who reveals God's will. And he contrasts himself with that group of people. He'll continue to do so as he argues with them all the way through all the gospels. This will consummate, especially in Matthew chapter 23, when he calls them outright hypocrites. He says they are one thing on the outside, like sheep. But on the they are another on the inside, like ravenous wolves, but we can tell who they really are by the way that they reveal the fruit, or the fruit that they reveal, rather. It's the same principle that he's using. Listen to Matthew 23, 23 through 34. Here's an example of Jesus picking up the fruit from somebody, just so that perhaps we can come under Jesus' tutelage and recognize people's fruit ourselves. He says, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites For you pay tithe of mint and anise and cumin, and have neglected the weightier matters of the law, justice and mercy and faith. These you ought to have done without leaving the others undone. You are blind guides who strain out a gnat and you swallow a camel. Now, where do you think Jesus is getting that kind of a statement from? If you go to earlier in Matthew 23, he talks about specific things that he has observed with this group of people. Where they are devouring the livelihood of widows. That would be one example where they have neglected justice and mercy and faith and instead have focused on the tithing of these other things and where they sh he should they should have kept both without neglecting the other, he points out. So he sees this fruit within their lives. Really, that they're not giving to his people. They're plundering his people. Now, as soon as you hear something like that, you should immediately, if you become versed within the scriptures, you should remember the false prophets of Zechariah and Jeremiah. They are talked about as those who devour his people, who chew up all their flesh till there's only bones left. And that would give you a sign of the kind of thing that you should be looking for, looking for the fruits that are coming from a person so that you can use this test. Now there are are so many different kinds of fruit that come from false prophets to show that they're a bad tree. I'm not going to go through all of those fruits. I'd encourage you as you're reading through your scriptures that you would start to notice patterns. What is some of the bad fruit that comes from people? What I would like to do is I would like to point out one to you, however. And the reason why I'm going to point out this one, one bad fruit, or one fruit that comes from a false prophet. The reason why I'm giving you this one is the one I see most often. It's a pattern that I see throughout the scriptures, all through the prophets, all through the New Testament, and the major pattern is that they're motivated by greed. They're not in it for God or for his people. They're in it for their own selfish benefit. And that usually shows up in the form of money. Now you'll notice in that Acts 20 passage that we read together in the bulletin that Paul ends I think he he ends the way that he does. If you look in the bulletin, when he ends and he says, it is more blessed to give than to receive. I think this is in part him continuing on as a true prophet, as opposed to the false prophets that would be devouring that group of people. If you were to look in First Thessalonians, you'll see that Paul really goes out of his way to make sure that he is not unnecessarily taking money from people so that he cannot be accused of someone who's just using people by way of the gospel for his financial benefit. And he has good reason to do that because a major pattern that we see throughout the scriptures is that there is a fruit from a false prophet. And that fruit is greed and covetousness. They are doing the opposite of what Paul says in Acts 20. Their motto is not it is more blessed to give than to receive. Their motto is it is more blessed to receive than to give. The it says in the Proverbs That the leech has two sisters. And all day long they cry, give, give. And that's what a false prophet cries. You find out in the end that that's what they were after all along. It says in Micah chapter 3. 5, I'm just going to give you some examples of where this is the case Thus says the Lord concerning the prophets, who make my people stray, who chant peace while they chew with their teeth, but who prepare war against him who puts nothing into their mouths. They're choosing sides based upon who gives them the most money. That's a key mark. They're like uh modern-day lobbyists or something. I don't know. Maybe that's really cynical of me. But they basically uh speak for the person who has the most money. You can look through Old Testament stories and that see that there are that false prophets are typically for hire. It says in 2 Peter 2, 1 through 3, Peter warns of the exact same thing. He says, But there were also false prophets among the people, even as there will be false teachers among you. who will secretly bring in destructive heresies, even denying the Lord who bought them, and bring on themselves swift destruction. And many will follow their destructive ways, because of whom the way of truth will be blasphemed. Now listen to this By covetousness they will exploit you with deceptive words. For a long time their judgment has not been idle, and their destruction does not slumber. That's another way of them saying that because of making money Because of their desire for more. They will exploit you and they will do so with deceptive words. It is better to receive than to give. That's the mindset. Now, perhaps again to your surprise, we find this not only in sacred history in the scriptures, but we find this also in Josephus again. I shared with you those prophets who had said that if you go to this place in the temple, then you'll be safe. The 6,000 people listened to those false prophets and they were burned alive. Some of them jumped and they died that way. Now listen to the rest of the account from Josephus. He says, now there was a great number of false prophets. Who were hired by the tyrants to impose upon the people who denounced this to them that they should wait for deliverance from God And this was in order to keep them from deserting and that they might be buoyed up above fear and care by such hopes. They were literally hired by the leadership at that time to make such prophecies to the people to gather in the temple in that way. Again, back behind the false statements as if they were from God was their love of money. It is better to receive than to give. And so that's why I pick out that pattern. But the pattern most broadly stated, of course, is given to us by Jesus, and you can look throughout the scriptures at all of the specifics of what those fruits could be. But the general pattern are the bookends where he encourages us to test by the fruits. You will know them by their fruit. And so we have here in this passage the warning. You, Christian, you and I, and all of those who are in our sphere of influence and responsibility. We must work to influence them and ourselves by the power of the Holy Spirit to grow in discernment. Christians are meant to be a discerning people. Especially in relationship to what we're talking about right here, not silly doves. Not silly doves We are not to be misled by false prophets and teachers and the tests that we must get better at better and better and better at applying There are so many things that can go wrong with this, so many ways in which we can fail to do this test well. I'm just speaking from experience, but the test will always remain the same, and that is that we shall know them by their fruits. We shall know them by their fruits. Now, one of the things that comes up inside of me when I hear this, this is the basic summary of what the teaching is from Jesus, is I'm thinking, Well, I really wish you would help us to know who the false prophets are and that you wouldn't just leave the test up to us. because I'm not really good at it. And maybe you're going to make me better at it, but in the meantime, is there any way that you could help out? Well, what we do find in the scriptures is that in a very specific way, we see that Jesus is keeping his word. He does not leave you as his people, and he doesn't forsake you. Jesus Christ is a good Savior, and one of the things that He's doing in order to preserve you as His people is he does over time not only increase your discernment, but he reveals to you who you should trust and who you shouldn't. One of the reasons why I say this is experience. Not and I'm not saying experience as an I have so much wisdom I can just see through people and see who they really are. I'm saying in my experience Jesus does reveal who people really are. And then he makes it to where you can't keep making excuses for them. And you actually take you actually stop and you acknowledge who they really are, and then the healing can begin. But number two, the reason why I say this is not just my experience, it's also scripture. Listen to this and the goodness of Jesus Christ from John chapter 2, 18 through 19 It says this, little children, it is the last hour. And you have heard that the Antichrist is coming. Even now, many Antichrists have come. by which we know that it is the last hour. Now listen to this very carefully. This is put in a very Johannian way, so it can be a little confusing. But listen to what he says. He says, speaking of the Antichrist They went out from us, but they were not of us. For if they had been of us, they would have continued with us But they went out that they might be made manifest that none of them were of us. Now what if you were in um a class and seminary and it he says that they might be made manifest That's a really passive way of putting something. Who is manifesting something? Well, back behind that we have God. especially through his son that he has established as our Messiah, who is Jesus Christ. He sees our plight, no matter what nation we're a part of, no matter where we are as a congregation on the globe, he sees our plight, and he over time and the goodness of his timing He makes them manifest that we would know who to trust and not to trust. He will do so through secondary means, like you growing in your wisdom. And sometimes he outright just does it for you where it's unmistakable, at least those who are of a sane mind. And so I encourage you when I'm asking the question about, okay, we are to grow, we are to be warned, we are to be careful, we are to watch, we have the test, but oh Lord, we're s we're so feeble and frail. We're so lacking in wisdom all of the time. Well, don't faint from hopelessness. Instead, gird yourselves up knowing that Jesus does not leave you nor forsake you in this particular regard either. He tells us here in 1 John that he will make them manifest to protect his people. Let us thank God that our Savior will never leave us and nor forsake us, even in the face of false prophets. Let us pray.