This morning our reading will be 6 through 22 of chapter 1 of Ruth. Please follow along. Then she arose with her daughters-in-law that she might return from the country of Moab. For she had heard in the country of Moab that the Lord had visited his people by giving them bread. Therefore she went out from the place where she was, and her two daughters in law with her And they went on the way to return to the land of Judah. And Naomi said Naomi said to her two daughters in law, Go, return each to her mother's house. The Lord deal kindly with you, as you have dealt with the dead and with me. Lord grant that you may find rest each in the house of her husband So she kissed them, and they lifted up their voices and wept. And they said to her, Surely we will return with you to your people But Naomi said, Turn back, my daughters, why will you go with me? Are there sons in my womb that they may be your husbands? Turn back, my daughters, go, for I am too old to have a husband If I should say I have hope, if I should should have a husband to night, and should also bear sons, would you wait for them till they were grown? Would you restrain yourselves from having husbands? No, my daughters, for it grieves me very much For your sakes, that the hand of the Lord has gone out against me. Then they lifted up their voices and wept again. And Orpah kissed her mother-in-law, but Ruth clung to her. And she said, look, your sister-in-law has gone back to her people, to her gods. Return after your sister-in-law. But Ruth said, Entreat me not to leave you, or to turn back from following after you. For wherever you go, I will go, and wherever you lodge, I will lodge. Your people shall be my people, and your God my God. Where you die, I will die, and there will I be buried. The Lord do so to me, and more also, if anything but death parts you and me. When she saw that she was determined to go with her, she stopped speaking to her Now the two of them went until they came to Bethlehem, and it happened, when they had come to Bethlehem, that all the city was excited because of them. And the women said, Is this Naomi? But she said to them, Do not call me Naomi. Call me Mara, for the Almighty has dealt very bitterly with me. I went out full, and the Lord has brought me home again empty. Why do you call me Naomi, since the Lord has testified against me and the Almighty has afflicted me? So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabitest her daughter-in-law with her, who returned from the country of Moab. Now they came to Bethlehem at the beginning of barley harvest. Amen. Please pray with me. Lord, we pray that you would take these words, that you would take your word and you would make it powerful, that you would mold and shape us, that you would reveal yourself. And that you would bring us into more full and welcoming service to you and to our neighbor. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. We summarized our message last week with a verse from Lamentations. It's really at the center of Lamentations. Through the Lord's mercies we are not consumed. Because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. And so it then ends up being the great confession of the Christian to say this: great is your faithfulness. Building on the faithfulness of God, we noticed last week that we are rebuilt to have agency, not to lose our will, but to regain it in goodness. that on the faithfulness of God we become faithful to God and to our neighbor. That's really at the center of this book So I'd like to make a few observations as we head into this second part of chapter one of the story. And then I have a few application points for us this morning. Here's the first thing that I want you to notice In our reading this week, the passage, and you can make notes on this because it will help you in your reading throughout the rest of your life. That's one of the reasons why I do these observations. In our reading this week, the passage moves along by way of four speeches from Naomi, and then you'll notice that it says she stopped speaking. Okay, so there's four speeches from Naomi and there's one from Ruth for now. This book is actually largely composed of dialogue. Not as much editorial comment. It moves by way of the speeches of the characters. Now you can see Naomi's first three speeches marked at verse 8, and Naomi said Verse 11, and Naomi said, verse 15, and she said, In each speech, Naomi is pushing her daughters-in-law away. She wants them to return to her their mother's house, which is a way of talking about, she wants them to have a full life She wants them to find another husband and to have another family and to have a great life. That's why she said mother's house before she says father's house. She wants them to return and start life again. She hopes for them to flourish. But at first, both Ruth and Orpah push back, refusing to leave Naomi. Now Naomi calls their dedication, even at that point, chesed, love, loving kindness, mercy, and loyalty. But after the second speech, however, Orpah decides to receive Naomi's words. Now I want to point out that Orpah's not weak here. She is not unfaithful. She ha really has no obligation to Naomi at this point at a a greater level, it's fine for her to receive the invitation from Naomi and to go and to start her own household again. That's fine. And so she does. She decides, still as a loving and merciful person, she decides to return home and to try out life again. So the first thing I want you to see is those speeches and how they proceed with Orpha heading back. Now, here's the second thing. Orpha left, but Ruth, verse 14, Clings to Naomi. That's the word. Shit's a very powerful word She clings to Naomi. This verb clung or cling or cleave is the same word used in Genesis 2. 24, wherein Adam and Eve leave and cleave to each other. Ruth, in other words, is devoted. And so when Naomi tries to convince Ruth to leave for the third time in verse 15. Ruth, verse 16, basically a kind of casual translation of the Hebrew would be: stop pressuring me, back off. Just to get her to stop. And from here, Ruth speaks some of the most beautiful words in Scripture. Now that these are some of the most beautiful words in Scripture I have heard from both Christian and non-Christian alike with the poetry that is here. And this brings me to the third thing I want you to notice this morning. The last major move in this passage is Naomi's final speech. So you have Ruth's speech, which you see there. It's constructed as a piece of poetry. And let me just point out one thing before we move into Ruth to Naomi's final speech, actually. Take a look at the speech. Entreat me not to leave you or to turn back from following after you, for wherever you go, I will go, and wherever you lodge, I will lodge. And then we come to the center of the poem, and it says this. Your people shall be my people, and your God my God. Now what you want to do on your own time is start at the center and move out. And that's how the poem is constructed. Everything is leading, if you will, to this central point of the kind of loving kindness that she will demonstrate to Ruth is that she will leave her people and her gods and she will be with the people of Naomi and with her God. That's how that is structured. But we have one more speech here, or one more way for Naomi, to help us understand the nature of what's being presented to us here. I'm sure you caught it. It was very powerful. When Naomi arrives in Bethlehem, old friends and family greet her saying, Is this Naomi? They say it in excitement, as you can see from the text. But I also think based on her comments, she's got a few years on her now. There's something going on with the narrator playing with this. It's been ten years. There's been a lot of water that's been under the bridge And Naomi officially has a difficult life. These are extremely hard providences. Naomi replies in verse 20, for example, with wordplay, revealing with great honesty her current condition. I'm sure you caught it. But it may be helpful to see exactly what she's saying in terms of the Hebrew that she's using. She tells them not to call her Naomi, which means pleasantness. Her name means pleasantness or a pleasant life or pleasant places or things are pleasant for me. It could be applied in all of those ways. She says, I want a name change. And it's Mara. I want you from now on to call me bitterness. Life is not pleasant for me. And she goes on to explain that she went away full, which is the narrator again showing his craft because she went away empty in another sense, because there was no bread in the house of bread. But here she says she went so went away full, which has to therefore refer that she had a family. She had husbands and sons. And things were going well insofar as that went. But then she came back empty. She comes back actually because the famine has ended, and the house of bread has bread again, but she still considers herself empty Because she's empty a different way. She's empty because her husband's dead. She's empty because her boys are dead. And actually, it's too passive for me to just say her boys are dead. That's not how Naomi put it. Did you notice that? She assigns her loss to the Lord. It is the Lord, she says, who has afflicted me. The Almighty, verse 20, El Shaddai. Has dealt bitterly with me. What a scene What a book this is shaping up to be. Naomi is bitter and empty at the end of our scene. Ruth is clinging and loyal to her afflicted mother-in-law. And it is that scene and it is that sight That we are to bring to the main question of this book. And it is this: how will the church get through her dark days? How will the church get through the days of the judges? And our answer from last week was the Lord's faithfulness. It's always that. That's always the foundation of anything else. Last week it was the Lord's faithfulness. This week we have a different feature and focus, and therefore our doctrine is that we make it through the dark days by our loyalty to each other. You want to know how you're going to make it through your dark days? God is going to send somebody to you that is loyal to you to help you in your weakness. God has sent you to each other to help you when you are weak. Those who are empty and even bitter are restored by the loving loyalty of others. This is a precious doctrine this morning. This is an ordinary way that God works. You pray for a miracle, guess what it's going to look like? Somebody with loyalty. So I'd like to unfold this doctrine. Those who are empty and bitter are restored by the loving loyalty of others. I'd like to do so with an old story, and then I have I think I have about 150 questions for you this morning. So we'll proceed that way. I want to start with the first point which is an old story and it's actually my story. Many of you have already heard my story and I know that I need your patience with me at this time because you're tired of hearing it. But this is what I've got for you this week. I'll come up with stories of other Christians another time. I want to use myself as an example this morning for different reasons, and I can talk to you about this afterwards. But I remember fourth grade going very, very well. One of my last good memories of my life when I was younger was that I made a dinosaur project in the fourth grade and I got a straight A because I knew all the dinosaurs. I shaped them all in clay. I was a weird RT kid, so I put cobwebs and real spiders inside the display. Kind of freaked everybody out, but I got an A! The sun was shining. I had a great relationship with my whole family. I was playing sports. But then something shifted in me by the fifth grade. Now that's really early. Something happened inside of me, and I emptied myself of joy and common sense by my choices, and my friends helped me. I was emptied actually by myself and the terrible people around me. I spiraled And I hit an all-time low. You can watch the spiral if you were to have a video of my life, which I hope you never get a chance to see. You'd watch the spiral hit in fifth and just go and bottom out in high school In high school, I hit an all-time low landing in juvenile detention. I was at the Hickey School in Baltimore. But interestingly, and perhaps to your surprise and to the surprise of my judge, I'll tell you that story another time, I was introduced to Jesus Christ. When I was released, I wanted to follow Christ, but honestly, I could not gain any traction. I tried and I tried and I tried and I tried and I tried and I tried. And the only thing that was there for me were my old terrible friends. And my old kind of common sense. Honestly, I would attend church I tried all kinds of churches. Somebody said, come to my church, which you know Christians love to find somebody who just started to profess in Christ and try to get them to come to their church. I went to all your churches. I went to the Pentecostal church. They said they're going to heal my my knee injury. Didn't work. I went to other church. I went to this church and that church. I attended Christian concerts. I read my Bible. Within the first week of being saved, I finished the Bible from cover to cover. I even tried to baptize myself in a pond in the woods on a stormy day on Kent Island. I told you I was artsy. I was just honestly trying to get some relief from my sin and from my shame. And I thought that if I plunged myself beneath the water, something would happen. But nothing stuck The old person, my old past, and my thoughts were still too strong to fight by myself. I felt like the strong man was still strong. It hadn't been tied up in my house. One day I was invited to a Bible study, I attended, I left, I was not impressed Then, out of nowhere, one of the guys who attended that study got a hold of me and he told me that he went through something similar. He said that what helped him was a good dose of Francis Schaefer. This was God sending me the messenger that I needed. You can ask me who Francis Schaefer is later if you don't know. This gentleman gave me Francis Schaeffer's book, which was really multiple books called the Trilogy, and he gave me, this is going to be lost on some of the youth, he gave me cassette tapes. of Francis Schaeffer's, wherein he is defining all of his own terms. I listened and I read, but I didn't understand. I was in the rec room of my parents' house I'd spend hours trying to understand this stuff and nothing would click. I remember being so frustrated even at this point that I just grabbed a big bucket of paint In the rec room of my parents' house, and I drew a giant cross in blood red, and I wrote, God help me. I was full of frustration We what ended up taking a turn was that this same guy who gave me the book and the tapes Invited me when he found out I did not return to the Bible study, he invited me to 49 West Indiannapolis. We met each night of the week and we talked about life. We talked about the book, and he said, a lot of the questions that you have are answered in Romans, so we're going to study Romans together. We sat there with our Samuel Oatmill Stouts, and each night of the week, it turned out to be, every night of the week, he would meet with me and we would talk. We ended up spending so much time together that he eventually offered me a room in his apartment to save on gas money. No, I'm sure he did it for more reasons than that. This is what ended up happening at the apartment. We finished the book. We finished Romans. And he would come to me and he would say, Now what? I would say, I want to study theology. He gathered people from the church and we studied Burkhoth's systematic theology together. We would finish the whole book. And then he would say, now what? I want to understand Christ in light of philosophy. So we went to plays by Sartre and we studied the classics of Western civilization. We started with the priest The pre-plocratics and moved our way forward, that group is still meeting today. Then he would say, Now what? I need to apply for a job. He would show me how to do it. He showed me what good work ethic was. He showed me how to buy a set of plates and silverware for yourself and how to put a napkin on your lap. And then he said, now what? And I said, I don't have any money, but I'm supposed to. And he said, well that's because you need a budget. So we budgeted money. And then he said, now what? And I said, I'm feeling pretty good. I know who Christ is. I want to do something. I want to serve. So he helped me to volunteer for the youth group On and on it went until one day I looked around and I was a deacon in the church. I was married I had a child on the way. I had a job, etc. And I was no longer empty. I was never perfect. You any of you that know me know I have a lot of flaws, more than you. But I am not empty. Now, I don't care that this is my story. That makes no difference to me, really. Because the story is not really about me. The story is one story in a million, and I bet you you have a story like this. The story is one in a million wherein a Christian who is empty could only start to be restored by the loyalty of somebody else. That is the point of the story. The point of the story is not my struggle and my development. The point of the story is asking the question. Let's just take a single sample. How did Jesse Crutchley, by the grace of God, get out of or start to move through his dark days? And the answer was the loyalty of someone who obligated himself to him, who didn't have other things to do. Though he could have, he could have done a thousand other things and it would have been fine like Orpah. But he decided to be a Ruth. Let me ask you, at that Bible study, did that guy have to follow up with me Not necessarily. That's the point. He could have gone on with his life. He could have been like the rest. No one else from the Bible study called me, and I don't hold it against him. He could have been like Orpah in our story, but what he did was he obligated himself to me, which is the definition, especially in the book of Proverbs, of righteousness. It is to be in a situation where you are not obligated by definition and to obligate yourself out of mercy and love and loyalty for that person and God's kingdom. That is what the human life is supposed to look like in righteousness. It means, for example, situations, and boy, did he have to practice this. Where he could have said, I have the right, and then he decides to not follow up on it and not make his case on his rights. but instead make his case on his determination to remain loyal to me. And boy did I violate a lot of his rights. That is called loyalty, and I'm telling you that it is the ordinary way which God uses to take the weak and to make them strong. And that's why I say that every one of you before you die should have the same kind of story. Because God acts so ordinarily in this way. So I want to ask you 150 questions. Are you ready? It's not that many Are you bitter this morning? Is God afflicting you? Let me put it this way. Has God taken something from you? When you were younger, was your life pleasant? You'd get new shoes and you'd see how high you could jump and you could run faster down the street. And life was just kind of like that, full of brightness. But now you feel empty. You can eat plenty of food as Americans. That's not our problem. We all have plenty of food. But are you empty for other reasons? Do you lack other things? Are you lonely? Are you stuck in sin? Are you basically operating like a non-Christian, though you still have the audacity to call yourself a Christian? Are you a coward? Do you make terrible moral decisions? Are you too sensitive? Do you overreact? Do you operate primarily out of fear? Are you confused? These are all places of lack and weakness. And how long could I let the list go on? Beyond 150, right? And you may in some sense have multiple of those going on with you right now. But here is the ultimate question among all of those questions. Did you once struggle with the plagues that I just mentioned, but now you are stronger? And I know I'm actually watching you, and I'm seeing some of you answer and say, actually, yeah. Even if it's just a little bit, I'm a little bit stronger now. You're not perfect, but you're stronger. And here's the next question. How did God make you stronger And wasn't it someone that he brought into your life who showed you some kind of loyalty? When you were a donkey, I'm cleaning up my language, they still stuck around. Now, here's a very important question also. What is stopping you now who are weak? What is now stopping you who are weak From getting together with those who are strong that could help you. Really think about that. What is keeping you who are weak from getting together with those who are strong? And you can reverse it. Those of you who are strong, what is keeping you from getting together with the weak, knowing that this is how God works? Don't you want to be a part of God's will? Don't you want to be a part of his kingdom? Don't you want to see good things? Well, this is how it happens I want to answer for you a little bit those questions about the weak and the strong and why don't they get together. I have a couple answer answers for you and I think there's a couple obstacles and I want you to do some self-inventory and evaluation on this one. The first obstacle, and I'm not even going to say much anything about this, I'm just going to mention it as an obstacle that I've noticed, is that you hide your true self from us. From everybody. You don't have a real public life. Your whole life is private. And that Is not what God wants. He doesn't want everything that's private to be public either. But he doesn't want everything to be private. God appreciates the distinction between private and public, and he wants some stuff in both of the categories. The first obstacle is that you hide your true self. Now here's the second obstacle. The second obstacle is that you who are weak are only to work with an expert. This is a major one in America. If I'm going to work with somebody, they've got to have at least seven degrees. Now let me tell you, I know many experts. And knowing what I would know, I would never put myself under their counsel. There are people that have a lot of degrees and they do a lot of damage. God does not usually work through the expert in ordinary life He ordinarily works through your fellow believer. Admittedly, in special cases, when you need Someone who has more experience, then we can start talking about a true expert. A true expert is this. It is someone who fears God and has tons of experience and has Notable fruit that they have borne through years of work in that area. Degrees are not a perfect sign of competency, so please stop acting that way. And be thankful for what God has given to you to meet your needs, which is the person sitting next to you. Here's a third area. The third area is that the strong don't get with the weak. Because you are disloyal to the people that are around you. Now this is the character issue. God still works the same way that he always has. He expects the human race to see certain situations. And he expects, therefore, for them in those situations to act in loyalty towards each other. It is that basic. Let me give you an example of what I mean of this basic way in which we're supposed to be responding to each other. When we see something, we are to act. And that actually is largely what education is: it's training people, training children. to see correctly and know the right response. I keep seeing videos of people getting hurt. For whatever reason, my social media feed is just like one fight after another, or one person getting hurt after another The thing that still amazes me is that in order for me to be able to see this on my social media feed, it means that there are people standing there and filming instead of helping the person. Now that's old news. We've all heard that. We've heard the criticism that you shouldn't do that. That's not really what I'm after. I'm not trying to go down old lines of thought here. I know what they're doing and you know what they're doing. They are hoping that if they catch that moment and then post that they will go viral and they will get some kind of fame. That's what they're doing. It's that simple. They just want to have fame But there is something that we forget. God has designed us as human beings to correspond with our environment God has actually designed all of his creatures to correspond with their environment. You put a rabbit in front of my Australian shepherd, you watch him respond to his environment. And the same thing goes for us. When an event occurs, humans have the ability, by God, to see what that event merits. If you'd like to read more about this or see this more deeply put, read The Abolition of Man by C. S. Lewis. When an event occurs, humans have the ability to see what that event merits If I see a trout stream and there's a hatch going off of it, it merits my something. Desire to get out there and catch a fish. When an event occurs, humans have the ability to see what that event merits And you should not really have to think about it. It should be a kind of second nature to a good person. Now, let me give you an example of something that was on my social media feed. I watched a girl sit on the top of a car in a parade. I think her football team won. She was pumped She decided to express her pumpedness by jumping up on the top of a roof of a car and sitting there and saying, I'm pumped. The car pulled away roughly, as probably some teenager that didn't know how to drive a stick, and it threw her off. She fell off the cart backward and she landed on her neck. She laid on the street motionless. And here's the big question for you. I've already heard you do it. You've already that quickly made up your mind about the event and what it merits. I heard you. But the question is, what does that event merit? It merits someone obligating themselves to her Calling 911 and running into the street to help her. And in this video, that's actually what happened. Though there was obviously somebody not running to her because they were filming it. Did you see how quick your moral sensibilities took charge? You saw the event, you knew what it merited. If you were there, I bet you you would have ran out there and you would have helped her Now, I want to put a more commonplace event in front of you. Where am I going with all this? I want to put a more commonplace event in front of you. You see this event. Someone at church is obviously not connecting with people. There are these little circles forming in the narthex that are closed, and there's someone standing by the silver trash can. That's the event. You see body language. Here's another event. You see body language that tells you the mother in front of you is exhausted. And she is full of what I call mom guilt. You can see it when you ask her questions, you see the little body language. That normal people can pick up on, you can see she feels ashamed in some way about what is going on. That's a second event You hear, here's another event: you hear a key word that tells you that the widow in front of you is lonely because she eats dinner every night by herself. There's the event. You're standing there, you start to talk, and whatever the signals are, the next event is that you see a teacher in front of you. is obviously overworked and exhausted and has no way out The question that Ruth is raising and that this sermon is therefore raising is: what do those events merit? Ruth was in the same situation and she saw Naomi and it was an event. And Ruth responded in righteousness. And the events that I describe to you, which are normal, every Sunday events and everyday events within our lives They merit somebody, somewhere, willing to obligate themselves to the person and compensating for their weakness with their strength. Can you imagine having a foot-long hoagie and just deciding to eat the whole thing yourself when you sat next to someone who hadn't eaten for 30 days? That you would never share your strength. They merit Somebody obligating themselves to them just like somebody obligated themselves to me. And somebody obligated themselves to you The reason why all of you here are strong is at least because your mother decided to spank your butt and keep you on the right path. She took her strength and she saw where you were weak and she made you a real man or a real woman most of the time. I understand that can differ in families, but you get the point. Not every problem is your calling. I understand that. But if you choose to walk away and never engage, it is the same. I'm telling you right now. It is the same as seeing that girl lying motionless on the street after hitting her neck on the road and doing nothing but just film it. And keep a little diary of all the events that you saw today to which you obligated yourself, to none of them. What we are talking about right now is membership in the body of Jesus Christ, and we're learning what that means by way of Ruth, who is really just a figure. For God and Christ and the church as a whole. All of these characters that show forth and manifest Hassed are figures of God. This passage this morning clearly presents Ruth as the picture of how we are meant to be humans. When we talk about restoring humanity. by the power of the Spirit and the work of Christ and the executive delivering of Christ by way of the Father. This is what we're talking about when the rubber meets the road and the concrete reality of things. This is what it means to be human. It means this. That we are going to make it through the dark days by our loyalty to each other. That's the doctrine. Those who are empty and bitter are restored by your loving loyalty. What a privilege that is. The guy who helped me is so sick and tired of me telling people about him. But that's what the Bible says also. It says, those who are righteous for the sake of the community will be held in high social esteem and will receive a kind of glory. And that is the kind of glory that Christ wants for all of you. And it comes by way of Hasid, which I have described as loyalty. I want to leave you with this image. John chapter 13, 12 through 17. So when Jesus had washed their feet, taking his garments and sat down, he said to them Do you know what I have done to you? You call me teacher and lord, and you say, Well, for so I am. If I, then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, You also ought to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example that you should do as I have done to you Most assuredly, I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is he who is sent greater than he who sent him If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them. Amen. Please pray with me