He went up on a mountain, and when he was seated, his disciples came to him. Then he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we as your creatures after the fall, even after being awakened by your power still struggle to have ears to hear and eyes to see. Lord, we have a blindness and a hearing problem. I ask, Lord, therefore, that you would overcome this problem in the people here attending today, that you would break through and release them from the captivity of the devil. And instead that they would see your goodness and your beauty and want to serve you. And I pray, Lord, that they would see this especially through the revelation of your son, that they would hear him. In the name of Christ, amen. You may be seated. I recently had a conversation with a woman who has become a Christian, though prior to becoming a Christian she had been influenced and raised within a communist country. And in the that communist mindset to become a Christian or to enter into any religion was the ultimate sign of weakness. Her f her uh family, it appears, at least perhaps her grandmother or something, grew up really believing that religion is the opiate of the masses. And she had made a comment to me that another mindset which was passed along to her was that if you were to accept religion, it was because you were too weak and you needed a crutch. And those who were strong didn't need that crutch. That reminded me of a story in that when I became a Christian, someone said that I was weak. And needed a crutch, and maybe that's why my last name is Crutchley. But they were serious. I tell you the story of that woman and I tell that story of me because that other side, that other mindset of seeing Christianity and following Christ as weakness. is what Jesus is up against here in the Sermon on the Mount. And so what he's doing is he's turning the tables And he's saying, yes, there are many people who speak like that. They believe that if you are reliant on God, then you're weak and you need a crutch, whereas those who are really real human beings don't need that crutch. Jesus is speaking into a situation like that with people that would say things like that. So for example, in the first beatitude that we considered, which is a part of what we call The Sermon on the Mount. It's a very famous sermon that Jesus gave. Many different philosophers have commented on it. Pretty much every culture knows about these teachings. But on the very first one, Jesus says something very surprising. I mean, imagine living in a communist country, and and this sermon was given under that kind of mindset, and he says, Blessed are the poor in spirit. And we define poor in spirit as those who know that they're utterly reliant upon God and His Son Jesus Christ. Do you know how startling that would be in a communist country? They would say, they're not blessed, they're weak. They need a crutch. Whereas I'm strong. But Jesus is turning all those things over. He's saying, no, actually The blessed ones are the ones who know their need of God and who God has sent who is me It's those people who actually, though it looks like you think you're strong and you're going to inherit the earth or you're going to such and such, actually it's going to be this group of people. The poor in spirit are be oh will be the ones that my father blesses through specifically me. And so Jesus is saying similar things that we have heard in our in our hymns that a communist country wouldn't agree with. Nothing in my hand I bring Simply to your cross I cling, Naked come to thee for dress, helpless I look to you for grace. I am foul, and therefore to the fountain I fly. Wash me, Savior, or I die. Depending on your mindset, you would say, what a weak person. But Jesus is saying, actually, this is the strongest person, and this is the person who truly will be blessed by me. Well, there is also those who mourn. And this could be said in contrast to those who are dominating their lives. based on their natural talents who are filled to the brim and are laughing because they're so successful But Jesus doesn't say, Blessed are you who are laughing right now. He says, Blessed are you who are mourning because you're the kind of people that see, who are paying attention to the fact that not all is right with God. That something needs to change between us and God, and something also needs to change in between us. Our relationships aren't great. It's getting really bad. The human race is is sometimes it feels like trying to help other human beings is just rearranging the deck chairs on the Titanic Or polishing its brass while it's on its way down to the sea floor. But Jesus says, that's not going to happen. I won't let my creation And especially my people fall that way. And so blessed are you who mourn, for you will in fact be comforted. Well, we looked at that last week and then uh or two weeks ago and then last week we saw of the picture of the meek, and that's that same picture. And what a great contrast for us to be able to see the mindset of the communist versus the mindset of what Christ is saying. The meek are are given with reference to Psalm 37 Where the meek are in a situation where those who are wicked and those who are evil, those who have raised their fists to God and said, They do not need him, and get out of my life They are the ones who are ruling and who are having all of the success. It is so interesting that the Psalmist in Psalm 37 gives a positive image of the evil by calling them a field of flowers. Or something along those lines. A thriving field. Why would he do that? Because that's the real picture. They look like they're flourishing in all of their splendor. They're the ones that are able to afford the things we could only wish we could afford. They're the ones whose children have privilege in moving in this particular direction, and it's all based on they lied and they cheated and they stole. in order to be able to accomplish it. They stepped on the neck of other human beings to climb the ladder within their corporate America. But Jesus points out that actually it looks like they're going to inherit the earth because they look so powerful, but I'm telling you right now, the meek are actually the ones who are going to inherit the earth. And the meek are the ones who don't resort to lying and cheating and stealing. Instead they wait upon their God who will establish righteousness in his name. And for his name's sake. And the reason why Jesus is able to say that the blessing will be to those who are poor in spirit, and the blessing will be to those who are mourning, and the blessing will be to those who are meek. are not because of intrinsic attributes within them. It'll be because Jesus has come to bring blessing. He's the cause of it. And that's what we see here in the beginning of this Sermon on the Mount with the poor in the Spirit, with the mourner, and with the meek. And now we come to this next one. We have another blessing. And again, it's this thing that is is upside down. I won't focus too much on the upside downness of it, but you can Read it again in your scriptures. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for it is they who shall be filled. And there's that cause and effect relationship that Jesus is going to fill those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. Those are the ones. Now, I think we need to ask the question when one of the first things we need to do is we have to ask the question when we look at this passage. What does he mean by some of these words? For example, what does he mean by the righteous? That would hunger and thirst for righteousness. What does he mean by righteousness here Now one of the things I want to say to you is that these are very, if we could even look at these in the original Greek language, you'd see that there's even less words than what you see here in your English translation. They're like proverbs that are real pithy and catchy and meant to be remembered. But whenever you run into a situation with proverbial or wisdom sayings like this They can take on multiple features and senses. There's a kind of inherent ambiguity to them to where Jesus means a lot of things by what he's saying specifically here. So what does he mean when he says that, blessed are you when you thirst and you hunger for righteousness? Well, there's three main ways that we can think of righteousness. And I think that all three apply. But I'm going to focus on the third. But let me give you all three. There's three main ways that righteousness is talked about at least within the scriptures, and the first one is a legal righteousness. This, if you're not familiar with theological language, I'm sorry, if you are familiar with theological language, this is what we call justification. If you're not familiar with theological language, this is the legal righteousness. This is where uh God acts To declare people righteous, not based on their own inherent righteousness, but a righteousness that is being given to them By the work of another person named Jesus Christ. If I wanted to be real technical, I could just say that legal righteousness is an act of God's free grace where he pardons all our sins and he accepts us as righteous in his sight only for the righteousness of Christ imputed to us and received by faith alone. I'm not dwelling on that this morning. I know that requires a lot of explanation. There's a lot of techn technicality to that, but I'm just pointing out for now, I'm not dwelling on it, I'm just saying one kind of righteousness that Christ means is if you're hungering and you're thirsting to be pardoned by God. Christ can quench that thirst. Let's just put it that way. The second kind of righteousness would be a kind of personal righteousness that would happen after the pardoning. There is something that blossoms within human beings after Jesus changes them. After they are forgiven and they enter into this covenant with God. Jesus gives them the Holy Spirit and their heart turns from something like a stone, which doesn't grow anything. You ever try to grow seeds on stone, like a pavement? Doesn't work? Crack pavement. But instead Jesus changes it into like a heart of flesh. It's like soil that will receive seed and it starts to grow up and there's a desire, there's a hunger and a thirst that happens within this person where they long to love God. And they start to long to love their neighbor. And it's welling up from inside. It's not just an external act in order to gain status or manipulate people. It's really something that they desire. You can actually see Jesus talking about this kind of righteousness in the Sermon on the Mount, specifically, when he says in A little bit later he mentions that he expects he's looking for a righteousness that is greater than the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees. So that's the legal righteousness, and I'll call that the personal righteousness, philosophing out of that new heart. But then there is also a social righteousness. A social righteousness flowing from that inner piety created by Christ and flowing out into all of relationships, whether with God or with man. And that ends up changing because of its manifesting in real time and in all of their relationships, it ends up, if there are enough people doing it, it ends up changing communities. and areas and the world. Nations. Martin Luther picked up on the on this specific aspect within the Sermon on the Mount in terms of this so what I'm calling a social righteousness Luther, in his customary vigor, he says, the command to you is not to crawl into a corner or into the desert. But to run out, if that if that is where you have been, and to offer your hands and your feet and your whole body, and to wager everything you have and can do. What is required, he goes on, is a hunger and a thirst for righteousness that can never be curbed, never stopped, never stated. one that looks for nothing and cares for nothing except the accomplishment and maintenance of justice or the right, despising everything that hinders this end. If you cannot make the world completely pious, He says, then do what you can. He sees this as a as the the one of the steps of what Jesus is doing among humanity, and you can read that in Ephesians 2. 10, for example. as to the end of your own salvation is not just for you, but for the love of God and the love of your neighbor, even at a a social level. And I think I had mentioned this to you before, another example of this social righteousness that I have been keen on is the it what came up in what Holly and I chose for Ellie's yearbook quote when she graduated high school. I think I shared that with you, is that right? I'm going to share it again because it's scripture and it's such a good scripture. Job 29, 13 through 17. The blessing of a perishing man came upon me. Meaning Job is saying these are the these are the this is the righteousness. You know how he's known as a man who is righteous? In this third sense, I'm talking about The blessing of a perishing man came upon me. And I caused the widow's heart to sing for joy. I put on righteousness and it clothed me. See how he's talking about the third sense? My justice was like a robe and a turban. I was eyes to the blind, and I was feet to the lame. I was a father to the poor, and I searched out the case that I did not know. I broke the fangs of the wicked and plucked the victim from his teeth. That's righteousness. The third kind. Although I think all are applicable here within this Beatitude, I'm focusing on the third, so when we look at verse 6, we can say it again. It's not hard to understand now that we've seen these different examples. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. For they shall be filled. They shall be filled in that legal righteousness through Jesus Christ, through the sending Jesus sending his Holy Spirit, they shall be filled in that second form of righteousness as it blossoming in their own hearts And it shall even, whether you believe this or not, I'm telling you from the scriptures, it shall even start to make a difference in human society And that's really what I wanted to focus on this morning. You know, there's a I want to start first by just announcing with this realization that This hunger and thirst and being filled, it has already begun to be filled. Jesus is not waiting until the end of time to begin to bring justice to earth. He has already begun to do so, especially through you, his congregation. There's a cause and effect relationship in the Beatitude Jesus is the one who makes righteousness those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. He makes them filled. He is the one that quenches their thirst. He is the one that who fills those who are hungry for justice because he acts in such a way within the congregation that he has saved to begin to bring that justice about on earth. Not in a complete way. Not in a complete way. There are many things that are still going wrong, but some things under the authority of Jesus Christ have begun to go right. And I mean the word right there as unjust. Let me give you an example of Jesus walking among the churches. So we we oftentimes think of Jesus walking the streets of Jerusalem Other times we'll we'll think of Jesus as the one who has been crucified. Other times we'll think of Jesus as the one who has been raised from the dead. And this time I want you to think about he who has been raised from the dead, has ascended on high, and has all authority at the right hand of the Father, and is still at work today accomplishing his Father's will. And one way for us to be able to see that is in the book of Revelation, where Jesus, the resurrected one, walks among his churches. And I just want you to hear When we read a section of it that Jesus is still maintaining righteousness and justice in society even to this day Especially he calls his people to do so. Revelation 2, 18 through 23, and the angel of the Lord of the church in Thyatira To the angel of the Lord of the church in Syatira, write, These things says the Son of God, who has eyes like a flame of fire, and his feet like fine brass. I know your works, love, service, faith, and your patience. And as for your works, the last are more than the first. See how he's commending them for the working out of that social righteousness? Nevertheless, I have a few things against you because you allow that woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess, to teach and to seduce my servants. to commit sexual immorality and eat things sacrificed to idols. And I gave her time to repent of her sexual immorality, and she did not repent. Indeed, I will cast her into a sickbed And those who commit adultery with her into great tribulation, unless they repent of their deeds. Is that not the maintenance of what is right? I didn't go on to read. I'd encourage you to go on to read to see the acts that he declares, oh, what he will do to their children even In the maintenance to make sure that sin is not in reigning power over the nations. But rather that Jesus Christ is, and since Jesus is, he keeps a cap on the sin until he returns and removes all of it. We see that in Revelation two, eighteen through twenty-three, that Christ is starting to fill you now. But I also see I also see Christ working in extra-biblical history. I don't only see him working on the pages of Scripture. I see him working out in American history, for example. I see Jesus Christ Working out righteousness in civil rights, for example. I just had the opportunity to review the speech from Martin Luther King Jr. , I have a dream. And I wonder how many people have had the opportunity to read through that. I know you've heard of the speech and I know you've heard of Martin Luther King Jr. , but have any of you read the speech or listened to it? It's even better to listen to You can find it on YouTube and they have archives with it. But I want to read a couple sections from here. And I want you to hear his appeal to righteousness coming from Jesus Christ. And from the scriptures, and that this civil rights movement is a part of being filled in your hunger and your thirst, just like Jesus talked about here in the Beatitude. So just give me a couple minutes to read this. Please pay attention, okay? I'm only going to read a part of it. I am happy to join with you today what will go down in history as the greatest demonstration for freedom in the history of our nation. Four score years ago, a great American in whose symbolic shadow we stand today signed the Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous decree came as a great beacon light of hope to millions of Negro slaves who had been seared in the flames of withering injustice. It came as a joyous daybreak to the end of the long night of their captivity. Do you hear the exile language? Listen to a Negro spiritual and you'll hear the Exodus. But 100 years later, the Negro still is not free. One hundred years later, the life of the Negro is still sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of discrimination. One hundred years later, the Negro lives on a lonely island of poverty in the midst of a vast ocean of material prosperity. One hundred years later, the Negro is still languished in the corners of American society and finds himself in exile in his own land. And so we've come here today to dramatize a shameful condition. In a sense, we've come to our nation's capital capital to cash a check. When the architects of a republic wrote the magnificent words of the Constitution, And the Declaration of Insta Independence, they were signing a promissory note to which every American was to fall heir. This note was a promise that all men, yes black men as well as white men, would be guaranteed the unalienable rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness It is obvious today that America has defaulted on this promissory note, and so far as her citizens of color are concerned, instead of honoring this sacred obligation, America has given the Negro people a bad check. A check which has come back marked insufficient funds. But we refuse to believe that the Bank of Justice is bankrupt. We refuse to believe that there are insufficient funds in the great vaults of opportunity of this nation. And so we come to cash this check, a check that will give us upon demand the riches of freedom and the security of justice. We have also come to this hallowed spot to remind America of the fierce urgency of now. This is no time to engage in the luxury of cooling off or to take the tranquilizing drug of gradualism Now is the time to make real the promises of democracy. Now is the time to rise from the dark and desolate valley of segregation to the sunlit path of racial justice. Now is the time to lift our nation from the quicksands of racial injustice to the solid rock of brotherhood. Now is the time to make justice a reality for all of God's children. It would be fatal for the nation to overlook the urgency of the moment. This sweltering summer of the Negroes' legitimate discontent will not pass until there is an invigorating autumn of freedom and equality. 1963 is not an end but a beginning. And those who hoped that the Negro needed to blow off steam and will now be content to have a rude awakening will now have a be content to have a rude awakening if the nation returns to business as usual. And there will be neither rest nor tranquility in America until the Negro is granted his citizenship rights. The whirlwinds of revolt will continue to shake the foundations of our nation until the bright day of justice emerges. But there is something that I must say to my people, who stand on the warm threshold which leads into the palace of justice. In the process of gaining our rightful place, we must not be guilty of wrongful deeds. Let us not seek to satisfy our thirst for freedom. by drinking from the cup of bitterness and hatred. We must forever conduct our struggle on the high plane of dignity and discipline. We must not allow our creative protest to degenerate into physical violence. Again and again, we must rise to the majestic heights of meeting physical force with soul force. The marvelous new militancy which has engulfed the Negro community must not lead us to a distrust of all white people. For many of our white brothers, as evidenced by their presence here today, have come to realize that their destiny is tied up with our destiny. And they have come to realize that their freedom is inextricably bound to our freedom. And as we walk, we must walk, we must make the pledge that we shall always march ahead. We cannot turn back. Those uh there are those who are asking the devotees of civil rights, when will you be satisfied? When will you stop hungering and thirsting? We can never be satisfied as long as the Negro is the victim of the unspeakable horrors of police brutality We can never be satisfied as long as our bodies, heavy with the fatigue of travel, cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of the city Some of you sitting here today have experienced where they would not let Negroes sleep in certain hotels. We cannot be satisfied as long as the Negroes' basic mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one. We can never be satisfied as long as our children are stripped of their selfhood and robbed of their dignity by signs stating four whites only We cannot be satisfied as long as a Negro in Mississippi cannot vote, and a Negro in New York believes he has nothing for which to vote. No, no, we are not satisfied, and we will not be satisfied until and here he quotes and I'll stop here. He quotes Amos chapter 5. No, no, we are not satisfied, and we will not be satisfied until justice rolls down like waters and righteousness like a mighty stream. Now I know I'm not in a perfect place to pronounce how well has the civil rights movement turned out, but it seems to me. though things have not gone perfectly, that Jesus Christ has brought a lot of freedoms that Martin Luther King Jr. was thirsty for. And I attribute that to Jesus Christ. In those who chur in churches, grandmothers and grandfathers that have died now, who sent up their prayers asking for release from captivity, from racism. I bet you if they could look and they could see, they would see many things that have changed. The fact that they're able to use the same bathroom as me would be just a thrill Jesus Christ is starting now. That's my point in reading that speech to you. I think that's an important moment not just of civil rights history but of biblical history because of what Jesus Christ is doing. It's not perfect, but it is headway under the reign of Jesus Christ. And we should expect to see areas in which the congregation rises up and says, we're not going to be satisfied until we seek justice. Like a stream rolling in, cleansing everything. Now Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled, and I think that we're starting to be filled now, is my first point to you. And the second one is that This whole series is set up to where we would be able to be discipled and disciple. So when we look at this when we look at this third aspect of righteousness and we see that Christ is quenching and thirsting, Giving uh drink to those who are thirsty now in terms of righteousness? What can we learn as we seek to disciple others and as we are his disciples? Well, I think that we could turn to Romans chapter 12 and we could see how this is supposed to work out. Sometimes we don't think about this passage in this way. You can read this later today. Let me just read to you Romans chapter 12. And what I'm doing now is I'm saying, okay, if this is the argument that I'm making, this is what righteousness is, and that righteousness is already flooding in under the authority of Jesus Christ. Well, how can that show up in areas of discipleship? Romans 12, 1 through 2, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. You can read this on your own time, but everything is flowing from a fountain of mercy. That God has given mercy to all of the nations. And that in this mercy, nations are being changed, hearts are being changed, and because hearts are being changed, there is a renewal of their mind where they don't want to just do whatever selfish desires they have. They want to find out, well, what's really right to do? Well, right according to what standard. What's right according to God? What is God's love? That has become under the authority of Christ and His power. There are human beings by His work who are asking the question. Sincerely, what is God love? Because that's what I want to do. And that's that last part of that Romans 12, verse 2 section. Don't be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Why? So that you can prove what is the good and acceptable and the perfect will of God. This is the passage about we've been shown mercy and transformed and now we're going to see that to God's intended ends which is that we would know his will and put it into effect in this world. That we would engage in the Lord's Prayer, that that which is in heaven would come to earth. And that this is what God's way of doing so is that it will happen by way of his congregation. So when you're doing discipleship and Jesus Christ has called a person to himself and has revealed himself to him and by his power has changed him to where now he wants to love God. and love his neighbor, you have to show that person in your discipleship what it means to bring justice to their life You need to show them what it means to bring God's good and perfect and pleasing will into each of the areas of their life So you can just raise that in different different areas. You can say, well, what does God want for me personally? What would it look like for me to have a just be a just person? What would it look like for me to bring justice and righteousness by the power of Christ to my family? What would it look like to bring justice and righteousness to my local congregation? What would it look like to bring Jesus Christ justice and righteousness to my county? And as we do that, we're beginning to see Christ working through his power through his congregation to bring those things in part about sometimes. And our thirst starts to be quenched. I'm telling you, as soon as Christ brings somebody into his kingdom, they have a lot of questions and they center around what is my life supposed to look like? What what's the right thing for me to do? And you should hear that with profundity. They're asking to live in accordance with a way that is pleasing to God, the God of justice. And you need to show them what that looks like as a man and as a woman and as a child and as a brother and a sister and a husband and father and as neighbors And you'll take from your own experiences and the things that God has taught you, and you will raise them like a child in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. And what used to be a desert, their life could be characterized as a desert. Because of the power of Jesus Christ, even working through you, their life in every single area will start to look like a well-watered garden. This is one way that we can begin. Really, this is a a broad vision of how discipleship connects to blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled. And it connects with how Jesus is beginning the filling even now. And he will continue that filling in the people that he gives to you who are his disciples, they will make a difference. They won't continue the sins of their grandfathers. Or their fathers. Something new has begun. Now, I would like to leave you with a picture because I like pictures. I want to leave you with a picture of what Christ is doing in the world and filling our hunger and our thirst for righteousness. And I'm going to do so just with a brief reading from the Lion, the Witch in the Wardrobe. This is after the chapter, I'm going to read after the chapter where the young children have realized that something new has happened because Father Christmas has shown up and the white witch has always allowed winter but never Christmas. But something is changing now because he has shown up And now we we go to the next chapter where the white witch and her servant and is it Peter Pebbensey who betrayed his family? Edmund Heavensee is here and they're experiencing the same thing. The snow is going away and she's getting really frustrated. So she says Uh she she says to the to the the dwarf who says maybe we should forget about the sled and we have to start walking because there's not enough snow for a sled any longer. There's just mud and and slush. So she responds to him, are you my counselor or my s or are you my counselor or my slave? Said the witch. Do as you're told. Tie the hands of the human creature behind it and keep hold of the end of the rope. And take your whip, and cut the harness of the reindeer. They'll find their own way home. The dwarf obeyed, and in a few minutes Edmund found himself being forced to walk as fast as he could, with his hands tied behind him He kept on slipping in the slush and mud and wet grass. And every time he slipped a dwarf gave him a curse and sometimes a flick with the whip. The witch walked behind the dwarf and kept on saying, Faster, faster. Every moment, the patches of green grew bigger, and the patches of snow snow grew smaller. Every moment more and more of the trees shook off their robes of snow. Soon, wherever you looked, instead of white shapes, you saw the dark green of firs and the black black prickly branches of bare oaks and beeches and elms. Then the mist turned from white to gold and presently cleared away altogether. Shafts of delicious sunlight struck down onto the forest floor, and overhead you could see blue sky between the treetops. Soon there were more wonderful things happening. Coming suddenly round a corner into a glade of silver birch trees, Edmund saw the ground covered in all directions with little yellow flowers. The noise of water grew louder. Present they actually crossed a stream. Beyond it, they found snowdrops growing. Mind your own business, said the dwarf, when he saw that Edmund had turned his head to look at them, and he gave the rope a vicious jerk. But of course this didn't prevent Edmund from seeing Only five minutes later he noticed a dozen crocuses growing round the foot of an old tree, gold and purple and white. And then came a sound even more delicious than the sound of the water. Close beside the path they were following a bird. Close beside the path they were following, a bird suddenly chirped from the branch of a tree. It was answered by the chuckle of another bird a little further off And then, as if that had been a signal, there was chattering and chirping in every direction, and then a moment of full song, and within five minutes the whole wood was ringing with birds' music. And wherever Edmund's eyes turned, he saw birds alighting on branches, or sailing overhead, or chasing one another, or having their little quarrel quarrels, or tidying up their feathers with their beaks. Faster, faster, said the witch There was no trace of the fog now. The sky became bluer and bluer. And now there were white clouds hurrying across it from time to time. In the wide glades there were primroses. A light breeze sprang up, which scattered drops of moisture from the swaying branches and carried cool, delicious scents across the face of the travelers. The trees began to come fully alive. The larches and birches were covered with green, the laburnums with gold. Soon the beech trees had put forth their delicate, transparent leaves As the travelers walked under them, the light also became green. A bee buzzed across their path. This is no fall, said the dwarf. Suddenly stopping. This is spring. What are we to do? Your winter has been destroyed, I tell you. This is Aslan's doing This is the beautiful picture of what Jesus promises here within this Beatitude. All I'm encouraging you to do here this morning is when you read, Blessed are those who thirst and hunger for righteousness, for you will be filled. is to see that Jesus has already begun the fall. It is no longer winter in this world. The th the fall is so severe in fact that Jesus Christ can said to have brought spring with him And I think if you g take the opportunity to talk to each other and how Christ has been interacting with you and the things that He's been doing in your life, I bet you each of you have a little song. I bet like those birds in the forest. I bet each of you have a uh maybe you used to be leafless and now you have a green leaf that has sprung. Where's all that coming from? Where's all the life that you see coming from? It's not Aslan that's on the move, it's Jesus Christ that's on the move. Jesus Christ is on the move, filling those who thirst and hunger for righteousness. I pray, brothers and sisters, that this would fill you with great hope. And that this hope would even bubble up in you to long to see this for other people in your life. And you'd start to pray for them. And that when Christ brings these people to you, you would consider it your privilege to help them fall out. And to have a song in their life again, to have green and color and little yellow flowers. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. For you, brothers and sisters, we'll be filled. Amen. Let us pray