Please follow along. And seeing the multitudes he went up on a mountain, and when he was seated, his disciples came to him. Then he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Let us pray Heavenly Father, here you have even topographically placed your son with all attention on him. Rightfully so as the one on the mountain. Lord, I pray that He would be so in the hearts of your congregation. Lord, we in the singing of the doxology and the glory of potri, we saw some of us turn our faces to heaven. Lord, as the one wherein all things unite, all of our lives are in service to you. I pray, Lord, that this preached word would move to those ends. that your congregation would be poor in spirit and they would humble themselves before your son in his words. I ask that you would deliver them from the evil one, that your will in heaven would be done on earth in this community here. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. We've begun a series on the Sermon on the Mount, which covers Matthew chapters 5 through 7, in order to learn how to be disciples and to disciple. And the reason why we're doing that is because in the Great Commission we discovered that that is what it means to be the congregation of God. We looked at a series of alls, all authority to all nations, all that he commands, and he will be with us always. The reason why we did that is because we saw there's a question posed to us in Jonah as to whether we, as God's people, will go to the nations. Presumably you answered yes And so I thought you would want to know, well, what does it look like to be his disciple? What does it look like to disciple And so what we've done is we've gone now here into this discourse of discipleship, if you will, in 5 through 7. And last week we looked at Matthew chapter 5, verse 4, seeing that Christ calls People to himself on the great adventure, and that a mark of those people And three is that they are poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. In order to understand that, we went back to, even in our bulletin, Isaiah 66, verse 2 Which says, For all those things my hand has made, and all those things exist, says the Lord. But on this one will I look. On him who is poor and of contrite spirit, and who trembles at my word. We had the opportunity to look at different snapshots or pictures of those who are poor in spirit, those who are submitting themselves to Jesus Christ and his word. Now we move on to 5. 4 with this second declaration of good news from Jesus Christ, which is, blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Now we're going to have to work a little bit in order to understand that, because on the face of it, if you take it too broadly, it's patently absurd. All of those who mourn are comforted. I imagine you could come up with many different examples of people who were never comforted. who died in the flames, so to speak, and not for a Christian cause, just in house fires. How could this be possibly true? And what is it that Jesus means when he says, Blessed are those who mourn For they shall be comforted. And how can that be tr how can that be true with any sense of urgency for us, with how long we go without being comforted? I think the answer resides in making sure that we read Jesus in the context in which he has placed himself very diligently. The Gospel of Matthew was unfolding from the very beginning to paint a very specific picture of who Jesus is and why he would say the words here, Blessed are you who mourn, for you will be comforted. You'll find as we go through this, one of the first things that you're going to find is that these words are true. That Jesus wasn't lying, but you've got to understand what he means by them. In order to get at that, we could turn again to another Isaiah passage. And you're welcome to turn there if you'd like, but this is a guiding passage for us. It's actually in your bulletin, so that would be really easy for you to turn there. In Isaiah 61, 1 through 3, just like last week, I showed you another place where it talks about being poor in spirit to get a better understanding. So too, this week I show you in 61 a context of mourning and a context of comfort. 61 1 through 3 says, The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me. Because the Lord has anointed me to preach good tidings to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to those who are bound To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord and the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all who mourn, to console those who mourn in Zion. To give them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness, that they may be called trees of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he may be glorified Now, we'd really make a misstep if we get too quick in applying this to a modern-day congregation We've got to see if you were to just look at that passage within your bulletin that this was originally written to a group of people that were not thinking about captivity as a metaphor. They were really captive. They were really in an exile. And my argument to you, just with liberty, captives, prison, and bound, that this is speaking of a real historical example of the people of God due to their sin being sent into captivity and having these experiences. And if we can begin there, if we can begin there, if we can see the theme of exile, then we can begin to see what Jesus is saying here in these Beatitudes, because he's the one that everyone has been waiting for. That we could be released from exile. Now this applies to you too, as those who are not a part of Israel. You Gentiles. This applies to you too. You've been in exile for a long time too. And we'll get to that. But that's the key The key is to be able to see that Matthew in his gospel lays scripture upon scripture upon scripture, pointing out that Jesus is the one that they've all been waiting for to come out of exile and into redemption or deliverance. I want to point that out to you in just a couple different ways so that you can see that basic conviction. So looking in the Gospel of Matthew, first take a look at the genealogy. When we look at the genealogy in chapter 1, verse 1, just a couple pages back, it says the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the Son of David, the Son of Abraham, and that makes sense to us. It makes sense to us if we know our Bible that Jesus is coming forth from promises that have been made to Abraham Jesus is coming forth as promises that have been made to David and that there would be one greater than David still reigning on David's throne. And we would therefore, when we look at the genealogy, for example, in chapter 1, verse 2, notice how it starts off with that kind of preparatory remark in 1, 1, and then 2 starts with Abraham And then if you go to the next paragraph in verse number six, David, we expect to see that in the genealogy, seeing that Jesus is the one springing forth and coming up out of this history. But there's another remark within the genealogy that maybe it surprises you, and it's in verse number 12. Verse number 11 is where it begins. We're right at the end of that sentence. It says that they were carried away to Babylon. And in verse number 12 it says that after they were brought to Babylon. And then we go into verse number 17 and we see the Babylon, David, Abraham shows up, David shows up But so too does captivity show up. Captivity in Babylon are fourteen generations, and from the captivity in Babylon until Christ are fourteen generations. So we not only have the typical threads of the Abrahamic faith, we not only have the typical threads of the Davidic Messiah, we have a thread here of exile. That's placed right here in this genealogy. And that exilic thread, if we could call it that, is going to continue for the rest of the book of Matthew. And it's definitely going to continue all the way up until chapter 5. For example, I can't show all of the exilic references to you because we wouldn't be able to stop the sermon today. But in Matthew chapter 2, 6, for example, let me just show you where Matthew, when he quotes these prophets from the past. You've got to ask yourself, well, why is he doing that? He's doing it for different reasons, but one of the main reasons is so that you could see who Jesus is And here in Matthew chapter 2, verse 6, there's a quote from Micah. But you, Bethlehem, and the land of Judah are not the least among the rulers of Judah, for out of you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. And if you go back to that original passage, he's not shepherding in general. He's not generally taking care of you, making sure you don't forget to get to the dentist. These are technical terms, shepherd, are technical terms for the one who will lead his people out of exile. That's what everybody's been waiting for. We've been trapped. We've been in prison. We've been bound. Who's going to release us from the prison? Who's going to take us out from the thumb of yet another Pharaoh? Who's going to release us for the reasons why we're here to begin with? Well, Micah speaks up because he has been given access to the thoughts of God in heaven and he says it's going to be This one here in 2. 6. And of course Matthew references this as speaking about Jesus. Well, we were to go on. We could also turn to 2. 18, and this one's a very powerful verse that he would say. Herod has already been presented as a pharaoh from which he has been delivered in this account here. And when we get to the part of being a pharaoh with Moses was that the Pharaoh killed the young men. And that's why Moses had to be placed and sent down the river, right? We see the same thing with Herod. Herod and seeking to stop the one who will have a new Exodus releasing his people from this exile. Herod, just like Pharaoh, kills the young in this town. And then we see here in 18 that he calls back to Jeremiah with Rachel weeping. And he says, a voice was heard in Ramah, lamentation, weeping, and great mourning. Rachel weeping for her children, refusing to be comforted because they are no more. Now you can look that up, you can do your cross-references, and you'll see that this is the prophet Jeremiah speaking. And if you were to go to that place in your scriptures on your own time You just take your finger and keep traveling down to Jeremiah, just a few paragraphs later to Jeremiah chapter 31, verses 16 and 17. And this is what God says to Rachel to bring her comfort. Thus says the Lord, refrain your voice from weeping, and your eyes from tears. For your work shall be rewarded, says the Lord, and they shall come back from the land of the enemy. Exile. There is hope in your future, says the Lord, that your children should come back to their own border. You see she's they're using all of this to tap into those aspirations of the current Israelites that they're literally in exile. They've all been waiting to be able for them and their children to come back to the border. And here we're seeing with reference to the birth of Christ and his deliverance from Herod, who is the new Pharaoh, the killing of the children, we're seeing that Matthew was painting the picture. that the one who's going to release the world from their captivity is Jesus. There it is again. Right at the center, painting the same picture as the one who delivers from exile. Now, you could go to other gospels and you could see the same thing, the the exilic passage that we see within your bulletin. From Isaiah, Brad was right to bring up that this is one of the ways in which the gospel writers represent Jesus as beginning his ministry. And he says in Luke four, sixteen through twenty-two that it's recorded by Luke that he came to Nazareth speaking of Jesus where he had been brought up, and as was his custom. And he went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and he stood up to read, and he was handed the book of Isaiah the prophet, and when he had opened the book he found the place where it was written, just what you have in your bulletin The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me. And he goes through this speaking of liberty and captives and release from bondage. And then Luke records that Jesus continued after that, and he says, today this scripture is fulfilled in your hearing. It doesn't become more explicit than that. So all bore witness to him and marveled at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth, and they said, Is this not Joseph's son? Still puzzling through it. But it's the same thing that Matthew is presenting to you here. He's filling out a painting, if you will, as an artist. And by the time he is done with his masterwork in painting Christ by faith You'll see him posture to as he is the one that we've been waiting for to be removed from exile. And that's how we're supposed to understand this Sermon on the Mount As that's the one who's speaking. This is the work that he's doing. To understand the Beatitudes, they have to be understand with reference to the exile. And that can even be said with the first beatitude that we looked at last week. We didn't get a chance to have this conversation last week, but we can bring it up this week that But the Jews also were looking to be released from exile, but they were looking to be released from exile without taking any account of the fact that they're still doing the same things that brought them into exile. And so what they do is they just think, what we need is a heavier hand. We just need a stronger military. We just need national might in order to usher in the kingdom of God through force and law. And of course, Jesus decides not to play that game. And he ends up ushering in the kingdom in a very different way. And it is and the kingdom therefore is offered to a very different person. It's not going to be the powerful. It's not going to be the one who has legislative influence that inherits the kingdom of God. First and foremost, though that will have a place later, it will be those who recognize that they're in exile because of their own sins and the sins of their people. And they will griever that. And it will turn inside of them by the work of the Holy Spirit to where they will be known because of the realization of why they are where they are and the miseries that their experiences. They will become people who are poor in spirit. You know, a way to think about the poor in the spirit, I was just listening to an old friend and pastor. And he said, you know, one way to think about the poor in spirit is to think about it in terms of ownership. Those who are rich in spirit think they own everything. Those who are in poor in spirit realize they don't own anything And he posed the question to the congregation. I think I was there actually. It was the 2000s. Can you believe it? Remembering things from the 2000s. From the year 2000, actually. The year 2000. And he says, What do you have that you own? That's what he asked the whole congregation. What do you have that you own? And we looked at examples last week for the poor in the spirit where people came to the realization, you know what, I don't own anything I am a steward in the house of God. That's how we have to phrase that. I'm not supporting socialism or communism up here. I'm just saying that naked you're born and naked you'll go to death. Which means you're not bringing anything with you. And that's an indication you never owned it During the rest of your life either. That you were just a steward. But the problem with the rich in the spirit is they say, All these things are mine, and I will do with them what I want to do with them I'll do with my body what I want to do with my body. I will do with my car what I want to do with my car. I'll do with my wife or my husband what I want to do with my wife or my husband because I I'm the odor But this foreign spirit, those who will be released from exile, they will realize, you know what, that was a fool's game. The Lord is the owner of everything. And that's the story of the Christian as we say, Lord, this is yours. How might I serve you with it? These are these children you've given to me are for me to raise up in your nurture and your admonition, not my image. Well, Jesus is saying that blessed are the poor in spirit, for they shall have the kingdom, since it is to those who leave behind their autonomy and their idols, and instead give their allegiance to him who will gain the kingdom. That's just going back to last week. This week with the second Beatitude, you can begin to see how the exile and its view influences our passage for today. And we could phrase it like this, blessed are those who mourn over their sins, which led them into exile to begin with. And blessed are those who mourn over the misery and connect it to the fact that it's because of the sin of the human race that has led them into exile. Blessed are those who mourn like that. Blessed are those who mourn when they remember when they said, These are mine. And now they say, No, these are gods. For Jesus has to come to bring us back from exile, taking away our sins, and if you are no longer in sin, you can no longer stay in exile, because that's the reason you go to exile. So now you are redeemed. Taking away our sins and progressively addressing the misery To the point where even if you are miserable and your misery is for Jesus Christ, we'll get to this a little bit later in the Beatitudes, if your misery is for Jesus Christ, it ends up being a great honor of your life. And in therefore a comfort. Blessed are those who mourn over their sins and their consequent misery For he who is bringing us out of exile has arrived. That's really, those are all the undertones that are going on here when Jesus is speaking in his Beatitude. Blessed are you, because I'm here. That's the undertone Blessed are you because I'm the Messiah. Blessed are you because as the Messiah I'm going to do a specific work And that involves comforting you in a specific way over the deepest and most anguishing mourning you have ever done as a member of the human race. I'm going to bring you comfort. That's what's going on here with this. And therefore, this is wonderful news that Jesus is declaring to this group of people. And he is declaring it to us. You know, one question that comes up though Especially since I don't have an entirely Jewish audience here, which originally that's uh first to the Jews, then to the Gentiles. Peter gives his sermon largely to the Jews, for example, in Acts 2. So one of the questions that comes up is we're looking historically and we're saying the Israel because of their giving their allegiance to someone and something else besides God. They were moved into exile. That's a historical fact. You can read about it. So but many people will then ask the question, but how could we say that about us who were never members of Israel? I mean as like the nation. I can read of Israel's exile and history books, but what about the nations and the world? What about Italians? A lot of Italians here. You can it's easy to tell you're here. I'm not gonna say why. Okay. And there's Irish and whatever. But we see exile happening before this exile in Babylon within the scriptures. And we see it happening among all of the different nations. Let me give you a picture of exile and then of the Old Testament and then one for the Gentiles, and then let me give you a picture of exile in the New Testament. The first picture of exile for all nations is in Genesis chapter 4, verse 16. There has already been a removal of humanity from paradise. And they descend from Mount Eden, going down and down and down And then even there though there is a path that goes even further down that is outside of the covenants and the promises of Yahweh. And it is the path of envy and murder, and it is embodied in the Son called Cain. And it says this in four sixteen of Genesis, then Cain went out from the presence of the Lord and dwelt in the land of Nod on the east of Eden. And if you were to read the scriptures carefully, you would discover that this hasn't changed with the nations before Jesus Christ, that they're all still stuck in that position. They're all still excommunicated, if you will, living east of Eden, just like this gentleman, and they're all children of Cain. And we can see this when we then turn to the New Testament in Ephesians 2, 11 through 13, where the Apostle Paul speaks about the Gentiles in a kind of exile and then through Jesus Christ being brought near. I don't know if you've ever read the exile into Ephesians 2. 11 through 13. But listen to it in light of the exile, it says Therefore, remember that you, once Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcision by what is called the circumcision made in the flesh by hands, that at that time you were without Christ, being aliens From the Commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise. You had no hope. And you were without God in the world. Man, I can't think of a better way to talk about exile. And then in verse number 13 he says, But now in Christ Jesus, you who were once far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. So here it is again. Here's Paul establishing the same Paul paints the same picture He preaches the same message of Matthew in his gospel, showing that Jesus is the one who takes those who are far off. And he brings them near. Jesus is the one who takes people who are in the exile of their sin and their misery and Pays for their transgressions and gives them comfort and reconciliation with God. It's Jesus who does this And so that really just gets us back to seeing how these beatitudes are formed, whether you are Jew or you're Italian. Whether you're Jew or you're Irish. You go through all the nations. It's the summary word for all nations besides those of Israel is Gentile. And you can see that Jesus Christ is saving them all from all the nations. Bringing them back from exile. If you wanted to put this into a summary statement, you could say it this way. Jesus is the long-awaited Messiah who is restoring the world from their exile. He is bringing comfort to those who mourn over their sin and its misery. That's what comfort means. Bringing back from exile. Now that's a pretty general way to put it and you could work out the specifics of well what does it look like to come back from exile? Well first looks like you're a poor in spirit And second, it looks like Jesus Christ is on a mission to comfort you. I want to give you a picture of comfort and mourning from the scriptures that I received from another preacher And it is the morning and it is the comfort of Peter. I think it's a very interesting example to choose for multiple reasons. Well, let me just read to you again from Matthew 26, 69 through 75, the picture that we gain of Peter here. We remember earlier in Matthew, we remember that Peter presents himself as, well, maybe these others will betray you, but not me, Lord. And then Jesus predicts the rooster crowing. And here we get to this scene. And now Peter sat outside in the courtyard, and a servant girl came to him saying, You also were with Jesus of Nazareth. But he denied it before them all, saying, I do not know what you're saying. And when he had gone out to the gateway, another girl saw him and said to those who were there, This fellow also was with Jesus of Nazareth. But again he denied with an oath, I do not know the man. And a little later those who stood by came up and said to Peter, Surely you are also one of them, for your speech betrays you. Then he began to curse and swear, saying, I do not know the man. Immediately a rooster crows. And Peter remembered the word of Jesus who had said to him, before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times. And sometimes we miss this last phrase. But it says, so Peter went out and he wept bitterly. And that is someone who is mourning for all the right reasons What a picture of mourning. The preacher that I had listened to and bringing this thought had pointed out a famous painting that depicts this I believe you pronounce the painter's name as a Carvaggio or something along those lines. And if you take a look at that image on your own time, you'll see that the what's dominating the painting are fingers There's uh there's like a uh fingers pointing this way and fingers pointing that way, but you'll notice that there are three fingers, two from Peter and one from the slave girl, pointing at Peter. And Peter's in anguish. The three fingers representing the three betrayals and the look on Peter's face is the look of the kind of mourning that Jesus Christ is talking about. in the Beatitudes. It is a mourning over his unwillingness to give his allegiance to Jesus Christ. And even what is worse than that It is his sin of being ashamed of Jesus. And he mourns because he realizes what he has done. Now, when we come to the comfort of Peter, what an interesting way to comfort. He you know, Jesus does not show up to to Peter's thatched roof house with bonbons in a blockbuster movie and say look buddy we're gonna work this out this is great let's hold hands it's it's we're gonna sing kumbaya He works it out in a very different way where he restores Peter to a sense of responsibility and purpose within his kingdom. He really restores him to his vo vocation. And he restores him to allegiance I'll read to you John 21, 15-17. So when they had eaten breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me more than these? That's the question. That's the question. Where's your allegiance? That's the question. And that's what our primary mourning should be over, is our lack of allegiance. That's what leads ultimately into the exile. Do you love me more than these? And he said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Feed my lambs. He said to him again a second time, Sinon, son of Jonah, do you love me? And he said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Tend my sheep. He said to him the third time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? Matching the betrayals. The fingers are still present in the picture And he said to him, Lord, you know all things. You know that I love you. And Jesus said to him, Feed my sheep. Now what I'm doing at this point is I'm just I've established that Jesus is to be known as the one who brings his people out of exile. And he's going to do that in a very specific way. But he's the deliverer, he's the shepherd, he's the one who will lead us in Exodus. And we learn that those who will be led in that Exodus are poor in spirit, but they're also the ones who are mourning. And I'm giving you now a picture of the mourning, and then I'm giving you a picture also of what the comfort looks like. And the first part of this comfort looks like Jesus pointing out and helping Peter to deepen the godly mourning of the false allegiance that he offered to people besides Jesus Christ. Mourning over his idolatry. And comforting him by reinstatement in allegiance to him by feeding his sheep, feeding his lambs. Feeding. You're going to be in my service, Peter. You owe me your allegiance. And that's how the restoration begins. You know, I I I sang a song a um a couple weeks ago that I had not sung before, and the song so stuck with me that I have brought it here for you today in order to share with you a little bit of how this comfort works In Jesus helping Peter to admit that he lost his allegiance to Jesus, readmitting Peter and initiating him into the allegiance of Jesus Christ. And then that being the continuation of his life is him finding Jesus Christ more lovely than anything that idols could offer. And there's a song that captures this. I wonder if you have heard of the song Hast thou heard him, seen him, known him? I'd encourage you to keep it near you. Listen to this. Hast thou heard him, seen him, known him? Is not thine a captured heart? Chief among ten thousand own him. Joyful choose the better part. And then there's this this refrain, I think it's called Captivated by his beauty, worthy tribute haste to bring, let his peerless worth constrain thee, crown him now unrivaled king. The second verse is, what can strip the seeming beauty from the idols of the earth? Not a sense of right or duty, but the sight of peerless worth. Because we're captivated by his beauty, worthy tribute haste to bring, let his peerless worth constrain thee, crown him now unrivaled king. And the final verse. was written for Peter. 'Tis the look that melted Peter. 'Tis the face that Stephen saw. 'Tis the heart that wept with Mary can alone from idols draw, captivated by his beauty. Worthy tribute haste to bring, let his peerless worth constrain thee. Crown him now, unrivaled king. You can see now and you can connect to the deep mourning that must take place of what has happened when we don't see the beauty of Christ. We can see the comfort that Christ brings to Peter in the re-establishment of him seeing his beauty, his matchless worth. And the same heart as ours. the same heart as ours. And it is to be embodied in a vocation. It is to be embodied in that analogy I heard in two that I don't own anything and all my allegiance is to Jesus and I steward everything for you because you're of matchless worth. You're peerless. Well that's a little bit of a picture of Peter and his morning and the kind of comfort that Jesus brings. You know, if you were to keep going We hear Rachel crying for the loss of her children in Jeremiah. We hear several paragraphs later that a deliverer is being sent to release her from her mourning. And if you keep reading, just another couple paragraphs after that is there is the declaration of what God the Father is doing in Jesus Christ, in the making of new hearts. From a heart of stone to a heart of flesh. It's that passage right there. Making you, O Blessed Ones, poor in spirit. Making you, oh blessed ones, who now can see your sin and what you have done those more than three times He's given you the gift of mourning. And in that mourning he comforts you. And what a gift it is. Can you be comforted if you don't mourn The answer is no. So I'll ask you just very practically, where is your allegiance? And I want to ask that question not so that you can be guilt-ridden and do and just lose sleep I'm asking the question because we're here in a series where we're trying to understand what it man means to be a disciple of Jesus Christ and how to disciple. And I just want to raise the question, is that if you have decided a while back that you're going to ignore the Holy Spirit and his word to you from his scriptures and all of the preachers that he sent to you and The podcasts and the books. If you're going to ignore all of that and you're going to keep giving your allegiance to whatever you give it to besides Jesus And if you're going to keep developing yourself as a person who says, I own everything, how in the world are you going to have anything to offer Someone who Jesus Christ brings here to be his disciple. Are you going to teach them how to serve idols? Are you going to teach them what it looks like to not be allied to your Christ? Do you see what's at stake here that is beyond just your personal spiritual disciplines and how good you feel inside? We're talking about you becoming the kind of congregation who has something to give other people. And the reason why you have something to give is because out of the grace of God and the establishment of the new covenant even within your heart You are working out your salvation with fear and trembling under his spiritual guidance. That though you be not perfect, you are allied to Jesus. And you have a little bit to say about that to the people that he brings along. And just as Peter wasn't allied in general or gave allegiance in general, but gave allegiance in a specific vocation, so too, I'm asking you. Are you giving allegiance to Jesus Christ in all of your callings? Are you giving allegiance to Jesus Christ in your roles in the family and in your roles in this congregation and your roles? in civil society. You've been released from exile to have liberty, not to be enslaved again That's a question. Your own restoration to serving Jesus. And that serving Jesus is meant to be out of a sense of the the gratitude we have for all that He has done for us, and it is meant to be the place where we start in being able to offer something to somebody else. You know what you can at least offer to people that Jesus Christ is calling to his church? You can connect with them because you too mourn. You know the people he's bringing into his church are mourning. By definition, they are mourning and they're raw They're freshly mourning. They haven't processed it. They haven't sorted it all out. They don't have different taxonomical categories for all this stuff. They don't know who Thomas Watson is. They're just mourning because God has revealed to them what they have been doing with their lives in relationship to Him. And you, if you're a mourner, you could understand where they're coming from. And you could mourn with them. But it will be different than just having two mourners because you're also one who has been comforted in your mourning. You're a blessed one. And you, from your comfort, could give them comfort. You know, I have a dear friend in this congregation that at least a couple times a year reminds me of 2 Corinthians 1, verse 3. And in this context, perhaps it will be even more meaningful to you. In 2 Corinthians 1:3, it says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort. who comforts us in our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort those who are in any trouble with the comfort we ourselves are comforted by God. Do you see how that's going to work? Do you see at the very beginning how you're going to make disciples is that you're going to mourn with those who mourn, and you're going to comfort those who are mourning. You are going to be the body of Jesus Christ, and you will be the way that Jesus fulfills the beatitude and bringing comfort to those who mourn. And it's going to be not just in general cosmic terms like I like to talk about. It'll be in all the specifics you engineers like. It'll be in all of the specifics. I wonder if there are some here who have had an abortion I wonder if Jesus Christ convicted you of that and you mourned over your decision. And then I wonder if Christ comforted you and has restored the years that the locusts have eaten And I wonder if Jesus will ever call another woman again who has had an abortion. And I wonder if when they show up in their mourning over all the decisions that they made If Christ will take you to them because you know what it's like to mourn in that way, and you know what it looks like to be comforted in that situation. Do you know what is happening right there? Discipleship has officially begun. Or what about divorce? Or what about homosexuality? Or what about abuse? Or what about addiction? Or what about greed? I mean, what will people mourn over as Jesus gives them the gift of mourning and they start to enter into the congregation? What will the list look like? And aren't the s aren't you the people that have struggled with the same stuff? And yet you have been comforted. And therefore, as it says in 2 Corinthians 1. 3, with the comfort which God Himself has given to you in those specific situations, You can, in the act of the discipleship of all of the nations, give them comfort that they might know that Jesus Christ is with them to the end of the age. That's how this works. And you know who's at the center of the whole thing? Jesus. You want to know why you're blessed? You want to know why other people who will be brought into the church are blessed? Because Jesus. That's it. Jesus. As God gathers people into his congregation, you must be Christ's comfort, helping them through the pain of living without Christ. Getting over having been aliens for so long and without hope. They need you to help them. What have they done and what has been done to them? And how will Christ use you to bring them real godly mourning and comfort? Well this is the picture that we have of from Matthew. It is the picture where we know who Jesus is. He's the one that delivers from exile. And therefore we know who it is who's speaking words like, blessed are you who are poor in spirit, and blessed are you who mourn. Jesus is the promised Messiah bringing us back from exile. He brings blessing to those who mourn. He through his spirit and his word and his people bring comfort. Let us pray.