I'll begin in verse one. Our focus today will be verse number nine. And seeing the multitudes, he went up on a mountain, and when he was seated, his disciples came to him. Then he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I pray that you're in accordance with your own statements And that is that your word would not go forth and return to you void. I pray that instead, in your preached word, you would accomplish all your holy will. I pray that you would work in your congregation and even drawing more into your congregation. I pray, Lord, that you would give them the wisdom, especially today, of peacemaking Ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Last week we took a look at what it meant to be pure in heart. And we looked a little bit also of the association between seeing God and dwelling with him. The pure in heart are those who, by God's grace, give their allegiance to God in a single-minded devotion. This week we're looking at blessed are the peacemakers. So we're now on to our next Beatitude. And I just start by asking you the question, who are the peacemakers? If you were to survey the landscape of your life, do you see any? Can you do you have anybody in your mind that is helpful in that way? And that if if you had to, let's say we were playing a game. And I handed out to you note cards and I said, I want everybody here to list three peacemakers. Whose name would make it on the on the note card? I wonder if it would be someone who has counseled you for things that were going on inside of you that were very difficult. You you felt all tied up in knots. And then God had sent somebody to you, maybe just one time or maybe over time, and through that conversation, God untied the knots And you and it brought you peace, and so you put them on the list because they are a kind of peacemaker. I wonder if it's not just a personal counselor that you would have put on your note card. I wonder if it would have been Someone in your family. I wonder if you think of your wife or your mom as a peacemaker. You ever hear your mom or you hear your wife say You see your relationship with your son isn't great, right? You're gonna do something about it, right? Is that an act of peacemaking in your mind? Is she a peacemaker? Or perhaps you know people who have helped entire churches? Maybe you have stories where there are folks who go in, uh, even working with officers of the church. I have experiences myself of showing up at churches where the officers are about to devour each other like wild dogs. And as a peacemaker, I'm called in to try to find peace there. Do you have experiences like that, if not at the church, maybe at your work? Do you think of somebody who's a peacemaker? You know, the nice thing about this beatitude is that we don't have to do a lot of work in just figuring out what the words mean Because we do have these different experiences of seeing someone in our lives, whether it's personal, whether it's familial. Or whether it's congregation wide or within our larger realms of life, like at work, we have examples where we would put somebody's name on the card, and so we have some sense of what it looks like for a person to be a peacemaker. But at the same time I wonder if there's a little supplementation that needs to be done to our understanding of what it means to be a peacemaker. For example Were you surprised when I asked you, has someone ever been a peacemaker to you in coming to you as a counselor? Have you ever thought about a peacemaker doing personal work like that? Or do you usually just think about them helping an entire community or maybe a nation come together? If you've never thought about the personal aspect of peacemaking, perhaps your understanding of what Jesus is saying here about peacemakers is too narrow. I think that's something that we can fall into. So for just a moment, I want to broaden our perspective to be able to see a larger view from the scriptures. of what may be included when we talk about peacemakers. And the way that we can easily do that is we can begin to see that it's really appropriate for us to talk about peacemakers in every domain. Whether it has to do with ourselves, our families, our churches, our governments, even peacemaking among nations even peacemaking in the in the animal world. Now where is it that you could get an idea of peace that has such a broad scope? And the answer is by taking a look at the word that is used for peace in the New Testament, seeing what the equivalent word is. And the Greek translation of the Old Testament and finding that it's often being translated by the word shalom. And this understanding of peace and making that kind of peace extends really to every domain. I can give you just a few examples here from and you could write these down and take a look at these a little bit later. It could be fun for you for Lord's Day Lawful Activities. For example, in Genesis 28-21, we see peace being used in a pretty typical sense where you are brought to safety, you're being freed from danger, you are now at peace. But it is also used in a broader sense, for example, of our health. And actually it gets really broad in that peace is really bringing wholeness. to a particular person or situation. You can see this, for example, in Psalm 38. 4 with reference to disease and the person's well-being. And I don't want to just keep listing scripture verses here, but I will seek to kind of summarize this whole view in the apex of reminding you that in Isaiah chapter 11 Our Jesus is called the Prince of Peace. And after he is called the Prince of Peace, there is a description of what he will accomplish. as that Prince of Peace that really begins to show you that we're talking about the restoration of anything that needs restoring. It says in Isaiah 9, I'm sorry, Isaiah 9, I think I might have said 11 a moment ago, but Isaiah 9, 6 through 7, for unto us the child is born, unto us the son is given, and the government will be upon his shoulders. And his name will be called wonderful, counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace, there will be no end. Upon the throne of David and over his kingdom, to order it and establish it with judgment and justice from that time forward even forever, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. Now that's a summary statement receiving in many ways a vision from God as to what his Messiah will accomplish. If you were to work out all of the particulars of what it looks like for the Prince of Peace to put his touch on things, what are the things that you could enumerate? Couldn't you enumerate even your own psychological well being? Could you not Enumerate what has happened in your own family under the government of Jesus Christ and how He has brought peace. Could you look at congregations of people that really should have nothing to do with each other based on their personality types and interests, and yet there is a level of peace? Could you see that as the work of this Prince of Peace? And why is the church not completely enfolding on itself and everyone has killed everybody else? Does that have something to do with the restraining arm of our Prince of Peace among all nations? You see here a vision where peace and peacemaking, which originates in our Lord, and we have that ability only if he shares it By the presence of his Spirit, we see that He leaves no stone or area of life unturned. He intends to bring shalom and wholeness to all things in the restoration of his creation. Now, if you're following me, if you see what I'm doing here where I'm saying, okay, what does it mean to be a peacemaker? We have a general sense of what that means But it's too narrow. Let's broaden it, and we can do that by understanding both testaments to our faith, and that shalom is a part of this. What we're doing now, as I hope that you can begin to see, we're really close to just expressing that peacemaking is associated or related to acts of dominion that have been given to us by God Himself. You know, for example, based on what I'm saying about Shalom, listen to Genesis 1:26 through 28 again. Then God said, Let us make man in our image according to our likeness. Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, over all of the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. And so God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him, male and female, he created them. Then God blessed them and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it, have dominion over the fish of the sea, the birds of the air, every living thing that moves on the earth. And all we have to do is ask. Upon what ground, or what does it look like for us to exercise dominion? And would the word shalom capture a good picture of what's going on in Genesis 1? That you as a peacemaker, made in the image of God and given dominion of creation, you act as a peacemaker in all domain as an act of the very commission you have been given in having dominion over the earth. Now we had just talked about this in terms of Christ Jesus has been given this, and we under him exercise that also in his image. We could see Psalm 8, for example. Do you see the scope? Do you see the width and the breadth and the height? of what it would mean for us to be peacemakers if we understand peace not only by the the little moments of peace that we see in relationships or feelings of peace that we have had in our lives. But if you connect it and associate with associate it with shalom And the commission that God has given to us under Christ of bringing all things to his glory. Do you see the scope and extent of that? Now if you do, I want to ask another question because that's all this first part was just supposed to do is to understand, well what does it mean to be a peacemaker? And I'm showing you, wow, this is really big and this is really exciting It means to exercise dominion under Christ. Now, the next question I want to ask though is What does that have to do with the second part of the Beatitude? We've looked at what is a peacemaker, but in the second part of the Beatitude it says that they are blessed are the peacemakers. Well why? Because they shall be called the sons of God. Now why would they be called the sons of God? Notice that it doesn't say they will become the sons of God. It says they will be called the sons of God. God will call them you're my children. You are my sons, you are my daughters. Now, why would he call them that? Those who exercise themselves that way under Christ. Why would they call them that? Well, for two reasons. And it goes back to that Genesis chapter 1 section, where you'll notice again in Genesis chapter 1, verse 26, it says, Let us make man in our image. So there is a principle here, and one of the reasons why he will call us as peacemakers his sons and his daughters is because like father, like son, like father, like daughter. This is what he's like And we, being in his image, are representatives or vice-regents on earth, doing what he would do, and doing all things for his glory and for his will. For example, it's not hard to see that God Himself is called a peacemaker. We already saw in Isaiah 9 that the Messiah is the Prince of Peace. You could look in Hebrews 13, where the benediction in verse number 20, Hebrews 13, 20 begins with, Now may the God of peace. Do you see that to be to exercise peace, that's what God does. He brings peace. And if we're made in his image, then we bring peace, and therefore may be called his sons and his daughters. Now there's a second reason why Jesus puts it this way, though. It's not just the principle like father, like son. It's not just an enunciation of him restoring us in his image. It is also subversive. You'll remember that I keep taking the Beatitudes and comparing them, the blessings compared to the cursings, in Matthew chapter 23. And in Matthew chapter 23, Jesus will rebuke the Pharisees and the scribes. If you were to match up this blessing with those curses, Jesus will rebuke the Pharisees and the scribes again for their hypocrisy. And he will say that they are lawless. Lawless means that instead of bringing order to his people under God. They bring disorder and confusion. They are the blind leading the blind into a ditch. But here's the interesting thing, and this is why I say it's subversive. And yet, do you know who would walk the streets calling themselves the sons of God during that day? And the sons of Abraham. We're the real children of Abraham. We're the real children of God. We're the scribes and we're the Pharisees. And yet Jesus is confronting them at every moment in this Sermon on the Mount, by the way. He is subverting and he's saying, look, if you look like whitewash tombs and hypocrites, and all you do is actually bring lawlessness, which is disorder and confusion, You are not a son of our Father who is in heaven. You're a son of the devil. But I tell you the truth: that those of you who are like your Father who are in heaven, who are actual peacemakers Blessed are you, because God Himself calls you his children. So he's getting things straight in society. He's turning things upside down again. Just as he has been done with the rest of these blessed are the poor in spirit or those who mourn, etc. , there is a subversive element to this. And that should really help us to be able to have More content and understanding when we're able to just reiterate and look down at the verse again. And we can have some understanding when we say, blessed are the peacemakers. For they are the ones that shall be called the sons of God. You know how relieving and refreshing that would be to all those who saw the hypocrisy and who were actually peacemakers? Finally, because Jesus has come, all of this hard work that I have done in my family and in my nation, even though I never looked like the scribes and the Pharisees, I'm finally being vindicated. I'll be called what I am. By God's grace I am his son and I am his daughter. Even though I didn't put on the show that the scribes and Pharisees did. Oh, what a vindication for this group of people. And what a lesson for us to be able to see that blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the sons of God. The reason why we're looking at these Beatitudes, there are many books that are written about these, and you can approach it from all different kinds of levels, but we're looking at this as Jesus helping us to understand what it means to be his disciple. And what it means then for us to disciple others. And so that's where I want to go now, having looked a little bit at what peacemakers are and why they would be called sons of God, being made in his image, and also the subversive element. Let's now take a look at how this helps us to be Christ's disciple. The first thing I want to do is throw a little bit of a wrench into all of this. That'll be fun, right? In the very beginning, we started to get our heads around what it means to be a peacemaker, and I I think we got the scope of it. But I wonder sometimes if we still misidentify who a peacemaker really is. And that's vital because if you want to be a disciple of Christ and He's calling you by His Spirit to be a peacemaker like Him, then you better know what that includes. Now I want to read to you a scripture and I want you to tell me if if um if this is a peacemaker. Are you ready? 2 Corinthians 5, 20 through 21. Now then we are we are in um I'm sorry. That's the that's the wrong verse. But in Acts chapter 17 Verse number four. I'm not going to read the verse to you. I'll just actually I will. I have a Bible. Acts chapter 17, verse 4. If you want to flip there with me, you can I just want to ask you, do you think that this is a peacemaker? Why am I getting everything wrong today? I'm forgetting the verse I actually had for you. Can I just give you a paraphrase? Thank you. Okay. There was a time when the Apostle Paul had gone into a city and he had stirred everything up. And he and his friends were dragged before a court And if anybody wants to shout out the scripture reference for me, I thought I had it. I thought it was Acts 17, 4. They're dragged before a court, and those who drag Paul and his co-workers before them, they say this. They say Paul and these others have come here turning the whole world upside down, saying that this Jesus is King. So I just want to ask you, are they peacemakers? Are Paul is Paul there a peacemaker? It's a good example for us to be able to consider because it doesn't fit nicely into the concept of peace as we would see within our society. What we see here and what we end up learning is that as a disciple of Christ, in order for us to be real peacemakers is that we have to understand that peace is moving everything in accordance with God's will and his kingdom. Let me put it to you this way. Sometimes, if you look at older translations of this idea, they use the word concord, not the word peace. And what that means is that you would be the kind of person who is bringing things together into a kind of unity. Now, interestingly, if you read the commentaries on this, especially of those who were in, let's say, the 15th or the 16th century They would point out to you that there are two different ways that you could bring things together in a unity. You could bring things together in a unity for good. Or you could bring things together in a unity for evil. You could have concord in both. But what we end up seeing here, especially in the paraphrase that I just gave you from Paul being in that city. Acts 17-6. I missed it by two verses. Acts 17-6, which you can look up. Thank you, Tate. I really appreciate that. In Acts chapter 17, 6, what we see is that for those who are trying to order things according to evil Those who are doing good will not be peacemakers. Do you see what I'm saying? That's really important for us also to get our heads around that if we are going to be disciples of Christ, That is what defines the kind of concord or peace that we make We are bringing all things into peace or shalom relative to the order which God through Christ Himself establishes, not in accordance with whatever anybody says is peace. out there in the world. Peace, therefore, and the peacemaking that must be done in order for us to be His disciples has to be defined. Now, let me give you just a couple steps on the right kind of peace. There's a wrong kind of peace and there's a right kind of peace. That's my main point to you on that first one. What's the first right kind of peace? What would you say? Peace with God. And we can see that in Second Corinthians five, twenty through twenty-one, that if you're a disciple of Christ Then you are at peace with God. And you're at peace with God according to the scriptures Not according to your imaginations. There are so many people that I keep meeting that say that they're at peace with God, but it's not according to the scriptures. So they have fooled themselves into thinking that they're reconciled to him, but they're still his enemy. And we are called here, and Paul says, now then we are ambassadors for Christ as though God were pleading through us. We implore you on Christ's behalf, be reconciled to God. For he made him who knew no sin be sin for us, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. And one picture that you could have here in the being and becoming a disciple of Jesus is Psalm 2. If you look at Psalm 2 right in the beginning, you'll see that the nations are raging. And you could see that not just as nations, but as individuals raging against God. But there is the drawing and the gracious work of Christ through his Spirit, where you, being called as His disciple, there comes a moment in time. Where with a holy persuasion, especially through preachers and his people showing you his word, where you realize that God has always been right. And before you were holding up your weapons towards him, you lay your weapons down. And you seek reconciliation with your Heavenly Father, which may be provided. by the righteousness that he has given in Christ. That's the very first, that's the the top of the list. act of peacemaking that has happened with you is that the Prince of Peace has made peace with you and God. He has given you peace with your Heavenly Father By the work of his spirit, by the work of his cross, by the work of his resurrection, and you have put down your weapons. I wonder, you can't answer me right now, that would be inappropriate. But what was your fight with God? Why were you so resistant to him? What was if you if you could label your resistance on the sword that you were raising against him, what would be there? And then when did you lay down your weapons and make peace with him? What did he do? How did he persuade you? You know this is just, you know my grace is irresistible. Let's just put down the weapons. When did that happen? When did you hear your sword hit the sand? I just wonder. That's important for you to keep in mind as we keep going in this sermon here. Now the second thing, besides our peace with God, is that then because we have peace with God and we have already done the work of seeing that peace in its scope is all of shalom. We now need to take our peace that we have with God, and we need to work out that all things would be brought into shalom for his glory. That means that the peace that we have with him, we now seek to bring a kind of peace to all of his creation under the leadership of Jesus Christ. You bring all things into concord, into his will, and into his way. And this is really important. I want you to picture with me either a pyramid, depending on your Or if you want, you can picture a Christmas tree. But I want you to picture the pyramid or the Christmas tree as containing all of the different things of your life. So let's just do a Christmas tree. Let's say that you make an ornament for all of the different things in your life. So on the tree is going to be a picture of your wife or your husband or who whoever, your different members of your family, however that works out for you They're all going to be on there and your job is going to be on there and your and you are going to be on there with your help and all of your possessions are going to be on there And I just, and let's let's say you see the Christmas tree goes up to this. Let's just say that this represents that all of these things that are on this tree are ordered to whatever star we put on the top. And I just want to to ask you even right now, what is the star on the top? One of the things that we can run into in seeking to be peacemakers in this sense of shalom is that we need to reorder the tree. That the one always to which all things are to be ordered for their glory is God in Christ Jesus. But if you look closely enough, you'll find that you like to put yourself up there on the top of that tree. Or your current girlfriend or your current boyfriend Or you like to have a nice bottle of booze at the top, or whatever it is. you will begin to see that all of your life is oriented towards that star. And being a disciple of Jesus Christ And having reconciliation with God and then bringing shalom under Christ means that you're going to work on the order of that tree, that you're going to work, like we said last week. That we are going to have pure hearts. You see how the two connect now? That these things connect. Bringing shalom is an act of the pure in heart. And I'm giving you another picture. Last week we had the path and buckies. I won't say any more about that. And this week we have the Christmas tree. And I hope that's helpful to you. The last thing that I want to mention to you is that it's very important for you as a disciple of Jesus Christ with regard to being a peacemaker, is that you are to exercise yourself as a peacemaker in wisdom. It says this in James chapter 3, but the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable. So what we see here is we see James arranging terms. He's giving us the reality and he's saying, listen, peacemaking is one kind of wisdom. It's a kind of skill. And it's very important that we ha we understand it as wisdom because if we don't We will not exercise peace in the way that Jesus instructs us to exercise peace. You will need to take the situations in your life in such a way to where some people will not call you peacemakers. They'll actually throw it in your face, like they did to Paul in Acts chapter 17, verse 6. Saying that he is a troublemaker. Same thing that they did to Jesus, by the way. He is a troublemaker But because you're exercising peace and wisdom, you'll know I'm not a troublemaker. I'm just establishing peace in accordance with Christ and not accordance with the devil I'm not in concord with him. I'm in concord with my Christ. And that really ends up making a difference, for example, that after private means and much prayer and consultation from the body. You know, sometimes we have to take people to court with lawsuits. Sometimes. That would be an exercise of wisdom. Is that sometimes God has given us The courts as a means by which His His kingdom may come and His will may be done on earth as it is in heaven. It is a lawful means or a lawful endeavor in which we could engage that according to Romans 13, that they would wield that arm of authority to make sure justice is in the land and that I'm not being snuffed out or duped again in this business transaction, losing everything for my family because I can't defend myself. Well, you can defend yourself, and God has even given you the sword of the state. That would be an example. Sometimes we think that's off the table if we're going to adopt being peacemakers. And it's not off the table. It shouldn't be the first thing on the table, but it's not off the table. Another example would be lawful war. Now this is a difficult subject, but it is within our rights, according to Scripture, to exercise a lawful war. Is it the first thing that's on the table? Here's the reality is that we live within a world where there are people that want to do things and don't want to stop And you could sit down with them and you could have a drink and you could say, could you please stop? And they say no. And then you move it into negotiation. And you have a negotiation, and you spend a lot of money for negotiations, and at the end of the negotiation you find that we're manipulating you the whole time. And already making advances. There are people that are so evil And so consumed with greed that sometimes the only way that we may make peace is through force, lawful, defensive force. Now if you didn't have peacemaking under the term wisdom, you would be you would not see that. This is so important for us It's so important for us to recognize the wisdom of Romans 13, and the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly. Is that surprising to you that the God of peace is crushing? I'm telling you, if you read Revelation, he's not crushing them with his kindness Because there comes a time and there comes a place where we defend ourselves with lawful force as an act of establishing and maintaining peace. If someone were to invade your home, how would you re-establish peace? It's a very important principle. And that is within Christ's understanding of peacemaking. You know, I read uh R. C. Sproul on this passage and He had said some really interesting things. He said that as a church, what we have to do is we really have to make sure that we see peace as wisdom, because otherwise if we don't, we will say peace, peace, when there is no actual peace And he went on to relay his a couple examples from churches that he had been in on where peace had come at the cost of justice, he said. And it had brought the church to ruin. And it has done so more times than can be counted in the history of the church. But he finished up his paragraph by saying, at the same time, we're not to be contentious. Our task is to be agents of reconciliation and to bring peace to bear as representatives of the Prince of Peace, even though doing so can be complicated and difficult. God grant that we may be known as merciful people, that we may seek purity of heart, and that we may be agents of peace. Now, if we are to be agents of peace, we're going to need to imagine the best of each other. I say that with real technicality. Your imagination can run wild about people. I would encourage you to start paying attention. When somebody does something how or you when you start to think about other people, you're imagining them. What do you imagine them doing? Is it always that they're in the wrong and they're the worst they could possibly be. We need to sanctify our imaginations under the grace of the Holy Spirit to remain in concord for Christ. Long suffering We need to be patient with each other. We need them to have time with Christ to be able to work it out And sometimes we even need to give up our personal rights and our personal goals for the sake of peace. Are you a peacemaker? Well, I know that your answer is the same as mine. Well, insofar as Christ made me a peacemaker, he's done a little bit of work. Is Christ making you a peacemaker every day? Yeah, he is This is what's ahead of you. This is who you are. It's not just who you are, it's who he's making other people. And so it's an easy transition for us to be able to see how we are discipled to Christ and then how we would disciple others. It's the same principle that I've given you every single time. You cannot give what you do not have So as you come under the discipleship of Jesus Christ, you take what he teaches you about what it means to be a peacemaker, and as you enter into the lives of those whom he's calling to himself, you show them what he showed you. It's the same principle that we have used in my family, for example, relative to carpentry. I've done an an ancestry research thingy I went as far back as I could before there was a paywall. And in southern deep in southern Maryland, there's a crutchly back in the day Who was a carpenter. And you know my grandfather was a carpenter. And you know my dad was a carpenter. And you know I first started in carpentry. And it's that same model that we see here with the peacemaking is that what was passed on from great grandfather to grandfather to father to my father, and then you can see the same skills starting to show off in Jack now. Skills that have to do with running baseboard or crown molding or banisters or stairs or whatever it is. That these things are passed down as a skill of wisdom. And in the same way that a grandfather or a father would pass down these carpentry skills, so too are you to pass down on the spot. in a live apprenticeship, the skills of what it looks like to be a son and daughter of God called a peacemaker. Whatever little ways that you're able to offer to those who are around you. Guess what the first one is that you should work with them on Peace with God. Oh my friend, could you please put down your sword? That's your first plea. Could we put down the weapons and be reconciled to God? Could we reason together that though you're filled with sin, you could be washed? And then you get to move out from there as Christ draws them to Himself, you're going to see a life that has a Christmas tree where everything is in the wrong spot and something on the is on the top that shouldn't be, and you're going to help them to reorder that tree just like Christ has been helping you. And you're also going to see fragmentation. You're going to walk into people's lives and the Christmas tree is going to be on in pieces on the floor. And you're going to have to help them to take what has fragmented and put it back together in a way according to Shalom. You'll need to put back there together them in the in their interior, the way they think about themselves. You're going to notice on some disciples of the arms of some disciples of Jesus Christ that there's cut marks It tells you something really unhealthy is happening. And Christ has brought you to them to work with them where they could gain some peace. From the Prince of Peace. You're gonna see families that have been fighting since eighteen eighty-four, especially Irish families. And you're gonna be able to walk in and help them to help them to see what real relationships look like. And it will require a great deal of sacrifice. There'll be your apprentice, really as Christ's apprentice, with you sent as the messenger. That is a lot of work, isn't it? Let's just go ahead and admit it. But I think what it will do is it will give you a chance to discover our main truth today. Because it says here that you're blessed. And all that work of discipleship, consider discipleship as an act of peacemaking. It says that you are blessed. And that one day you will hear our God say, Well done, my good and faithful servants. You are my son. You are my daughter. You see how blessed that is? Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the sons of God. Amen. Let us pray.