Matthew chapter five. And seeing the multitudes he went up on a mountain. And when he was seated, his disciples came to him, then he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, these are the precious words that were taught by your Son. And you instruct us on the Mount of Transfiguration to hear him. I pray, Lord, that your command would come true here this morning for your congregation, that they would hear Him through this preached word, that they their minds would be convinced, that their hearts would be moved, and that they would Even their wills would be overcome. They would be wooed to you. I ask these things in your name on them. You may be seated. We are learning what it means to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. In order to be able to disciple the nations. And we'll be doing so for some time. Up to this time, we have looked at two beatitudes. And we have understood those two beatitudes by way of two stories primarily. The first beatitude is, Blessed are those who are poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And to get our minds around what the foreign spirit looks like, Luke 18, 10 through 13 was given to you as an example. And it's a beginning. This is something you'll need to keep thinking about. Two men, Jesus said, went up to the temple to pray. One was a Pharisee, the other was a tax collector. The Pharisee stood and prayed in this way to himself. God, I thank you that I'm not like these other people. greedy, unjust, immoral, or even like this tax collector. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I get. But the tax collector stood a long way off, and he didn't even want to raise his eyes to heaven. He beat his breast and said, God, be merciful to me, sinner that I am. And Jesus goes on to say, I tell you the truth, it was this tax collector that was justified. There is the poor in spirit. And there was another story for our second beatitude, which was that blessed are those who mourn. for they shall be comforted. And this was the larger story really of all of the scriptures recapitulated or reconsidered. and it goes by the name of exile. It is the story of exile. It is those who mourn for human sin and its consequences that has led to humanity feeling a great sense of cosmic loneliness and homelessness. Because they are no longer with the one that they've been made to be with. But blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. The reconciliation with God, reunion with Him. You can think, if you want another story for this one, the Prodigal Son And how the Father rejoices at our return. Another thing that we have done so far is we've asked the question, I don't know that we've done this explicitly, but I think it's important to do so now. What do we mean when we say we're blessed? You could take that a couple different ways here, and I think a couple different ways are meant, but there is a primary way If you're poor in spirit, is that why you're blessed? Just because of the way you are? Are you blessed because you're good at mourning? That's not the primary emphasis here. We have to remember that the reason that the blessing is taking place is because of the one who's speaking. It's because Jesus has come. God is with you, Emmanuel. And his intent is to bless. That's why you'll be blessed. He blesses those who are his, essentially, would be another way of saying these same things. Those who are his, but who have been afflicted by the wicked. And that really brings us into this morning. That brings us to the third beatitude, which is blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. That's what we're going to consider this morning. I want to begin just with a biblical picture, and we've already given you a hint, which we always do. When you look in your bulletin, you can see how we're going to how we believe that this scripture is meant to be understood. In the first two Beatitudes, in order to understand them, we turn to different sections of Isaiah. And now with this, you can see from the bulletin that I'm turning your attention to Psalm 37 because it's a direct quote of what we see Jesus saying here: Blessed are those who are me. For they shall in fact inherit the earth. And Joe had read that to you in your bulletin. You're welcome to follow along again. But just take a look very quickly again. At this passage that is going to help us to understand what is Jesus getting at with this kind of proverbial saying. For evildoers shall be cut off. 37, verse 9. Of Psalm 37. I'm sorry, Psalm 37, verse 9. And this is in your bulletin. For evildoers shall be cut off, but those who wait on the Lord, they shall inherit the earth. For yet a little while and the wicked shall be no more. Indeed, you will look carefully for his place, but it shall be no more. But the meek shall inherit the earth and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace. Do you see the story that's going on here that the psalmist is saying? I'd encourage you to read through that whole psalm today, and perhaps you could make it your psalm for the week or even the month. If you'd like, I have a songbook that has a tune already to it, if you'd like to start singing the psalm. But the story here is that you see there's two different groups of people or two different communities. The same thing that we would see within Psalm 1, for example. You see that there are those who have given their allegiance by his grace to God And there are those who have not. They have given their allegiance to something else. There are the loyal and there are the wicked. And the picture that is painted here, this could be happening within the congregation itself. This doesn't have to be one foreign nation against Israel. This could be happening within Israel itself. And that would actually be the closest picture that you could get for what Jesus is dealing with. Something to point out to you that you could check out later is that these beatitudes, arguably eight, are matched in chapter 23 to arguably eight woes. So you have blessings and you have cursings in Matthew from the beginning and to the end. And those cursings are not given to Philistines that have snuck into Jerusalem. They're not even primarily directed at the Roman Empire. They're directed at scribes and Pharisees. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees So it could be the loyal and the wicked in multiple ways here, but we see in Psalm 37 that whoever the wicked are, they cheat. They lie, they steal, and that's how they win. They don't play by the rules. And because they don't play by the rules, the wicked have gained control. And the loyal to God look out and they see that the moral order that God has commanded That he has sought with intention to sustain. They look out of the moral order and they see it just crumbling And it doesn't seem like anybody's going to pick up the pieces. The walls will just fall, and the barbarians by hordes will usher in. And now there's a new land. They have inherited the earth. They own it for their own corrupt purposes. This is the story. This is what the Psalmist is struggling with, and what his congregation is struggling with. And so he calls to them, he says, Don't fret. And I think actually what's even perhaps more powerful just because I personally would struggle with it, don't envy. Don't envy them. Don't fret and don't envy. You are right. The observation is correct. They are prospering. They are flourishing. But there's a different story going on here. In fact, to get the story across, there's a picture in here that's recounted in multiple places in Scripture, especially in the book of James, and it's a field of flowers. But it's also picked up in the books, in the epistles of Peter. The field of flowers, imagine if you will, you could look out and you could see that during a certain time of year, it hasn't been a harsh July or August. It's uh in the early season. It's been just warm enough for everything to germinate perfectly and to grow beautifully, and there's rain every day, just enough of it. And you look out on a field, and because of the climate and the way that it has been, you look out on that field, and all these wildflowers have grown up. And they're flourishing. It's beautiful. You could say there is a kingdom of them. But you know this happens every year. And if you were to go away on vacation and you were to come back two weeks later, you would look out in the same field and you would find that all of the flowers are gone. And the psalmist says that's what it's going to be like for the wicked. You will look out on a field of them in their kingdom, and they'll be dressed as fine as flowers in the field. But just as quickly as they came up, so too will they be devoured by the burning sun of God's judgment. You can see him interrupting throughout all of history where that is the case. I wonder if you have some Jesus intends for you to connect to this experientially. I wonder if you have some experiences seeing dandelions take over the lawn and then you turn your back and you turn back again and all the dandelions are gone So too the wicked. I wonder if you've planted wildflowers and the package promised that you would have the A picture of serenity around your home with wildflowers, only to find out within two years no flowers would even come up any longer. Those are the things that he would he's just pointing out to you how quickly it turns. That though they flourish today, they will not flourish tomorrow. So don't fret, don't envy. In fact, they won't inherit the earth, you see? It's those who remained loyal to God by his grace that shall inherit the earth. So that ends up giving us a real picture then of what we're dealing with, a story for us to be able to understand this This beatitude of blessed are those who are meek. Who are the meek? The meek are those oftentimes afflicted and oppressed. But it's not just the oppressed, and it's not just the afflicted. That's a quality that is often a part of it. But you could ask to get at the heart of meekness: why are they afflicted or oppressed? And it's because they're unwilling to turn to the ways of the wicked in order to gain prosperity. They remain loyal to God's will, and in remaining loyal to God's will and unwilling to cheat. The wicked are able to gain an upper hand. And they find themselves where they are. And where they are as they become, because their tools have run out, because they're only willing to use righteous tools. They must wait on God. And so blessed are the meek, because they do wait on God. And guess what? In our Beatitude, God has shown up. And his name is Jesus. That's our point, just like the other ones. The meek are those who give their allegiance to God and his will, but are temporarily oppressed by the wicked, largely because God's people will not play dirty like the wicked do. That's a full-bodied understanding of the meek. Now, what I'd like to do, it's only so helpful to have a definition like that. It's helpful for some of your minds and not helpful for others. So let's have a picture of meekness. A picture of meekness is Jesus Christ. Jesus is devoted to his Father. The wicked are the scribes and the Pharisees and Rome. And we know that as Jesus is moving towards the cross, he has these conversations among the scribes and the Pharisees. And Pontius Pilate, where he says things like, if I needed to, I could call upon a host of angels and overcome you in a second. But that would not be my father's will. And so he sustains it, and because he sustains his loyalty to the Father with the particular task that the Father has given to him for a moment. The flowers of the wicked prevail. And they prevail in a public manner to where he is crucified. And it looks like they won. It looks like they're the ones that are flourishing. Theirs is the kingdom. They shall inherit the earth. But all along in this narrative, the scribes and the Pharisees, that's not what's going to happen. If you read Psalm 37, you'll see that the very bows that they fling will turn, and the swords that they thrust will be thrust on them. We have different stories in the scriptures like this where Abimelech is turning against the anointed of the Lord who is David, and in the end, by a deep providence, finds himself hung in a tree by the branches. You can read James where you'll see the rich looking prosperous. It's really the impious rich because you can be a Christian and be rich and that's fine. That's Abraham, for example. But the impious rich, it speaks of how they have accumulated wealth through fraud. And they look at all of their gold And they see how successful they have been. But James reveals that when God sees their gold, every coin is another entry in the witness stand in their guilt and what they have done to the poor. Evidence one, clink. Evidence two, clink. And right at that point, James says, and therefore be patient as the prophets were patient. Be patient as Job was patient and wait upon the Lord. Because though they look like they're flourishing like flowers in the field, tomorrow it shall be dry, and the wicked will be gone. And the same thing happens with Jesus Christ on the cross. It is the ultimate picture of meek affliction for his loyalty. And it is the ultimate picture of prosperity for the wicked. But we don't see him fret. That's not the word that you would use for the Garden of Gethsemane. We don't see him envy, but he waits on his father to act, and his father does act. And Peter, this is the one of the first parts he gives in his sermon, he says in Acts two, twenty-three through twenty-four, Jesus being delivered by the determined purpose and foreknowledge of God You have taken by lawless hands, have crucified, and you've put him to death. But God has raised him up, having loosed the pains of death, because it was not possible that it should be held by it. And you can't be held by the wicked. Because your story is Christ's story. Now that is a picture of the meekness that Christ is speaking of here And blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. And we know just after that, Jesus is going to speak like this in a very similar way, saying, I've inherited the nations. I have inherited the earth. It's mine. You can take a look at that in at the end of Chronicles, where he's the fulfillment of Cyrus's decree. You can see this in Psalm 8. All of it was all planned, as Peter's sermon said. That though for a moment it looked like the wicked would prevail, it will be the meek who shall inherit the earth. following in the train of the meekest of them all, who is Jesus the Christ. Now, I have a concern I have a concern that although I have given you a picture of meekness, that you still fall into cultural traps as to what meekness really is. I fear that you think in the moment where you're not thinking, where you would just have to act, I fear that you think it's passivity. I fear that you may think it's being a doormat. But that's not what we see across the scriptures. And so I'd like to just address, besides that picture that I've just given you here, the a biblical understanding of meekness from Psalm 37 and then that picture of Jesus, I'd also like to address just for a moment a cultural misunderstanding. One danger here is to understand the word meek as mouthy. And I ask that you please not understand meek as passivity. Just remain silent Let people do to you what they want, and God will eventually show up. That's not an accurate way to tell the story. You could even hear in Joe's confession that he wasn't telling the story that way. He said that what he's going through is like a close friend he hasn't seen for a long time, and he showed up and out of the blue he punched him in the face. Punch Joe in the face. And then Joe said, one of the difficult parts is I can't just hit back. And what he didn't mean, he wasn't giving to you a robust declaration saying it's not right to give a lawful defense. He's saying it's so hard because he can't repay evil for evil. He can't pick up the same tools as the wicked, which is an act of meekness. Now let me get into it this way and tell you a story of my son Jack and how this has shown up as we've tried to enter into the community, particularly in Saverna Park. And Jack, this is not really embarrassing. So if you're here today. Where are you? I hope he's here. That'll be embarrassing. I rem he started playing lacrosse for the Saverna Park um high school and Uh they they they led him onto the field and he was very excited to to do that and he has become strong and fast. And everybody knows on the team that he is a Christian. Everybody. He leaves the team in prayer. And he ran out so excited to play He went to guard the guy with the ball and then lost control and took a stick and slashed the guy across the helmet Which means an instant penalty, which means he's running back off the field, and now he's in the penalty box. And the coach goes over to him because he knows he's a Christian and he says this, this is the cultural misunderstanding Ah, Jack. Jack, what are you doing? I didn't know Christians could be aggressive. And you could go ahead and you could fill that in and you could say, I thought you all were supposed to be meek. That is an ongoing way in which the story is told And it is a long-standing cultural misunderstanding. And I think part of the misunderstanding is some of the way that TV shows have portrayed who Jesus is. Did you know that you're not supposed to be getting your understanding of Jesus from television in terms of like a movie? That he gave you the scriptures on purpose So that you would understand his son by way of the word. And there are especially from some of the older shows, I think it may be in the 70s or something along those lines. If you were to learn what meekness is by looking at Jesus from those pictures, you would not get the correct story. You'd get the story that the coach had in his head when he said, Jack, Christians are allowed to be aggressive? Or I didn't think Christians were to be aggressive. And this has trickled over to where We as Christians think that there is a contradiction between being meek and defending ourselves lawfully. So I'm making a little pit stop here to make sure we don't have that understanding. There was a while back when Ellie was a young girl, and I've told you this story before, but she was playing with a ball in the backyard, and the ball banged up against the back fence. And she went to get it. And underneath of the fen the fence, the posts had begun to rot out beneath the ground, so I couldn't see them. And in that rot, a yellow jacket hive had formed. And when she went to go pick up the ball, they poured out on her. You know, I was really meek in the situation and I just let her get stung. Yeah. That's what I did. I just let her get stung. And she's here today, so she made it. That's actually not how the story went. I ran out immediately and put my body in place of hers so that they would sting me and I could take her in the house. So let me just ask you a question. There is no doubt in your minds right now that it was lawful for me to protect her from yellow jackets. But what happens when a human being becomes like a yellow jacket? They don't intend her any good, but they're just going to destroy. Am I supposed to sit back? Well, we have lawful choices. We have lots of lawful choices, and you can choose those lawful choices and not violate meekness. I'll give you another example of Jesus flipping over the tables. It shows you it's more complicated than a story of passivity. It is more complicated than a story of passivity. There is a place for lawful force. And you should be teaching your children that. Another example of Jack when he was playing Little League Baseball, there was a kid who decided he was going to bully Jack. And I it just happened over and over and over again and the kid was not going to stop. I I have I was a young man. I grew up, I knew what it was gonna look what what was gonna happen. This kid was testing to figure out if Jack could be his punching bag for the rest of the baseball season. And so I pulled Jack aside and I said, the next time he does that to you, I want you to run as fast as you can, tackle him, and do not let him up until he asks permission. And that is what he did. And guess what? Guess what that kid did? He never messed with Jack again, but played baseball with Jack. And Jack was able to have the freedom to then see that this kid needs a little bit of help as opposed to being afraid of him. Now did did I give fatherly advice that violates meekness? No. You know what would have been violating meekness if I told him to take the young man's face, open his mouth, put it on the edge of a curb, and stomp on the back of his head. That's not what Christians do in that situation. It would be a lack of what we call proportionality. That would be what the wicked would do, and the wicked do do it. When I lived in South Philadelphia, I had seen it But that's not who we are. It's not would not be a legitimate use of force. I mean you have to think about this when we're thinking about meekness, that there is this Cosmos in which we live, and we've got to be realistic to see what Jesus is talking about in order to get the complete picture here. Think about Romans 13, for example. This is a passage that Jonathan Edwards picked up in the preaching of his sermons during wartime. We think of Jonathan Edwards as a great Puritan revivalist. We think of him in gr uh uh uh Sinners in the hands of an angry God, and we don't realize that his congregation went through war and men in his congregation were drafted to war. Now what are you supposed to preach? Let's say that the war is just. What am I supposed to preach to those here who are at Fort Meade? Who are soldiers at the United States Naval Academy? Who you have in your house and you love seeing them in their uniform and giving them a good meal. Are you being fake to them? Do you really think they shouldn't be doing what they're doing? That they have no right for a lawful defense The whole thing is based in Jonathan Edwards' sermon or having people here at Fort Mead who are Christians or Christians at the Naval Academy. We can see in Romans 13, for example, for rulers are not a terror to good works, but to evil. Do you want to be unafraid of authority? Then do what's good. God has made ministers for your good, but if you do evil, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is God's minister, an avenger, to execute wrath on him who practices evil. So the question that we could sometimes ask is: well, what does it look like to bear the sword in everyday life? Are you telling me that police officers could never ever aspire to the Beatitudes because they have to use force? Could they never be meek in that position? We could section off whole communities of people from being able to be Christians if we take a certain stance on this. Police officers are a gift from God. The just ones are. The righteous ones are, and there is no violation of the meek there. And that's my point. The police officer does not violate meekness. Romans 13 points out that it is sometimes God's will to bear the sword, whether it's fighting yellow jackets. Fighting a human being that decides they want to act like a yellow jacket, or if you're a police officer, or if you're trying to restrain someone as a paramedic, these are acts of force. And you can still be meek Now that's the cultural misunderstanding that I wanted to address, and I'm done now. So I hope hopefully you can see where I'm coming from. So that you can have a fuller picture of meekness, so that you can live real human life. Now here's the real question as we come to this point. Because now we go back to Psalm 37. The real question is, what do you do when the wicked have all the swords? What do you do when the wicked have all the judges and all of the courts and all of the land? That's more of the picture of Psalm 37. is that the wicked are in full rule, and even if you were trying to lawfully defend yourself, you're going to end up in jail. That's a picture of what Saul, for example, did to the first century church. And Stephen, for example, what was he gonna do? He was martyred. That's the question. What are you going to do when the wicked own all the swords and have captured all the law courts? And that's where meekness starts to shine, because it primarily is in the context of a f of an affliction. We are committed to accomplishing God's will and God's way, which means we will not turn to the ways of the wicked, even if they control all things. We will wait upon our God. So do you know how you're going to conduct yourself? You know what it would look like for you to be meek if you find yourself truly afflicted and oppressed without the strength to do anything because they've got you bound? Well you know what you're not gonna do is you're not gonna dishonor your mother and your father in accomplishing it. That's what they do. You're not going to murder. That's what they do. You are not going to commit adultery. That's how they flourish. They steal other people's wives. They seduce. We're not going to steal. We're not going to turn to an illegitimate false witnessing. We're not going to live in a spirit of covetousness in order to flourish. You would turn to those things in an act of faithlessness and saying, once and for all, you know what, God's never going to show up. I've got to start using the tools of the wicked. But because God has captured your heart and you are meek, you won't turn to those tools. That is what the wicked do, and since they cheat, they get the upper hand sometimes, but they don't have the last word. And the game of life is not just played among human beings. There's another player. There's another player. God interrupts throughout history so that it is not the wicked, but it is the meek who are blessed, and they are the ones who shall inherit the earth. And it'll be obvious that it wasn't because of your strength or arm. It was because God showed up. Jesus showed up. Now, I'd like to give you another picture. I've given you a picture of meekness. I'd like to give you a, and then I gave you a picture of a cultural problem that we run into, and then I'd like to show you now a balance Having considered the cultural problem, what does meekness look like when you have all of these different things showing up at the same time? Where there is a kind of affliction that can be happening. And yet you still need to choose God's ways and loyalty to him. Let me give you a couple of different examples. This man, this first example has the total possibility of me getting stoned this morning But I think I have some people here that will protect me. So this first example is an example of a brother of mine in Christ. And uh it's a good example for us, and his name is Doug Wilson. Some of you don't appreciate him very much because you don't like his serrated tongue. And he wrote a book about that But in this case, my brother has said something that I thought was really good. It really caught me. Did you know that he was just on CNN? He's on CNN and they're covering the fact that he and others are really his church the his congregation where he serves is planting a church in Washington, D. C. And CNN therefore interviewed him. And here's a real a real quick clip. And this shows you a good picture, I think, of the way of the meek I know you can't believe that I'm going to show you the way of the meek by Doug Wilson, but I am. CNN. But you said earlier that you want this to be a Christian world? Wilson. Yes. CNN. So you want to supplant their religion with your Christian? Yes. And then this is the key. By peaceful means sharing the gospel. That was it. He wasn't burning anything. He wasn't smoking a cigar. That's it right there. And you know if things get tough in DC and I imagine they will, he's gonna have to stick to that. Peaceful means. He did the same thing when he was interviewed by Tucker Carlson. He had the opportunity to talk big. The only thing that he wanted to say was just give the gospel of Jesus Christ. His birth, death, resurrection, and ascension. That's all he did. Because that's the way of the meek. If you were to take the way of the wicked, it would turn into all other tools that you would use in order to take over places. But here, this is what Paul says. Our weapons are not the same weapons that the earth uses. Ours is the preaching of the gospel. Now let me give you an example that none of you will have a problem with. And this is from 2 Timothy 2, 23 through 26. And I'll read it to you. This is very, very helpful. And uh elders and deacons, this is especially helpful. We viewed this passage multiple times and uh we've got a real good handle on it at this point. So listen up 2 Timothy 2, 23 through 26, but a but avoid foolish and ignorant disputes, knowing that they generate strife. And a servant of the Lord must not quarrel, but be gentle to all, able to teach, patient, in humility, correcting those who are in opposition. If God perhaps will grant them repentance, so that they may know the truth, and that they may come to their senses and escape the snare of the devil, having been captive, been taken captive by him to do his will. My argument is that this section of the scripture is following the same outlines of Psalm 37. That's Paul's argument here. Now, how could that be? Well, let's just ask a couple different questions. Who are the wicked? Well, in this example, if you went back up to 17 and 18, it says And Hymenaeus and Philetus, their message is spreading like cancer. Do you see the field flourishing? The seed that they're casting, it's just popping up everywhere. It's taking over the church. They've strayed concerning the truth, saying that the resurrection is already passed, and they're overthrowing the faith of some. That's a really serious situation. And then Paul instructs them from Psalm 37 to be meek. That's actually the word here in the passage: humble, meek. But you're able to so he says you're not to be qu you're not to quarrel, you're to be gentle. You're to be patient. But then look, it's not a passivity. This is the this is the perfect response to the situation, and it's not disproportionate. in humility or meekness, correct those who are in opposition. Do you have the freedom to correct people? We don't just sit back, but you can see that they may have the upper hand so much, and they may have been so persuasive to people that when you do correct, no one listens to your voice It's like you're the person of God, but you're just screaming into the darkness of people's hearts. And that's why we move on to this next section, just like in Psalm 37, don't fret. Don't envy. Don't turn to ungodly ways of accomplishing God's will. It says here in verse 25, perhaps God will grant them repentance so that they would know the truth. And that they may come to their senses and escape the snare of the devil, having been taken captive by him to do his will. You see, God is the one. Jesus Christ is the one. And that therefore means that there is in this passage a call to meekness in how we would conduct ourselves in the church. And I know that that's extremely relevant to elders and to deacons since they deal with that all the time. The overarching message is that we are to wait for Jesus Christ to remedy, and we don't turn to the ways of the wicked to accomplish his will. Now there is a biblical case from Psalm thirty-seven as to what meekness is. We took a look and at his example of meekness in Jesus and the choices that he made and the affliction that he was under We had the opportunity to address a cultural misunderstanding of meekness, that we're just meant to be mousy, but that's not true. Then we were able to see a more contemporary example of where a church is going to have to act meekly. That's from Doug Wilson. Then we look at 2 Timothy of how that plays out in a real scenario where you have the freedom to correct, but you can't do the quarrel thing. That's what the wicked do. And you have to depend on God for these people to repent. That's a meek attitude in entering into raising up disciples within the church. Now, having said all of that, Let me just remind you that we're learning this not only to be disciples, but to disciple the nations. And so when Christ calls them into the congregation, I have news for you. They don't have their act together. And they're going to need to be taught about the life of meekness. And one of the reasons I gave you the The uh one of the reasons I gave you the distinctions that I gave you today is because some people are going to come into the to Christ's congregation by his will, and they're gonna be in dangerous scenarios, and if you tell them that they should just be a doormat, you're gonna You it will be evil for you to do that. They can't be passive in some situations that they're coming out of of abuse, for example. So when they come in here and you're teaching them about a life of meekness, here's a few points that I think we have to hit on, and I'm not going to develop these. Oh no You're going to have to point out to them an obvious observation. The wicked lie and they cheat and they steal. And they flourish because of it. But please don't draw the conclusion that God is with them. Now that's going to happen in their workplaces because they're going to turn from the ways that they used to the way they used to climb the corporate ladder was by stepping on other people's necks. And that's going to have to change now. And they had totally neglected their families for their careers, and that's going to have to change now, which means other people who are neglecting their families are going to get the upper hand and they're going to have to see That because even though the world works that way and they look like they're prosperous and this is the way that you're successful, just please know God's not really with them. That those are like flowers in a field. They're gonna need to know that that's how the universe works. It's gonna be confusing and it's gonna take a lot of time, and you're gonna see them probably put their hand through some drywall in the meantime. Another is this You can stand against evil in allegiance to Jesus Christ, but you may not use the tools of the wicked. Very important, because that's what they've been using so far, because it works. For now. So you'll have to help them to hold. You'll have to help them to develop in the Christian virtue of restraint. Restraint. They'll have to hold their tongue, for example, and get their emotions under control. And you could see how just going through these two acts, do you see how much discipleship needs to happen and how much a human being would need to be sanctified in order to start getting those things under control? And then I give you the third. If the wicked still keep the upper hand, you will need to walk with them as they threat and as they envy. You will need to show them with your own life and the life of the congregation what it looks like to trust in the Lord to remedy the situation. What does it actually look like to trust in the Lord? You'll need to show them what that story really looks like. Those are th three things that will hopefully the Lord will bring to your mind as He brings people into your life. Although it looks like the wicked shall own the whole earth in prosperity, brothers and sisters, I'm here to tell you this morning that's not true. I promise to you by the word of Jesus Christ that it is the meek who shall inherit the earth. They are the ones who are blessed. You, brothers and sisters, are the blessed ones. By the work of Jesus Christ and his spirit. You know how I know that all of this is sure It is because Jesus Christ has said it. Right here in your Beatitude. Jesus has come And there is no one in this world that can keep him from bringing blessing. Let us pray.