See the verses as Jesus is speaking to his disciples and speaking to us, commencing in chapter ten, verse sixteen, reading through verse forty-two. Behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves. Therefore, be wise as serpents and harmless as doves. But before beware of men, for they will deliver you up to counsels and scourge you in their synagogues. You will be brought before governors and kings for my sake, as a testimony to them and to the Gentiles. But when they deliver you up, do not worry about how or what you would speak, for it will be given to you in that hour what you should speak, for it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father who speaks in you. Now brother will deliver up brother to death, and father his child and children will rise up against parents and cause them to be put to death. And you will be hated by all for my name's sake But he endures to the end will be saved. When they persecute you in this city, flee to another, for assuredly I say to you, you will have not gone through the cities of Israel before the Son of Man comes A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his master. It is enough for a disciple that he be like his teacher and a servant like his master. If they have called the master of the house the elsewhere, how much more will they call those of his household? Therefore do not fear them, for there is nothing covered that will not be revealed, and hidden that will not be known. Whatever I tell you in the dark Speak in the light, and what you hear in the ear, preach on the housetops. And do not fear those who kill the body, but cannot fill the soul, kill the soul, but rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell Are not two sparrows sold for a copper coin. And not one of them falls to the ground apart from your father's will. But the very hairs on your head are all numbered. And do not fear, therefore, for you are of more value than many sparrows. Therefore, whoever confesses me before men, him I will also confess before my Father who is in heaven But whoever denies me before men, him I will deny, also deny before my Father who is in heaven. Do not think that I came to bring peace on earth I did not come to bring peace, but a sword. For I have come to set a man against his father, a daughter against his mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law, and a man's enemies will be those of his own household. He who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me. And he who loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. And he who does not take his cross and follow after me is not worthy of me He who finds his life will lose it. He who loses his life for my sake will find it. He who receives you receives me. And he who receives me receives him who sent me. He who receives a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward. And he who receives a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receive a righteous man's reward. And whoever gives one of these little ones only a cup of water in the name of a disciple, assuredly I say to you, he shall by no means lose his reward. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding of his word. Just a brief statement. Remember last week we looked at this chapter and we looked at it as a from a big picture type of thing We'll be spending uh several sermons on this particular chapter, taking it from the top view we developed last week, and then narrowing down as we speak of specific things that are in it. I will not be covering lots of questions that this chapter raises today, and I pray that the Lord will help us to do that in further sermons. But as we approach this particular uh time today, I want to ask you two questions. How many of you have heard of Louis Farrakhan and the Nation of Islam? Just about everybody. Well, how many of you have heard of the Flat Earth Society? Not as many, but still a few. It's a real society. I asked you two of uh you know about two groups of people there. What would you say is the major difference between them? You're allowed to chuckle because you just can't imagine how those two would fit into the same uh category of thought. The Flat Earth Society is an actual society. It has a website and everything. And if you want to join it, which I think people do just kind of out of a kick, You pay about twelve bucks and they'll send you a nice little certificate and a bunch of doodads that you can put around and have on your link And what do they do? They take any profits, nonprofit organization, but anything, any money, extra money comes in, they donate it to animals right animal right causes, you know, for uh helping animals that are uh being abused and stuff. Now the Nation of Islam and Louis Ferron, Louis Farrakhan, are very different in their goals. They promote a radical, disciplined, and very dangerous version of Islam. It is a personality cult. It is built around Lewis himself and his militant mission to exploit racial division within this country. He is anti-Semitic. He promotes a fierce, angry, reactionary agenda, and he is very good at it. The two groups are quite different in what they believe. But that's not the difference that I want to highlight. I don't want to highlight the difference in what they believe. What I want to highlight today is this. The difference between these two groups is that no one takes the Flat Earth Society very seriously. But anyone who knows anything about what's going on in this world takes the nation of Islam and what they're doing very seriously. That's what I want to highlight. People chuckle when they think about the flat earthers. No one chuckles about Louis Farrakhan. The flat earthers are a bunch of harmless kooks. Might even join them myself. No one gets excited about them, one way or the other. But you can't say that about the nation of Islam. People get excited or upset. There's no neutral ground. You can't know about that particular message that they preach and teach and either not either get angry or Scared or something, or else, it's the very thing you're looking for, and that is his great appeal. The nation of Islam is not about bringing peace on earth. It's about bringing a sword. And in this respect, in this respect, in only this respect. I will say that Jesus here tells his disciples that the Christian church is to be like the nation of Islam. We are to live and we are to testify in such a manner that people either get excited about what we're saying Or very upset. We are to confront the world with a choice in which there is no middle ground Look at how Jesus teaches in this passage. He teaches his disciples, what I'm sending you to do, the message I'm giving you to preach, is going to stir people up. You are going to preach a message that the world who hears you simply cannot ignore. I have not come to bring peace, he says in verse 34. I have come to bring a sword. There is no way when people hear you, they're going to say this is just a bunch of harmless kooks No, the message you bring will be one of radical revolution. People will hear it and they will recognize that this message, if it takes hold will undermine the social order and will topple things and things will change in unpredictable ways, and therefore there will be those who are threatened by that idea. He tells them you're to preach a new thing. You're to preach a new way of living. You're to preach a new way of thinking. You're to preach that people Do not have to accept the way things are in this world. You are to tell them that there is a new power that has been loosened in this world and there is a new king who is sitting on the throne. And that this world can change through him. And as a matter of fact, it must change through him. And people must change because of him. For you see, you're going to take You're going to go out there and you're going to confront the world and you're going to say you cannot serve God and mammon And so you must preach a message of choice. You must preach a message of decision. You must preach a message of conflict. There will be those who hear you who want to serve God. They will be glad to hear that the world can change. They'll be glad to hear that there's hope for those who are oppressed. They will be glad to hear all of those things that people take for granted in the world and say, that's just the way it is. That's how people are. You can't change people. Anyone ever heard that? That message of despair, there will be those who say, wait a minute, these people, these Christians, that's not what they're saying. They're saying that people can change. Things can change And things must change. And there will be people who get excited about that. There will be people who flock to hear that. There will be people who will find in that message the very thing they have been looking for all their lives. And then those people will get excited. Those people will start living in accordance with what you have said. And they will start listening to the stands that our word of that the Word of God tells them to take. And they will take these stands and they will be brought into confrontation with people who think differently with people who are radically at odds with them, because the people around them like they are around us are a people who do not desire for us to change. Brothers and sisters, the gospel of Jesus Christ is a threat to the existing world order. It is a threat to the existing world order. It is a threat in every age to the existing world order. No matter when or where it is preached, and it will be perceived as a threat to the existing world order when it is rightly preached and when its people live out consistently what it believes. I want us to realize that this is truly the case. It is true for the land of Israel when Jesus sent out his disciples, and it has been true ever since. It has been true in this country from its inception. And it is true now. The U. S. has been influenced by Christianity more than any other nation, to my knowledge, in history. But in every era, even of our own country, the gospel of Jesus Christ has always been at odds with the culture within this country. It has always called us to a higher living than what we were actually accomplished. Whether it be when the word was going out about the changes in slavery Or when it was that the passions of our nation were stirred up in the westward expansion to the extermination of people who were abiding in those lands? Whether it was the gross materialism that characterized our countries in the late 1800s, whatever it was that caused people to lose sight of Jesus Christ and his kingdom present in our country. The gospel of Jesus Christ has always stood against that, even to the extent of God sending his Holy Spirit for revivals in our country because we literally were heading to hell in a handbasket. So do not think that I am here speaking of the need for going out and confronting a world with the gospel being something that has changed. It has always been the case But it has never changed that we're supposed to do it. In every era, the true gospel of Jesus Christ has always been at odds with the culture against it It is against the radical individualism that we find in our country. It is against the materialism that dominates our thought It is against the permissive morality that so infects us through from uh grade school right up to uh right up to the end of all of our education It is against the fleshly pursuits that are so characteristic of our country. Make no mistake, brothers and sisters. The gospel of Jesus Christ is deadly to the status quo, no matter when it's preached. The gospel is recognized as dangerous as a result. It's recognized as threatening to people's lives. And so therefore we must understand that what Jesus says here in Galilee 2,000 years ago is true today, just as much as it was then. Therefore, we must learn from these verses what it means to be a witness in that culture. And so what is the first thing that we see, just even on a superficial reading? We see that Jesus is calling us to a life of blessed conflict. Jesus Christ is calling us to a life of blessed conflict. That is what we are to expect. And our greatest challenge is that that is what we are supposed to embrace. That we're supposed to want that. That we're supposed to desire it. Notice here in this passage, Jesus talking to his disciples says this. He makes a prediction. He says, you will be brought before kings and rulers. And you will do this, you will be brought before them as a testimony for my sake. As a testimony to them for my sake. He says it's going to happen. God was going to make certain that it happened. God was going to govern the steps of his people as they were sent out He was going to bring them into whatever divine appointments he had set up for them. They were going to preach. They were going to preach effectively. And as a result of that, they were not going to be viewed as harmless. They were not going to be viewed as just a bunch of kooks. And as a result of that, they were going to be brought before kings and authorities. Now stop and think about that. The last thing you want to do with an Oriental king in those days is waste his time You s bring hauling somebody in to stand before the king in those days and he says, What what are you here? Well this guy he said something the other day that I didn't like and he hurt my feelings Well, probably the king at that point is going to shift his whole focus from what that guy did to why you were here bothering him with that problem. Okay, not a good thing. The only reason why these disciples would be brought before kings in authority is because they were doing something that the kings and the authorities needed to take account of and needed to deal with. That means they were not irrelevant. That means they were important. It means that they were not somebody who could be ignored. So the teaching here is that the message that these men were going to preach was going to make a splash. It was going to stir things up. In other words, God was going to bless their message. He was going to send his Holy Spirit to go before them and to make that message powerful. God's word was not going to fall on deaf ears, whichever way they went. People would listen. And therefore, people would recognize that this is serious business, this gospel of Jesus Christ. And people would react to that. So therefore, what we should learn is that we should expect from our message as we go in emulation of these men, that we should expect both excitement and conflict. Conflict with the world, hear this carefully please, conflict with the world is not just an unfortunate chance occurrence It is not just, you know, sometimes it happens, sometimes it doesn't. Conflict is inherent in the gospel of Jesus Christ. The most telling sign, the most telling sign of a spiritually dead Christianity in a culture is when no one takes it seriously. When there is no power in it, when there's no confrontation in it When the world does not feel threatened by what it says, when it sees Christians as just another bunch of harmless kooks like the flat earthers. Christianity, brothers and sisters, is a movement. It is a force. It is an alien power in the world And as such, it comes with a powerful message. It comes with a message that can tear down all kinds of fortresses, and it is a power that can build up a kingdom. That gospel is thus. A king has come into this world. A king has arrived in this world. It's a historical fact. That king is here. And if that king is here, the you, everyone who hears this message is confronted with a choice right there. I'm going to accept this king. I am going to realize and believe this king, or I am going to deny that. I am going to bow my knee to this king, or I'm going to live as if that king does not exist. Now this king that came into the world is a great king. He's a powerful king. And what he offers to those who bow to him is to become part of the kingdom in which there is healing and joy and hope to all who embrace him and the reality of his kingdom. But to all of those powers in the world who gain their significance, not from his kingdom, but from the kingdom of Satan, which is about them, who gained all of their power by making speeches in which tons of money comes into their home, or by living lives of corruption, both in their morals or in their general agenda who do not want to be bothered by this king and the idea that he might actually be so arrogant as to tell them how they ought to live For those who reject him, this king is their worst nightmare. Because he says that things must change, or else they will be destroyed. This king has brought a sword, and he intends to use it through his church. The sword which Jesus came to bring is the sword of the gospel. It's not a sword that chops off people's head, although I will readily admit That false gospels of Jesus Christ have in times past done such horrible things. It's a true perversion of Christianity. But the fact that it is not a sword that is intended to cut off people's head does not mean that it is not a sword. It is a weapon of warfare. And it is a weapon that is not of this world, but it is deadly to those who profit from the way this world is. It is a sword because it threatens people's lives. It is a sword because it threatens the way they exist. It challenges them at every level. It challenges their agenda. It challenges their ethical choices. It challenges their entire worldview. So people don't like, many people don't like being challenged like that. They don't want some outside power, some outside king telling them that they have to change. Telling them they have to repent. And they, these, will get upset. Jesus says here, this gospel will even divide families. There will be those in our families Who hear and rejoice with us in this king who has come. That there will be those who love their slavery to Satan. They love the pleasures of Sodom. They look back longingly for the good time they had when they were slaves in Egypt. They will resist the gospel. They will react against it and oppose it. Jesus says children will rise up in opposition to their parents. Brothers will hate their brothers. Daughters-in-law will despise their mother-in-law. In fact, Jesus says here in a very important passage, a segment, he says, you will be hated by All the world. You will be hated by all the world for my name's sake. It will appear as if the whole world is against you. And brothers and sisters, if you're aware of the news, that's the way Christianity in this country appears right now. As if the whole world is saying no Brothers and sisters, being a witness for Jesus Christ is much like being a beekeeper. in which you have chosen to have as your bees a very uh vicious form of bees, like the um killer bees that came in a few years back. But you want those particular type of bees because their honey is exceptionally sweet. You y you really want the the honey that these bees do it. So you're willing than to to face what has to be done in order to get that honey. And what happens? You have to put on all kinds of bee-resistant stuff. To go out there and open up that hive, because what are those killer bees going to do when you start reaching in for their honey? They're going to swarm over you just like they were trying to kill you. The message of Jesus Christ is directed toward the honey that is guarded by killer bees. They get angry and they sting when you start being affective. That's the picture that Jesus paints in these verses. But there's a reason why I call this blessed conflict. It is blessed conflict Because we must see here that the witness understands this conflict as worth it. It is blessed because we see it as being successful, and the success that it brings is worth the cost that it requires. Notice what Jesus says down in verse 40 and following. He says, he who receives you receives me. He who receives a righteous man receives a righteous man's reward. Now Jesus has told us certainly that conflict is going to arise, that God is going to guide our steps in such a way that it brings us into conflict with the world because God is doing that. But notice here, he is saying that there will be people who receive us. He says that the message will not go unheard until the end of people hearing, turning, and being saved. He says that despite conflict, we will also have victory that we cannot fail in our witness. And that tells us that fruit bearing is just as certain as conflict. God will bless our witness. The gospel of Jesus Christ is good news for those who are hungering for it. That's the honey that is guarded by the killer bees. They are the beloved children of God that are chained in the strong man's house, to use another parable. And the message that we bring is the message that breaks that chain, those chains And these will hear and they will rejoice in what we say. Brothers and sisters, we're we've You know that here in this this church we're we're fairly familiar with the scripture. You've read the passage where it says that all the angels in heaven rejoice. What? When? When one sinner is saved, what would be the greatest, what should be our greatest delight is to join with the angels in rejoicing over what? Salvation of a sinner, a sinner turning and repenting and being saved. We get to celebrate with the angels. But we've got to want it. We've got to want that. That has to be a desire of our heart. That's what Jesus is talking about down here when he says that no one who even gives a cup of water in his name will fail to receive his reward. If we undertake the ministry of witness to the world around us Do you believe that God is going to deny us our reward of seeing fruit from our witness? No matter where you are. No matter how much you have been indoctrinated, taught, or given any kind of resources for evangelism. As a believer, you possess the Holy Spirit, and you will bear fruit through your effective witness. Jesus here says that he'll give us the words we have to say when we say them. But what we should have, what should be the motive force in our heart, is the desire to go to have that joy. of seeing the kingdom bearing fruit through our efforts as small as they as we may think them to be. And that brings us to the challenge that we have to face here. Is that really what we want? Are we really wanting? Are we really longing? Are we really hungering to see people's lives change? Do we love? Do we embrace Christ? Do we see his kingdom as being the greatest thing that we've ever known? Take the people we know. We long for them to see and to know and experience.