And seeing the multitudes, he went up on a mountain, and when he was seated, his disciples came to him, and he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when they revile and persecute you, and say all kinds of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Let us pray Heavenly Father, if there is anything in our world today It is words. There are words everywhere. But Lord, all of them lead to death. We need a word from you. And that is what you give us here. And I pray that you would speak through the preached word with all of your authority. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. You may be seated. There are different ways to tell the history of humanity. I'd encourage you to just take a look at sacred history for a moment For example, we all know, or nearly all of us know, that there is a story about Adam and Eve, and that Adam and Eve fell. After instead of trusting God at His Word, they listened to the voice of the serpent. They reached out for what was beautiful to their eyes. And they fell. We know that God, in His grace, did not leave humanity in sin and misery, but immediately in the scriptures revealed to them that there is a Redeemer. And thus, clothed now in skins as representative of receiving an alien righteousness themselves by Jesus Christ alone The church is born. The church under Christ before the fullness of time had come is born. And do you want to know what one of the first things is that happens? in the beginning of the church. It is one brother kills another. One brother whose sacrifice was not accepted kills the brother of the one whom it was accepted immediately Well, if we were to keep going with sacred history, though we could see that pattern of Cain and Abel a thousand times, we would eventually see that the time had come. That what God had planned for humanity and being under the lordship of his eternal son had taken upon himself human nature. His name is Jesus. And he is the Messiah and the Christ. And do you know what the human race did to him? They crucified him. Now praise be to God that he does not lie in a grave but has been raised on the third day and even ascended to the right hand of the Father and given all authority in heaven and earth, and that is why We can sing the songs that we did today because Jesus is not dead. He is alive with all power and with a will that is good. Well, you want to know what happened after Jesus sent his Holy Spirit to his church that he could bring his good will to all of humanity? One of his followers was killed. Stephen the Martyr. And that could be a good summary of all of sacred history because from that time forward I cannot recounter you As we go outside of the pages of ancient scripture and into the pages of history books, how many people died in seeking to move forward the kingdom of God? Truly, Genesis 3 was prophetic when we read, and I will put enmity between you and the woman who stands for the church, God's congregation. And between your seed and her seed, and he shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. Truly, that symbolically captures our history. Now, when we turn to the Beatitude, what we see Jesus doing here this week. Is sharing with you the same history and that it will continue. He tells you that the serpent will still strike, and he calls that persecution. Jesus pronounces the same reality in this beatitude. Take a look with me at just the individual words and the scripture itself. He presumes in verse number ten that his followers will in fact be persecuted. Blessed are you not if But when they revile and persecute you. That's verse 11 and verse 10. Blessed are those who are persecuted. He gives examples of the persecution in verse 11. So far, what we've done, because the Beatitudes are so short, we've turned to Isaiah or other places to seek to understand and make sure we have this right, and we're not twisting anything. But here we have Jesus expounding for the first time on a Beatitude. And in verses 11 and in verses 12, he tells you what he means, and some of what he means. When he talks about persecution, he says that when they revile you, when they persecute you, that means to pursue you, to take your property, if it were in the book of Hebrews, their property was confiscated from them. It can mean to take your life, as we've already talked about with Stephen the Martyr. It is it is continues in verse 11 that they'll say all kinds of evil against you, and the way that that is written is that they're going to drag you to court. They will use whatever means are necessary in order to establish that you are a menace to society and a troublemaker. If you were to turn to Luke, I find it instructive in Luke chapter 6 where Luke records the Sermon on the Mount. If you were to turn there, I think it's 622, you don't have to do that now. He adds to this picture hatred. And so what you have being formed here is a kind of tree. And if you were to dig around and you were to look at the roots of the tree of persecution, you would find written down deep on those roots, carved into those roots. The word hatred. And coming up out of it would be these branches of saying false things about you Taking away your reputation. Taking away your property. Taking away your life. Misleading your children. Whatever it is. That's what you would find. And that is what we find here within these Beatitudes. That's at least the first thing that we find. We'll have to remember, and this is it can be difficult depending on the day, but Jesus is essentially saying here, good news Blessed. Blessed are you, are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Now, I think one of the reasons why Jesus goes on a little bit here is because that seems to be the most contradictory thing that a person could say And yet as we look around and we see for for example if you've got a chance to listen to Erica Kirk, you would see that though she is grieving, there is a kind of blessedness going on. And right now her children are existing in the blessedness of ignorance. And we pray that they would be blessed when they come to full knowledge of what has happened. But Jesus spells out the blessedness here and not just the persecution. He says in the these precious promises to us, beginning in verse number 10. That we shall inherit the kingdom. If you remember the meek, where the kingdom is taken away by the wicked and there's nothing we can do about it As we just sung in the Martin Luther hymn, that is not going to be within our power to be able to do this, but there is one who was chosen and one little word shall fell the world. If you look back at the very first Beatitude, this promise was already given to those who are poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. It goes on in verse number 12 to explicitly for us to rejoice and be exceedingly glad. That helps us to understand what he means by blessed. That it we are in such a state to where we would move into a kind of celebration, that is a grave celebration And you could ask the question, well, why am I to rejoice and be exceedingly glad? Same thing in verse number 12, for great is your reward in heaven. And then he goes on, and I actually think there's another reward here that is implied in verse number twelve. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. For your name to even come up in the same sentence as a prophet means that you have hit a certain level of status. or of lawful fame. In the book of Philippians, our translation says, esteem such men and women. And that is a promise here also, is to be highly esteemed. If you bring these two pieces together where we see the promise of persecution and the promise of blessing We can join them together in a single doctrine this morning that is a doctrine that you need to put on and not take off. You need to write it upon your heart. For your life today. And it is this. The disciples of Jesus will be persecuted in this life, but they will be blessed in the life to come. We are a congregation who will carry a cross on our shoulders, but we will have blessings in our hearts. The disciples of Jesus will be persecuted in this life, but blessed in the life to come. That's the obvious teaching here from Jesus. And I would like us to just work on making this a part of who we are and really believing what he's saying here. Do you believe that Jesus promises you as a Christian that you will have a life of persecution. If the events over the last few days had not happened, I think that would be more difficult for you to affirm. You'd say, well, I've heard that before, but I don't feel it. I'll just remind you that this is repeated all over the scriptures. I already gave you an example in terms of that Jesus Christ called you to bear a cross. This is my very first argument for you. I'm not sure what you think that means. It most often does not mean that Jesus promises you that you are going to bear a general sense of misery. Sometimes we forget, because of how our culture has handled the cross, that as we learn in Hebrews, the cross was meant to be an emblem of shame. It was meant to show that you are cursed among us. It is meant to revile and to humiliate you. You see the cross in the account and the passion of Jesus. Look at everything else that is happening to him. When they strip him naked, when they put the crown of thorns on his head, when they flog him, what is the purpose of all of those things? It is to persecute and to revile him. It is to tear down his reputation as one who is deserving of the cross. Do you think that the cross being there amidst all of those episodes and scenes is meant to communicate anything different? It is an emblem of shame. And Jesus tells you that you will also be shamed in this life. He says in Hebrews that we can despise the shame, just as he did. He is the pioneer of our faith in that hall of heroes that you can read about. But we should see that Jesus promised his disciples that all of us would receive persecution. The Apostle Paul ended up picking this up. If you think about him as a normal as a human being and seek to connect with him as he's trying to raise up a young man named Timothy to be able to minister to these church plants And you only have so much time to write. And it takes so much time to get letters to people. You really choose your words carefully as to the what is most important to tell people. And what we end up finding in 2 Timothy 3 and elsewhere, for example, and you can actually find this more and more in his letters if you know to look for it, he tells Timothy that you have to expect that you will be persecuted. He says, yes, and all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. But evil men and impostors will grow worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. I don't know that I need to keep going on with this. I hope that at some level, deep within your own being, you recognize that this is something that Jesus has taught you and He taught it to you for a reason. And he's bringing it to you here this morning by way of me for a reason too. I wondered if you caught one of the words here within the 2 Timothy as I first sought to prove to you that yes, we are promised persecution even to this day, and I'll continue that argument. I wonder if you caught how Paul laid that out in 2 Timothy, because I not only want to convince you that you will in fact be persecuted, but I think it would be helpful to you this morning for you to know how that works. Well, what does that look like? I want to show you a mechanism that happens in every era. And it's already caught in 2 Timothy 3. 12-13, like I mentioned. You're going to want to write that verse down and you're going to want to study it You're going to want to write down all of these verses that I give to you because they are life to your soul. I'll read that again to you. It says, yes, and all who desire to live godly In Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. Jesus is not interested in putting a stamp of persecution on your life if you suffer because of your worldly ambitions. That's not what persecution is. If you've spent most of your life living for yourself and people persecuted you for it, that's not Christian persecution That's not what he's talking about. You see that in the Beatitude when Jesus says this is for my sake. And what I'm pointing out to you is that it's repeated again here, the same idea within 2 Timothy 3, 12 through 13 If you go back to the Beatitude, look at the particulars. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake Paul says, live godly in Christ Jesus. In verse number 11, Jesus will repeat himself and he'll say, say all kinds of evil against you falsely for my sake. So we can begin to see what's going on here to start to understand, well, how does this work? We see that understanding that persecution will continue today for Christians begins by understanding that it will happen in the context of us seeking to do God's righteous will. That is a fundamental principle That we must hold on to. That is fundamental principle number one, is that persecution happens in the context, and it is promised in the context, of when you seek to live for Christ. And in his name. Now this is said so many times, I do not want to repeat it, because we'll never get to the Lord's Supper. But let me just give you a few examples, continuing in this letter to Timothy, 2 Timothy 3:16 through 17. We are so familiar with this verse, but we've never read it in the context of persecution. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work. You're reading your scriptures so that you would know by the Holy Spirit and prayer what God's will is. To have godly lives, to be righteous in his name and by his power. Second Timothy two twenty-one. Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from the latter He will be a vessel for honor, satisfied and useful for the master, prepared for every good work. There it is again You could turn to Romans chapter 12. Some of you love Romans chapter 12, verses 1 and 2. Out of the mercies of God, be living sacrifices, be no longer be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. That you would what? Just have the understanding that you would know what God's will is. Why? Because that's what you have been called to do, that's what you've been empowered to do by the presence of God. of the Holy Spirit and your membership in the congregation. It begins with godly lives. It begins with righteousness. It begins with a striving and an endeavoring. To live for God's will. That's where persecution begins. And I bet you can see how that's the case. That's fundamental principle number one. Fundamental principle number two is that when you, as Christians, seek to live godly, righteous lives by the power of Jesus Christ, persecution shows up. And persecution will undulate and show up at different levels. Persecution will even show up in yourself when you fight against yourself in doing the right thing. We see this in Acts chapter 4. 3. You can see this. I'd encourage you to read Acts with persecution in mind. I'll have you remember that Peter betrayed Jesus Christ. Jesus then reinstituted him and said, This is my will, paragraph uh paraphrase, this is my will that you would feed my sheep. And what that's going to look like is that Peter is going to become a primary teacher and preacher among those people. That's exactly what we see on the day of Pentecost. Is that preach is that Peter goes forth, he's highlighted in Acts chapter 2, giving this prolonged argument that Jesus is the Messiah or the Christ He's the one we've all been waiting for to bring humanity up out of the muck and the death He finally is not betraying Jesus. He's finally pronouncing him from the rooftops in front of all of the same people that just murdered Jesus. Do you know how difficult that must have been for Peter? Do you think that he met with people beforehand and said, this is what I'd like to be done with all my belongings? This is what I need. I want them to go to Aunt Such and Such and Uncle Such and Such. The crowd that is there that he's preaching to are the same people that just crucified Jesus. That's part of his sermon And I want you to know, so finally you see here an example where Peter is going forth with God's will. He's doing what God righteously declares to be done, and one of the first things that happens to Peter is that he's persecuted. Acts chapter 4 verse 3, and they laid hands on him and put them in custody until the next day, for it was already evening. In prison. Please turn off your phones. In prison. Acts chapter 7, 57 through 58, the persecution continues. Then they cried out with a loud voice. stopped their ears and ran at him with one accord. This is the martyrdom of Stephen. And they cast him out of the city and they stoned him. Has anyone here been a part of the stoning? Do you know what it would be like for you to die by rocks? Would you see the blood bubble in the dust? Sometimes we sanitize the scriptures to no good. And I'm not going to be more graphic than that this morning. But this is happening because this gentleman, Stephen, decided to confront religious authorities about the truth of Jesus. As soon as they begin to move forward in the will of God, there is another will at work in the world that seeks to put an end to it. And that brings us to fundamental principle number three. After we live uh we move towards godly living, persecution will rush in, and and fundamental principle number three is really answering the question, well why is that happening? Why is it that as as as uh As sure as fire burns upward and a rock falls to the ground, why is it that when those who have been taken captive by Christ, when they seek to do his will, why is it that that will is is is um persecuted and sought to be silenced. And one answer for you is that there is a kingdom that is the kingdom of Satan. Now I'd encourage you to go back through your scriptures and to just see how present the kingdom of Satan is when the New Testament writers are writing. They're warning their congregations that there is another kingdom out there, that we fight against principalities and powers, and they have manifested themselves in the Roman Empire at that time But you need to know there's something that we're up against that's not just flesh and blood. I just paraphrased Ephesians 6 for you. Uh Peter picks this up too since we've been talking about him. He says in 1 Peter 8 through 9, be sober. Be vigilant, because your adversary the devil your adversary the devil walks about like a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. Now have you all read that before? And you've probably applied it to your general spiritual life or something. This is written in the context of persecution. He goes on to say in verse number nine, resist him steadfast in the faith. Knowing that the same sufferings are experienced by your brotherhood in the world There's a mass persecution going on as the kingdom of Satan seeks to kill the kingdom of God, and Peter describes it as a lion that is walking about seeking to devour. And there's that print there's that there's the why of what's going on. Why is it that reality is built that way? As soon as I seek to do God's will, there's something right there seeking to stop me. Does that sound familiar? And of course we have a modern-day example here for us that Bill has brought up, who is Charlie Kirk. Now I don't want you to hear me up here at this pulpit saying that Charlie Kirk was a perfect man. And I'm not even here to give him a eulogy The reason why I'm willing to give him as an example here today is because I look at the other examples of those who have died for the faith in the scriptures, and I see that they were flawed men and women just like Charlie Kirk. Have you looked at the list of heroes that we have? Have you looked at the genealogies that lead to Christ that include prostitutes? God's idea of a hero is different than perhaps your idea of a hero. But when I watched his videos and read his stuff I could see that he is my brother. And everything that he was saying was so connected to his faith that it would be ridiculous for me to say that, no, he died as a Republican, not as a Christian. I'd say that's not that's n that's not sophisticated enough of an analysis. So I'm using this again not to give a eulogy. Someone else will give his eulogy. I'm just trying to point out to you today that the war still rages. Persecution is still happening. The dynamic is still taking place where when someone sets out to do God's will, there is another will right there seeking to squash it. And I have told you that you are not fighting against flesh and blood at its origin, that there is a dragon that has been unreleased, has been unleashed, and he is seeking to destroy you. I've also found it interesting that the voice of martyrs included a picture of Charlie Kirk on their page. We grieve the senseless death of Charlie Kirk, and we pray for God's peace and comfort to the rest to rest on his widow and children. He wanted to be remembered for his faith in Christ It is the same faith for which our Christian brothers and sisters are being persecuted all over the world. And that's good to remember too. We're not used to this, but there are other countries where this is happening quite often. And that's good for us to remember. All as a part. Remember what I'm doing here. I'm just trying to get you to see and to get into your heart that Jesus really does promise to you that you're going to be persecuted as a Christian And I'm trying to help you understand how that works. That's all I've done with you so far. I'm even using the account of Charlie Kirk to do that. I'm not giving him a eulogy. I'm showing you he's a modern-day example Persecution still happens today. I wonder if you raise the question in your own mind and your own heart This is the interesting thing that I keep experiencing. I l I try not to get on social media these days because it is not healthy. But when I am on there, usually for necessary reasons, I will watch something and I'll think, yeah, that's the way life is. And then I go back to my Saverna Park community, and that's not what people are doing. There's a disparity between what I see online and what I see in my neighborhood. Online I see people persecuting. In my neighborhood, no one says anything to me about the fact that I'm a pastor. And I wonder if you have a disparity or a cognitive dissonance like that yourself I wonder if you say, well, I'm not really being persecuted. See what you're doing there, and the reason why I'm bringing this up with you, and the reason why you're bothering me right now. is that's against my argument that I'm making from the scriptures. So I've got to bring it up and I gotta say If you believe that you're not being persecuted right now, there are a few reasons why that could be the case. Because I really believe that this scriptural truth holds. Here's the first reason. Maybe you're not seeking to accomplish God's will. Maybe you're not seeking to accomplish God's will. That is what I confessed yesterday at the men's breakfast. If you're not seeking to accomplish God's will, why would the adversary consider you a problem at all? You're just going along with the flow as he had planned for you to do. And you have a million justifications from him on why you think you're still a courageous Christian. I'm not a coward, I'm just winsome. For example. There are many different kinds of examples. But I want that to sink in a little bit like it's been sinking in for me. Maybe you are not doing God's will. Maybe that's why you're not being persecuted. You could ask yourself the question, are you seeking to know God's will for your life? In all of the decisions that you're making, and then once you see it, it's like a lighthouse out on the horizon, and you are not going to let anybody stop you from reaching his will Because that's the picture of the persecuted. You see, that's that's there's the will, and I'm trying to finish it, but people keep persecuting me. They keep trying to take it away, take me away from it Which is why Peter says in his letter that you have to be watchful because you might lose your steadfastness. We have to be steadfast in the pursuit of that light that we see, which is his will. But maybe you're not oriented that way, and I'd encourage you to repent here today. Please talk with me. Talk with a Christian that when you look at them, you can see they have dedicated their lives. to knowing and to doing God's will. They do it imperfectly, of course, but you can see that it they really want that. Would you talk to them today? It doesn't need to continue. I think one of the reasons why we have uh one one of the things we're supposed to be doing with the death that we have seen, not just with Charlie Kirk, but with so many others is that we are to evaluate where we need to repent. And I'm asking you to start with that. Another thing that might be going on is that God in His providence does not give the same kinds of persecution at every time and in every place. There is there are undulations. There can be a really high spike like an EKG and then it could be like this for a little while. It can be a low-grade fever, and sometimes it can spike real high to 104, and we're really worried about everything That could be also why you are not being persecuted, but it's not because the scriptures don't say that you're going to be persecuted. And let me just say one other thing. There's a person who's on the different side, and they're saying, yes, that feels meaningful. I'm going to do something to be persecuted. And that is not what we see in the scriptures either. I'm not calling you to be a rude pain in the butt. I'm not calling you to be obnoxious in ways that you do not need to be obnoxious. I'm not calling you to be a jerk for God. There are plenty of examples where Paul does not stay and get stoned. He runs. Persecution at that level that we were looking at with Paul or with Charlie Kirk, that's not something we just stick around for. We try to avoid it, but sometimes we can't because bullets are faster than us. If you can flee, please do so. That's not the spirit we're looking for. That's uh zeal without knowledge. That's running headlong into misery. That's not what we're doing. And I'd encourage you to take a look at how many times in the scriptures Paul figures out a way they to get hid in a basket and lowered down the wall or something, rather than just saying, I'll show them my courage. Bring the stones. That's not the picture. But the picture is, is that when the stones come out, he doesn't change anything he's saying. He still says the truth. Jesus' main point is for you to fulfill his will, and he doesn't want you to be surprised at the resistance that you receive, so please be watchful. Now, very quickly I want to point out to you that there are also accompanying this promise that there is the accompanying blessings Why do you think Jesus puts the blessings here? It's all a part of the picture that we created from the scriptures that We see by the power of God's Spirit what his will is, and we now yearn for it. And we're now supposed to head that way, seeking no matter what to accomplish it. Persecution comes in and seeks to dampen or kill that within us And so guess what happens in us? We become tired and discouraged. We lose our courage We lose our strength. We lose our focus. We start making excuses to say, that was never God's will. I don't really need to keep heading in that direction. What Jesus does here is he lays out his blessings so that when you face opposition, you will keep going. And that will usually mean more persecution. But because he gives you the blessings, you could keep going after that. Now I wonder if some of you are surprised by what he says here in these blessings. Are you surprised that he says you will be rewarded? That can be so difficult for a church that announces justification by faith alone. And that's still true, of course. This is something different. We're not being rewarded simply because of ourselves. God works all good things to his ends We get to heaven by faith alone, but the reward we experience once we are there is based upon the works that we do in this world. It is not a work of justification. These are rewards for something else in Christ working through us. Those who are justified are called to live fruitful, godly lives that produce good works, and those works will receive a heavenly reward. Did you know that reward promised in the future is repeated 25 times in the text of the New Testament? This is not an obscure teaching from Christ. And the reward is a future one. Although if we look at that last clause, like I pointed out to you in verse number 12, we can see that that can begin today. If you have been slandered in this world for the sake of Christ, for righteousness' sake, one author says, you will indeed receive a great reward when you get to heaven. But even now you will be numbered among the prophets of the Old Testament. Even now, in God's sight, you are included in the select company of those who have gone before and tasted the same slander. If you have experienced this, you are in the company of Isaiah. Would you dream with me for a moment? That you would stand shoulder to shoulder with Isaiah or with Jeremiah or with the prophets that are before you. That is a splendid company in which to be numbered, is it not? Do you see what Jesus is drawing upon here when he brings up the prophets within you? It's the same thing if he were to say, Well done, my good and faithful servants. If that doesn't touch your heart, then there is work that needs to be done because it's a primary motivation within the scriptures. Let me try to give you just a small s uh snapshot that fails in comparison. All of my life I struggled with my father. I think, and I didn't know it at the time, but I just wanted him to be proud of me. But I kept making all of the decisions I I could to make him not proud of me. You know my story. Dad's not proud when you're in rehab. Dad's not proud when you're suspended from school. Dad's not proud when he finds that you stole something. Dad's not proud when you're in juvenile detention And then I started by the power of Jesus Christ to live a godly life only in Him. Holly and I began to have our children, and I still didn't hear anything from them. I was so proud of you And I think I still wondered, I said, well, here I am with I'm paying my mortgage. And then came the day of my ordination. Arch preached an ordination sermon for me, the one about Peter feeding the sheep. I'm very much like Peter in all the bad ways. And when we were done, Arch gave me a beautiful pipe as a present. Someone else gave me a Bible from the congregation I'm using here today. And I walked out into the Northex and my father put his arm around me and he said, I'm so proud of you. Do you know how much that meant to me? Jesus is saying the same thing here. But he's not talking about Larry Crutchley. He's saying that if you give up your life for my sake, I esteem you highly in my own heart, my good and my faithful servant. Do you see how important that motivation is for us? That's what Jesus is doing here. I want you to just remember, if you do right now, do you feel the power of what Jesus says? How compelling it is. There's something in you that he's tying into And he's not doing that to get an emotional rise out of you. He's doing that so that when you are seeking his will and persecution arises You will keep going anyway. Because what really matters to you. Is that it is Jesus Christ who puts his arm around you and says, well done. That's your drive. That's the medal you want to receive. That's the badge that you want to bear. I just, I can't even capture in my own words what it will be look what it will be like for Jesus to look you in the eyes and to say that about you if you suffer for his name's sake. That is what gives us steadfastness. That's the purpose that Jesus brings that up for us here today. Over the past couple weeks, I watched a woman get murdered on a train or a bus. I read of a school shooting in Colorado. I unfortunately was scrolling through my feed mindlessly, did not know what I was looking at, and I watched Charlie Kirk get murdered. And that image is still with me, and it haunts me. It haunts me also that when I go back and I am on social media that people are celebrating his death. Last night I watched a woman make fun of his wife. And I also watched someone else call uh someone else to finish the job and take out his children too. And I lay before you as a Christian congregation what is wrong with this world. I'm being serious. I'm not dropping into just emotions right now. I'm asking you the question, I need a cause and effect. I need you to be scientists. What's wrong? What's the cause? When you turn to the news or any pretty much anywhere, you will find people saying that this is the cause. Mental illness. ideologically influenced by university professors, etc. , etc. Which that might play a part. But you do know that you are a reformed congregation, don't you? Do you not know that you know that the evil that flows out of a person's heart goes beyond what you learn in a college classroom? That it does not account for the terror and the evil that we see It goes so much deeper, and it's in your heart too. And that puts me in a place here where I, in the name of Jesus Christ, need to remind you as a group of people that you actually know what the problem is. And that Jesus Christ, with all of his authority, is working in you to be the only real cure. If you were lived during the time of Noah, what was the only way to escape that flood and the evil that existed there at that time? To be on the ark. You have access to the Ark. You have the words of life on the Ark. You can be a preacher of righteousness like Noah in a sense. That's who you are. We're going to get to this in the next couple weeks, but if you keep reading in the Beatitudes, it says, you're the light. In the context of persecution, you're the light. You're the salt. And do you know what happens if we lose the light and we lose the salt? Oh, how dark it will be. Actually, that's not true because Jesus won't let that happen. What he will do is he will replace you. You will be like salt that is no longer useful, but just to be trampled on by men. You will become sidewalk or dust. for us to be able to have a nice path to get from our front door out to the main road to put out the trash. Those verses are to be understood in the context of persecution. But I know that you don't want to be a light that has a basket over it or salt that has lost its saltiness. I know that you want to stand up and you want to begin to seek God's will in your own personal life. You could start in your family life. You could begin to do it as God calls you in your church and in your your jobs. You don't need to start a multi-state institution or corporation. Why not just start with the institution of your family? Show up here every Sunday and be determined to worship the hell out of this world The will of God is for you to be the light and the salt of the world through word and deed. It begins in yourself, it starts in your home. You could at least save the institution of the family. And if given the opportunity, you can move out from there. How many words has Jesus Christ said to you, calling you to be his people? Do you take him at his word? Is there any doubt left in the argument that I have given you this morning? Are you going to be persecuted? Is it because you're going to seek his will? Is he giving you blessings so that you can be steadfast and completed in his name? Will that turn out to be a light and salt for the world? In his authority and in his hands, yes, ma'am, and yes, sir, it will. It's time for us to get to work, brothers and sisters. I suggest you begin with repenting. Let us pray.