The present miracle is in verse three. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his abundant mercy, has begotten us again to a living hope. through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, and I'll rephrase that, who uh who, according to his great mercy, has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Reborn. That is the first miracle. It's the presence Miracle. The miracle is that God in His mercy is making people reborn. I have run across people within our culture that tell me that they've never seen a miracle. Have you ever seen a miracle? Everyone here should answer yes, because if they're great, thank you. I appreciate that. Because if there is a Christian next to you, you are sitting next to a miracle. The miracle of God the Father. Because they have been reborn. Now reborn is strange language. Used by all different kinds of people. But it makes sense to translate it that way because of the other descriptions that are given in the in the scriptures as to what is going on here. Turn to Ephesians chapter 2, the first three verses. I'm just going to read it to you. Listen to the language that's used in terms of a rebirth. And you he made alive, who were dead in trespasses and sins in which you once walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience, among whom also we all once conducted ourselves If you were to just go through and list out of that passage the mean Meaning of rebirth and what's going on there, these are the kind of things that you would have to say. God the Father is making people who are dead alive. That's got to be a part of what he means by reborn or rebirth. He is making people who serve the prince of the power of the air instead serve him. And he is Making people who were consumed with perverted desires instead love God and loved neighbor. When you realize, and we're just at the beginning of this, we're in the beginning of the letter, when you realize That God is overcoming all of that when He talks about rebirth. You can see the miraculous nature of what is going on here. Peter is trying to express and why he must say, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Don't let that slip from you. Why does Peter have to say that? Why must he worship? Because Because he understands what it takes for there to be a rebirth. Let me give you a couple other observations just to help you see the miraculous nature of this, to lead you to worship of God. God the Father. When I read this section of the passage based on verses 1 and 2 and the rest of the letter, I expected Peter to say something about how the word fits into this. The reason why is because in verse 23 of the same chapter, take a look very quickly at it, he talks about being born again there also. The rebirth, and he says, having been born again, not of corruptible seed, but incorruptible, through the word of God which lives and abides forever. He's speaking about the instrument that God uses in his in his plan to cause the rebirth, one of the instruments. We're another instrument, the preacher of the word. But that's not present in verses 3 through 5 It's not mentioned. There's a different focus. It's unique. Instead, he writes about the rebirth in the context of God the Father and the resurrection of the Son. So if you take this context seriously, this is what I think that you should conclude. To take and make anyone alive from the deadness of sin God the Father must use the same kind of power that it took to raise Jesus Christ from the dead. Now, who do you know, except for God the Father, that has that kind of power? And this is why he must be worshiped. He is the only one that is capable of doing that. This is what it says actually in Romans 6. 4, and you might want to write down that reference. This is a very advanced passage. Peter says later in his letter, Paul says things that are difficult to understand. This is one of those things. Romans chapter six verse four. Therefore we were buried with Christ through baptism into death, that just as Christ was raised from the dead, this is what I want you to catch, by the glory of God the Father, the Even so, we also should walk in newness of life. The presumption there, or the assumption, is that we too have been raised by the glory of God the Father. What is the Father's glory, but his power to take those things which are dead and impossible and to make them alive or possible? That is to say, all things are possible with God. Thus, it is no small thing to be reborn. It is a present miracle. And now you all have seen one. Because they're sitting next to you. It's what God has done. Do you realize the magnitude and the power and the miracle that you and all Christians are? Here's the test for you As you think about your own salvation and the salvation of those around you, their rebirth, if you truly understand, then you will be like someone who stands before the Grand Canyon and must give praise to your Creator. the one who can resurrect. You must be moved to worship. When you're truly seeing it within its reality, it will lead you to Second, this is a takeaway, and we can focus on this just at the end of the sermon also. But as you seek to bring the message, the gospel conversation to our culture, would you please remember that you can talk until you're blue in the face? It takes God to resurrect them. If you're having a conversation and all you see is blankness, It's because God the Father is the one that must persuade people. He is the only one that can change the blank stares. And so what he has given to us as yet another instrument besides the word. is we must get on our knees and pray. If you truly believe that it takes the sovereignty of God for there to be a rebirth to happen, then that demands that you must be a person of prayer continually. for God to have mercy. And that's what we're going to focus on at the end of the sermon when we move into our prayer time, is to ask God to have mercy on those who do not see his glory. So that's the present miracle. And now let's talk about the living hope. This comes out in the next set of. uh verses. So in verse six, in this you greatly rejoice, focusing on the I'm sorry, in verse three, the uh focusing on The God the Father's work in this present miracle, he then speaks about how his abundant mercy has begotten us again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Christ from the dead, and then he starts to talk about this hope in terms of an inheritance. I want you to remember that this is Peter writing this. So when we talk about the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, this is a very personal thing for Peter to talk about. You know, he was there during the ramping up of the trial. He was there for the crucifixion He was there on Easter. He is an eyewitness. He was there before any of this when he was just sitting and having dinner with Jesus the Christ. Very good friend of his, his master. But remember that Peter, this is the same one that wrote this, is the one who despaired as his master was tried and crucified. And Peter lost hope. Now imagine that same person, if you could watch them on a reality TV, what it would have been like for Peter Easter. To hear the news that his master had been resurrected, that he was not dead, but that he was alive. Imagine the significance that that would have for him We see some of it when we start to read through the scriptures and hear what Peter has to say. He certainly would be excited that his master was restored to him. Him, but when we look at Peter's sermons and his teachings, it was so much more than that. Therefore, let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made this Jesus whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. This is the living hope that Peter is talking about, that is, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, namely, that Jesus is proven through the resurrection to be the law. Now, there's a lot of implications to that that will start to come out in this letter. I'm just going to mention it. That this is the one that God the Father promised. It was sealed as a conviction for Peter He would also believe, and this would give him a living hope, that a new age has begun with Jesus as the ruler. He says this in Acts chapter 2, verse. Verse 33. Therefore, being exalted to the right hand of God, speaking of Christ's ascension, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he poured out this which you now see and hear. The Lord Christ has begun a new age, and we talked about this this morning, sending out the Spirit and dominating, if you will, in mercy and love every tribe and tongue. And nation. And I believe that Peter says that we have a living hope through the resurrection of Christ because he's thinking of the general resurrection. That will happen for all believers. Do you know what I mean by that, with a general resurrection? That we are promised to not lie in a grave for eternity, but on that day we will all rise With new bodies in the twinkling of an eye, in the new heavens and the new earth. Now I say that this is also part of his living hope because of the development of the thought. Take a look at the passage here It talks about the present miracle of rebirth. Then he gets into the living hope, and that has to do with all the hope that is brought to us based on the resurrection of Jesus. Jesus Christ from the dead, but that living hope is also played out in an inheritance which is incorruptible, undefiled, and that does not fade away. So he's focused on more than just the moment. He's focused on perhaps way in the future. This n that that verse that I mentioned about the inheritance proves that that he's focused on this. And we actually spoke about this in the morning, about that inheritance, the promised land, so I won't get into that anymore. The question that you have to ask Is what hope would there be if we all died and that was it? What good is an inheritance if we are dead. You see, that's the thought that should be going through your head. What good would any inheritance be if you just died? You wouldn't be able to To enjoy it is the point. And that's got to be one of his focuses here. What he's saying then is that we have a living hope. Even if you die, you still have the living hope Even death itself will not keep us from the promises. This is a conviction I pray seeps into us, and that we would live in light of it. God the Father promised glory to the Son, did He not? Did he violate his promise when the son died? If you look at verse 11 of this same passage, you can see what's on Peter's mind here and how he's developing this. Searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ who was in them was indicated when he testified beforehands the sufferings of Christ and the glory of God. And we our life is mapped out with the exact same narrative, the sufferings of our life as we carry the cross, and the glories that would follow. What glory do you have if you are just worm food? No glory. And so Peter is pointing out that God the Father raised Jesus Christ. And you should realize that in his resurrection we have a living hope because Jesus Christ is just the first of all those who shall be raised. This is what is taught within the scriptures in 1 Corinthians. For since by man came death, by man also came the rest of the Resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ all shall be made alive. He's speaking of the general resurrection here. Not just Spiritually, but each one in his own order. Christ will be the first, it says. Afterward, those who are Christ's at his coming. Shh. So let's find out if you truly have this conviction. When is the last time that you walked through a cemetery, looked at all of the graves, and you Said, these people have a bright future. Let's say you knew that they were Christians. These people have a bright future When is the last time you went to a cemetery and you saw what was written on the tombstone? Were the texts on the tombstone as promising and hopeful as the texts that we see here within the scripture? Or did it focus on what they had done on earth? Because the only hope was their reputation. that they left here. There's nothing wrong with that in a sense, but that's not the full Christian perspective. Even if we die, our hope lives because we shall be resurrected. In the same way that Jesus Christ's hope did not die because he was resurrected. That's the Christian story Really, all of this is just pointing back to one thing. You know what that one thing is? Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Whether it is the present miracle of our rebirth from sin and guilt, or it is our resurrection After we die, the words on our lips should be Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Truly, only by his power could either resurrection be done. Done. Our God is powerful enough to save. And now given that, I want us to go back to beginning of where we started here in verse 3. Three, and allow this to move us into a time of prayer. I have been taken back for two weeks now if I've been studying just these set of verses What Peter says here in verse 3. Let me read it to you again. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his abundant mercy has begotten us again. Brothers and sisters, what we need to do in our prayer time now is we need to cry out to God for Him to pour out more mercy. Do you know anyone In your life, that needs the mercy of God for their salvation. Because now we're going to go into prayer and ask Him for it. No one deserves it. But God is powerful and merciful enough to affect it. So let's do that. Let's go into a time of prayer, asking God, and of course bring other prayers. to him this is our time of prayer. But let's focus and at least place an emphasis on his mercy. Let's ask for mercy. Let's go before him and pray. Now God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, you have shown us mercy, and we have tasted and seen that you are good. And because of the heart that you have given to us, we long for you for others to know your mercy, to not be stuck in blindness, to not be dead, to not have a zombie look on your on their face when when you are talked about. avoid you or to just be indecisive or indifferent or apathetic. All of these things are a plague to our existence. And so we We come before you by the rights that you've given to us through Jesus Christ, our great mediator and high priest. And it is in his name that we plead to you for mercy. As well as say prayers of thanksgiving and praise. We ask that you would hear us in his name now.