Ask, and it will be given you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be open to you. For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds. And to him who knocks it will be opened. Oh, or what man is there among you who, if his son asks for bread, will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, we'll give him a serpent. If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your father, who is in heaven, give good things to those who ask him Therefore, whatever you want men to do to you, do also to them, for this is the law and the prophets. I read through verse twelve, but we'll be looking only at verses seven through eleven. Two weeks ago I challenged us as a church To face up to the possibility that we need to regain our first love for Jesus Christ Like the church at Ephesus in Revelation 2, I called us to face a particular challenge, though there are many good things that are going on in our church. that we have many things that God, as He did with the Church at Ephesus, may commend, such as our fellowship and our doctrinal integrity and our commitment to ministry Yet perhaps it might be said of us, as it was said to that church, that good church at Ephesus, nevertheless I have this against you, that you have left You have departed from, you have put away from you, you have left a place of being in your first love. This is what I think we should concentrate throughout this year in 2015. We need to concentrate, in my opinion, upon recovering our first love. Our love for Christ as it was experienced when we first realized the incredible reality of the redemption that has come to us through him. Those of us who know him, do you remember the zeal that we had in reading his word, the joy that came about, the awakening hope that entered our hearts when we first recognize the earth-shaking significance of what Christ has done for us individually Do we need to recover our love for Christ as a congregation? Is our church Kind of just same old, same old, or doing things the same old way, or it's just kind of business as usual. It's Sunday morning. We go to church and that's about it Do folks who visit us recognize, while they're among us, the love of Christ that is in us? Do they see in us that kind of energy that Paul expressed when he said, in Christ all things are made new? And that's the way we're facing our life and the potentials that we have as a congregation and those things that lie in our future. Do we need to recover our first love for Christ as individuals and as a congregation? And so that's what I hope to be thinking about throughout this year. And I want you to notice how in this particular passage, Jesus himself moves us in that direction. Jesus in these verses is telling us something that is difficult for us to really believe. He says that we are so closely tied to our Father who is in heaven that we can cry out to God. And we can make requests of him, and it will be given us. That we can seek from him the pathways in which we should be walking. And we will find them. And we can go out and knock on doors, big or small, trying to do his will. And brothers and sisters, Jesus here says those doors will be opened. These are great and awesome promises. How can we not love A God who binds Himself to us in this fashion. How can we not love Christ through whom and in whom these promises are perfected? If we get our heads and our hearts around this passage, how can there not be a revival of passion and zeal and desire for our God and his kingdom? Among Us. I would like us to think about three things as we think about this passage. I want us to remember first what a great blessing it is that we are able to call This good God, our Father. And secondly, I want us to embrace the hope that our loving Father gives us in these verses. And lastly, I want us to embrace Jesus Christ as the seal of our hope, for it is in Jesus and in him alone that all the promises of God are Yea and Amen. Okay. Let's remember What a great privilege it is to call God our Father, for He is a good Father. The whole premise of this passage is the superlative goodness of God. And the privilege we have of calling upon Him as our Father. We spoke about this earlier when we talked about the Lord's Prayer. And that's why I'm saying we need to remember the same idea. What a privilege it is that we have God as our Father. Jesus says, look See how good he is compared to earthly fathers? You're aware of a of a son going to his father because he's hungry and And a good, put them in question marks, quotation marks, put them in that, a good earthly father cares for his child. It's just expected. That's what fathers who love their children do. He doesn't give him a stone. Kids hungry. Similarly, if the kid asks for a fish because he's hungry for a fish, the good earthly father. Gives him one if he has it accessible. But what he's saying here Is that those fathers who ordinarily do those things we consider to be good? But compared to God, the Father who is in heaven That goodness makes us look like evil. All of our righteousness, Jesus here says, all of our feeble attempts to do good which we recognize as being good, are as filthy rags when you compare them to the perfect holy goodness of God. That's the distance between a good earthly Father and our good heavenly father. It's so far, he is so far removed in goodness from this that this man is evil in contrast. Think about the best earthly father you've ever known Perhaps it was your own. Unfortunately, perhaps for many that's not the case, but perhaps it was someone else. And then realize, compared to the goodness of our Father in heaven, those good earthly fathers or as nothing. Yes, we must love them and respect them, but they are far removed from being absolutely good. They are classed among the evildoers, in contrast. If you want to fall in love with God the Father, Consider this. I ask you to just consider the best, most loving person that you have ever encountered in this life, and then I ask you to realize that that level of love that you have experienced or have seen in that person is just a drop in the bucket compared to the Niagara Falls of Love that is present in God the Father for you. It's astonishing, isn't it? Now, for whom among us does this apply? Who among us can look to God the Father and say with absolute confidence, that his love is like the rushing Niagara Falls for me. And here we go back to the earlier passage in chapter 6, verses 9, to which I alluded before. We go back then and we think of how Jesus taught us to pray when he said, Our Father who art in heaven. Toward whom does this great goodness of God is directed? It's directed towards everyone who knows him. as their father, because they have recognized the fullness of God the Father in the person of Jesus Christ. They have heard the words of God the Father in the words of Jesus Christ, and they have had their hearts changed and softened and turned from a heart of stone to a heart of flesh through the Holy Spirit because of Jesus Christ And brothers and sisters, if you are here today, and these things can truly be said of you, even if only at the level of a mustard seed, then God the Father is disposed towards you for your good. Amen. God the Father's entire attitude towards you is that you are to be the object of his blessing. God the Father's entire purpose for your life is to bring you more and more to understand that He loves you more than you can ever know. Your father in heaven is a good father, the only truly good father. And he is good beyond your wildest imaginings. So good that comparatively no earthly person can be seen as anything other than evil. Brothers and sisters, this is your God. If those things I have just said are true or you, how can you not love him? How can you ignore him and not be excited to serve him? This is your God. Let's move on to the second thing. Let's embrace the hope that our loving Father gives us in this passage. I ask you a very simple question. Look at it. Look at these verses that I've just read in your scripture, if it's still open before you. Do you believe it? Do you really believe that your Father in heaven loves you so much that all you have to do is ask and He will give? All you have to do is seek and you will find All you have to do is knock and it will be open. Do you believe that? It's hard to believe that sometimes. Jesus doesn't beat around the bush, does he? If, as we just talked about, you can call God your Father, because through Jesus Christ this has been known to you that you are the object of God's blessing Then these promises are for you, and Jesus doesn't equivocate on them. Jesus Himself makes them Jesus, who is the Word of God incarnate, who is the very image of God the Father Himself. Who, as we shall speak of shortly, is the very embodiment of God's will on earth, the promise and fulfillment of God's purposes for the world and for you, Jesus, to whom all authority in heaven and earth has been given. speaks to you and this is what he says to you. Ask and you will receive. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be open to you. This is your Lord telling you this. Notice how personal Jesus is. That warm use of the second personal pronoun, you. Notice how he is virtually here looking in my eyes and in your eyes, perhaps even grabbing you by the shirt collar and pulling you up close just so that you have to look at him. Saying, I'm talking to you. Are you listening? Brothers and sisters, have we really embraced these promises? Well, I know right off you you're starting to make excuses. Well, he really doesn't mean it He doesn't he doesn't he doesn't mean that I will get everything that I ask for. And it is true, we all know of things that we've asked for that God didn't give us. People die after we have prayed that God not take them from us. We don't get the job that we really wanted. The list could go on and on. The effect is we begin to look at this passage and say, well, let's just move on to another one. God doesn't really mean those The inerrancy and infallibility of Scripture just kind of goes out the window. But Jesus said these words. And God was speaking through him. And therefore, brothers and sisters, they are true. So how are we to understand them? I propose to you that we will look at these verses through the lens of a prayer that Jesus himself prayed. And that we understand these words through that perspective. I propose that we look at Jesus praying in the Garden of Gethsemane. It is the night before he will be crucified. He's there with a few of his disciples, but he might as well be by himself because they are asleep. It's dark. It's probably cold He is undergoing great stress. The reality of bearing sin is weighing on him to the degree that his entire being is agitated. The immensity of what he is facing presses down upon him. He's literally sweating blood, literally. Out of the pores it is oozing in the place of sweat. His heart is pounding. Fear is pressing in upon him. He is being tempted by fear, by doubt, to a degree that none of us will ever be tempted. He lifts up his face to heaven. He cries out to the same God to whom we are praying, and he says, Oh God, my Father, the same good Father. To whom we pray. And he says, if it be thy will, let this cup pass from me. My spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. In my flesh, born under the law, born under the condemnation that sin has brought into this world, I don't want to do this. If it is your will, please let this cup pass from me. But he says, nevertheless If it is your will, do what you must. If it is your will, let your will be done. Brothers and sisters, there's a sense in which what Jesus prayed for was not given to him. He did not get the specific thing for which he asked. Because it was his father's will that he drink the full cup of God's wrath. and to drink it right down to the bitter dregs at the bottom of it. And in doing so, he completed the obedience he came to this earth to accomplish. He learned obedience in his suffering. He suffering even to the point of dying on a cross. And for that reason, because he was obedient, he was given far more than that for which he prayed. Jesus prayed that God would leave him with his people a little while longer That he could continue to serve them, to heal them, to teach them a while longer. He prayed that his life on earth be continued for a while. And God required him to die. But then God raised him from the grave to live with him forever, with those whom he was wanting to be with. God did not give him what he wanted right then, because God had a greater plan for him than that for which he asked. God's blessing on Jesus came through obedience. God's blessings came through his obedience and death. But it did not come in exactly the way he asked for at that moment. Brothers and sisters, this is the framework in which we should see these passages. This is exactly how we should pray. And this is exactly the way we should expect God to keep the promises that He makes to us in these verses. When we come to God the Father and we're praying in Jesus' name as He has taught us to pray with a humble heart, and we pray submissively as we've already discussed in the Lord's Prayer under the umbrella, nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done, then not only I'm sorry, the only time that God does not give us what we are asking for is when he has something greater in mind for us. Something greater than that for which we are asking. James tells us outright, you have not, because you ask not. Or else you ask selfishly for things that aren't good for you. But otherwise, as James says, the promise is sure. If we ask of God, He will give us That for which we ask, or he will give us that which is abundantly more precious than that for which we ask. He will fill our lives with blessings, according to his purposes and according to his will. He will make our life and our death important. He will make it meaningful. He will make it fruitful. Just as he made the life and death of his very own son important and meaningful and fruitful, he will give us the desires of our hearts He will give us that for which we have been asking. He will that for which we've been seeking. He will open the doors for our service. So that the abundant life that Jesus himself promised, that he came into this world to bring us, is what we will have. Whatever you ask in my name believing, Jesus said, we'll be done. But we have to believe. We have to embrace this truth. And by embracing this promise, we must live it. We must build our lives on the foundation of God's love for us. We must trust that we have a good Father in heaven whose entire purpose for our lives is for us to be blessed in them. We must be prepared for him to show us this love in our confident expecting and looking for his hand to be present in our lives. He moves us, he guides us in the pathways of blessing, because that is his will for us in our lives. Sometimes his pathways of blessing for us might not be the ways that we would choose. But brothers and sisters, it will always prove to be better than that which we would have chosen. As long as we embrace God Himself as our highest good, the blessed life that knows God will be more blessed because we will know him to be more good. I think that's what Jesus is calling for us to do here today, is to embrace the hope of these promises and to live in them, so that our love for God the Father will be the most evident witness of our life. And so lastly today, I want us to embrace the person of Jesus Christ as the seal of our hope. And the certainty that in him all of these promises are yea and amen Brothers and sisters, on what ground, what ground can you be absolutely certain that God intends to keep the promises that are here made to you? The answer is as simple and as profound as Jesus himself. We have a high priest in heaven who daily, moment by moment, is there before God the Father, our good God the Father, and he's mediating the blessings of God the Father into our lives. It is through the continued life of Jesus Christ, the reality of his person there in heaven, that we can know. And that we must know that God's purposes for our lives is to the end of our blessing. Jesus himself is our guarantee. And that is what we must embrace. Brothers and sisters, as we come to this table here today, I want you to hear this. Jesus came into this world to do the Father's will. He came into this world to be the instrument through which God's eternal plan to bless you and to give you That abundant life that Jesus came to bring, that abundant life that will last forever, he came into this world so that that would be accomplished He came into this world as the wisdom of God incarnate to fulfill all the requirements of God that had to be met before God could bless us as he intends to bless us. He came to clear away all the obstacles that stood between us and God, so that God could adopt us and unite us to himself through Christ. He came into this world as the mediator of the covenant, so that having fulfilled all righteousness, having done all the things that were commanded of him, That he would be given us all authority in heaven and on earth, and that he could mediate for us, distribute to us, be the vessel by which the blessings of God come into our lives. This is why he came. This is what he did. And this is what he is doing now. Your sure and certain hope that God intends to bless you, as said in this passage, is that you have a mediator in heaven who died and rose again from the dead. To be the means by which that is accomplished. He is your hope. Look to him for that hope. Ask of him for that hope, and it will be given you. Seek from him, seek from Jesus the evidence and assurances of hope that they be furnished to your life so that you can grow in your confidence Seek it from him, and you will find it. Knock at his door, and he will open up to you the reality of your adoption into God's family. In such a way that you can't do anything else but enter in. Brothers and sisters, all of the promises of God Our yes and amen in Jesus Christ. And it is certainly true of these promises also. Let's pray. Our Lord and God, even as we stand before the certainty of your love, the certainty that you have established for us, in the person and work of our Lord Jesus Christ,