This is Judges chapter 5. Then Deborah and Barak, the son of Abinoim, sang on that day, saying, When leaders lead in Israel, when the people willingly offer themselves, bless the Lord. Hero kings Give ear, O princes. I, even I, will sing to the Lord. I will sing praises to the Lord God of Israel. Lord, when you went out from Seir, when you marched from the field of Hidam, the earth trembled, and the heavens poured, the clouds also poured water, the mountains gushed or quaked before the Lord. This one from Sinai before the Lord God of Israel. In the days of Shamgar son of Anath In the days of Jael, the highways were deserted, and the travelers walked along the byways. Village life ceased. It ceased in Israel. And Tali Deborah arose, arose a mother in Israel. They chose new gods. Then there was war in the gates. Not a shield or spear was seen among 40,000 in Israel. My heart is with the rulers of Israel who offered themselves willingly with the people. Bless the Lord! Speak you who ride on white donkeys, who sit in judge's attire, and who walk along the road Far from the noise of the archers among the watering places, there they shall recount the righteous acts of the Lord, the righteous act for his villagers in Israel. Then the people of the Lord shall go down to the gates. Awake, awake, Deborah! Awake, awake, sing a song! Arise, Barak, and lead your captives away, O son of Abinoim Then the survivors came down, the people against the nobles. The Lord came down for me against the mighty, from Ephraim, were those whose roots were in Amalek. After you, Benjamin, with your peoples. From Machir rulers came down, and from Zebulon, those who bear the recruiter's staff. And the princes of Issachar were with Deborah. As Issachar was, so was Barak. So into the valley under his command. Among the divisions of Reuben, there were great resolves of hearts Why did you sit among the sheepfolds? Do you hear the pipings for the flocks? The divisions of Reuben have great searchings of heart. Gilehad stayed beyond the Jordan. And why did Dan remain on ships? Asher continued on the seashore and stayed by his inlets. Zebulon is a people who jeopardized their lives to the point of death. Naphtali also on the heights of the battlefield The kings came and fought. Then the kings of Canaan fought in Tahanak by the waters of Migadot. They took those foils of silver They fought from the heavens. The stars from their courses fought against Sisera. The torrent of Kishon swept them away. That ancient torrent, the torrent of Kishan. Oh my soul, march on in strength Then the horses' hooves pounded, the galloping, galloping of his steeds. Curse Meros, said the angel of the Lord. Curse its inhabitants bitterly, because they did not come to the help of the Lord, to the help of the Lord against the mighty. Oh, most blessed among women is Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite. Blessed is she among women in tents. He asked for water, she gave milk She brought out cream in a lordly bowl. She stretched her hand to the tent peg, her right hand to the workman's hammer. She pounded Sisera. She pierced his head. She split and struck through his temple. At her feet he sank, he fell, he lay still. At her feet he sank, he fell. Where he sank, there he fell dead. The mother of Sisera looked through the window and cried out through the lattice, Why is his chariot so long in coming? Why tarries the clatter of his chariots? Her wisest ladies answered her, yes, she answered herself. Are they not finding and dividing the spoil to every man a girl or two? For Sisera plundered of dyed garments Plunder of garments embroidered and dyed, two pieces of dyed embroidery for the neck of the looter. Thus let all your enemies perish, O Lord, but let those who love him be like the sun when it comes out in full strength And so the land had rest for forty years. Let us pray. Lord, we can hear What it means to recount the righteous acts of the Lord. Lord, we pray That through this song, you would help us to be a people of song. Not just recounting the past, but recounting the present Oh Lord, be with us. Pray that your saints should be strengthened and encouraged. Lord, lift their heads. Lift their heads to heaven. Give them hope. In the name of Christ. Amen. And then you may be seated. Because male and female are both made in the image of God, male and female have the same dignity And without denying their equal worth, we acknowledge that male and female are given harmonious vocations or callings by God. In other words, Deborah did not seek to displace Barak and like her We acknowledge that a lack of male leadership is a sign of the canonization of God's people. And we therefore expect, like Deborah expected, our men to rise. To their responsibilities. Now that was Judges 4, and now we have before us the same event But put into poetry and song. And wasn't it marvelous? What a beautiful woman What a beautiful song. Now we just read a lot of verses. We just went through a whole chapter and so my observations are a little bit longer today, but uh but I want to go through those with you and then we're going to have some application and drive it home and move to the Lord's Supper. So here's the I just want to step through that song with you with I want to basically look at almost at every stanza So stay focused with me, okay? And make sure your scriptures are open so that you can follow along. Here's observation number one, and this observation has to do with the first stanza, which is verses two and three. Deborah declares her purpose in writing the song. Remember that this is a song that is referring to the same events that we read in chapter 4. So when Deborah says in this first stanza, when leaders lead in Israel, what she's doing is not expecting some other event to take place. It's basically her saying, and I know this isn't real poetic, I never claimed to be a poet, but it's something along the lines of, in view of the fact that the leaders led. In view of the fact of the commitment that we saw rise up among the men, as I called them to their calling, in view of this fact of heading into battle Bless the Lord. That's what's going on here. In view of the fact of all that, bless the Lord. The meaning of this stanza in the poem And the meaning of the whole song is to celebrate Yahweh. To celebrate Yahweh for putting courage and commitment in the hearts of his people in order to deliver them. That's the first observation of the first stanza. Observation number two with the second stanza, and this goes from verses four and five. Deborah introduces the one who is to receive her praise. This next stanza, you're probably not used to ancient Near Eastern taunting, but she is definitely taunting. This is a war taunt She is provocative in this stanza. Deborah calls, when you see there in those verses, when she's calling kings and princes. She is talking about the kings and princes that they as a nation just dominated, and all of the other kings and princes that should be living in fear at the sight of Israel Deborah calls the kings and princes from all the world to listen to her and to listen to her people, praise Yahweh and not their gods. The picture that you see her develop is a picture of the god of Mount Sinai, which these people would have known. There's a god in the south who's associated with gods are always associated with mountains. And the God of the South is associated with Mount Sinai. This is how the pagan would have put it, or the Canaanite. And she picks up on the fact that that's how they would know about him, and she talks about the one from Mount Sinai. And then she talks about what it's like for him to come down from the mountain into battle as a warrior. When he breaks through the clouds, he makes it rain and thunder and pour. And then he lands on the mountain and it quakes the whole earth. That's what it's talking about when it says the mountains gush And then Yahweh the warrior marches north through Seyer and Adam to conquer Baal and his people who reside in the north. And that's what she's saying. She's saying, hear, O kings, hear, O princes, Yahweh has conquered your gods In fact, all of the storm imagery is associated with their god Baal. So anytime you see a cloud, anytime you hear about rain, anytime you hear about thunder, in this song, it is a smack in their face He is saying, Yahweh is the king, he is the God of those things, and your God is nothing. Now that's observation two for the second stanza. Here's observation number three, and this is verses six through eight. Deborah describes her own rise as an agent of Yahweh in the deliverance of his people. This next stanza drops back In verses 6 through 8, and it surveys the desperate condition from which Yahweh saves his people. Did you catch the desperate condition that they're in? In verse six, for example, deserted highways. That's not good Travelers had to find secret travel paths in order to avoid being killed in their fields or robbed along the way, charged taxes, tolls being placed in And the resulting the result of the traveling difficulties was that life, village life, as you can see, ceases No trade could take place. Farmers could not tend to their crops because they could be caught in their field by the Canaanite soldiers and killed. Everyone is living in fear. They don't have fortified cities You could not travel to the blacksmith due to the Canaanite invasion. But then the Lord raised Deborah as a mother to gather in her flock and call them to courage and to battle. Up, my sons! That's stanza in verses six through eight. And now observation number four, we move into nine through eleven for the next stanza And in this stanza, it is a call for praise of Yahweh's righteous acts. I love how she paints this picture of Israelites conducting their normal everyday business, and then the Canaanites who have been experiencing freedom, travel on the roads Nice clothing, they start to hear a song at the well from the women about Yahweh conquering them. That's what's going on within 9 through 11C. And this is a taunt again from Deborah. The Canaanites had won control. They were still operating as normal. They chose the finest animals. No donkey would do. They had to have the white ones They had the finest animals to do their work. They walked and they traveled the free roads freely in 9 through 11. And yet the tides have changed, and there is a new song in the village It is heard among God's people. When the women go out to get water at the well, it says this in verse 11, there they shall recount the righteous acts of the Lord, the righteous acts for his villagers in Israel. That's what righteous acts are. They are for the benefit and good of the community. And that's what they're singing about. Now we move into the next stanza, which is verse 11 through 23. And here we see that the righteous acts of God are through his people. Here, Deborah does not awake and take arms. She stays in her wheelhouse and she takes up her calling and she writes a song. As we saw last week, she does not displace Barak, but she calls him to action. In her prophetic role, she composes this poem that is put to song. And this part of the song recounts the rise of her people to battle. Some of the tribes are commended, but did you notice that some of the tribes are not commended? Now that will be a theme that we have to get into a little bit later that could connect to some denominationalism and that kind of thing. Some of the tribes chose not to help, and they are denounced in the form of questions. Look at verse 17, for example. Gilead stayed beyond the Jordan. And why did Dan remain on ships? Asher continued at the seashore and stayed by his inlets. We're in the middle of a battle, brother. Where are you? Well, we're at the seashore. And we're on my boat in the harbor. Do you see the point? You see the picture? That's not good. Brother failed. Brothers are fighting off the Canaanites, and this brother, the tribe of Asher, decided to stay at the beach enjoying his harbors. And yet many did show up for battle. As we can see in verses 19 through 23, the battle is described not just as a battle on earth, amongst earthlings. But as a battle on earth involving the powers of heaven. Notice there especially they fought from the heavens, verse 20. the stars from their courses fought against Sisera. This is an apocalyptic battle with apocalyptic imagery. Judges 5, verse 20. Now, my last observation is I I I don't I can't I can't keep making all these observations. We've got to move in and have some time for application. In verses 24 through 27, there's an obvious phrase of JL, blessed are you among women in tents. And then it moves into what is contrasting with Deborah. There's another mother in the picture besides Deborah, the mother of Israel, and it's the mother of Sisera in verses 28 through 30. And this is a difficult scene. And we I don't have time to get into the to all of the details. I would love to talk to you about it afterwards. But here you see the mother looking through the lattice Deborah is rising up as a mother, and her sons are conquering. Sisera's mother doesn't know what has happened, but you do. Sisera's mother waits for her son to return. She stares out the window, seeing no horses or chariots on the horizon. Despite the attempted comfort comfort of those around her, she will not see her son again. For we know, but she does not know yet, that Cicero lies dead from a tent peg in his skull Now she is presented here in her full humanity. But do not have too much sympathy for her. Because when she says that Sisera could have one woman, or maybe two He's talking about raping and pillaging that takes place in war, and she was looking forward to that as part of his victory, part of his domination. That's a very Canaanite thing for her to long for. Now, when you pull all these stanzas together, really what we can do is just return back to that time in the village when the women went to the well and what they were doing. That ends up, you can see that there's an iteration of bless the Lord, bless the Lord, bless the Lord, bless the Lord. That's the point of the song. Bless Yahweh. But we get more detail when we look at the women at the well And so this is our doctrine this morning from heaven. We are called to be a people. The church is called to be a people who recount the righteous acts of our Lord. I'm going to say that again. We are called to be a people who recount the righteous acts of our Lord. That's what every stanza is doing. The point here is the praise of Yahweh, and what is being recounted are his righteous acts for his people. Now for the application part, I have two pieces here. I want to look at a lens revealed and then the result of that lens. And I've got a couple of examples to go along with that So we are called to be a people who recount the righteous acts of our Lord. A lens revealed. When we look at chapter 4, go ahead and flip to chapter 4 here in Judges. When you look at chapter 4 and verse 15 When you do so to understand what has happened in the battle, this is what you hear. And the Lord routed Sisera and all his chariots and all his army with the edge of the sword before Barak. And Sisera alighted from his chariot and fled away on foot We see in this verse 15 that the Lord was the one who went before Barak and routed Sisera. Iraq hasn't even gotten there yet, and these guys are losing. Do you know what it means to rout? I ain't even saying that correctly. Most of my words I don't say correctly because I'm from the Baltimore area. To route is a word which means to confound someone's plans Sometimes it will be translated in your Bibles as to confuse. Now that's an archaic sense of to confuse. I think we're we understand what it means to confound. Let me give you a real-life very serious example, which is my attempt to start the keto diet. My attempt to start the keto now this is a this is a cycle, this goes in a cycle for years. My attempt to start the keto diet is confounded by strawberry shortcake. Do you feel my pain, brother? Is that why you're it was confounded I was on the path to diet well, and then a strawberry shortcake threw my plans into confusion. I was routed by a strawberry shortcake. Now that's a trivial example, but that's the sense in which the word is being used here in this context. Now, when we hear this righteous act of the Lord and the routing or the confounding of Sisera We tend to think that God Himself directly showed up and confounded the plans of Sisera using no secondary means. But that is not what we find when we look at his confounding most of the time. If you were to take this historical account. This historical theological accounts, and you look at the poetic description of the same parts in chapter 5, verse 21, this is the description you receive. Then torrents of Tishan swept them away. Yes, the ancient torrents of Tishan. Now, to put that into modern day, just real simple language, God made it rain. And when it rained so hard, and the rivers rose, or whatever else happened. Those iron, those chariots of iron had no traction and became useless. So any military heap plans that he had prepared, Sisera With that kind of technology, the Lord has officially confounded. Barack shows up, they're all in confusion because everybody has a plan until you get hit in the face or reigned upon. And Barak takes advantage by the power of the Lord. Now, is this not reminiscent of Egypt? Now, this song of Deborah is reminiscent of the song in Miriam's song, both prophetesses, both talking about Yahweh the warrior. Listen to this account with the same language of confounding from Exodus 14, 24 through 25. The Lord troubled or confounded the army of the Egyptians. And he took off their chariot wheels, so that they drove them with difficulty. And the Egyptians said, Let us flee from the face of Israel, for the Lord fights for them against the Egyptians. Here's my point. If that event happened today, how would our culture describe it? If that event happened today, how would our culture describe it? Remember, the name of this point is a lens revealed. They would say that they had bad luck or that they need bolts which hold wagon wheels better, and they need to perfect The manufacturing process. There would be no discussion of God confounding anybody They would not have the lens to see the event of rain or wheels collapsing or falling off as God confounding their efforts. They have no framework to ever make any such statement. If they do, they don't really mean it. I hear sometimes secular people say something they shouldn't have said, and then they say, oh, I'm around the pastor, I'm gonna get struck by lightning. That's kind of a reference to the divine world interacting with the earth. But they don't really mean that. Otherwise, they would have never said it. That is the lens that they use. But the lens that we see used by the author of Judges in the historical narrative and by Deborah in the song is quite different. If you were there, you would see chariot wheels fall off. You would not see the pre-incarnate Lord unbolting all the chariot wheels. You would just see them falling off because of boulders that were in the way, bolts that were not tightened when they were in the shop. Whatever it was, God would have worked out whatsoever comes to pass through secondary means in order at just the right moment for those wheels to fall off The assumption when we get to Judges and the Song of Deborah, the assumption is that God does not just create the world and then leave it to its own natural mechanistic causes. He is not in the upper story of the universe completely sealed off from us since he created the heavens and the earth. God is providentially active in his creation, bringing his will on earth as it is in heaven, and Deborah And the author of Judges and Moses, the author of the Exodus account, has eyes to see, and actually so did the Egyptians. Because they were set up and they were still framing things that way to look for the interaction of God on earth. Now that is a lens that needs to be revealed to us. Because that is not the lens that is the default lens for our culture. Now, when you have a lens like that, If you're going to start looking at the world like Deborah looks at the world or those other authors, what would the result be? How would things change? Well, here's the point going back to the main heavenly doctrine that we've received this morning. Do you know what would change? We would have a lot of content to write poems and songs about the righteous acts of God. That's what would happen. We would have a lot of context, contemporary content to write about the righteous acts of the Lord However, if you live in a disenchanted world where there is only the fact of defective wagon wheels and the fact of rain, and you know all about the water cycle. But you don't have any divine meaning behind those things. There is no significance or purpose behind events. Then songs will in fact be written, but they will not be written about God and his righteous acts. They'll be written about your gold hugcaps on your car or whatever. Or the dog you lost in a country song. Now, let me give you an example of a church taking this seriously. You know, there's a question in the air at this point that you should begin to feel Are you willing to acknowledge that God does righteous acts today? Because if so, Then there might be a song in you. You see what I'm saying? Here's an example. I want you to consider an example from a Dutch Reformed church This song was composed in the late 1500s, but then published in 1626. I think all of you are familiar with this song. I have searched through many sources to verify these these this content and I'm I believe that I'm right because of all the different sources. But in 1626 the Dutch Reformed Church published a song translated We Gather Together You know that one? We gather together to right? Okay, sorry. It was written to recount the righteous acts of God. God had freed the Dutch Reformed Church from the Catholic King Philip II of Spain. King Philip, when he was in power and before his defeat, would not allow Reformed Protestants to gather for worship. And so they penned We Gather Together. And here is the first stanza. We gather together to ask the Lord's blessing. He chastens and hastens his will to make known. The wicked oppressing, now cease from distressing. Sing praises to his name, he forgets not his own. Do you know how meaningful that would be to sing that song in that specific context? Accounting for the righteous acts of Jesus Christ in his ascension. Do you see the difference between the one lens and the other lens? Our culture does not have the framework to write a song like that. But in that time, the Dutch Reformed Church did, and they were not embarrassed or cynical about doing so. They wrote it with a good theology behind them, keeping it general, so as to not account for God doing things that he's not really doing. But still speaking the truth about the situation, understanding that God works in providence and not just in creative acts in the first six days. In the spirit of Scripture, in the spirit of Devrah, this Reformed church was not afraid to see their battle with the Catholic King. the righteous acts of God as God maintained the purity of his kingdom. And there is that question again. What about you? Would you ever feel so bold to write a song about God acting today I know that you are willing to sing about the major righteous acts of God recorded in the scriptures, the major intrusions. And that is right and good. But has God through Jesus Christ done anything righteous since the apostles died? That's the real question. Has God done anything righteous for his church since the apostles died? Is he doing anything righteous among us? Should he not receive songs and praise and acknowledgement for what he has done Is God through Christ and His Spirit present with us or not? If so, is he doing anything righteous worthy of recounting in poem or song? A righteous deed is something done for the good of someone or a community. Has God done anything righteous towards you or toward us? And have we praised Him for it? I'm not a songwriter. That's why I have Bradley. It's the only reason I like him. No And so, what I have done many times this week is to just stop and acknowledge a righteous act that the Lord has done right there in that moment, and I just sing the doxology. I sat back in my office chair this morning and I sang the doc sology. I wonder sometimes if you all are feeling a bit parched. Like your tongue is stuck to your roof of your mouth because you haven't had something to drink in a while. Water to give you some kind of nutrients I wonder if some of you feel a bit like a barren desert. I wonder if some of you feel depressed or anxious or overwhelmed. When you consider the song of Deborah and the exposition of it from the pulpit, could it be that you have let this world hide God and his continuing goodness from you? Has the have you let the world hide God from you? Isn't now the time to open your eyes and to see God's providential care, to see his righteous acts right now. Here is the basic argument. As a church, we must be careful to not adopt our culture's disenchanted view of the world. Instead, we must use the same lenses as Deborah, acknowledging that God is present and active among his people every day. When we do that, then we can begin to live up to our calling. And it is this: we are called to recount the righteous acts of our Lord. Especially in poem and especially in song. Amen. Let us pray