I'm going to begin in chapter 4 actually of verse number 18 just to lead into this with a little bit of context, but our main reading is verse 3 of chapter 5. So beginning in verse 18 of chapter 4. And Jesus, walking by the Sea of Galilee, saw two brothers, Simon called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen Then he said to them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. They immediately left their nets and followed him. Going on from there he saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother In the boat with Zebedee their father mending their nets. He called them and immediately lay they left the boat and their father and followed him And Jesus went about all Galilee teaching in their synagogues, preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all kinds of sickness and kinds of disease among the people. Then his fame went throughout all Syria, and they brought to him all sick people who were afflicted with various diseases and torments, and those who were demon-possessed, epileptics. And he healed them. Great multitudes followed him, from Galilee, from Decopolis, Jerusalem, Judea, and beyond the Jordan. And seeing the multitudes, he went up on a mountain, and when he was se when he was seated, his disciples came to him. Then he opened his mouth and taught them, saying Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we ask, I ask that you would grant efficacy to the words of this preached word, I pray that you would grant listening ears to your congregation. Lord, that is no small matter, and I ask that you would act mightily and that you would be praised for it. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. We moved from the series on Jonah. to the series on the Great Commission because of the question that Jonah raised. Jonah raised Should we be willing to go to the nations? And are you willing to do so? And that question being in the air I thought it best for us to camp out on the end of Matthew with the Great Commission, and in the Great Commission we noticed that it was structured by four alls All authority, all the nations, all my commands, and always with you. Now, with one of those alls, the all my commands, that went along with the idea of that our main job toward the nations and towards each other is to make disciples. He says, go and make disciples of all the nations, teaching them to obey all that I have commanded you. So now, we've done Jonah, we've done the Great Commission, and within the Great Commission we hear about discipleship, and so our next step now, as we're working still to answer fully that question from Jonah. is to turn to the Sermon on the Mount, which is a discourse on discipleship. So that's why we're doing that, and we'll be in this for some time. And you can see that we begin here with Matthew 5, the Beatitudes, but I started us a little bit earlier in Matthew chapter 4. 18 through 22, because before we even get into the Beatitudes seeking to answer, okay, well, if we're to disciple the nations and to be growing as disciples of Jesus Christ, well what does that look like? And how is that done In order to be able to answer that, there are a few steps that we have to get to before we get into the Beatitudes proper. The first thing that we, the first step that we have to take is we have to realize that this entry into discipleship or even becoming a disciple of Jesus Christ What's pointed out to us before the Sermon on the Mount is that Jesus Christ calls his disciples. Did you notice that So before we even get into the lessons of being a disciple, you'd have to ask the question, well how is it one that one even becomes attracted to that idea And you can see in Matthew 4, 18 through 20, 22, particularly in verse number 19, that Jesus says, And then he said to them, Follow me. And I will make you fishers of men. And they immediately left their nets and they followed him. It doesn't start with them searching for him. It starts with him searching for them and calling them to himself. You know, that might sound like I'm like winding up to be able to hammer you with some reform doctrine on predestination here this morning. And I'm actually not winding up to do that. I'm winding up to point out to you that Jesus calls them. And actually I'd like to point out to you that our culture, not just the Reformed faith, but our culture is actually obsessed with predestination. I'd encourage you to, and you can share with me afterward, please show me a story within our culture that does not have predestination. Please show me a story in our culture that does not have a call in one way or another. In one way or another, in all of our stories, and especially the greatest of our stories, there is something we could call it providence in a lot of stories that is acting and is calling people into, let's just say it's an adventure. If it's the story that's not doing that, they're actively trying to subvert it and oftentimes fail. In s existential literature, for example, Camus, if you read his stuff, he's trying to avoid it and he still finds it extremely difficult and perhaps impossible. One of our favorite stories, for example, is the Hobbit, and the Hobbit starts off with a uh call. It is a call. A call can take different forms. There are different kind of magical figures that show up who are from a different order and a different world. But in the Hobbit, we remember the an unexpected, I think the chapter is called an unexpected party or unexpected celebration. It's chapter one And Gandalf shows up and just just summarily he says to uh he says to is it Frodo or Bilbo? It's Bilbo at this point, right? Yeah. And he says to him I am looking for someone to share in an adventure that I am arranging, and it is very difficult to find anyone Now they're smoking pipes and all kinds of stuff in this scene, but I'm gonna just kind of jump around. And Bilbo replies, I should think so in these parts We are plain quiet folk and have no use for adventures. Nasty, disturbing, uncomfortable things. They make you late for dinner. I can't think what anybody sees in them Gandalf continues, you'll have a tale or two to tell when you come back. And Bilba replies, You can promise that I'll come back? And Gandalf replies, no. And if you do, you will not be the same. And that's uh just like any other story. If you were to go ahead across our culture, you'd see that There is sometimes there is a there is a call. Sometimes it'll be a mystical deer on the edge of the forest that calls you into the woods. And there are different things for different stories. I just watched a more modern contemporary story called Lucy about a woman who has uh is using perhaps 10% of her brain and comes in contact with a chemical where she eventually uses 100% of her brain. And there is a call right in the beginning. It's so powerful, you could even say, in accordance with the Reformed faith, that it is an irresistible call that she is under. And she enters into that and goes to her destiny. And the same thing is happening here. That's my main point, is to try to contextualize it a little bit for you within your own experience, but also in your experience of the scriptures. That the disciples, first and foremost, disciples receive a call to adventure. And then it is in that reception of the call that Jesus is now speaking to them that they might continue down this path that he has set them on. If Jesus pulls up us up out of the chaos and sets us on a rock It is from that rock that enters into a path, and now Jesus is saying, and this is what it will look like. This is what it will look like to be in my kingdom and to be my kingdom people. And that's where you can see in verses one and two actually, take a look back down now in chapter five. And you can see that although his fame had spread, he is pulling a section of people to himself to explain these things. He says, and seeing the multitudes, he went up on a mountain. This is a reference that he's going to give divine teaching and that he's a Moses figure, or fulfilling that figuration. And when he was seated with his disciples came to him. You see that? His disciples came to him. There is a call where one becomes the disciples, and then there is a perfection or a maturation that happens within discipleship And there, in order for us to be able to mature, verse number two, Jesus opens his mouth and he teaches us, just as he taught them. Now, you could ask the question, well what is he what is he teaching? And that's what we're going to do. We're going to look at this throughout the whole Sermon on the Mount, or what are the main things that grab Jesus' attention? What are the first things that he wants to share with his church authoritatively, with his congregation, as to what it means to be his disciple? And you would need to know that You would need to know that because if you are to disciple all nations, you cannot give what you do not have And so, as you come under the discipleship of Jesus Christ, learning his ways, you too then pass those ways on to others. And the whole thing here is quite relevant to our movement in the Great Commission. So let's go ahead and take a look at verse number three, more in particular, which is our verse this morning. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. We could talk about just this single verse, even just the way that it is structured in the original language, because there is so much ambiguity purposefully, it being a proverb. We could talk about it. It has so many different layers in which it could be analyzed, just like the proverbs. And I'm not going to do that, but I'm just going to mention a few things that I think are important for you here this morning This first section that we see here with the blessed are the poor in spirit, this blessed idea, if you were to look at different translations, blessing, or this word that is translated blessed here in this path in this translation, they they choose that translation because of a Latin word that means blessed, but there are other translations like happy. Fortunate. Wonderful news. Honored. If you're from Australia, I have a friend in Australia. I texted him this morning and I said, I found an Australian phrase that's supposed to be an equivalent a dynamic equivalent to blessed in the Sermon on the Mount, and it's good on you. And I have to ask, what does that mean? And am I saying it right? And then there's a Gaelic phrase also, which I can't pronounce the Gaelic. You ask too much of me. But it's translated as white in your world. White in your world. It's not a racial reference. It has to do with uh there's a kind of uh a sh you're you're shining or if you saw someone You might say, wow, you're glowing today. That kind of an idea. So you could you could see what people are trying to get at and what Jesus is communicating here. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Happy are the poor in spirit. Fortunate are the poor in spirit. Wonderful news for those who are poor in spirit. Honored are the poor in spir Spirit good onya. Go on the foreign spirits And whatever the Gaelic saying is are the poor in spirit. And the difficulty for me as a preacher is that I can see how each one of those pick up a little bit of the field of what Jesus is seeking to communicate. Some people try to steer away from the idea of happiness because they look at the other passages, for example, where it says, Blessed are those who are mourned, for they shall be comforted. Certainly he's not talking about happiness here. But I don't think he means just happiness in the sense of always having an emotional positive feeling. I think he's talking about a much higher level of happiness, so happiness should not be excluded here. In fact, you might even want to be able you might want to say that The good life belongs to the poor in spirit. True contentment belongs to those who are poor in spirit. Something along those lines. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And I'll let those world those those words and that kind of physaris that I gave to you swirl around around in your mind. But I do want to point out one thing in particular about all of those of what Jesus is doing by using this word blessed or good on you is that he is inverting and subverting what the culture believes is the good life. He is certainly doing that. There's no real question about that. It seems at each comment, you know, I read for each sermon series that I'm doing, I'm I'm reading probably ten to twelve different commentaries just to see what's the conversation like. And it's it's interesting when you run into a place where they all agree. And they're all agreeing that Jesus is giving a message that inverts or turns upside down the regular stories and messages of his culture. And that's definitely what's happening here. That uh there is a kind of an inversion. Now are you are you familiar with inversions? Of course you are, because you live in late modern Western culture. At every moment there is an inversion. You've started to notice aversion, especially if you're sitting here and you're older than 50. You have seen more inversions than you would care to see. Amen. But let me give you an inversion just as an example so you can see the kind of thing that Jesus is doing. There's an inversion I think we're all familiar with. or most of us here will be familiar with because the inversion came out in a movie in 2001 named Shrek Now and then I think about it, 2001, that means twenty-four. There are many here who were not born by that. And that really depri Depresses me. But no. It doesn't depress me, but it all the other day, I'll just have an aside here, the other day I was flabbergasted to realize that Jurassic Park is over twenty five years old. And I I just thought I'm Reaching the end. So in 2001, Shrek is a movie that surprised many people. I remember seeing Shrek number one in the theaters. Does everyone here know what I'm talking about, Shrek? Yeah, okay. I remember seeing it in the in the theaters and it actually brought me to the edge of my seat because of what was happening I had never seen done in film before He the the the writers of Shrek are inverting every fairy tale that had been handed down to us. And they were doing so in a way that was Funny. The whole place was roaring with laughter. Now one example that maybe you haven't picked up. You don't even have to go very far is I just want to bring up to you how Shrek begins with an inversion. So Shrek, he's narrating he there's a a fairy tale book that looks like just any other fairy tale book and it opens like any other story And Shrek is narrating and he says, Once upon a time there was a lovely princess. All sound familiar, right? But she has an enchantment upon her of a fearful sort, which can only be broken by love's first kiss She was locked away in a castle guarded by a terrible fire-breathing dragon. Many brave knights had attempted to free her from this dreadful prison. But none prevailed. She waited in the dragon's keep, in the highest room of the tall, tallest tower for her true love and true love's first kiss. And right at that moment Shrek tears out the page of the fairy tale book and he continues, he laughs, and he says, like that's ever gonna happen, what a load of and you hear a toilet flush and you realize that he used the page for toilet paper. If there's not more of an inversion, I don't know what to tell you It's right there in front of your face when you know what to look for. And then it goes on to turn everything upside down. He does not wash with water, he washes with mud. He does not fish in a way that looks sporting or classic with fly rods. He is in a pond, he passes gas, and it's so bad that the fish die and they float to the top. And then right when he's moving off in this direction, while some of this is happening, there is a song, a very famous song that probably uh most people here know by uh Smashmouth called Uh Rockstar, right? All star. All star. I thought it was Rockstar. That All Star? I don't know. Again, showing my age. But it's a song by Smashmouth and the chorus is only shooting stars break the mold. Everything is in alignment for a total inversion of the way that Western society has told their tales in the past. And what we're going to end up seeing in Shrek is those things which have always been left on the margins, those who are not considered noble or beautiful are going to be brought to the center of the story and made the hero. And in fact, by the at the very end of the story, you are in your heart hoping that she turns into a beautiful princess. But she doesn't. She remains exactly who she is, and he loves her anyway. It's an inversion. It's an inversion of what is true. It is an inversion of what is beautiful. It is an inversion of what is good. Turning everything upside down in Shrek Taking that which was on a fray and a margin and bringing it to the center. And Jesus Christ is doing the same thing. Jesus is in these Beatitudes and in the rest of the Sermon on the Mount, we'll even see how he explicitly does it where he says, You have heard that it was said, but I tell you the truth He's inverting. And he is subverting. Now, you can see Jesus inverting here with the blessed are the poor in spirit for theirs Is the kingdom of heaven. Now that would have shocked people. That would have been a definite in uh inversion. You could, if you were to read Luke, it says, it leaves out the end of Spirit and it says, Blessed are the poor. Now today if you were to walk into a poor neighborhood and you would to just see someone who who was in true poverty, let's say it was in India Because we have trouble actually seeing real poverty in America. Although I'm sure there is some. And you were to say to them, you live the best life. You live the good life. The fact that you don't know what food's going to be on the table and that you're like you know eating scraps if you have any food, you have the good life They would say to you if they had modern philosophical language, that's a luxury belief that only you could say because you don't have to bear my existence. So when Jesus says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, that's the way that it's meant to feel. And and like I I'd laughed in the inversions of Shrek, if you were there with him I would not be surprised if I were there with him that somebody next to me would have went, ha ha ha ha, buddy, what's the twist? But Jesus is quite serious. You know, they come up with this a little bit later, you'll see in Matthew 19, where the disciples keep hearing Jesus and the inversions that he gives in Matthew 19, 23 through 25, Jesus said to his disciples, Assuredly I say to you that it is hard for a rich man I'm bringing up this example because of its contrast to poor. It is hard for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven. And again I say to you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven. And when the disciples heard this, you could put in a bi-paraphrase, when they heard this inversion, they were greatly astonished. And they said, Who then can be saved? The story was so different than the regular storyline, they could not believe it and saw no hope for the future. One commentator says, wealthy, beautiful, powerful people That's who gains the kingdom of heaven. In Jesus' world, many regarded God's promises of blessing in the Old Testament as meaning that those who seem to have the greatest blessings in the presence In other words, the rich and those who own land, they must be God's favorites. And it came as a great shock for them to be told otherwise. Now we can see some of that coming true if you were to travel to certain countries where the prosperity gospel is prevalent. you will see that everyone is looking up and seeing the guy with the BMW on the African Dirt Road, brand new, the pastor who just made a million dollars off of people there, they're thinking he's really blessed by God. They don't look to the woman who lives in the hut who actually is blessed by God. That's Jesus' inversion. We still see it today in the prosperity gospel Now this inversion is not new. Jesus is pointing out what God had had to remind his people of for a very long time. The inversion was prior to this, for example, in Isaiah 66, 1 through 2. And if you want to know what it means to be poor in spirit, this passage really answers that question for you. Listen to this, Isaiah 66, 1 through 2. Thus says the Lord, heaven is my throne and earth is my footstool. Get the picture that God is up. God is magnificent. You see his majesty Where is the house that you will build me? And where is the place of my rest for all those things my hand has made? And all those things exist, says the Lord. But on this one I will look. On this one, I will pay attention to this. On this one, rest my favor. On him who is poor, okay, not socioeconomically But on him who is poor, and then there's a parallelism, so you can understand what he means by poor here, on him who is poor and of a contrite spirit Okay, well what does that look like? Comma, still in Isaiah, and who trembles at my word. Those who are in submission to God are those who are the foreign spirits Now there's another story that brings this out too and I know that this story some of you are in love with this story because it lets you know That you're among the people of God. And it's from Luke 18, 9 through 14. Let me give you another snapshot of a poor in spirit. You can pretend if you want with me that we're just kind of looking through an old photo book or family photos together, and I'm going to point out just a couple pictures. The first picture I wanted to point out was this Isaiah passage, Isaiah 66, 1 through 2, and and how he points out who he really pays attention to and who his favor is with. What it looks like to be in a healthy covenant with him. That's Isaiah 66. And I want to move you now over. We're going to flip the page. And I want you to see this other picture from Luke 18, 9 through 14 He says, and he spoke this, and Jesus spoke this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and they despised others. So he says this parable. Two men went up to the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this tax collector I fast twice a week. I give tithes of all that I possess. And the tax collector, standing afar off, would not so much as raise his eyes to heaven. But he beat his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me a sinner. Jesus then concludes his parable here, and he says, I tell you This man, the tax collector, went down to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled. And he who humbles himself will be exalted. Blessed are the poor. Now this is not this is it's a good paraphrase, really, this parallel. You can just see how he's exuding a summary of this in proverbial form. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are those who are contrite in heart. Blessed those who tremble at my word. And that was an inversion. You can see how that Luke eighteen again is yet another inversion. I wonder if you, you know, as you as you enter into these stories and you you're hearing these different lessons that Jesus is teaching and you're you're discovering what it means to be poor in spirit, you're starting to hear how Jesus sees the world and that it's different than the other the way that people tell stories about it. You you've seen this inversion? I wonder if you have personal experiences with Having to be poor in spirit. You know, if Christ has called you into his band He's working on you all the time, ways you don't even know. And he is he for you to even move toward him, he has He has planted within you and ordered your world in such a way where there is a kind of resident humility to where you would submit to him. It's called irresistible grace I remember uh one uh one picture, so let's go ahead and flip the album book now. I want to show you another picture of poor in the spirit that's extra biblical I remember sitting at a table with a gentleman who had just earned his PhD. Now, I want you to keep that in mind. We already in our culture go from K to 12. That is already an enormous amount of time of your life. Then you go from K to 12 into your bachelor's. Okay, and that's another four usually, sometimes five. Stephen, um I feel a lot of you're a good man going through your PhD. And so I'm tracing this is this is l literally Stephen's steps Then we move in beyond that. If you're going to do a master's, you could do two years, but if it's going to be a doctor's, it's going to be a whole nother six. Is that right? Yeah, about something along those lines. So just go ahead and do the napkin math on that And you can see there is an enormous amount of hard work that is put into achieving something like a doctorate. So he had just achieved it. And they're eating dinner in a celebration, and he is the one that is going to pray. And he in his prayer, there he they they have friends there, and in his prayer, he thanks the Lord For his wife and for his children, and for being able to receive the doctorate. And when the prayer is over and they all lifted, he looks down the table and he sees that one of his close friends is astonished at the prayer. And he's so astonished that he can't hold it inside. It's one of those friends that's not afraid to be disagreeable. And he says, I didn't hear any credit going to you in the prayer. You just worked for how many years and you're going to give it all to God? And he was serious about it. He thought a great injustice had just taken place, and the gentleman there with the doctorate with kind of his head, his eyes looking down, not in a competitive fashion, says, if it weren't for my God, then I would have nothing. That's a snapshot. We turn the page in this album, and that's another snapshot of someone I've seen where there is a kind of humility and an awareness of a person's place within the cosmos. That came through in that person's view of the entire situation. Now if if you sat down and you did the accounting with him and said, did you do any hard work to get your PhD? He would of course say yes But he's not interested in that agency at the point because he sees where it all really comes from anyway. That's what it's like when you know who God is. You decrease then he increases. It s just happens that way. Now that's another one. Here uh another one uh We could turn the page and we could we could see another picture where uh there is a a woman who is so competent She's so competent that no matter how you good you think you are at your thinking, she's better. No matter what arguments you think you have and how good you are at debate, she will run circles around you. And so using these gifts She uh gained a law degree and was going to enter into law and became convinced, although fully competent enough to be eventually become a partner at a law for law firm She chose to take a multi-year break. And when she returned, she took very limited hours because she believed that God wanted her to raise her children and to be present for her husband. Different people have different paths. But I'm just pointing out a path that this woman took that inverts the typical story. And I'm also pointing out that she did so because of a specific call that she had believed that she had received from God So it's another example of a kind of inversion with a poor in spirit. Or here's another one. This one is a conglomeration of different things that I have seen over the years. There's a young man Fully capable of going to college, but instead he chooses to be a plumber because he believed that God was calling him, even though in the eyes of his classmates it was a lower status. They would say, oh, nice for you. Crafts are cool. But he could pick up from their body language and the way that they carried themselves and the hushed tones when he wasn't around. that they considered him to be second class because he took up a trade. But he took up the trade because he believed God was calling him to do that And it would be difficult for him, and was difficult for him, because in fact he would have to work on the toilets of those with whom he went to school. Because he's a plumber. And plumbers work on toilets. I remember watching and I could see that they felt superior to him. I could see them the way that they carried themselves. And I could also see that if he didn't watch himself, he would feel ashamed about himself. They would have their little Princeton flag or whatever it is and he would have his plumber's license. And he would feel sometimes ashamed, but God would remind him of the fact that he is doing what God had planned for him. And this is the inversion, and that it is, in his case, the most honorable path. It is the path to be celebrated And when he would go home after working hard, he should be at the table with his family and they should celebrate him for his hard work and think he's the best man in the world. That would be another example of an inversion within particular cultures. Now I could do a different inversion and I could go to only a blue collar collar town in Pittsburgh where everybody worked at the steel mill And then one guy uh thought that he could be on the Notre Dame football team and and escaped that. That's the story called Rudy And that's an inversion of I don't have to live in the steel mill, I can get an education and be a great athlete. Now that inverts that story, so there's different ways to invert different things I'm just pointing out here that these are examples again in this album that we're looking at, another poor in spirit, and I wonder if any of these hit for you. Do they hit for you Where you're having to make decisions as a disciple of Christ to live in a way that is counter-cultural. And I don't mean that in a trivial sense of you studying worldviews and counter-cultures. I mean that you really have to make decisions where you can feel that people revile you or that you're less than them according to their narratives. Well that's the that's part of what it means to be poor in spirit is to have experiences like that. And I think that's important for you to remember, as you not only are discipled by Christ, but you are used as his secondary means to disciple others. I think you need to personally have to have those experiences of how is it that I stick with Christ by His grace, living in an adverted life Because I'm going to need to pass that on to another person who's going to have similar temptations that I would have in living in that inversion. It's very difficult. There's temptations all the time I'm going to even have to call them, one of the first things you're going to have to do is you're going to have to call them out from the story they think they're in, that the culture has to find, to a different place in a different story And that will require the upside-down movement of their life. I want to introduce a metaphor for this, for you, because I think it will be helpful to you. And your discipleship. It'll be helpful for you and you, but it'll also be helpful for you in helping other people. It's really interesting to me when Paul is writing to Timothy, I've mentioned this to you before, he is concerned about people that become captive. To the deceptions of the devil. You're to correct them, you're to pray for them, and you're to pray that they would be released from his captivity. Now If you were to take that word captivity and and trace it down, you could say, well, maybe the image we're supposed to have is a bird in a cage that we're trapped. But the interesting thing in the same passage is it says that they are taken captive by the devil to do his will. That's really interesting. So that would be more like If you wanted to stick with the the the image of the animal, that would be like putting a bridle in a horse's mouth and it usually get steered wherever the devil wants to go and you're doing his work. You're his horse power, so to speak. But you know another way that you could also talk about this is possession. And I don't want to talk about it literally at this point. I'm not saying We could talk about if you have we struggle with demons. But I uh I do want to use it at least as a metaphor into a reality of human existence that You yourself and the people that God is calling to himself will be possessed. They will be possessed. They will be possessed by a specific spirit. Now you might think, well this is a little crazy that we just took a strange turn. Is there you have booze up here in the pulpit? No, I'm sober. Think about, for example, how we talk about he's really possessed by that idea. He seems like he's possessed by anger. These kinds of things, ideologies, ideas, anger, different emotions, they kind of act like their own little demonic if they're evil, demonic personalities that can take us over and move us to only see the world and to do the will of only those things. And that is what we're dealing with. I think it's a good way for you to begin to start to think about your task of discipleship. And that should bring you to a lot of prayer Because those whom Christ is calling to Himself in this metaphorical way that I'm talking about, they are possessed by the ideas and the ideologies that have taken them captive. And have been passed down most likely multi-generationally from their grandfathers and their great grandfathers. You know, you have this picture when you go to seminary for counseling of um what's going on with a human being. And it's uh a picture of this little piece of ice that comes up above the wick the water and they said this th this is what's manifesting in a human life. And you know what's below that underneath the water? The entire iceberg And part of that is not only what is going on with them in the depths of their psychology, but generations that have passed down particular habits, perhaps even within gene strains and DNA. Because genes react to us and we're a really interesting animal. What you're dealing with are people that are possessed by a particular thing and that Jesus Christ by the power of his Holy Spirit is going to help you. to cast out those demons that they would be possessed by celebrating and serving him. They will no longer, for the continuation of their life, be possessed by anger. They will not be cons possessed by envy. They will not be possessed by you go ahead and name it, and all of the biblical characters that you see that are possessed by something we shouldn't be possessed by Jesus Christ is going to change that, and he is going to make us possessed and filled by his Holy Spirit. to where we are able to see the goodness of God and to celebrate it. And like Russell Brand, see that our place is to drop on our knees in front of God and to tremble at His word. will be possessed by the Holy Spirit. And you'll be called saints because you're holy. I hope that that helps you. There is a further passage that you may want to stick on your refrigerator. From James chapter 4, 6 through 10, that gets at this same kind of idea, besides captivity as possession, is what I just gave you if you need a title to it. In James 4, 6 through 7, James picks up this same idea. He says, God gives us more grace. Therefore, God says, or therefore he says, God resists the proud. But he gives grace to the humble. Therefore submit to God. Resist the devil. See that possession thing? And he will flee from you. Draw near to God, and He will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. Lament and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom. See the inversion? Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and it will be He or Him that lifts you up. You will need to constantly help those you are discipling to be convinced that they are truly blessed and they have the good life. Every other story within their culture will tell them that that's not true. They will need a community that believes the same story that Jesus tells here. And we all will need to compensate for each other and to remind each other that we're a part of the real story. Everything else is a lie. You will need to constantly help those you are discipling to be convinced that they are living the good life. And that they are flourishing actually. And that would remain consistent with Matthew five three. Blessed or happy or flourishing or good onya are the poor in spirit. There's the kingdom of heaven. Let us pray