Scriptures to First Peter and I'll be reading tonight verses three through nine of chapter one Just for us to have some context, and I'd ask if you'd please stand for the reading of his word. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his abundant mercy has begotten us again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. To an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled, and that does not fade away, reserved in heaven for you. In this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while, if need be, you have been grieved by various trials, that the genuineness of your faith being much more precious than gold that perishes Though it is tested by fire, may be found to praise, honor, and glory at the revelation of Jesus Christ, whom having not seen you love. Though now you do not see him yet believing, you rejoice with joy inexpressible and full of glory. receiving the end of your faith, the salvation of your souls. Let's pray. Lord Christ, we ask That by your Spirit you would illuminate our minds and our hearts, that we would be hearers and doers of the word. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. He may be seated. Pain. Human suffering. Have you noticed the theme so far? the light theme for the service. Let me ask you a question. What is the purpose of human suffering? Depending on your culture and your background, you will receive a different answer to that question. It could be to prepare, to see how I'll how how or into what I will be reincarnated. Some people To others, they would say there is no suffering. It is an illusion, and you need to come to grips with the reality of the situation of it being an illusion. Now neither of those are your responses if you're a Christian, but as a Christian, what do you say? What is the purpose of human suffering? Why is there pain and suffering? What is the significance and meaning of it? And whatever you say that comes out of your mouth is the way that you live your life, does it match What you say. What you say the purpose of suffering and pain is. It's not a surprise that we're talking about pain and suffering tonight, because Peter has been writing this letter to Christians who are having a hard time. They're not having the hardest time that Christians have ever had. That is to say, we don't see any evidence both in the time in which this letter was written nor in the letter itself that they're under Nero yet. When they are under Nero, that is a different very different season for the life of the church. It's not that kind of a hard time though. But they are at the bottom of society. If you were to read through First Peter and Second Peter, you You'll find that they're at the bottom of the society, they're isolated, they are mocked. Maybe the best word for them is they are discriminated against. Think about the violation of civil rights. That we think of it. Think of it, for example, it wouldn't be unusual if um they had a separate bathroom, if you would. That kind of thing is going on within this society, not wanting to sit and eat at the same table or be in the same Jesus said, If you love my sheep, take care of them as their shepherd. Peter seeks to shepherd them by encouraging them, even in the reading. He reminds them and us that even if the whole world is discriminative against us, we are not to fear because we have the whole Trinity on our side. The election of God the Father, verse 1 or 2, verse 2b, in sanctification of the Spirit, verse 2C For obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ. Each member of the Trinity present on our side. Last week we moved from simply an encouraging moment in the greeting to outright celebration. You should have said by the end of the sermon, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. And you should have said that for several different reasons. Because he gave them and he gives us Christians, new birth. He gave them and he gave us an inheritance reserved or awaiting for us in the new heavens and the new earth. And because he will resurrect our dead bodies, their dead bodies and ours, from the dead to enjoy that inheritance. What's the point of him bringing out the resurrection of Jesus Christ? He alone has the power. It is the same power that he demonstrates in the raising of Jesus from the dead, so too there will be our raising from the dead that we can enjoy all of the things that He has reserved for us. In heaven. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. This week, Peter is going to continue With two more encouragements, two more celebrations. We'll be able to say for two more reasons: blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. It's because this week, God the Father keeps his children to the end. He preaches Preserves them. And number two, because he will preserve them even through trial. Those are two more reasons to say, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, because he keeps Us and because he keeps us even through the difficulties and pains and sufferings of our life. So let's take a look at the first further reason to praise our God. And the Father of the Lord Jesus Christ, because He keeps you, His children, He preserves you. You notice that here within the verses where we left off from last week. To an inheritance incorruptible, undefiled, and that does not fade away, reserved in heaven for you. Now, what good would that do if we weren't kept for it? And so we see here a promise in verse 5: who are kept by the power of God, that same power that raised Jesus Christ from the dead will keep you for those rewards reserved for you. This must have been the ultimate comfort for this group of people, and it is the ultimate comfort for us as a congregation. Congregation also. God has an inheritance for those who stay true to Him. That is a teaching all over the Scriptures. The problem, of course, is the temptation to be untrue. To be disloyal, to apostasize. Anyone who has been a Christian for any length of time has experienced this. Through the temptations of Satan and the world, how do you ever stand a chance against Satan himself to hold on to your faith? What about the corruption remaining inside, eating away at you every moment of your life, causing doubts to rise and for you to cycle different scenes in your head for you to doubt and apostasize from God? What allows you to hang on? What about your own neglect of the scriptures, prayer, fellowship, and worship? If it were left up to you, you wouldn't do any of those things, the very means for you to be preserved. And what about when you choose to sin or you're caught in a besetting sin that's embarrassing? The grief that can weigh you down? Wouldn't it be easier to just throw it off and head off in a different direction? Than God. Most human beings would say yes. But here's the wonder: amidst all of those enemies, even ourself, faith remains What is your explanation for that? Is it because you're a Marine and you're so tough you can keep your faith? In verse 5, that's not what is being taught. It is a wonder that with all those things against us we retain our faith and faithfulness to God. But here is the wonder. Here's the true wonder. The wonder is explained in verse 5 that we are kept by God the Father through faith. In our confession it says the perseverance of the Of the saints. R. C. Sproul very wisely said, we should say the preservation of the saints, because it gets at what God is doing. Of course, both are talking about what God the Father does. He either preserves or he allows us to persevere. It's a persevering grace that he has given to us. But it is in the hands of the power of God the Father You are not left on your own for your faith to survive all the assaults of Satan. God the Father is there for you. It is God the Father that keeps our faith intact. Tell me that that is not comforting to you. I have seen some people, even in this very room, go to the depths of Sheol in their in the way that they are Thinking about things. And if you were an observer from the outside, you'd say they're never going to make it back. But they didn't know about the power of God the Father. He holds that spark and he blows on it until it flames up more and more again and is never It's a beautiful thing that he has given. You know, that same image is given within Pilgrim's Progress. I know I've shared this with you probably a hundred times. Let's share it again In Pilgrim's Progress, on one side of the wall, the devil is trying to stamp out and put out the fire of our faith, but it never goes out. You know why? Because on the other side of the wall, Christ is feeding it fuel. He keeps pouring oil. It's futile for Satan to overcome. Because God the Father through Christ keeps our faith. Now Do you remember who's writing this? Tell me this isn't a personal topic. For Peter. You think Peter knew that it wasn't him, but it was God the Father who preserves faith? Think about Peter's story, because it's your story. Peter has personal experience with God's preservation of the saints Luke twenty-two, thirty-one through thirty-two. Listen to this. This is beautiful and captures a large part of what you may not know as And the Lord said, Simon Simon, indeed, Satan has asked for you that he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for you that your faith should not fail. You hear that? Jesus the Christ prayed for me Praise for Peter that his faith would not fail. And then he says, anticipating, Jesus says, and when you have returned to me, strengthen your brethren. Isn't that exactly what he's doing here in this letter? It's how it's it it it is the purpose statement of the letter that they would be strengthened. Peter is doing exactly what Christ asked him to do. Here's something I want you to puzzle through with that. Luke 22, 31, and 32. You may want to meditate on this when you get home. Who is Christ praying to? Is it not God the Father? And of course it's God the Father, because it's God the Father who would preserve Peter's faith. Jesus Christ knows that. And Peter is seeking for us to be able to see that here in verse 5, that we would know it. That just like Peter, Satan seeks to sift you every day, Christian. And the reason why he does not, the reason why, even if you fall or stumble, you the reason why you get back up in faith is because God the Father is right there answering the prayers that Jesus Christ has said for you. You see that? Isn't that beautiful? You know how comforting that is? It was comforting for Peter as he was restored and as now strengthening the brethren, and it was comforting to this group of people. and it's comforting to us. You know what I have to say about this? Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Did you see that coming? Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who preserves our faith. So we see another reason to give praise to God, and that is his persevering grace. That's the way it is known in the sixteenth. And 17th century. Next, we can see how God accomplishes this. This is the second reason, further reason, why we would say, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord. Jesus Christ is that He not only preserves us in our faith, but He does so through trials, pain, and suffering. Now that can be meant in two ways, so let me clarify. To say that he keeps his children through trials, it could be it could mean he carries us through the trials to the other end of the trial. We go through the fire and we get out through the other end. And that is very true, but that's not what I mean here. Here is what I mean, because we're focused here on this passage, starting in verse 6. In this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while, if need be, you have been grieved by various trials. Purpose statement. Why have you been grieved by various trials? Why are there trials in your life? Christian, why what is the purpose of suffering? That the genuineness of your faith, being much more precious than gold, that perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be failed? To praise, honor, and glory at the revelation of Jesus Christ. And if you skip down to verse 9, you can see the end result, receiving the end of your faith, the salvation. of your souls. He keeps his children through the instrument of pain and suffering. That is to say, he uses pain and suffering in our lives. To make us persevere. The image in the Pilgrim's Progress was oil being poured on the fire that the flame would continue. The image here is that he He pushes you into pain and suffering, superintends the entire situation, that your stamina and perseverance continues that you would make it to the end in the race. that he might give you all of the rewards that he has promised you. That is the main teaching and it's the main method. God introduces all manner of pain and suffering into our lives to strengthen our faith so that we can persevere. To the end, verse 7. Here's the question that I have for you as a Christian: Do you want the inheritance? Do you want all the rewards that Jesus Christ has merited for you? You? Do you want the eternal life that He has for you? Do you want the new heavens and the new earth? Eternal felicity? Do you want to be a part of that list where it says, blessed be? Do you want to inherit the earth? If your answer is yes to any of those things, the only way for you to make it to that reward is pain And suffering, because it is the way that he upholds you to the end. That is the means, and you must accept it. This is the teaching here within scriptures. You must go through pain and suffering. Now, this is a very different way to look at suffering and difficulty, but I find it ultimately liberating and hopeful. I want you to grant something to me. Would you grant to me that American secularism is a kind of re religion and has disciples that follow it. Our culture has disciples. If you're a leader and you have disciples, you have a responsibility to those disciples. And one of the responsibilities to your disciples is that you would show them how to handle suffering and pain Wouldn't you say that you would be a good leader if you showed your disciples the meaning and how to get through pain and suffering? It's a basic responsibility that you would have. So let me ask you this question. How does America prepare her devotees to deal with pain and suffering? By suing people. I wasn't expecting an answer, but that is true. And the cultural swath. America gives no explanation for suffering. It just happens. And very little resources to deal with it One author making this point cites a doctor, Dr. Paul Brand. Dr. Paul Brand is a pioneering orthopedic surgeon. Surgeon, and he focuses on the treatment of leprosy patients. He has spent the majority of his medical career in India, and in the last part of his career, he spent it in the United States. United States. This is what he has this is what he has to say. In the United States, I encountered a society that seeks to avoid pain at all costs. Patients lived at a greater comfort level than any I had previously treated. But Americans seemed far less equipped to handle suffering and far less more traumatized by it. Isn't that interesting? Now who's responsible for that? It's rid the American secularism is the responsible leader to ch to train her de or its devotees or disciples to know what to do, and here we find that the disciples of American secularism are are clueless and have no tolerance for pain. So here's my question to you. You actually are not a disciple of America. American secularism, you are a disciple of Jesus Christ. And as a disciple of Christ, you are not in the same unprepared condition As a disciple of American secularism. What is Jesus Christ teaching you about the purpose of suffering? What is he leading you in as his disciple? What is he saying to you that you would know what to do with suffering and Pain in your life, what would the Indian doctor say to you? This is what we're learning from the passage. Your pain and your suffering are a part of God making your faith stronger. So that you last to the end. And at the end, you are rewarded everything And of course, what we have to say to this for the way that Jesus has so cared for us in teaching us what to do with pain and suffering, as opposed to the alternative with our culture and what our culture teaches its disciples. Blessed be the Lord the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. That's our second reason. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. He preserves his children to the end. even through the pain and suffering they face now. I know that this would strengthen Peter's congregation through the ministry of the Holy Spirit. Spirit. And I know that as the Spirit ministers in you, that this would strengthen you also, what Peter's message is to you, and the privilege that you have to not be a discipline. disciple of this culture. Whatever it is your tragedy, or your pain, or your suffering, or your trial, My call and charge to you, my call to action, is that you would take your Christian faith and discipleship under Jesus Christ seriously. In this regard, you do not need to view your pain as an American would view it. You are being taught something different in Jesus. Jesus Christ. You are seeing the reality that is given by God the Father and how you are to view your suffering and your pain. Pain. You can view it as a Christian. Here's what I also have to say to you: your pain may not go away on this side of the new heavens and the new earth. That is a matter of fact. It seems like the older you get, the more pain you have. The pain may not go away, but I'll tell you this right now. As a disciple of Jesus Christ, you know what the purpose is to your pain and your suffering. Because it's in the hands of God the Father, and He is using it to a purposeful end. And that end, brothers and sisters, is totally worth all the pain in the world. That's the message that you receive from Peter as he was instructed from Christ tonight. And I pray that that's Does comfort you. You know, there are people out there that are lost in their pain and their suffering and they are dizzied by it. Why don't we spend some time tonight Praying that one of the the reasons why people would run to the kingdom of Jesus Christ is to better understand their world of pain. To get some kind of rest and relief from their suffering. I'm sure you have other prayers tonight, but that's just one that uh comes to my mind, it's overtaken my heart that we would pray for our culture. Our culture is being misled by a horrible leader. And I'm I'm I'm abstracting it as an idea it's an ideology that covers the whole country. I'm not talking about the president. Don't you want them to be out of slavery to our culture and become disciples of Jesus Christ? Don't you want to see them have that? Let's pray for open doors for the gospel to be preached. Let's pray for people to walk through those doors to be gathered in. And I'm sure there's other prayers that you have. So let's take what we've heard in the sermon as well as what you have on your own heart and mind and go now to a time of prayer.