And seeing the multitudes, he went up on a mountain, and when he was seated, his disciples came to him, and he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Let us pray. Oh Heavenly Father, we pray in the name of Jesus Christ that here even today in the moment that by the sanctifying work of your Holy Spirit That you would purify our hearts of all competing idols, and that we would serve you. I pray that you would move your congregation to these ends in the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. What is a movie that inspires you? I remember going through a time during COVID where it seemed like nothing was inspiring And so we had a regular succession of inspiring movies. And one of them that I think I could watch every day is the movie Rudy. Just so you know, if you don't already know this about me, my top movie, however, when I have the flu, I have top movies for different things. But when I have the flu my top movie is The Patriot. Absolutely. It straightens up my heart. But at other times just to be inspired it would be something like Rudy. And if you think of Rudy, has everyone here pr seen that movie or you're familiar with the story? If you think of Rudy, he's a smaller guy who has the dream to play Notre Dame football and all of his family glories in Notre Dame football. Uh but he's smaller and there's really no chance. But he's got one thing on his side, and that's his heart. In fact, there's a pivotal moment in the movie where the one of the main coaches before he retires They're at their final practice for Notre Dame football. Spoiler alert, Rudy makes it into Notre Dame And he ends up being on the the practice squad where he helps the main uh first teams get ready for games And the quarterback has an attitude and is usually lukewarm and half-hearted in his efforts for Notre Dame football And the coach says to that quarterback, who's a starter, what is your problem, O'Hare? What is your problem? And the quarterback says who has just been hit by um as a running back but who had just been hit by Rudy because Rudy is playing with all his heart even at the last day of practice. There's no more games left. But he's still just the way that he always is That running back says it's the last practice of the season and Rudy thinks it's the Super Bowl. And then the coach comes back at him. I think he slams his clipboard on the ground and he's screaming at the running back and he says, you just summed up your entire sorry career here in one sentence If you had a tenth of the heart of Rudiger, you have made all America by now. And that is a moment that encapsulates that story. Have you ever been around people that have heart? Have you ever seen someone make a sports team because they had more heart than the rest? Have you ever seen someone maybe in a military division or something else where it was their heart That was the primary reason for their success. And I could ask you What are the things where your heart has really been involved? Where have you been like Rudy? In other words, if people had the tenth of the heart that you had with that, then they could have been ex they could have been successful. And in that way you were exemplary. Those are questions that we need to consider today when we're looking at verse number eight when we talk about the pure in heart. You know, this is a succession. It's not like we're launching here into chapter 5, verse 8, and we haven't done any work prior to this. We've looked at all of the blessed or the great news or the happy are you here. We've looked at blessed are the poor in spirit and blessed are those who are mourn mourn and blessed are those who who are meek. And blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. And blessed are the merciful. That's what we did last week. And here we're looking in verse number eight. at a passage that is really very similar to the stories that we see, like the story of Rudy. For Notre Dame football, a good analogy is Rudy, and we could say Rudy was pure in heart. And because of that, he was able to see time on the field. Here we can see that it's just a similarity and that God and Jesus Christ here in the teaching has something much grander in mind than college football. And Irish traditions. He says, here, blessed are the pure in heart, not that you'll see the football field and be able to play one game, but you're going to see God. Now I think that there is some there are some questions that surround this verse, as with all of the verses. One of the things that I keep pointing out is that because these are individual statements It's very difficult or it can be difficult to nail down exactly what is Jesus saying. And the the the way that I've tried to get this across is to say, well, these are kind of like individual proverbs. And one of the difficulties of reading individual proverbs is not that you you can't see a meaning, it's that you can see ten meanings There's a kind of inherent ambiguity to these. Well, that's the case with this too. Blessed are the pure in heart, for you shall see God. There are a lot of different ways that you could take that. And one of my arguments early on in the sermon series is that, you know, in a sense, most of those senses could be right based on the other teachings of the scriptures. So what we've done for each one of these, just to remind you, is we've looked elsewhere where Jesus is most likely pulling these teachings from so that we can have a greater context. God is so merciful and gracious to us. He never just leaves us with one thing that he says. He gives us all of it. And so here this morning I want to begin by just working out, well, what does he mean by this? And then we'll we'll see what difference that makes, especially in terms of you being discipled by Jesus and you discipling other people. The first thing that I want to point out to you is just what does it mean to be pure in heart? And my argument is that the pure in heart are those who give their allegiance to God in single-minded devotion. That's what I think it really means here, though I know the word purity can mean different things in different places and refer it to different acts of God. Here I think it's primarily an act And um born by God, but by you toward Him. Single-hearted devotion, which is why I used the analogy of Rudy Now to get at this, I actually would like you to turn in the scriptures with me to where I believe one of the places that is echoed here Perhaps Jesus even had this on his mind is Psalm 24. So if you could please turn there with me, and we'll just take a quick look at that. Keep your finger in the Matthew passage, because we'll be going back there. I'm not going to read the whole thing, but I will just point you to Psalm number 24, and we'll start at number three. And actually, if you didn't want to flip to it in the scriptures, it's in your bulletin also. We do things on purpose around here. And I'll begin at verse number three. Who may ascend into the hill of the Lord, or who may stand in his holy place He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who has not lifted up his soul to an idol, nor sworn deceitfully. I just want you to notice some of the obvious things here when you look at Psalm 24. And the first obvious thing is look at the similarity or the repetition of the exact language that we see Jesus using. We see him here talking about a pure heart. And even in ver and that's in verse number four, a pure heart of Psalm twenty-four. We also see him talking about receiving blessing. Blessed are the pure in heart. Both of those things are also present within Matthew 5. 8. And then even the idea of seeing God is present within this psalm, but just put slightly differently in verse number six where it says, who seek your face? It's a way of talking about being in his presence and seeing him or dwelling with him. And so all I'm really trying to do right now is to just give you some other scriptures for you to be able to say, okay, well what it who are these people that are pure in heart? And you can see here, according to Psalm 24, that if we look to Psalm 24, maybe we can begin to find that answer. Because the same words are being used here. So it looks like they're talking about the same thing, whether it's the psalmist or the whether it's the Son pre-incarnation through the psalmist. Or if it's the Son after the incarnation in his own teaching here. Now, take a look at Psalm 24 and just ask yourself, how does the poetry of it teach you? What does it show you that those words mean in terms of being pure in heart? Well there's repetitions in poetry, so He states it in one way, and then he states it in another way, and he states it in another way. So then you have three different ways or three different restatements to be able to figure out what it means to be pure in heart Number one is he who has clean hands and a pure heart, and then he goes on and he says, who has not lifted up his soul to an idol. And you can see right away there that that original statement that I gave to you is what's going on here. We're talking about those who give their allegiance to God in single-minded devotion, not those who are divided in their loyalties and sometimes giving their loyalty to another God or another thing that acts as a God versus God Himself. That's not who the pure in heart are. The pure in heart are those who are not divided in that way. Actually, let me just give you, I'll just read you, I don't want you flipping all over the place this morning I'll just give you an example from 1 Kings 18. 21 that you want to make uh you might want to look at later or talk about together as a community over the meet at the meet and greet this afternoon. But in 1 Kings 1821, you can see an example of pure heartedness not going after idols, but being in single devotion to one God. It's Elijah and he confronts. This should be very familiar to you. And Elijah came to all the people and he said, How long will you falter between two opinions? If the Lord is God, follow him. But if Baal, follow him But the people answered him not a word. Now what an excellent example of exactly what the Psalmist is getting at here. And the reason why I ended up going to that passage to begin with, because it was cross-referenced in my Bible So other people, even the translators, were seeing that pure-heartedness has to do not with divided loyalties, but a single y a single loyalty. Now here's the other thing, the reason why I think this is what it means to be pure in heart. This is what I think Jesus means. Single-minded devotion. Not only from Psalm 24, but also, did you, when you heard the clean hands and the pure heart, did any New Testament passages pop into your mind? Like for example, example, James chapter 4. In James chapter 4, verses 7 through 8, we see the same wording again. It's like all of these, whether it's James or it's Jesus Or the Psalmists, let's say David at this point, they're all talking about the same thing, trying to get it across in different ways for different kinds of people. And in James 4, 7 through 8, he says, Therefore submit to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, double-minded. It's all right there. You have what looks to me Jesus bringing forward Psalm twenty-four. It looks to me you have James bringing forward Jesus and Psalm 24, all talking about what it means to be pure in heart, and each of them are saying it has to do with competing allegiances and offering your primary devotion to God. And we could be even more specific that God the Father, especially here in the Beatitudes, is calling for your primary devotion to Jesus. Christ. To Jesus Christ. By the time we get to the end of the Sermon on the Mount, he will say, unless you build on this rock, your house will fall. And that's getting at the same thing. It's the same thing. I'm actually beginning to think that Purity of heart provides, I'll just, because I'm still tentative, a major key to understanding the entire Sermon on the Mount. I'm thinking it is the Lebs, that Jesus is primarily focused on allegiance. That's what he's focused on here, and that there are a bunch of examples on where we can get that wrong, and that we sh and that his disciples will be focused on getting that right Now let me give you one more example just to bring further conviction that this is in fact what Jesus means by pure in heart. Do any of you remember that I said that these blessings correspond and uh to Matthew chapter 23 and the woes? And everyone nodded saying, yes. I've totally been following the poetic structure that you've been telling us from Matthew. It's been really exciting, Jesse. Thank you so much. In Matthew 23, if you go through and you count out the woes and you count out the blessings and you go ahead and you cross-match them The woe that comes up this time has the same word about pure being pure and clean and speaks about Pharisees and scribes who are double-minded. It says this. It says, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, and here's the double-minded word, it's just a different word. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For you cleanse the outside of the cup and dish, but inside they are full of extortion and self-indulgence. And that's a reference back to Psalm twenty-four, by the way, where it it mentions that uh Nor has sworn deceitfully. So there's another example for you to see, even with the corresponding woes, that Jesus is concerned about an undivided loyalty. That what can happen in humanity is that as Joshua put forward, we can falter between two opinions. And in order to hide that for the Pharisee and the scribes, you know how they they resolved that tension? They looked religious on the outside, but that famous scriptural phrase, but their hearts were far from him. There was no heart there. Their hearts were not pure. That's what he means. There wasn't any real devotion there. They weren't alive towards God. If you keep reading that woe that woe, there's another woe after that where it says, you are clean on the outside, but inside you're full of dead man's bones. Not life but death. Not love towards God, but love for yourself. and love for status. And that's going to run through the whole Sermon on the Mount. He's going to be confronting that. Outside they looked like they were devoted to God, but Jesus saw their heart and that their heart was serving someone or something else. So they were not pure in heart. So that's what he has in mind here. He has in mind when he says, Blessed are the pure in heart, he's talking about those who are set with a rooty or a rutiger-like heart. But not on Notre Dame football, but instead on God and His kingdom. And a especially God incarnate who is Jesus Christ. Now, you know there's a second part to this Beatitude, right? Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. On the one hand we say, well what does it mean that we're to be pure in heart? And I I've given you an argument for why I believe this means And on the other hand, we say, and we're going to see God, what in the world could that mean? And that one can be uh pretty difficult. And in fact, I'll even admit to you that I'm right up against the the boundary here where there are many things I don't know what this means and I will not until the time comes. But there is enough scripture for us to, but God has communicated to us some of what this means. And my the the way that he has gotten it across in the scriptures that lands to where I'm like, yeah, I think I understand that. is that blessed are the pure in heart, for you will dwell with God. I don't want you to get lost in a kind of mystical vision kind of a thing I want to use the word dwell because I see dwell right along this other idea of beholding or seeing God, and my head can get around dwelling with someone. It also captures the main way in which it seems that God wants to communicate seeing him, which is dwelling with him, particularly in the tabernacle. You can see dwelling with God and beholding him or seeing him coming up in different Psalms. In Psalm 27, verses 4 through 5, it says One thing I have desired of the Lord, that will I seek, that I might dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. And then the very next sentence is to behold the beauty of the Lord That is a perceptual way of talking, a seeing. I behold the beauty of the Lord. That is two sentences. One says, dwell, and the repetition of it is I will behold his beauty Now this can be a little bit confusing. Have you ever read Psalms like this where it says that I may dwell in the house of the Lord? And you think, wow, it's like his greatest desire is to have a church lock-in for the rest of his life? Like he never left the mentality of youth group. It could be easy to see that because that's literally what he says, but what he's getting at here is he's not getting at the the tabernacle or the temple. as you might look at it as just a tabernacle or a temple, but what it what the tabernacle and the temple stand for. The tabernacle and the temple stand for returning to paradise And being with God again in Eden, or in the new heavens and the new earth, or the heavenly Jerusalem. That's what it stands for. So each of these solemnists are crying out that they would be able to get back in and to dwell with God in that paradisal state where they walked with God in the cool of the day You can see that in plenty of places, especially in Revelation 21, we have a garden in the beginning of the scriptures, and we have a garden at the end of the scriptures, we have a mountain in the beginning of the scriptures, and a mountain That the end of the scriptures And whether it is a garden or a mountain, an ascent on a mountain, as we saw in Psalm 24, who shall ascend the mount or the hill of the Lord? Those are all still referring to the tabernacle or the temple or ultimately to the new heavenly Jerusalem. Revelation 21 says, and I heard a loud voice from heaven saying Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. He will dwell with them. Do you see how all these things are coming together? Has anybody here had the opportunity to visit a reconstruction of a tabernacle or a temple? It's built in concentric circles You have an outer realm and an inner realm, and the set most central realm is the Holy of Holies. It's very similar to the book of Leviticus. Leviticus has built with concentric circles, and the center chapter is the atonement. Now if you look at that, if you have concentric circles like that with the temple or the tabernacle, I want you to pretend that it's flexible. Grab the center of the tabernacle, the Holy of Holies, and I want you to pull it up. Now what you have is the top of a mountain with various zones of holiness going to the bottom of the mountain. And now we're right back into the mountain of Eden, or Mount Sinai, or Jerusalem itself. And really what we're seeing here is that God is providing us a copy of what will, what he says in Revelation 21, be a new heavens and a new earth, a heavenly Jerusalem coming down as a mountain. Or as a city, or as a garden. And that's what we see here in this Revelation 21 verse. And when that happens, we shall dwell with him and be his people. God Himself will be with them and be their God And then what does it mean for us to dwell with him? It means to be in the glory of his presence, and it means to be for his kingdom to come and his will to be done. To where we see representative examples in Revelation 21, 4, and God wipes away every tear from their eyes. There shall be no more death, there's no more sorrow, there's no more crying, there's no more pain, for the former things have passed away. Now if you go on and you read those final chapters of Revelation, you're going to keep seeing the vision given in different ways. It it's um it's like it's in a sense it's psychedelic because you're you're moving from one image to another image, a bride and a groom, and then a tabernacle and a temple, and then a garden, and then a city, and then a mountain And the reason why you have that accumulation of images is that God is pulling all that He has said together from the beginning. Everything that has been said is being said there And he showed me a pure river, a water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding from the throne of God and of the Lamb. Now, if something is proceeding from a throne. It means it's moving down. Again, we're on a kind of mountain here. Rivers don't flow up normally. Proceeding from the throne of God and from the land, in the middle of its street, and on either side of the river was the tree of life. You see where we're back to? Who bore twelve fruits, each tree yielding its own fruit every month. The leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. And there will be no more curse, but the throne of God and the lamb shall be in it, and his servants shall serve him. And here's verse number four, which is my whole point in bringing this to you, is to see that dwelling and seeing are just about the same thing here in the scriptures. Verse number four, they shall see his face. And his name shall be on their foreheads. I think we can get our heads around, based on the scriptural imagery, what it would mean to see God. And we can do it do so in a way that's not unhealthy. We can do that by saying it means to dwell with Him, to finally be in the presence of the one that is our longing As the deer pants for the water, so too my soul yearns for you, O God, and your thirst shall be quenched. And coming along with his glory shall be his plan. No more tears. No more death, no more sorrow. No more curse. And you shall be there, seeing God in Jesus Christ, seeing him face to face, no longer through a glass darkly You shall see God. Now who is the you? Those who are pure in heart. That's what this says. And now we've looked at both halves to where you could at least understand what Jesus is getting at. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall be the ones who dwell with God. Now the first thing that I want to say about that, now that we can see just the meaning. of what that the attitude says, the first thing I want to say about that is that would have been news to these people. Things have gotten better Since Jesus Christ's ascension, it undulates, but things are trending positively. It would have been news to them because do you know who who was allowed at the center of the temple? Do you know who was allowed in the inner sanctuaries and who had to be kept on the outside? Think of it as a mountain again. Who was allowed to ascend the mountain higher? And who had to stay down lower on the mountain? What's interesting is the people that he gives woes to in chapter twenty-three, the hypocrites, were the ones who looked like they were closest to God. by what they wore, the seats that they were able to take in church and at banquets and in society in general All of the exterior things that they were able to do. We're going to get into that a little bit in the Sermon on the Mount on the way that they prayed, the way that they fasted, the way that they gave, the way that they vowed and gave oaths. The way that they viewed the temple. It was all of them who looked like they were close to God. And Jesus here is subverting that and saying By the time you get to 23, actually those of you who look like you're close to God, you're not. The reason why you're not is because you you only have things on the outside, but in the inside there is no purity of heart. And what he meant by that was what we already went over. You look like you love God and that you are serving his kingdom. But I can see That that's just an exterior hypocrisy, and that on the inside you only serve yourself and your self-interests I can give you an example from Matthew 23. One of the things that the scribes and the Pharisees were doing, Jesus points out in the very beginning, they were supposed to be helping widows. And Jesus uses the language, he was supposed to be f they're supposed to be feeding them. But instead scribes and Pharisees ate them. And you could go ahead with the imagery of cannibalism because that's the kind of that's the kind of what Jesus is seeking to put across. But those cannibals They did so in a way where it sounded like they were fulfilling God's will and the scriptures and this is the way that things need to be done. But Jesus catches them. So those who seem like they were on the edges and marginalized, like Mary and Joseph, for example. Like Jesus Himself being born among animals. Though on the outside it doesn't look like they're close to God, because there is a purity of heart by way of the gift of the Holy Spirit, they are the ones who shall dwell with God. It was a real turning upside down of the whole society. And that whole temple system, with all of its outward adornment and pomp, will be destroyed in A. D. 70 Jesus will stand above it all and he'll say, How I long to gather you under my wings, but you resisted and you refused. And now this must take place. He showed them for what they were. And they were reduced to dust. Now that's the first thing that I think is important for us to be able to see is that Jesus is talking about this in a very specific context, and this would have been uh pretty subversive. If you were a scribe and Pharisee and you heard this, you would want to start plotting his death, which is what they end up doing The other thing that I want to just mention here is I wonder, as I say things like, you know who is able to dwell with God, those who are pure in heart. I wonder if you say to yourself Or if there's a little deflating in yourself where you're like, great, I'm up a river without a paddle. Or a creek without a paddle. I wonder if that's a thought that crosses your mind where, well, if that's the class of people That are going to dwell with God, then count me out because I don't have that kind of unadulterated, constant devotion. The reason why we have a movie of Rudy is because we all aspire to be like him, but could never be that way. So how is this supposed to be, like I mentioned in the beginning, when he says blessed are the pure in heart, is great news for the pure in heart How could that be great news to us? Well, this is where we really have to make sure we understand to whom Jesus is speaking. Jesus is not saying that you must be pure in heart in order for the gates to be opened And then for you to be able to walk through. And that purity of heart has been accomplished just by you on your own resources. We have already been going through the Sermon on the Mount where he said, Blessed are those who are poor in spirit. We're further down now in the succession, and Jesus is speaking to those Who have been indwelt by the Holy Spirit, whose hearts have been purified by faith, and who are now walking with Jesus Christ. And Christ is calling them aspirationally, blessed are you who are seeking God, for you shall dwell with him. He's not saying here, this is not a doctrine that tells you that you have to be perfect right now, except perfect in Christ. But that's not what he's teaching. He's not talking about that right now He's talking about something else. He can talk about that later, but here he's talking about something different. Could you just for a moment see that this is how it actually works out Let me just ask you a question. Was Peter a disciple of Jesus Christ? Does Peter dwell with God? Does Peter know what it looks like to see Jesus? Of course he does. Was he pure in heart and the sense of perfect in this life? He was not. Because with each correction, as he popped off the path, and Jesus gives him a nice little tap He heads back on and his allegiances are aligned. If it was Paul, he's tapped back on and the allegiances are aligned. And Peter's story is all of our story. That's how we are pure in heart Is that we are preserved and that we persevere by the grace of Jesus Christ. You can see even in I won't review this again by reading it to you, but just remember that James chapter 4 verse where I had mentioned to you That he says, cleanse your hands and purify your hearts. Is he speaking to people who are not converted? He's speaking to the congregation, primarily. So even if you are considered a disciple, which means you are pure in heart, then you can even be called to be pure in heart. It's a constant progression under the guidance of Jesus Christ as as we go along, He preserves us and we're able to continue in our purity of heart, keeping our allegiance and growing in our allegiance. In Revelation 2, Jesus takes this same assumption that you don't have to be perfect. He doesn't expect it at this point. Nevertheless, I have this against you that you have left your first love. He's speaking to the congregations. Remember, therefore, from where you have fallen, repent and do the first works, or else I will come to you quickly and remove your lampstand from its place. unless you repent. Still pure of heart. And so what we see here is this is not meant to be condemnatory. to where you feel like there is no use in participating in the Christian life and that you'll never going to be able to dwell with life or dw dwell with God This is meant to be aspirational for those whom God has already set aside for Himself. And he's He's pushing them here to say, don't become like these other disciples who end up just becoming hypocrites. If there's something that you need to focus on as my disciple, it's that you would remain pure in heart. If you would return to that endeavor, devotion to me, it is meant to be hopeful, in fact. It is meant to be hopeful. There are many detours that you can take as a Christian. I think of the Christian life as kind of like a road, and there's a lot of off-ramps. If you want to, for whatever reason, there is like a a a surgence and and cultist trend right now in people loving to go to Buckeys when they go to the South. Has anyone noticed that? Yeah, I'm seeing a lot of knots. And I know there's somebody in here. Underneath your sweater, your dress shirt is a Bucky's t-shirt. I just know it. Some of you have probably had Buckeys within the last 48 hours. And if you're going down that highway there's that giant sign, you know, three hundred feet in the air with a giant Bucky the Beaver. And our life can be like that. You look over and you see Bucky's and it looks like a store the size of Texas, with everything you could possibly imagine in there and the cleanest bathrooms on earth And our life is kind of like that where we could go down this road and we see these things over on the side and so we exit. And when we and we know that we exit, we know that we get off course Because something else looks beautiful, we become of two opinions on what we really should be serving and doing with our lives But you also know that your experience is that when you head in that direction, when you go into those swamps Jesus reveals to you that this does not make any sense. You need to get back on the highway because it's not going to fulfill any of the longings that I had given to you when I brought you to myself. C. S. Lewis talks about this when he says, At present we are on the outside of the world. We're on the wrong side of the door. We discern the freshness and purity of morning, but they do not make us fresh and pure. We cannot mingle with the splendors that we see But all the leaves of the New Testament are rustling with the rumor that it will not always be so. Someday, God willing, we're going to get in. And that longing that we feel for getting on the other side of that door has been given to you by Jesus Christ and his Spirit. And though you detour, nothing idolatrous about Buckeys. I mean you could make it into an idol I just there actually there is a there is a statue of the beaver there that's idolatrous, now that I think about it. And I do see people I've never seen anyone worship worshiping it yet. But we know that about ourselves, that we go off on that side and and we think that that's going to fulfill the longing and that detour But then Christ does it again. He shows us you're not going to fulfill your longings. That's not the way through the door, even though it promises an immediacy. And he brings us back to that golden path. And he lifts our hands and he sets them once again on loyalty to God. And we go, oh, I don't know why I ever leave this path. And then we see the next off ramp and we're on the next off ramp. And then we're back on that path, that golden path beginning. So I don't know why I ever left this path. Of course this is the right path. And that's your life as God preserves you all the way through and you persevere all the way through to the celestial city. To where you shall dwell with him. And that is meant to be hu me meant to be hopeful for you The longing for this place which we have never seen. C. S. Lewis says beautifully, the scent of a flower we have not found. The echo of a tune we have not yet heard. News from a country we have never yet visited. It's that news, it's that longing, it's that sense, and it's that sound. That brings us back onto that golden path. It is the Lord Jesus Christ Himself never letting the wick burn out. Because you are pure of heart. Now you know a way to really get at this, which I'm not going to dwell on because I've run out of time. But I'd encourage you to review what I'm saying here by way of the story of the prodigal son. You know, I find it really interesting that in Augustine writing his confessions that he modeled it after the prodigal son. But he did it in this way. When we read the story of the prodigal son, we hear about the son, it says, came to his senses. And then there's this really quick movement where he's back into the presence of the Father, dwelling with him, received with compassion. What I would encourage you to do is to just, as soon as he comes to his senses and he starts to head towards the Father, hit the pause button. And pretend, if you will, with a holy imagination, that before he gets back to the Father, there is a really long journey that he has to take. And then along that journey there are offerants that he should never have taken, that it always is brought back, but he eventually makes it to the Father with open arms He says, welcome back, my son. And they have a feast. Because that is a model of your life. It doesn't happen as quickly as we see there in that summary version within the prodigal son. It says he came to himself, we come to ourselves by way of the Holy Spirit. How many of my father's servants have have bread enough and to spare? And I perish with hunger? You see that he can be fed? He knows that longing can only be fulfilled in his homeland So he says, I will arise and go to my father, and so too have you, and you're on that journey now. Along that journey there's exit ramps with shiny objects. But God brings you back to your senses and you continually long for Him. And that really raises a question that we have to deal with right now, and then I'm gonna come to an end. Are you on the off-ramp right now? Have you gotten off of the path? And your allegiance currently Though you are still a Christian, you have backslidden, and you are not giving your allegiance and your efforts for the sake of God and love for him. You have decided you're serving something else that is very, very exciting to you. And but your conscience keeps bringing up This isn't what you're supposed to be doing. And you have come up with maybe a hundred arguments to keep its mouth shut The reason why I bring that question up for you here this morning is because what if God has given me these things to say Because he wants you to humble yourself now in the midst of this, to cleanse your hands, and to purify your heart. by moving your allegiances back into him instead of faltering between two opinions. I just w I wonder which of you God has given me these words to give to you. Please do not give up this opportunity to get back to the only one who is worthy of your celebration and your worship and your love. The second question that I would raise to you just in terms of discipleship and discipling others is I'd ask you to remember something that has impressed itself upon me and that I have mentioned before within the sermon. When I was going over to Holly's parents' house after church on Sundays, we would have discussions about different things, theology, or about the sermon that was preached by Pastor Glenn We'd have these amazing salads, which Barbara Still makes, best salad maker in the world And I remember every time I would go in and I'd have to go down their hall to be able to use the bathroom, I'd see above their closet a plaque that I've mentioned to you before. And it for whatever reason it has stuck with me And it said, as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. That's what Jesus is saying in the Beatitude. He wants you every morning. So what when your eyes open, instead of just focusing on Jocko Willing's voice telling you not to eat any donuts that day He wants you to swing your body over, and before your feet even hit that ground, he wants you to say, as for me and my house, my loyalty and our loyalty is to the Lord. That is the practice of pure-heartedness. That's what he's calling us to. And you know how many times you're going to have to repent before the day is over when your allegiance gave out? And you took a sidetrack to get some beaver nuggets. But you know this is where the discipleship comes in. Do you know what one of the things that people need from you Who Jesus Christ is bringing to himself, they need to know how to repent. You know what you're really good at? Messing up and then the Lord bringing you back And you being able to make some progress forward. So you can show them what do we do? What does repentance look like? And then the last thing I'll say that is both for you and those whom you would disciple is that With this picture of purity of heart and loyalty to God and allegiance to him, there is no better word to summarize this than that Jesus is telling you you are to love him. It will be the hardest thing that you have ever had to do. There is a disinclination still present for you in love for him. But being pure of heart is really boiled down to love. Now there are some ways that Christ has already worked in you where you do love him, but the call here, the aspirational call within this 5-8 of blessed are those who are pure in heart is for you to rearrange your life around and moving toward every single day progressing in your love for Jesus If you walk away from the scriptures and you are able to parse the verbs in Greek, but you have not love. You're not moving forward in pure heart. If you're able to come up with all of the apologetic answers to those who frustrate you, but you have not love for Christ You will be a clanging gong in the ears of unbelievers. Imagine thinking about every time you you you know how when you do a Bible study, people have a lot of questions for you on When was this written? What's if you're fancy, what's the provenance? Who was in a king at that time? There's all of these different questions that are useful and helpful. You know what's one question you should always make sure you you you ask and you don't get away with not asking? What has been revealed about Jesus Christ here, wherein I find him even more lovely than I did before? Where my heart goes out to him because I am so attracted. That's what Jesus is calling his church to do, to be in love with him. Are there any examples you have in your life where you love somebody? Those of you who have lost a husband or a wife, what would you do if you could just see them one more time That starts to get at the kind of love that we're talking about here that you would have in your heart so that when you finally would see Jesus, it would actually be a big deal. Some of the things that we can fall into as Christians is that we can read the Revelations passage and get excited that I'll no longer get a cold But I could care less if I see Jesus or not. I use him. I do not enjoy him. Please remember that our catechism says that we are to glorify God and enjoy him. It does not say glorify God and use him. We can begin to be in that mindset by the help of the Holy Spirit. We're growing in purity of heart. And as you grow in purity of heart, which won't be perfect in this life, You'll die in your mistakes and sins, but still redeemed by Jesus Christ If we're able to proceed in that way though, we will have a little something called love for God and allegiance to Him that we can then pass off to other people. And that is called discipleship. Let me show you how my love for Christ makes a difference in this situation, O one whom God has me discipling. Life is a growing love for God and as you learn to love God, you can show others how to love God. And if you do not love God, you cannot show them what you don't know. So this is of vital importance. If you go back to Rudy, Notre Dame has a beautiful stadium. It has pep rallies with beautiful girls. It has amazing colors, the colors of the Irish that just strike at my heart. I love a good Irish green and gold at the end of the rainbow. The love of the fighting leprechaun, the cheering in the stands. You could see why his heart would always be elevated for the glory of Notre Dame football. We're saying something here that is quite similar, and I'm asking you, what work are you doing with yourself and with each other where you can accumulate the glory of God that when you see it, your heart goes out? And you long, you long to just serve him in allegiance. He is your great pride and your great joy. You could care less if you have water, you'd rather have him, because he's the only one that really fills your thirst. And then you're able to show others how to love him as he has taught you how to love him. And the thing that we see here in all of the visions that are given to us in the scriptures is that it is totally worth it. Those who love God in their hearts shall have their desire fulfilled. You shall dwell with God. Let us pray