Please turn with me to Psalm thirty-two as we attend now to the preaching of God's Word, as He addresses you once again as His people and gathers you from the nations. Those of you who don't know you're his person yet. Psalm thirty-two is a psalm of David, a contemplation. Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord does not impute iniquity, and whose spirit there is no deceit. When I kept silent, my bones grew old. Through my groaning all the day long. For day and night your hand was heavy upon me, my vitality was turned into the drought of summer. I acknowledged my sin to you, and my iniquity I have not hidden. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. For this cause, everyone who is godly shall pray to you. In a time when you may be found, surely in a flood of great waters they shall not come near him. You are my hiding place. You shall preserve me from trouble. You shall surround me with songs of deliverance. I will instruct you, congregation, and teach you in the way you should go. I will guide you with my eye. Do not be like the horse or like the mule, which have no understanding, which must be harnessed with bit and bridle, else they will not come near you. Many sorrows shall be to the wicked, but he who trusts in the Lord, mercy shall surround him. Be glad in the Lord and rejoice, you righteous, and shout for joy, all you upright in heart. Father, we thank you for your word that you have given to us personally in this covenant that you have established with us through Jesus Christ and the working of your Spirit Christ. We ask Christ as our great teacher that you would teach us the words of this psalm, that you would work in our hearts, that we would have true understanding, and that you would change us on the spot. We ask these things in your name. Amen. I want you to imagine that you are on your deathbed, sorry. Sorry. But imagine that you are on your deathbed and your family asks you, what would you, what do you want us to write on your tombstone besides your name and the date Do you want a quote? What would you say if you had to give a quote? If you had to. That's why some of you say, I'm not going to write anything. But if you had to give a quote, what would you say? Although it wasn't a tombstone, an interesting piece of history behind Psalm 32 is that the great church father Augustine When he was on his deathbed, he had Psalm 32 inscribed on the wall, I believe, for him to view as his life came to an end. That's how important this psalm was to him. And it makes you wonder, as you think about inscribing on your own tombstone, why was this so important? I suppose that Augustine considered the Psalm to embody the core and the essence of life. And that's really saying something when we think and reflect upon that man's life. All of his study of the scriptures in the original language arriving at Psalm 32 as the purity of instruction of the core of his existence. You know, I ask similar questions of my children when we get home after the sermon. I say, and I'll say this to some of you: what was your takeaway? I need one takeaway. And I'll ask my wife, what was your takeaway? What was your takeaway from the sermon? This psalm for Augustine was his takeaway for life. Psalm 32. What was so important in the Psalm for him? What was the secret wisdom or blessedness which it revealed? What was the happiness that it promised If you notice the beginning of the Psalm starts off as a wisdom psalm, blessed, just like Psalm 1. We haven't seen this for 31 Psalms. What was so important? The answer: forgiveness. What was the secret blessedness? Forgiveness What was the happiness promised? Forgiveness. And your Bible, if it's like mine, it's titled The joy of forgiveness. That's what this psalm is about. The core of our life, of our happiness, of our blessedness. Augustine, more importantly, the Holy Spirit teaches. Us that it's forgiveness. I want to look at the cry before forgiveness, the confession for forgiveness, and the instruction of forgiveness The whole psalm, the first two verses are really the conclusion that he draws from this whole experience that he's had. So we're not going to start with verses one and two. We're going to start with verses three and four. And it begins with a cry before forgiveness. And that's our First heading. And this is what we see in verses three and four of Psalm thirty two. When I kept silent my bones grew old Through my groaning all the day long, for day and night your hand was heavy upon me, my vitality was turned into the drought of summer. David is recounting, catch the past tense there, he is recounting something that had already taken place. He is recounting a time of lament, crying, before he found forgiveness. If you were to pick up a commentary, I in fact can't find a commentary that doesn't say this. You'll find that most connect this recounting of Psalm 32 to Psalm 51. To Psalm 51. And we were blessed by Brad's sermon on Psalm 51. The superscript of Psalm 51 is a psalm of David when Nathan the prophet went to him after he had gone into Bathsheba. And so here in Psalm 32, we're seeing a recounting of his experiences even before forgiveness had happened in verses 3 and 4, and the kind of anguish that he was going through. And thus Psalm 32, 3 and 4 gives us an inside look to David's soul before Nathan and before David's confession. When you study the language, you can see why this is classified as a lament psalm. There's actually a bit of a question there, because it's like a duck-billed platypus of a psalm. There are wisdom elements and lament elements and thanksgiving elements at the end. It's all mashed up together, like a good Irish meal. Here you can see the lament, though. My bones grew old, my groaning or growling all day and night. My vitality was turned into the drought of summer. What David is doing here is he's talking to us about a time of change in his life. Notice the changes. His bones went from youthful to growing old. They grew old. They didn't start old They grew old. The bones are the infrastructure and the core of his being. Something is twisting and turning within him. His vitality, or literally moisture, changed. His water content So to speak. He compares himself really to the land. That's the metaphor that's going on here in three and four. The land was well-watered and springing with life. That was what his life was like, a well-watered garden. But things have changed now. A drought consumes the land. David's all dried up. And this change is not temporary. It is night and day and fills him with agony. That's the duration of what's going on here. You've seen different pictures of lament as we've gone through the sermon series. Last time I gave you a picture of a younger woman on this in the medium strip. Let me give you a different picture this morning of about a dog that I used to know. I had a someone I know bought a Wymarander. You know what that dog looks like? The Wymaraner? They call it the gray ghost because it runs so fast. It's like an athletic and stouty greyhound. It's kind of what it looks like. You can look it up when you get home. Not right now. But he bought this and the dog grew into the picture of obedience and beauty and athleticism. It was reported once by this person, listen to this, that the Y Moraner would be let out in the morning to go to the bathroom, and there would be white-tailed deer across the street He would run after the white-tailed deer, and after he caught up with them, running alongside of them would just look. That's the kind of athleticism that we're talking about within this dog. He was amazing Could easily leap over a four-foot fence. However, one morning there was discovered that a neurological disease struck this dog. The Wymariner slowly lost the use of his back legs, and they had to put carpeting all over the house so that he could drag himself with his front paws through the house. Carpeting down the stairs to go to the bathroom in the backyard so that he could drag himself to these different places. The Weimaraner slowly lost the use of his back legs. He once was running like the wind, the gray ghost, and now he dragged the hind part of his body behind him If he could speak, if he could make a psalm, he would have said something similar to this. He would have spoken of changes from his youth, a change in his very bones, a change in his vitality as the gray ghost. Now he was but a groaning ghost of his former self. And the dog's demise was just a neurological disease that came out of nowhere. What was the demise here of David? What caused him to have to drag himself through his life all of a sudden? Now there's two clues in three and four. See if you can pull them out before I say it, but here it is. It's silence. When I kept silence, you can understand this in relationship to verse five. Notice how the poetry is working, where it's building on itself. When I kept silent, my bones grew old. And then when there's the opposite, I acknowledged my sin to you. Do you see he's not just a quiet person? He's not an introvert testing in a particular way on a government exam. He was holding his sins back from his God. That's the cause. David would not confess or acknowledge his sin. And then there's a second clue here: that God's hand was heavy upon him in verse 4. Therefore, God hounded and hunted him with his sin. He plagued his conscience. He brought the sinful deeds to mind. He played over and over again as David rolled sleeplessly on his bed. Uriah, Bathsheba, the nation, his children That's the lament here. I don't know how long this lasted for him. It doesn't say. You can see different things happening at different times because we have Psalm 51 and the recount. This is some kind of long period of time. But the whole thing, the whole scene reminds us of someone stricken with a fever from malaria, doesn't it? Those pictures that we see, someone archaeologist in the Amazon that gets malaria, the the shaking chills, the unceasing muscle pain, the profuse sweating with the with the sweat-soaked bedsheets. David had a high, spiritually high fever from the hand of God. It is a picture of David crying and lamenting before forgiveness happens. But then there's a great shift in the whole psalm. In verse five, the fever breaks, and there is a confession. And there's Forgiveness. Isn't that beautiful? That's the secret that's unlocked that Augustine saw. The confession of forgiveness is our second main division here in verse 5. As you picture a man in silent agony Suddenly his his tongue is loosed. I acknowledge my sin to you. I no longer hide my iniquity. And then it's almost unnecessary for him to tell us that he's confessing because he's confessing. But he says it, I think, to make it more intensive, I confess my transgression to you, for all of us to learn. Now that's three significant sentences there, three significant parts in five. I acknowledge my sin and my iniquity I have not hidden, and I will confess my transgression to the Lord. Did you notice that there's three different words there for sin? And see what he's doing there? He's bringing his whole life before God Sin in NKJV here, I hope that you have that same word. There's sin, iniquity, and transgression. You should see three different words. Sin means to generally miss the mark. But it can be used in context, like in 1 Samuel 19:4, in relationships. And there it is when an inferior sins against their superior. Which is exactly what's going on here. And a superior sinning against the inferior, Uriah. He also uses the word iniquity to twist or distort, to distort, to pervert. That which was straight and meant to be straight, to abuse that which you are to use. It is a good God-given desire for physical intimacy In David is distorted and twisted when enacted not with his wife. And transgression is the casting off of allegiance and rebelling. One commentator says it's raising the fist to heaven. In rebellion. Wanting to be free of your relationship with God and to do things your way according to your kingdom David finally acknowledges all of these things. He brings all of his secret gardens before the Lord. All his confession And I want you to notice that every nuance, every context of every one of those words for sin has one thing in common. It is about his relationship with God. It is about a personal relationship with God, not an abstract code of Hammurabi. Or any other moral code. It is about first and foremost a personal covenant that he has with his Lord and His Maker. Everything you heard Randy say in the time of confession, it is a personal offense against God, which is why sin is serious, because it's personal. If it were just a code, who cares? But it's not. It is against your God. That is what sin is. It is the violation of a relationship Oftentimes, when people confess, they admit to doing the wrong moral thing. Think about yourself and how you confess. You confess to God or you confess to other people. You think about doing a wrong moral thing. America is very good at that. But rarely do I hear relational language in our voices. I did the wrong thing. Okay. That was as impersonal as we could possibly get. In other words, folks are eventually willing to admit to breaking an abstract moral code, but they will not acknowledge that there was a personal affront. And that is partially because we conceive of God as somewhere far out in the universe taking care of the big things and not giving a rip about what's going on with us individually. Everything is done quorum deo before the face of God. When you drank your coffee this morning and you forgot to give him thanks for the finely roasted beans. And the coffee maker with which you made it. You did that in relationship of unthankfulness before him. Or you did it in thankfulness. Everything is done in relationship to him. Everything. And that's what's brought out here. It is a personal affront, is what he's bringing out, the personal nature of this covenant. Here's a definition of legalism for you. A relationship with the moral law and no relationship with the persons of the Godhead. That's at the essence of legal Again, the psalm makes us reevaluate Christianity, whether Christian or not Christian. You are caused to re-evaluate based on the relationship that David is having here with his God. You must look at him from a relational lens, paradigm, and perspective. David confesses to personally sinning. Notice the use of my. This is personal. He confesses to personally sinning against a personal God. Now let me drive this home just a little bit more because this is a is extremely important for us who have the strange religious American history. God personally addresses you from his words. He says things like Love your wife like Christ loved the church. Put in terms of Proverbs and Psalms, disadvantage yourself for her advantage. Then, when you choose to advantage yourself and disadvantage your wife, you are not just in violation of moral codes and old words. You are saying to God, I know what I want. I don't care. I will do what I want. That is at bottom what's going on. And it is all three of those words. It is a sin, it is an iniquity, and it is a transgression. You are distorting and twisting that particular relationship. You are raising your fist to heaven And you are missing the mark, and that you as an inferior are disobeying your chief commander, who is the Lord Jesus Christ. That's all present here. It all has to do with our relationship. To acknowledge, which would be a different response, to acknowledge and no longer hide is not about agreeing with the moral code. I agree, we have a moral code But it's not primarily about that. It's not about agreeing with the moral code. It is about looking God in the eyes and saying, I sinned against you, maker of heaven and earth. I have sinned against you. I hurt and I twisted our relationship, God. I want to be reconciled to you God, you are important to me. Please be reconciled to me. I want to walk with you in my life hand in hand Do you see how personal that is? Do you see how different that is from confessing to the violation of a moral code Surely he gives us the moral code, but it's a representation of his personal decrees and thoughts. And because of the kind of persons God is, we read in verse 5, and you forgive my iniquity. Relationship is restored, then, seeing in 10B, where we swim in the mercies of God. Here's the bottom line: a sin problem is a relationship problem. And that's what we're brought to, like a small child avoiding their green beans. Do you have that picture? No. No And then you do the airplane is what David was like. He clamped his mouth shut, but God pryed it open with a heavy hand And he hears the cries, we hear the cries before forgiveness. The fever breaks, and David personally confesses his sin, asking for forgiveness And we learn about our personal relationship with God and how personal our sin is. And from here, he moves from him and God to instructing the whole community. It's too important for this just to be a private relationship. It moves from private relationship to corporate worship. In this Psalm, we then see in the next section the instruction of forgiveness in 6 through 9. The confession or the before forgiveness, the confession of forgiveness, and now the instruction of forgiveness. In verses 6 through 9, David takes the position of a wise teacher, sharing his happy discovery with all. For this cause, everyone who is godly shall pray to you in a time when you may be found, before it's too late, is his point. And then when you jump down to nine, you can see him specifically speaking of how he's now addressing the congregation and giving instruction. I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go. I will guide you with my eye. Do not be like the horse or like the mule. And his instruction continues. You know, interestingly, I want you to flip to Psalm 51. There's no way to totally prove this, but it's very interesting. In Psalm 51, 13, look at what he says. After he asks the Lord to create in him a clean heart and to restore to him The joy of his salvation, he says, basically, if you do, then I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners shall be converted to you. And most scholars say that's exactly what he's doing here in Psalm 32 He's living up to his word. The Lord forgave him. He said that if he did, he'd then teach everybody about the Lord's forgiveness And here we see in Psalm 32 David doing the very thing, teaching transgressors the ways of God, the forgiving ways of God. And thus when God forgave David, he began to teach. And that's the whole point in the transition from verses 5 and 6 in Psalm 32. You forgave the iniquity of my sin. The first thing he does in verse 6 is, I'm going to start teaching. For this cause, everyone who is godly shall pray to you. I'm going to bring this kind of teaching to them. You forgave me. For this cause, everyone who is godly is going to pray to you. The idea is that David will publish that God is forgiving. and he will persuade the congregation to run to God with their sins and ask for forgiveness. But that's easier said than done. Which is why we have the rest of the instruction in 8 and 9, where he basically, implicitly Is telling the congregation that they may, this is a biblical, this is a biblical terminology, but the congregation may have trouble with jackassy. That's a word I looked it up this morning. It's in the Oxford English Dictionary. It is legitimate to say. I prayed before God before saying that. But that's the heart of the instruction. Do not be like the horse or like the mule. They don't respond to reason, they have no understanding, and God says, Come, let us reason together. Though your sins you could be white, clean They are stubborn, however, and must be bridled and harnessed and dragged along, as Randy brought out earlier. And this, of course, is David's interpretation of his own stupidity When he remained silent, he was like a mule. And he warns the congregation in his instruction: do not remain silent. Don't hold your confessions. Do not hold your acknowledgments of your sins before God. God had to put David under a disciplinary bit in his mouth to draw him close again. You don't have to go through that, brothers and sisters. You don't have to be like the mule. David warns, don't remain silent, don't hide your sins, confess. And David supports his case. And that this is the life of wisdom, not remaining silent, but confessing immediately and acknowledging your sin before the Lord is the life of wisdom That's what David is doing in the beginning of Psalm 32 when he gives these wisdom statements. Blessed are the Blessed is the man. Blessed is he. These are wisdom statements. What he's doing is he's placing before you a role model that idealizes the perfect life, the beatitudes that Jesus did in Matthew. The same thing is being done here. Using wisdom language, David upholds the ideal role model of the community. Here's what he's saying: the truly happy and blessed person is the one who repentantly brings His sins to his God and isn't drugged there. He does not hide. He does not staple his jaws shut like a little baby trying to be fed green beans. He walks towards God and not away from him when he sins. He runs to them. I wonder if it surprises you that David has to spend a large percentage of his time in this psalm on instruction. And calls his congreg warns the congregation of their mule-like attitudes. Is that better? Mule like attitudes Does it surprise you that he has to give this instruction for this long? Why does he need to urge the people with so many poetic stanzas relating them to the beasts of the field? I think that he does so based upon the whole council of God because David is fully aware or well aware of the nature of sin. If you understand the nature of sin, then you understand why there's so much instruction in this psalm, and you don't wonder why the psalm is not a hundred times longer. Sin is deceitful. That's the difficulty. Sin is deceitful. What does that mean? Here it is. You hide your sin. Do you realize what that says? You remain silent because sin deceives you into loving it. and keeping it safe and protecting it from any disturbance. Sin is by nature seductive and is your precious In the moment, sin feels good, sin looks good, sin tastes good, sin sounds good Sin captures and intoxicates the hearts and the loyalty of humans. Let me put it in as modern way as I can. I feel like an old man up here. Because now when you go to the movie theater you have to make a reservation. You can't just go, at least to a Rundle Mills. Did you know this? I just saw one young person surprised by that So now I don't feel old anymore. Very good. You have to make a reservation in some movie theaters to get your seat. And they're all recliners now that s squeak in silent movies. But you know what? If you're really into it, you can get a reservation not just in a recliner, but in a D-box recliner. Do you know what I mean? The red chairs that only the rich and famous Someone who has a membership with the uh with the with the movie theater? A D-Box. What you're asking me, what is a D box? Well let me tell you. A D-Box is changing the way you watch movies by moving the body and sparking the imagination through motion. With DVOX, you control the intensity so you can move with the movie and feel every scene as if you were in it. We remove the line between you and the screen to create hyper-realistic immersive, one-of-a-kind, entertainment experiences that pull you into the story like never before. D-Box It's exactly what sin does. Sin creates a D-box experience. To where you would you are so immersed. Your imagination is so captured. The Dolby surround sound in the life of sin so captures you I once knew a kid that hid lots of Halloween candy under their pillow. They had visions, Debak experience of lollipops through the night. And why did they hide it? Because they didn't want it taken away. It was so immersive, so alluring. Why do we hide our sins? Why do you hide your sins? Because Through the deceitfulness of sin and the D-Box experience of sin, the sweet candy-like nature of sin, you love your sin J. C. Ryle says this in his expository thoughts on Luke. You know, that's me from the area. JC Rowell doesn't say, you know. It costs something to be a true Christian Let that never be forgotten. To be a mere nominal Christian and go to church is cheap and easy work. But to hear Christ's voice and follow Christ and believe in Christ and confess Christ requires much self-denial. Listen to this. It will cost you your sins. And your self-righteousness, and your ease, and your worldliness, all of it must be given up. We fight an enemy who comes against us to have 20,000 followers. We must build a tower in troubless times. Our Lord Jesus Christ would have us thoroughly understand this. He bids us Count the cost. And he continues, why does Jesus use language like this? And here's a paraphrased answer. Because God refuses to have a superficial relationship with you. It all comes back to that relationship part. The instruction. Do you see if you look at it through a relational lens? He gives instruction of confession, and he says, don't relate to God like a mule. Recognize what you're under. Recognize the D-Box experience. And this is why David moves into instruction Because human beings like you and me don't know how to have a relationship with God naturally after the fall. We do know how to relate to everything else as if it were our God, though. And that's our fundamental problem, or one of our fundamental problems. David, after an agonizing and stubborn silence, brought his sweet sins out from under his pillow. God forgave him and promises to forgive all who repent of their sins. And so David spreads the word and instruction. He exhorts each of us to step out of the immersive deep box sin experience. To have our imaginations captured by a good relationship with God. David knows and wants to share that true happiness is found in a true relationship with God. I use the word true there in a true sense, one that is sound, that is pure, that is beautiful. David knows and wants to share this happiness. It is our relationship with God where we may finally rejoice. Verse 10. If you choose not to relate to him, which by definition outside of the covenant means that you are wicked, many sorrows shall surround the wicked. Those who don't repent and find forgiveness. But those who confess will swim in oceans of mercy, verse 10. You will be surrounded by his forgiving mercy. You will be glad, you will rejoice in the Lord, and your lives will increase to a shout for joy. The joy of forgiveness. As the Bible titles it here, in my translation at least. The question is: when you die, Will many secret sins be buried with you in the grave? Or will you choose Psalm 32 for your tombstone? The joy of forgiveness. God is seeking to have a relationship with you. He wants you to be reconciled with him personally. Personally, not just that one-time act of saving faith, repentance unto life, but throughout your life. You know, we celebrate Martin Luther around here. This I think was number one One in the 95 Theses, that the whole all of life would be a life of repentance. It wasn't the first one, it was one of them. All of life would be a life of repentance. He wants you to be reconciled with him personally. But there is a question that comes up. If that's true, why does God seem so distant? I have spoken to many people about how God longs to have relationship with them. And it doesn't matter who the person is and what nation or tribe you're from. I will tell you that God longs to have a relationship with you. And then they ask me, but it sure doesn't seem like he's interested. He doesn't seem like he wants to relate to me. And now, logically, and I mean strictly logically, there are two answers. Either he doesn't want to relate to you Or he does. And you don't want to relate to him. If God didn't want to relate to you, then why did God the Father bid his son to voluntarily die for you and for your sins? Please explain the advent and the second advent of Jesus Christ if God the Father is not interested in a relationship. Could he not have just been happy off with the Trinity? Could he not have just destroyed the creation? Why the death of Christ? Now, this gives us the opportunity to understand the gospel very, very deeply. It actually brings us to the core of the letter of Romans. I want you to think about this for a second, what I'm asking. We're asking about whether God really wants to relate to us, and we're saying that we discover that he does through the work of Jesus Christ and the Spirit. that he's publishing I'm relatable, I want to relate. Now I want you to remember the Lament Song. Think about the different ways in which David has brought lament before us. Do you remember when he shows up at court early in the morning? Crying out for justice. I have been wronged. See my case. Be the righteous judge. Condemn the wicked That's one moment psalm. But here we see him praising God for his forgiveness of sinners. A righteous judge not holding the wicked accountable for their sins. Now how can that be? How can you have the God in the Lament Psalm at court and this God of forgiveness? How can he boast remain just and the justifier of those who are wicked? It's the essence of the gospel. That's the question. How can God be just and the justifier of sinners? But now the righteousness of God apart from the law is revealed, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ to all and on all who believe. For there is no difference For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus whom God set forth as a propitiation by his blood through faith to demonstrate his righteousness, because in his forbearance God had passed over the sins that were previously committed. to demonstrate at the present time his righteousness. Now listen to this. That he might be just in bringing justice upon The head of Jesus, and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. The lament psalms come together in Romans chapter 3, verses 21 through 26, and the ultimate problem is solved. And it's not just an abstract problem. God retains his justice and yet forgives. He is able to enter into a reconciled relationship with you because of the Son. And therefore, my bet is that God seems distant, not because he doesn't want to relate to you, because you don't really want to relate to him. God, I do want to relate to you. I just want to keep the sins under my pillow. No, not okay. I will not settle for that relationship. Imagine this. Honey, I do want to be in relationship. I just love these other women too. This is great. Isn't that ridiculous and absurd? That's what he's saying. You want God and your sin. That's not happening. You must choose this day like Joshua, whom you shall serve. You must put above your doors as for me and my family, we will serve the Lord. Let us humble ourselves before God. Let us, like the prodigal son, return to the open arms of the Father. Let us write out the scripts of our lives and carve Psalm 32 into our tombstones. Blessed am I, for my transgressions are forgiven. I am not covering my sins, and therefore my sins are covered. Through the life and death of Jesus, God the Father forgives you. Amen. Please pray with me. Oh Father, this is the mystery of the gospel. That you are both just and the justifier of those who have faith in Jesus Christ. Lord, what are we that you are mindful of us? How we never would have guessed that your wisdom would be discovered. I ask that we as this congregation not only hear these words that are spoken about you and the essence of what you've done. as the just and the justifier, but that the angels, the principalities and powers would see what you have done. For that is one of your purposes, to be glorified amongst them, as you've expressed in Ephesians 3. Pray that your glory would be known throughout this earth in that you are a God who will be reconciled to sinners through Jesus Christ. And I pray, Father, that you would gather. Lord Jesus Christ, I pray that you would gather, that you would take those whom the Father gives to you, that you'd send your Spirit to them, and that you would give them saving faith, and that you'd usher them in here for discipleship. Teaching them to obey all that you command. And we thank you for being with us to the end of the age. Amen and Amen.