Let's open our scriptures together to Matthew chapter five. We're continuing our series on the Sermon on the Mount. And our main verse today is verse number seven of chapter five, but I'll begin at the start of chapter five. So please follow along. Matthew five, one through seven. And seeing the multitudes he went up on a mountain, and when he was seated, his disciples came to him. Then he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Let us pray. All merciful Heavenly Father, I pray that you would have mercy on your congregation here And the receiving and the attention to your preached word. And I pray that you would continue with us into the supper. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. I think you can turn me down a little bit back there. Please. Well, we've pretty much had a review for our sermon series just in reading 5, 1 through 7. You can see the different beatitudes is what they call them that Jesus has laid out here. If you'd like, you can go back and listen to the sermons For each one of them that we've covered them, we're just taking it verse by verse so far. We've we've defined pretty well what it means for us to be poor in spirit and what Jesus is after and Same thing with mourning, and the same thing and being meek and the same thing for thirsting and hungering for righteousness. And today we're picking up mercy Now we have others that are ahead of us in verse 8, the pure in heart, and we have peacemakers and those who are persecuted, and then we have a whole host of teachings to come. I'll have to tell you that based on the amount of times that we see mercy within the scriptures and the place in which we see it, in other words, that it's an interval or vital piece. To God's plan. This today, if you could pay attention to any sermon, then you would pay attention to this one. In my own heart, as I have been preparing on a sermon on mercy, I've just felt my heart not only full, but just overflowing. Uh in so many different ways. And so I've already prayed for you, but I'll just say again, I I pray that the Lord reminds you of his mercy And shows you wherein he's calling you to be merciful so that you could be blessed by him pouring out more mercy on you. I really think this is the core and the heartbeat of who we are as a congregation, and it should be who we are to the world. He'll know us by our love, particularly the love of mercy. So what I'd like to do is I just want to start by looking at what mercy is, and then we'll go from there. You know, it's important to ask that question because We live within a culture where people from coming from a different place than Jesus comes from has taken Christian words and then given them new meanings. So we a lot of times have to revisit what these basic words mean, and we have to do so with the heavy weight of knowing we're going to have to live it out. So we better get it right. In my own adventure in figuring out what does God mean by mercy, I stumbled upon a gentleman that has been very helpful to me. He's been dead for several hundred years now. Most of the people that are helpful to me are dead. They a and uh his name was William Perkins. I'm not sure if you've heard of him, but he's a Puritan. And um was considered actually the father of uh casuistry and uh ethical reasoning in moving away from uh what Roman Catholicism had brought within the terms of penitence. But At any rate, uh he has an interesting biography in that he was a real partier. I mean, if you wanted to go have too much beer and too many shots, find Perkins. But then eventually he had heard on the s the there's a a story where he had heard that uh some young guy had gone off to the pub and had way too much to drink and so much to drink and and avoiding so much of his responsibility that his mother went and found him. And when she did, she said, You're turning out to be a drunkard like Master Perkins. And he was there and he overheard it. And it was so embarrassing to him that this is what Christ ended up using to draw him to himself. And so so in uh these years, I think it was maybe uh late fifteen hundreds, Perkins goes on this journey that Christ takes him on where he not only becomes a devoted follower of Jesus Christ, but really being the father of turning things around within England. There's another gentleman, I wonder if you've heard of William Ames. Has anyone heard of him There's another gentleman who he in one of his books he writes about William Perkins and William Ames was in seminary with all of his buddies. And they were sitting in the back of a church listening in on Mr. Perkins giving a sermon and And they said that it was he said it was like a breath of life from Jesus Christ himself sweeping over England. In fact, there were uh there was much going on within that city, terrible sermons. I mean you would just have to sit through these And Master Perkins mentions this, by the way, and um he reforms the preaching that happens in England to where the people can actually understand what in the world's being said. Well, this is the guy who in one of his works he ends up defining mercy and talking about what mercy is. And this is what he says. He says that mercy is a holy compassion of heart. Wherein we are moved to help another in their misery from what God has given to us. It's a little bit of a paraphrase But I'll just say that to you again, and you may want to just write this down or go back and listen to this so that you can have this as a definition for yourself, a standard and an ideal, something to which to aspire. And that is mercy is a holy compassion of heart, wherein we are moved to help another in their misery from what God has given to us. Mercy is a holy compassion of heart wherein we are moved to help another in their misery from what God has given to us. Now what I wanted to do is I just wanted you to see how this definition is is he's not trying to be overly philosophical here. He's just trying to aggregate or pull together the different threads and to weave a definition, if you will, from what the various scriptures tell us about mercy I mean there's so many different ways we could go with this. We could just focus on God's attribute of mercy. We could go to Exodus. We could do so many different things. Merciful, merciful, I give mercy to whom I give mercy. So many different places we could go But what I'd like to do is just look at each one of these parts, that first that mercy is a compassion of heart. This is what we end up seeing, a compassionate heart. This is what we end up seeing, especially within Colossians 3 verse 12. And you can see that the translators who are trying to interpret this from the Greek, what they're trying to get at, just listen to a couple different translations. This first one is from the King James Version, 1900. They say, put on, therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bowels of mercy. They're getting at there's something in s so deep inside of you, we'll call that your bowels, and wherever that place is, let all of that mercy come out from that deep of a place within you. Now later that's going to be translated hard, because we in our culture don't r publicly run around talking about our bows. So that was a different meaning then. But in but in in the NKJV, which you probably will find in your bulletin, it says, Therefore, as the elect of God holy and beloved, put on tender mercies Now the reason why they say tender mercies here is they're playing a little bit with the Latin. The idea here is that you're not supposed to have alligator skin towards people. You're supposed to be gentle and soft towards them. And I'll explain why in just a moment, but we are to have tender mercies. We're to be open to each other. Now the New American Standard Version says this, and this really starts to get at it also, and I think you're going to like this one. So as those who have been chosen by God, holy and beloved, put on a heart of compassion Now, why would I particularly like that one? Because the old meaning of compassion. These Bible translations don't use new meanings of words. The old meaning of compassion is suffer with the person. That's like a literal rendering of it, that you are going to suffer with that person. So you can see there how appropriate that is in that Colossians verse where he mentions that you are to put on therefore So you could begin to think of this as the teaching of you put on another person's suffering. And you understand that so well, and you have you feel what that feels like so well. And you don't develop alligator skin towards them in the midst of that. Instead, your heart goes out to them. You see what's going on here This is that basic teaching that for what it means to have a compassion of heart. And the ESV some of you use, which says, put on then as God's chosen and holy and beloved, compassionate hearts. So you can see that. The hearts that are will that that know the suffering of others. And Perkins gives us that and that definition that mercy is first and foremost a holy or a holy compassion of heart. Now, some examples for you of this are from Hosea chapter 11, verse 8. Listen to this as it speaks about our Lord's heart, our God's heart. How can I give you up, Ephraim? How can I hand you over, Israel? How can I make you like Adma? How can I set you like Zeboyam? My heart churns within me. My sympathy is stirred. You see that attribute present within God Himself. And then we see a problem that develops in people where they're meant, especially as brothers and sisters in Jesus Christ. And as family even, there's a problem where we our heart is meant to go out towards each other so that we can move into helping. It's the beginning of helping. But then we shut our hearts. And that is talked about in 1 John 3, verses 16 and 17. By this we know love, because he laid down his life for us And we also ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. But whoever has this world's goods and sees his brother in need and shuts up his heart from him, how does the love of God abide in him? And that's referring back to that idea of mercy. It's basically saying, if mercy is the opening of your heart to people, the problem you're dealing with right now within your congregation is you don't have the love of God. You know how I know? It's because you shut your heart to each other. See how they're playing with that? And that's the idea of mercy. Now, I bet you notice, because you're sharp, that that definition that Perkins gives is not only compassion of heart, but holy compassion of heart. And this is really interesting and very important for you as a being who is in a complicated world. You have got to be in this world, but not of it, and that is really difficult. And so he says you have to have a holy heart. And what that he means by that is that your compassion Has to be, your mercy has to be holy. And what he means by that is you have to be merciful in the ways that God calls you to and not in the ways he doesn't. It is really interesting to see that there are explicit and clear examples in the scriptures where God commands certain people at certain times do not offer mercy. And at other times, we could see in the scriptures that there are degrees of mercy to which should be offered. Otherwise, you're actually hurting the person by giving them full mercy. Now let me give you an example of where we would see this. You can look at this later. This is 1 Kings 20, verse 42. Then he said to him, Ahab, thus says the Lord, because you have let slip out of your hand a man whom I appointed to utter destruction. You hear that? God has appointed a person to utter destruction destruction. This king had decided, nope, not utter destruction, I'm gonna let him go. And now he's being rebuked by the prophet for doing so. You have let slip out of your hand a man whom I appointed to utter destruction, therefore your life shall go Your life shall go for his life and your people for his people. This shows up in special cases. This shows up in special cases, particularly within warfare. Particularly in warfare where God says you are not to offer them mercy. So that's a special case, and it should not, let me just say this right now, you should not use those special cases as your presumption of life. You could read that First Kings and you say, I'm a I'm a First Kings a I'm a First Kings utter destruction kind of Christian. And that's not what we're looking for. Those are special cases. But on the other hand, it is very important for you to know that there has to be limits sometimes to our mercy. And there is a judgment call and wisdom that has to be exercised when we are when we are a merciful people. And that is a prime verse for you to be able to understand that. So that's that first part of that definition Mercy is a holy compassion of heart. And then it is from that heart that is stirred up and experiencing the other person's suffering that we then don't stay there As just a bleeding heart, we move. And that's that second part of the definition wherein we are moved to help that person in that specific misery from the things that God has given to us. That last part is very important. You can't get what you do not have. That would be considered profigality actually, or prodigality. And so You could look at this in two ways. You could see that your heart is stirred up in watching a person who's miserable in their body. And you could see this as that your heart gets stirred up because a person is miserable in their soul. And you, in seeing both, are meant to act. Now, if it's miserable in body, we have different examples of the teaching in Scripture where this is obviously our responsibility. In James chapter 2, 15 through 16 If a brother or sister is naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you says to them, Depart in peace, be warned and filled, but you do not give them the things which are needed for the body, what does it profit? There it is to where maybe you do see the need. Maybe you can get a touch of their suffering, but then you leave them empty-handed at the door. And you actually turn off the the outside light so they leave. And then there is also, of course, mercy to a miserable soul. And I wonder if you've thought much about this. A lot of times we see mercy ministry as going to a body. But what about mercy for people's souls? What are all of the different soul sicknesses that human beings can have? Well, you could say depression, anxiety, these are all soul sicknesses, right? You know, soul is suke. It's like where we get psychology from. Psychologi-th these kinds of sicknesses. In Acts 2, 36 through 39, we have an example of Peter Giving mercy to a crowd. Listen to this. Therefore, let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made this Jesus whom you crucified. Think of the misery of soul there. Whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. Now when they heard this, listen to this soul sickness. They were cut to the heart. And said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? And then Peter said, Repent, and let every one of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins. And you'll receive the gift of the Holy Spirit, for the promises to you and to your children, and to all who are afar off, as many as our Lord will call. Peter's being merciful to the crowd, who's lost and confused, who are coming to a realization of what they have done. And the burden of sin that they have accumulated. In Acts 3, he'll continue again. Yet now, brethren, I know that you did this, this crucifixion. I know you crucified the Lord of glory in ignorance, he says. What a soul sickness, ignorance. As did also your rulers, but those things which God foretold by the mouth of all of his prophets That the Christ would suffer, He has thus fulfilled. Repent, therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out. What a mercy to the soul. Showing them what's wrong and where to go to make it right. Well that's that's the definition. The man who used to be a drunkard, who uh the Lord saved. That definition is preserved for us because it really gets at a full-bodied understanding of what mercy is, that mercy is a holy compassion of heart. wherein we are moved to help another in their misery from what God has given to us. Now Now that we have that down and you heard a bunch of different examples explaining each one of those parts, that should be pre-firm for you. I want to look at the way that this works. How does this work? Well, it works by really it's it's quite interesting and down to earth. It works by our eyes and by our ears. We see and we hear, and that's what gets things going. Jesus Christ has sent you his Holy Spirit congregation. He's changed your heart. He changed the way you see the world and the way you hear things. And it is from that seeing and that hearing that moves us into acts of mercy. This is what I mean The way that this works is that God brings us things to see, and he gives us things to hear, mainly people. So for example, let me give you an example from Nehemiah of someone hearing and then acting with mercy. It begins with the hearing, though. In Nehemiah 1, 3 through 4, Nehemiah says, And they said to me Their survivors who were left from the captivity in the province are there in great distress and reproach. The wall of Jerusalem is also broken down, and its gates are burned with fire And so it was when I heard these words that I sat down and I wept and I mourned for many days. I was fasting and praying before the God of heaven. Why was he weeping? None of these things had happened to him. It's because of the report that he has heard about his brothers and his sisters and his family and what had happened in Jerusalem, the kinds of things that they had been experiencing. It his heart went out to them. He felt their suffering. I wonder if have you ever heard a report? That pulled on your heart, pulled you toward that person. It begins with hearing. That's the way the Holy Spirit works in you, congregation. You're going to hear something Just like Nehemiah did. But Nehemiah didn't just have a compassionate heart. He moved. In Nehemiah 2, 4 through 5 it says, Then the king said to me, What do you request? Well, I'm glad you asked. So I prayed to the God of heaven, and I said to the king, If it pleases the king, and if your servant has found favor in your sight, I ask that you would send me to Judah, to the city of my father's tombs, that I may rebuild it. There it is. From what he has, he goes to relieve the misery of others, and it all began with the hearing of a report And I'm gonna ask you these questions later, is but later, but I wonder what is it that you have been hearing lately? Man, what have you been hearing lately? And has it grown into a heart that feels the suffering We'll talk about this in a minute, but have you shut off your heart? Now, an example of seeing is from Exodus 3, 9 through 10. This is the other way. We not only hear, we see. Now therefore, behold, the cry of the children of Israel has come to me, and I have also seen the oppression with which the Egyptians oppressed them. Come now, therefore, and I will send you to Pharaoh that you may bring my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. You see the whole definition there? God, with holy, compassionate heart, is then moved to help people who are in misery. They are groaning in misery under Pharaoh. He sees them and he acts. Who have you seen? Who have you seen that the Holy Spirit is seeking for you to see and then to be merciful? And you could ask the question, if you are a home, have you been hospitable to the desires of the Spirit Have you welcomed him in your home and what he wants to do? Because he's letting you hear things and he's letting you see things And his expectation is that you will receive his wisdom from above, which is mercy. Holy mercy Holy compassion of heart. And that's how that works. And that really gets us down on the ground, doesn't it? I mean, could somebody tell me right now how many times do you see it here a day? How many people do you see and do you hear? How much work, therefore, could the Lord be giving to you in his name to bring mercy to the earth? It's overwhelming. There is an ocean waiting for you in the power of Jesus Christ. Now, you know, I've said all of this. We have this definition of mercy. from William Perkins. And we have gone through how this works, that it's what we hear and what we see, and we see that the Holy Spirit is involved with this But here in this specific series, we're focused on how is it that Jesus is discipling us so that we then know how to disciple other people? So what I want to do is I want to take all of these thoughts on mercy, and I just want to ask, well, what does it look like for discipleship? What does that look like for discipleship? And I'm going to give you a couple different principles here, so you can consider these of principles of discipleship with regard to mercy. Man, that is like a Puritan title. Principles of discipleship in regard to mercy, one of sixty-six points. Now so here's principle one. Principle number one in regards to this mercy idea with discipleship is that discipleship of you and discipleship of others takes place within the context of warfare. That is a very important point. And then you could go back and you could read your scriptures and just look at discipleship, that Jesus discipling the nations, and then I would love it if you could bring to me a place where there's not warfare. Because it's it's always there. At every point where we seek to bring water, something or someone else brings fire so that no water can have any effect And that's the nature of things right now in God's economy. You can see this warfare. You know, we just went through the book of Jonah together. We can see this warfare even within Jonah himself. Let us not forget that the end of Jonah ends with this. Jonah, this is the Lord speaking. Should I not have mercy on Nineveh? That's what he says. And you know Jonah says, no. So there's really something churning inside of him to where it's not that easy to do because there's warfare An example of warfare I have already given to you with regard to mercy is what I have called shutting your heart. We shut our heart towards those whom God intends for us to show mercy. And I've given that example to you, but just to remind you from verse number 17 of 1 John 3, whoever has this world's goods What he means by that, and that translation is like the property that you have, the things that you own, your possessions. Whoever has these things And you see your brother in need of those things. That could be money, because money is a substitute just for just about anything. That's the way that it works. It's representative Uh uh, you know, 200 of these $1 bills is equal to this lawnmower. I think maybe that's a old quote. But the those world's goods you have, maybe it is that you have a lawnmower or you have uh the the furniture or you have the food or whatever it is, you see or you hear in another person that they're in need of those things, he says. And then, after seeing and hearing, you shut your heart. That's what he said. And there's the warfare. You shut your heart from him. And then of course there is this raising of this question by John where he says, does the love of God Abide in you? Do you you could even take it, do you even know the love of God? Have you forgotten how much mercy has been given to you? God saw you in your need and he gave. Even his son That's the warfare that takes place and that shutting of the heart. Again, we have to have a holy, compassionate heart. Okay? We can't do things that are unwise. Don't forget that caveat. There's a lot of ethical questions that come out of this But with that, you can see so much warfare that goes on throughout our day. And we become so good at shutting our hearts. Let's put it this way. You see and you hear You shut your heart. Brothers and sisters, please listen to me. You if you get into the habit of doing that, there's another step. And it's called, I have become callous of heart. There is a little shell that builds around you where you don't even see and hear those same things anymore. You tune them out because you already made your decision years ago that they're not worthy of your attention. And what I'm going to do in this what what I hope the Holy Spirit is doing here in this particular point is for you to go back in those years And let's look and hear again. Let's take away that alligator skin off of the heart in hopes that we could maybe say, wait a second, I shouldn't have shut my heart. There are people who are literally still in need around me, and I have exactly what they need. And they've been praying, and this is how Jesus is going to answer their prayers, and in a sense, they've just been waiting on me. That you know let me get I'm gonna get down here and this is gonna be pretty personal. Okay? These are some of the different things that I see and that I hear. Do you have any idea how difficult it is to be a woman living in American society and the ideals that American society has set for the feminine body? Just the ideal for what the body must look like. And if you don't have that specific body, then you are a second-class citizen. And then we don't even I'm not even bringing up the dysmorphia that can take place. And if you don't know what that is, you can look it up. This is a major problem. And some of you women here have had that problem and Jesus Christ has walked you through that. And I know that you see and you hear other women who have the problem And I'm just asking, are you shutting your heart to offering them mercy? Putting your arm around them, whether literally or figuratively or metaphorically, and guiding them to Christ in the midst of this difficulty in the body that God has given to them, which there's nothing wrong with it. But the world says that they're subclass. Do you see and do you hear it? And I'm just asking, could we take the alligator skin off of the heart, ladies? Could we take a step toward? Now, if this hasn't been your struggle, maybe you don't see it and you don't hear it, but those of you who have struggled like this, ladies, you know you can see it. You can see it even with the slightest little sign in the way that they talk, the way that they handle their evening meals or whatever it is Please don't shut your heart. Have mercy. Another example I'll see is um Sometimes I see mothers who are taking care of their children all week long, just as they should. And then it is so interesting to me that they serve in the nursery taking care of everybody else's children also on Sundays. Now there's nothing wrong with that. What a noble thing to do. And I don't hear anybody complaining, but I'm just saying if you see it and you hear it. And you yourself haven't had children at home for a while, and you think that you could handle that, maybe you could see and you could remember what it was like to be a mother with children all over you And you haven't had a warm cup of coffee or a warm meal in about twelve years. Well, you know, there are only eight, but it feels like twelve. Maybe you could remember that and your heart could suffer with them and then it could move and you could say, you know what, didn't you just watch, you know, like twelve kids this all week long? Let me give you a break. That's just something to think about again. You see and you hear and that would contribute. I mean they would receive that mercy and you could talk to them about how this is God's mercy. And maybe moms need to hear about mercy Maybe they need to not just hear about it, maybe they need to experience it from the people that are around them. But you know how easy it is to shut our hearts towards them? Well, I had to do it Nobody helped me. That's a shutting of the heart. I put my time in. That's a shutting of the heart also. And maybe you're not the right person. I'm just saying, does God want you to shut your heart in that regard? Another example would be older generations feeling isolated from life And this is where we would see generations separating from each other because of the differences in ages and stages. And is there a way to look across the aisle and to see and to have mercy? Are there different experiences that you have had as a young person where your heart could go out to someone who's moving into a later stage of life, to where you could walk across the aisle? and give mercy. And maybe the thing that they need is somebody to talk to. To have a cup of tea with. To let th maybe just need to know that other people know that they are alive. It could be that simple. These are all real things, by the way. These are all real things that people feel and people experience. You see them and you hear them. If you're not seeing them and you're not hearing them, it's because your heart has become callous You made up your mind long ago you shut your heart towards that kind of a thing. And I'm asking, in the name of Jesus Christ, could you be merciful? Now, that's principle number one. I have another principle. Yeah, I have another sixty-four. Principle number two. So that the the first principle number one is that it takes place within warfare and that warfare takes primarily takes part primarily with the shutting of our heart. Principle number two is that you and others have to think of yourselves as God's almaners. Now this is an old word which is fun. Almaner. Now like it's kind of like almond joy. Almanar, A-L-M-O-N-E-R. It's the king's, it's the king's servant who gives out alms. And alms are those things that are nest needed for the poor. Now it could be money or food or whatever it is. But the second principle is that you have to start conceiving of yourself as that you are God's almaner. In other words, you're the distributor of mercy in the name of Jesus Christ. He talks about this in terms of a cold cup of water. If you give it in his name, it's the same kind of thing. But you have to take this on as one of your callings. One of your callings is that you are God's almaner. You distribute alms. Now, here are some steps underneath of this principle for the distribution of alms. Number one, you have to start with yourself You have to start with yourself. Jesus says to the woman washing his feet with her tears and his hair and her hair, he says in that hearing of her to other people who did not know, he said, If you if you are forgiven much, you love much. So we must dwell. You know there's an old song that says count your blessings, I think, right? I'd like to change it up a little bit, and I really think you should have journals where you count your mercies. What are all the ways in which God has been merciful to you? R. C. Sproull writes, the character of Christian of the Christian manifests a spirit of mercy. And that is not always manifested among Christians, to our great shame, but we cannot draw a single breath except by the mercy of God. We are to manifest a spirit of mercy because we ourselves live by it every day and inherit eternal life strictly on the basis of mercy rather than justice. So we begin with ourselves and we ponder and we remember the mercy of God. And it's from that place that we will, out of love for God, give mercy. That's the first step. We start with ourselves. Second, we see and we listen. And that can begin in the different areas of your life. You need to start looking and hearing in your homes. Where are people in misery? Where can you share their suffering and begin to remedy the misery? Not only in your homes, but in your congregations, in your congregation, in the congregation here. And not only in your home and in your congregation, but in your neighborhood and your workplace. See and hear them and act. Now it's principle number three. So first we start with ourselves. Second, we see and listen. Third, we put on their suffering. Fourth, we pray and act in the name of Jesus. And I want to give you a special case here in this regard, underneath of this principle. What do we do with people who are not followers of Jesus Christ and like to argue with us all the time about it? And I would just like to read to you uh two two paragraphs, they're brief paragraphs, bear with me, from John Newton, the writer of Amazing Grace, on how Christians should conduct themselves in controversy. And I want you to think of it in terms of mercy. How could you argue with mercy? But if you look upon him as an unconverted person and a state of enmity against God and his grace, A supposition which, with good evidence, you should be very unwilling to admit. He is a more proper subject of your compassion than your anger, isn't he? Alas, he knows not what he does. But you know who has made you to differ? If God in his sovereign pleasure had so appointed, you might have been as he is now. And he, instead of you, might have been set for the defense of the gospel. You were both equally blind by nature. If you attend to this, you will not reproach or hate him because the Lord has been pleased to open your eyes and not his. Of all people who engage in controversy, We, and there, and literally the subtext here is we as Calvinists are the most expressly bound by our own principles to the exercise of gentleness and moderation. If indeed they who differ from us have a power of changing themselves, if they can open their own eyes and they can soften their own hearts, then we might with less inconsistency be offended at their obstinacy. But if we believe the very contrary to this, our part is not to strive, but in meekness to instruct those who oppose. If by chance, by God's will, God will give them repentance to the acknowledgement of the truth. If you write with the desire of correcting mistakes, you will of course be cautious of laying stumbling blocks in the way of the blind. or of using any expressions that may exasperate their passions, confirm them and their prejudices, and thereby make their conviction, humanly speaking, more impracticable. There's another example then of offering mercy, not just in the domain of the home, not just in the domain of our congregation, but particularly, let's say, with those who want to argue about it Now, I'd like you to look down back at your scriptures here because I'm going to make another move. I've given you the definition of mercy. We've looked at how it works through hearing and seeing. And then we took a look at this, the warfare element of it. And there is a second part to the Beatitude. Did you notice it? Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Let's just get something out of the way. This is not saying that the only way that God will give you mercy is if you're a merciful person. That you have to earn the mercy. That would just move everything into a totally different scheme and a weird place But what does it mean? Well, I think to get at that, I just want to read something to you briefly so that you can walk away with some understanding of that second part and how it fits. In Isaiah 58, 10 through 11, it's really interesting that this same kind of imagery in the Beatitudes gets picked up It says this in Isaiah, if you extend your soul to the hungry and satisfy the afflicted soul, then your light shall dawn in the darkness. Think of the light on a hill from the Sermon on the Mount. And your darkness shall be as the noonday. The Lord will guide you continually. and satisfy your soul in drought, and strengthen your bones. You shall be like a watered garden and like a spring of water whose waters do not fail. Do you see that the exact same dynamic is present there? Let me just say it to you again. If you extend your soul to the hungry, it's the same thing as saying, if you are merciful. Then the latter part of the verse is The Lord will guide you continually. He'll bring you satisfaction. You'll be like a watered garden. You'll be like a spring of water whose waters do not fail. Then the it's another way of saying if you give mercy, the Lord will give mercy to you And it's within the context, not of you earning mercy or righteousness or putting God into your debt. It is in the context of God giving more to his people when they use it for his purposes. You give mercy? God gives you mercy that you may get more mercy. Maybe there's other dynamics that are going on. But that's at least one of the dynamics that we see elsewhere without the scriptures. I could find the same thing within Proverbs. You give water, God makes you a living stream. Do you see that? And your waters do not fail. You keep watering, God keeps watering you. That's mercy. That's mercy. I think one final question that you could ask is why is God so intent on giving us so much mercy? There are a lot of answers to that, but there might be a surprising one to you that someone told me the other day And that is because mercy is the main weapon that God uses in the advance of his kingdom. There's a verse in the Proverbs that talks about pouring hot coals on a person's head. And uh if you were to go visit your grandmother or your great grandmother, it would have she would have said, Well, you kill them with kindness. And it's that same kind of thing. So as you give mercy and then God gives you mercy All of that mercy is adding up to where the Holy Spirit is going to use that, where that person will become overwhelmed, where instead of you responding evil for evil or fire for fire. The Holy Spirit uses that, and they start by way of interactions with you into the discovery of the mercy of God through Jesus Christ. I can't think of a more relevant thing to say to you when we're still here on this section talking about what does it mean to be a disciple and to disciple others It means to be a light to the world. And in Isaiah, that light is described as mercy. Mercy. That's the last part of mercy that I think is important for you to know, at least for this morning. I could probably go on for a while. But we have covered what mercy is. We've seen that it has to do not only with the body but with the soul. We've seen how it works, that the Holy Spirit brings things for you to hear and for you to see. And then we applied it with a few principles like warfare and that you are God's almaner. And finally we can see how it works more broadly in bringing the the all those whom Christ is calling to himself. And him giving you mercy because you keep giving mercy. Let's go back to that point. Let's go back to the moment of decision. What are you hearing? What are you seeing? Remember that's where it begins. What are you hearing and what are you seeing? Can you that heart of yours that has been changed by the Lord Jesus Christ, can we start to take that hard exterior shell off? And start to feel the suffering of the other person, no matter what community to which they belong? And could we then move to meet them in their misery from what God has given to us? Is there anybody in here that wants to be a fool? No. But everybody here wants to be wise. You know how James defines wisdom? That is wisdom from above, James 3, 17 through 18. But the wisdom from above is first pure Then peaceable, then gentle, then willing to yield, and is full of mercy. May Christ make us all wise for the salvation of the world. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I thank you for your people's attention. I really