It's Colossians chapter 2, verses 1 through 5. For I want you to know what a great conflict I have for you and those in Laodicea, and for as many as have not seen my face in the fire. That their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love, and attaining to all riches of the full assurance of understanding, to the knowledge of the mystery of God, both of the Father and of Christ. In whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. With you in spirit, rejoicing to see your good order and the steadfastness of your faith in Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this great word that you've given to us, and we pray. That you supernaturally by your spirit would work these things into our very being, allowing us to see the incomparable excellency of your word and of your Christ. In his name we pray. It did not happen during this storm But a few years back we had one of those storms that came through, and uh what typically happens in Maryland is we don't usually end up with a light beautiful fluffy snow, but there's a light, beautiful, fluffy snow followed by a very wet and heavy snow followed by just freezing rain that accumulates on the trees. And when you wake up in the morning and you look out and you see the bare branches covered with the ice, it is just a fantasy land. And I know all of us are uh we just have to stop and and look at those things. But what it also means when heavy winds accompany that is usually power outages or in my case the uprooting of my Bradford pear. We had Bradford pears uh planted along the the VA bike trail, which is we live right around along that trail. Some of you know that. We hear you yelling our names sometimes when you're riding Riding by on your bicycles or jogging. And uh the Bradford pears were ripped right out of the ground. And in this case, the Bradford pear was ripped out of the ground and collapsed onto my fence, which snapped my fence post in half. And the Anorundal County Fix It Committee came by and said, hey, those Bradford pears were on our property. They fell on your yours, we need to fix your fence post. It was before I had bought the house and I was standing there with Doug and he said and the guy that came by to fix it said, Well this is what I would like to do. I don't really w And somehow we said yes. And uh and so then he put the dirt back around the post and within a year more winds came and blew against my fence and that post began to sag and sag and sag Sag. And um that is not that does not make me happy. One reason is just because of my property, but also the fence is there for the sake of of my family's protection. Uh just the other day, strange things happened in Saverna Park. Just the other day I was in a session or a deacon meeting and we had a helicopter flying low with Someone in some white car who was armed and dangerous finally got caught down by Jumpers Hole Road, but he had apparently gone through our community and it makes me nervous to not have the fence there. uh right where the the B and A trail is. There's there's uh riff rafts, so to speak, that walk up and down it. And uh and so it makes me feel unsafe. The picture that we see within the scriptures of the same kind of thing can be related to our beliefs I feel like a fool for saying, yeah, just stick the post back in the ground without cement. Because it was eventually uprooted and then puts my family at risk. And the same thing can be said about your Christian beliefs. Now there's possibly two situations where as a Christian you have beliefs and they They are very important to you. They're at the center of your being actually. If they were to evaporate and you became something different, the majority of your relationship Within your life would come under a severe amount of turbulence, turbulence, and conflict. Your whole family would be at risk in the same way that mine was. when my fence was uprooted. Or if you perhaps uh were interested in Christianity when you were younger and then they were uprooted later on. Perhaps that has left you in confusion as to where you actually stand and what your purpose is within this universe. Either way, being uprooted is not pleasant. Being uprooted is not pleasant. And so we, I think, implicitly acknowledge that we want to be tied down in our beliefs. We want to be well rooted. Now come to find out Bradford Pears don't Ever well root. So you don't want to be a Bradford pear. You want to be something like a strong maple tree or a strong oak tree. It was the great mystery of God that has been revealed to mankind, and that mystery that has been revealed may be summarized in Jesus Christ, in his words, and in his work. Now take what I said about the Offense and now what we said last week about the mystery and tie the two together. You as a Christian do not want your beliefs in the mystery of God to be uprooted, but how in the world are you Supposed to make sure that that does not happen. What are the ways in which that should not happen? That is what this whole passage here one through five actually down a little bit further. We're going to look and try to answer this question, but we actually will answer it. How do we hold on to this belief. Now if you are not a follower of Jesus Christ, you maybe you gave up those beliefs way in the past and you said, how unreasonable is this? I'm now that I've gone to college, I can see that Christianity is implausible and it doesn't make any sense. I'm glad that I finally left it. You may want to just listen to see if your belief in Christianity or your attraction to it or you seeking it if it was a mistake for you to be uprooted so quickly. How do we hold on to our beliefs, or how do we regain them if we have walked away? We're going to see this under three different ways. We do so, we hold on to these beliefs, we become well-rooted, not like a Bradford pair, through sacrifice, community, and comparative evaluation. And that's what we see here in chapter 2, 1 through 7. So let's begin with gaining security or well-rootedness in our Christian belief by sacrifice. sacrifice. For I want you to know what a great conflict I had for you and those in Laodicea, and for as many have not seen my face in the flesh. This is Paul speaking first about his churches. Notice here just Step through the verse with me a little bit here so you can see it. The way that he phrases things can be a little confusing. For I want you to know what a great conflict or what agony or what struggles I have gone through. And it's for those in Colossae, for you, and for those in Laodicea, a neighboring town, and for as many as have not seen my face in the flesh. Those of you who have not met me personally. I need you to know all of the different struggles that I am going through for a particular purpose. At this point in Paul's life, he is no longer going out into individual churches and So there are many churches around the Mediterranean Sea that have never met Paul personally. One, in fact, the the who planted this church? It was Epaphras, uh the young servant of Jesus Christ. And so Paul provides a picture here for us. As he as a church planter wants them to know that he is severely struggling for them for a particular purpose. Now the struggle is not In fact, if you were to flip a couple pages in Colossians, you would see that he says, Remember my chains. And now this is Paul letting everyone know that he's in prison, which is why Paul is in prison. That is a part of his struggle. Perhaps you'll remember the history of Paul and his struggle and agony for the churches. I think immediately of 2 Corinthians. chapter 11 starting uh somewhere around verse 22. You could pick up for instance at verse 25, this is Paul speaking three times I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned, three times I was shipwrecked. How many times have you been shipwrecked? A night and a day I have been in the deep Deep and journeys often in perils of waters, and perils of robbers, and perils of my own countrymen, and perils of the Gentiles, and perils in the city, and perils in the wilderness, and perils in the sea, and perils among false bret brethren, in weariness and toil, in sleeplessness often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness. And that is Now, interestingly, this history that we hear of Paul and the agony and the sacrifice sacrifices that he made for these churches ends up becoming something that he passes on to the new leadership. If you were to read uh the new the letters to the new leadership, for instance, Timothy and Titus You would see that he speaks to Timothy and impresses upon him the importance of the sacrifice that he will have to make for his church. And he does the same thing with Titus, the sacrifice that will need to be made for the church. And so there's this timeless truth that emerges here that throughout all of the ages, continuing from Paul, perhaps even further back, Actually, certainly further back with the sacrifice of Jesus Christ. And that is that in order for there to be any progression or health within the church, there must be some that decide that they are going to be able to do that. The way that Titus did. In our culture, when we think of sacrifice or agony or struggle, it is something that we want to remove ourselves from very, very quickly. But that is the opposite of what will of what we need to do if we're looking for well-rootedness. In well-rootedness, there must be sacrifice. We often think of our lives as ag Agony is an anomaly. But what we have to begin to realize is that agony is an opportunity. Or struggle or conflict is an opportunity. We have a moment in our lives where this is something that we truly believe, and it's childbirth. We see the mother writhing in pain, if she didn't have an epidural. Writhing in pain. And we do not think that this is a horrible situation because the joy of what we know the sacrifice will bring overcomes the agony. And it is the same way in Paul's mind, it was the same in Timothy. Timothy was the same in Titus. It was that the sweetness of the hope of having something that is well-rooted, an entire church or just an individual. And so agony has become an opportunity. You here at Severn Run are faced with the same situation and with the same question. Will you, as leaders, and each of What are the ways in which you will choose to sacrifice, whether it is for your children or for your friends? Or for this congregation, because without sacrifice there will be no progress. Without sacrifice, we will be like a Bradford pair. Or like a four by four treated posts stuck into the dirt with no concrete foundation. Imagine what these churches would have been like if Paul never made one sacrifice but decided Decided he wanted to be comfortable. How many towns would he have never entered into? And we are faced with the same responsibility That's the first point. That if you want to have security and rootedness within your Christian belief, there's going to need to be sacrifice. And if you want to be But the second point we see is The next set of verses, and that is that our security or our well-rootedness can take place by being a part of community, Christian community. Take a look again at the scriptures with me. And you're going to have to look closely because of what the NKJV has done. The next thing we see in verse 2 is that the Apostle Paul is going to tell you why he has chosen to go through this as Agony or this conflict or this struggle. And he says, in order that their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love, and attaining to all riches of the full assurance, etc. And the way that that comes across is not exactly the way that it should. What he's saying here, the controlling language should be being knit together. And then the There's two things. It's being knit together in love, and then it's being knit together in attaining to all the riches of the full assurance of the understanding, which is just Another way of saying being well rooted in your belief. In other words, what he's saying is that this Christian community of which you are part is absolutely necessary If you are going to be well-rooted in your Christian belief, you are to be knit together, not only in your love, but in your love in the truth and in your beliefs. There must be a mutually reinforcing culture. This should immediately remind you of Ephesians chapter 4. If you're unfamiliar with that passage. Basically, it ties into the main Christian story where Jesus, after his resurrection, ascends up on high and he sends his church gifts But the gifts are unusual. There's a list of individuals that he gives to the church. Church leaders. And these church leaders are to minister. They are to sacrifice, just like we mentioned in first in the first point, they are to be sacrificial leaders for the sake of the members, that the members would build one another up in love, having one faith and one love and one baptism. That is the gift of Jesus Christ. This should impress you. Because this, being a gift from Jesus Christ who has ascended on high, is another way of saying that heaven has already The picture that you should have is that Jesus ascends to the heavenly Mount Zion that in its fullness will one day arrive on earth, and there will be a new New heaven and a new earth. And this is a foretaste of that. Jesus sends a little piece of heaven down his Holy Spirit that he gives to the church. And the very first thing that we see in the fruit of this spirit is the joining together of the saints into an intimate community. Where they are sharing life and trouble, and they are certainly sharing belief. It is not a voluntary society. It is not the Elks Lodge. It is not whatever other voluntary This is it may feel voluntary because of the respect that the that the Holy Spirit gives you You in the freedom of your will. But here we see that this is actually a calling that Jesus Christ has given to you to join with another group of people to be Mutually reinforcing to them so that they can make it through life. And some of you know this better than others, because some of for some of you, your earthly familial relationships have dried up and And you are very keen and you are very aware of how important the communion of saints is. And I pray that the rest of us would be able to learn from those Who truly understand how important the family of God is. I remember receiving the gospel message in rehab. And it was great. I've told you this before, it was Noah's Ark. Fast forward 90 days. I'm out of rehab, and I immediately go back to hanging out. with my old friends and doing all assorted wonderful drugs. It doesn't take much longer until I'm re-arrested And taken to the hickey school in Baltimore. And there there's a preacher who encourages me to go down and make an altar call. And I do. And then 90 days go by and I get out of the hickey school. School and I go right back to doing the drugs and being with my friends. It wasn't until I joined a Bible study at Flo Wolf's house, who was a member at SPEP, and linked up with the young adults there and eventually Eventually with a guy named Josh Smith, who discipled me daily, had me move into his apartment, and then we went through different theologies together and worked through all of the Christian faith, going to church on Sundays joining that community. It wasn't till then that I didn't go back into some other place. The next place would have been Jessup And it was the community of Jesus Christ that allowed the roots to finally go down. It was like being a lone star outside of a constellation of other stars. And it's the same, it's a universal truth for all of humanity. Unless you are a part of a community, there the the the rootedness is like that Community, but we're really on the edges of it. You know, there's two things. You know there's a difference between being a part of a community and being a part of a crowd. What's the difference between those two things? You know, I think about when my wife gets stressed, she has like her main outfit and then she has her accessories. If she loses an accessory, we're not going home. If she loses her main outfit, we are going home. And I just wonder if you want to start asking yourself and maybe testing yourself and your involvement in this Christian community. Or your Christian community, if this isn't your church, are you an accessory or are you the main outfit? Are you a part of the main outfit? The final point that we see here, besides seeing that we need to have sacrificial leaders and we need to make sacrifices ourselves, in order to tie down our beliefs. We also need community, not just to be accessories, to but be to be a pain of part of the main body, to be a pain part of the main fabric of the community. And then lastly, we see that there must be a comparative evaluation. Now that's the most confusing phraseology that I think you've heard tonight. So let's just take a look at the verses and I'll show you what I mean. begins in uh the end of verse 2 after he speaks about the purposes that he hopes for them. Notice how he points out this this uh long phrase which really means Certain in your belief, so the full assurance of understanding, to the knowledge of the mystery of God, which we spoke about last week. And then he singles out both of the Father and of Christ. And then notice how he focuses in on Jesus. And he adds a whole nother phrase, and he says, in whom, speaking of Christ, are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. And so we see a substance that has been going through the whole letter. We just spoke earlier, uh two weeks ago, about the importance of being reconciled to the Father and the Father's grand plan that he has revealed to us, and of Christ being the revelation. But here we see That there's something added to this kind of knowledge that we're talking about. There's a different quality. When he brings up that Christ is the treasure of wisdom and knowledge. We're not just talking about knowing about Jesus Christ. We're talking about really qualitatively knowing him in a very different way. Now here's what I'm saying. If you know about your wife, this is what you sound like. There are none of you that are in here, so don't feel convicted. Tell me about your wife. This is someone that knows about About their wife. She has brown hair, she has blue eyes, she is Caucasian, she wears jeans. She has shoes. That's what it means to know about your wife. You know isolated, individual, unemotional, detached, observational facts. About your wife. And that is not what is being communicated here. Perhaps you can list all of the attributes of God. Maybe you could go through all of the confession, and that's good. But if it's only knowing about him, then you have fallen short because here Paul is speaking about Christ as a treasure. Which is a different quality of wisdom. And this is why this is so important for you to understand in relationship to tying down your beliefs and being well rooted. Here is the significance of this statement. I've talked to you before about the importance of having a romantic theology. And I'm not just saying that all over again here. The significance is when you take into consideration the enemy that is involved that Actually wants to uproot you and your confidence in the Christian faith. Look at uh verse five, uh verse four. Now this I said And it's right after that verse, in verse 6 and verse 5, he says something about the steady And then take a look at the next verse. As you have therefore received Christ Jesus, walk in him. And then look at the language. Rooted and built up in him. Established in the faith. As you've been Taught Christian belief, abounding in it with thanksgiving. And look back at verse 8. He goes right back to the deceivers. Beware lest anyone cheat you through philosophy and empty deceit. Do you see the connection there? Uprootedness is not just coming because of the uh the uh happen stances of life. There's actually an enemy out there that is seeking to uproot the very belief And what Paul is doing here is he's giving you a hint and how to counteract that, and that is that you must see Christ not knowing about him, but you must have a lot of people. see him as a treasure. You must see the mystery of God as a treasure. And this is what I mean by comparative evaluation. You must compare and always end up that Christ is more than More excellent than any other thing if your faith is to stand the test. Because the times in which we live in now is like going shopping at Home Depot. When you go to Home Depot and you have to select Like anything, there is always fifty of those things. Think of the neck last time you went out to buy a faucet. When you had to buy a faucet, there were fifty options for you to buy a faucet And then you have to do all of the research and all the different brand selection and are the parts plastic or are they something else? And where were they made? And you as an American have all of these different options and the age in which you live in now, it is not isolated to home deal. So it is isolated to your philosophies and to your religious beliefs, to where now you have a choice every day as to whether you think Christianity Christian belief is the most excellent thing out there, or if it should be replaced by something else. And the enemy is always seeking to make that which is not the Christian faith to look better than the Christian faith. So if you haven't begun to do this, you better start doing it really soon and you better Absolutely every single arena and domain. Because there is a counterfeiter counterfeiter out there. We see when we look through the gospels that Satan counterfeits God's mystery at every single point. Now I want you to think about this. This will get your brain going a little bit, and maybe we can have some conversation. in the last chapter was that the Son of God, who is God, will become incarnate and take on human flesh. And what is the thing that we overwhelmingly see within the gospel That is a a counterfeit of that. All of a sudden, on the scene, like it has never been in history before, is demon possession of other human beings. And some theologians speculate that the reason why that is happening is because Satan is seeking to offer some kind of counterfeit for people to see that, hey, you know what, this isn't that useful. Unique, this isn't that great, it happens all the time. Which then takes away some of the glory and some of the excellence of Jesus Christ. Now whether you accept that or not, the counterfeiting principles stand And so we must always compare and show Jesus Christ to be more excellent than any other option. Whether you realize it or not. You are you something is working on you right now to uproot you little by little, incrementally, away from the excellence of the of Jesus Christ and toward the excellence of something else. It is like a tide in the Chesapeake Bay. It does not sit still. It is pulling you out or is pulling you in. That is exactly what the Apostle Paul would be getting at here. We must always compare. And for us, we must compare what America offers us versus what Jesus Christ and the mystery of God offers us because they are going growing further and further and further apart every single day. Let me give you an example. When I went to high school, high school is a microcosm of exclusivity. What I mean by this is that there are all these different cliques. You've got the jocks and you've got the freaks And you've got the this and you've got the druggies and you've got uh those who like the break dance. If you grew up in the 80s, I don't know, I'm trying to connect to you. You have all of these different groups. And because they are communities within the world, they always think that their group is better than the other group, and the groups end up fighting somehow in the square Meet me at three PM after the bell rings and let's all fight after school. We all I think if we want the public school, we uh I don't know if that happens at Rockbridge. I don't ever heard of any brawls at Rock Ridge. But in public school that happened all the time. It'd be the skateboarders versus the football players, whatever it is. Now here's the thing. This is the interesting thing. If you were to look at the latter chapter Of Titus, that high school exclusivity and one group thinking they're better than the other group that carries on past high school into all of the different American communities. This community, because they have This sign and they live on the water, believe then they're better than this community. Saverna Parks thinks they're better than that part of the town, whatever it is. And what we see within Christianity and its version of community In Titus at the end is that there's a group of people that are moral failures, and someone else has come in and has decided to nurture them and to make them something that they never could have been. On their own. And so when they are brought together in the communion of saints, they have a confidence because of the king that they are serving, but they have a humility about them to where they are not uh hating one another. And so what you end up having in a Christian community is a much healthier, a far uh greater and superlative community. But every other community will end in war. The Christian community is the only thing that will ever end in peace. Because of what we are based on Now you might have to explore that, but that's an example of what you would need to do with power or physical intimacy or money or politics or any of the Think of this statement From Paul. Everything else that I used to have has become trash to me so that I can have Jesus Christ. And that is what you must present to yourself. And you must present to your family, you must present to your children, is a comparative evaluation in order to remain well-rooted. Otherwise, there's this little thing prying. I sure would have more freedom if I could express physical intimacy right now. You're gonna sit at your kitchen table one day. Those of you who don't know, you're gonna have You're gonna end up having kids and you're gonna sit at your kids' table one day and your daughter's gonna say to you, Mom, Dad, if two people really love each other Why I mean philosophically, I would never do this, but philosophically, why wouldn't it be okay to be physically intimate with them? It's already happening inside of them. The alternative of the secular age, that is what it means to be American, has already been planted. It is beginning to make sense to your daughter. That if two people love each other, then they can be physically intimate with each other. Now I'm being euphemistic on purpose. I don't want to go any further than that. You know what I mean. And what you would have to establish Is that that is supposed to take place within a covenantal context, and that is far superior to any other expression of that. That is what you have on your lap. in order for yourself and for your children to be well-rooted and for us. And it's going to take so much sacrifice on our behalf. And it's going to take a whole community to pull these thoughts together. And we're all going to have to begin thinking about how Christ is greater and more incomparably excellent than all other options. And we're going to have to share those Things together. I want you to think about the three points of the sacrifice, of the community, and of the comparative evaluation, and I want you to make them as a bar graph Where are you on the first bar in terms of sacrifice? 1 through 10. I'll give you a 5. Okay? Whoever you are, you got a 5 Congratulations. Let's say community, real popular these days. I'm going to give you an eight. And now we have comparative evaluation. Maybe it's the first time you ever even thought about it. I'm going to give you a two. Now take the bar graph and wrap it around like it's a wooden bucket. And I want you to pour water into it. It will only go as high as the two, and then it will begin leaking out. If you want to be full all the way up in the well-rootedness of your belief in Jesus Christ, Christ, then you must begin working on all of the other bars. And we can begin to do that tonight. We can begin to be well-rooted or full of the Christian faith and of belief, beginning tonight. Or when we talk to each other on the telephone or throughout the week and begin to look for it in your family and in your children. How is it that My children or myself have begun to desire other things more than Jesus Christ because that means they think something else is better than him. And now you need to show Christ to be better than that. And that sets you on a path of being well-rooted. It is through sacrifice that that needs to be done. It is through community and it is through comparative evaluation. Please pray. with me. Heavenly Father, we need uh greatly your help with this. It is you who will give us the strength to do this. It is your Holy Spirit that will teach us and you will show Christ to be the The greatest delight in all of the universe. He is the fullness of all treasure and all wisdom. Lord, we ask that for ourselves, we ask that for our children, our communities. Lord, if there's any here that uh whatever that particular way, Lord, where they're desiring something more than you, we pray that you would show yourself to be m better than that, better than that thing. And we ask this for your glory. Amen.