So we'll attend that now's uh time for where I have the privilege of giving a pastoral prayer. I'm going to be giving two pastoral prayers on two uh subjects. First, as you can see that we are going to be praying for our graduates. You can see the different degrees there in the bulletin, whether it be master's degree, congratulations Abigail, by the way. And I won't announce the rest of the names. But you can see the names there. And please search these folks out and say congratulations to them. meet and greet right after this service. I believe we have a cake for them. Is that correct? Yes we do. Yeah we have a cake for them. And then I also want to pray in the spirit of Memorial Day. Now that's an interesting spirit because usually it means hot dogs and hamburgers. And so it would be quite meaningless for me to pray in the spirit of hot dogs and hamburgers. It actually wouldn't even be the full meaning for me to pray this morning just for those men and women who have given their lives up in service to our country. To capture the full spirit, we would need to pray for the permanence of peace. That actually was a presidential declaration in the 50s That there would be prayer starting at 9 a. m. on Memorial Day among all of the people for the permanence of peace. I can't think of another group of people that should be praying that more so than Christians who have as their Lord the Prince of Peace. So we'll engage in some prayer on that front also. So please join me in this two-part prayer. Let's pray together. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, Lord, we thank you for your grace that you have poured out on us, that we have succeeding generations. Lord, we see these little ones in our midst. We see them when they are to just be held. We see them then start to crawl, and then when they run, and we have to tell them to slow down and the narthex. And before we know it, Lord, we see their names here with degrees, heading into other degrees, heading into other vocations. Lord, we thank you. We thank you that you have given our children life and that their life is continuing. We thank you for the talents that you have given each one of them. We praise you that not every child here is meant to be a professor. We thank you, Lord, that you are raising up mechanics in all sorts of callings. Lord, it is good to see how you pour out your grace on our children. Lord, we know that as we look at this list here, that each one of these Folks are going officially through a transition period. Lord, living in this area, we see transitions across organisms. We think, Lord, for example, of the Maryland blue crab, and how for it to transition it must slough off its hard shell and be soft and vulnerable for a while. And what a picture of these Children that we have here on this page, moving into unknowns, moving into areas and domains that they do not know how to master their environment, new temptations and pressures O Lord God, as a congregation, we come before you and we ask that you would deliver our children from the evil one. That instead of giving them over to destruction and chaos Any actions that they take, any stumbling that they take, we pray that you would act as their good father and use it in their discipline That they would grow more and more into your image and be stronger and stronger for the community of Christ and the advancement of his kingdom. Lord, those that we have seen make the profession of faith and sup at the table with us, we thank you so much that you have brought them into your kingdom, and we ask this morning that you would keep them in it Lord God, we pray that as they enter into these new paths that they haven't walked yet, whether they're heading out of town for some college or university or they're staying for the same or for other vocations, starting a trade or whatever it is. We pray, Lord, that you would be with their hands We pray that what they do would be fruitful. We pray that they would do everything in your service. Lord, we ask that you would show us as a community how we can be supportive to them as they move into these new areas. Lord Jesus Christ, because of war, there are many bodies that need to be raised from the bottom of the sea and brought up from the land. That must be restored from the fires. Lord Jesus Christ, some of these are those who have fallen in service to our liberty and our protection as citizens Lord, we do not claim that every soldier is a Christian, but we are thankful nonetheless, because in every soldier. We see, Lord Jesus Christ, your provisions, that we may have relative peace in order to practice godliness in the raising of our family and the continuance of the preaching of your gospel here in the United States of America. and even sending missionaries all over the world. Lord, if we did not have a lawful defense, none of those things would take place. We would be taken advantage of in a heartbeat. And so, Lord, we thank you for those who have given their lives in service under your superintendence and sovereignty. Lord Jesus Christ, it is heartening to hear of our country at one time having a presidential declaration that we would pray for the permanence of peace. Lord Jesus Christ, you are called the Prince of Peace, and you are the only one who may restore your creation from the degradation of the fall. From the sinful heart and wild inclinations of human beings. And Lord Jesus Christ, we therefore pray on this day that you would come quickly. We ask, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would gather in all of your elect and that you would act swiftly to take away the tears from this world Take away the injustices. Take away the confusion. Lord Jesus Christ, there will be no peace. until the head of the serpent is crushed. We pray that you would bring your heel down hard. We ask, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would begin this work even in us. As you have said in Romans, the head of the serpent shall be crushed soon. You were speaking of specific situations that were somewhat temporary, though figurative, of a permanent state. We pray, Lord, that you would give us our work to do, and that, Lord, you would restore this fixer upper through us even, and that you would bring it to consummation upon your return. We ask these things in your holy and most awesome name. Amen. Amen. Thank you for praying with me. Let us stand now for our scripture reading out of respect for God's Word. We have a single verse before us today, and it's Judges chapter 3, verse 31. This is after the egg line and e hood. After him was Shamgar the son of Anath, who killed six hundred men of the Philistines with an ox goad, and he also delivered Israel. Let us pray. Lord, our prayer this morning is that you would restore the glory and that you would keep the glory of your bride, the church. In the name of Christ, amen. You may be seated. Did anybody think of any more characters with with whom you are familiar that reminded you of King Aeglon of the Moabites. For me it was Job of the Hutt. I thought, man, that's Job of the Hutt, for sure. Job of the hood. Our stated goal last week was to not be like King Eglon. We therefore must stay attentive to the Lord through his word. We must live out his word by loving our neighbor. What vocations has God given to you? How will you use these vocations as instruments to bring blessing? For that is what vocations are. Who has God placed in your life in particular? What good can you bring to those people specifically? Not in a Joanna Gaines glamour, but in the ordinary and mundane ways of an earthling. Let us not be fat and foolish. Let us be fit. May the Spirit give us the strength to walk worthy of the calling to which we are called That's a summary and review from last week. As we considered that deliverer in the book of Judges, and we've moved now into an incidental cycle that we have, very short And I want to begin with some observations, and then I have two applications for us this morning from this character named Shamgar, son of Anath. So let's notice a few things together with your scriptures open. Our observations this morning are based really solely upon the name of the new deliverer, Shamgar the son of Anath. There's really not much more written. than that. There's an ox goat involved. He kills a number of people with that ox goat. But what is at front and center here, what should be emphasized for you is the name that is given to Shamgar. We are familiar with these kinds of names. Have you ever read in the scriptures and then it gives a person's name and then it says son of such and such? It is a regular form of a biblical name to state the name and then the name of their descendant or their father. For example, Genesis 11:31. And Terah took his son Abram and his grandson Lot, the son of Haran. In this case, however Shamgar, the son of Anath, does not refer to Shamgar's father. This is not a typical lineage remark. It refers instead to the goddess to which he and his war unit were dedicated. This kind of information is developed from ancient Near Eastern studies and historical studies. Historical research has borne out over many years that this guy here, Shamgar, Being called the son of Anath is placing him within a military troop that was specialized. You could think, for example, of like the Navy SEALs or something along that those lines But it is not a specialized troop of the Israelites. They are associated with Pharaoh's army, and that is why they are named after the Canaanite goddess. Anath. Her name is all over the literature, by the way. Ben Anath, a son of Anath. He is a warrior. Dedicated to the goddess of war who is in the pantheon of Egypt What you have before you then is a man whose primary interests were for Pharaoh, but incidentally in this time period benefit Israel by beating off their enemies. away from them. Now that's the first observation and that's derived from a lot of historical research. There's a uh you could actually see the pictures of this name showing up on walls and that kind of stuff Observation number two. When you combine Shamgar's biography with the primary lens of judges, Then we see that in the dark days of the judges, his him showing up and having to do the work for them which they were commissioned to do. It shows that Israel was in a state unable to raise up its own military leaders. That's not a good situation. God, therefore, in his mercy used those from outside to deliver the nation when the nation was not able to step up and do the work it was called to do. They had become weak. This theme is going to continue with more characters. As we continue in Judges. Actually, the next two characters are going to be recapitulations on the same theme: that the people that were meant to be strong are so weak that God needs to work through other people in their place. For example, this is going to be the case with Deborah. Deborah is in the hill country. The people are flocking to her to try to hear what God's will is. And that was originally given to the priests to tell their will, but they're not going to the priest, which tells you a lot of what has happened among that leadership. It's also going to happen with JL. She is an outsider. She's not an Israelite either. And she is the one who will gain victory with a tent peg through the temple. She very much is an embodiment, in some sense, of the goddess Anath. So what we see here, it's just these two observations. You can't expect more, really, with a short verse like this. What we see though, when we s when we have worked so hard in the introduction to establish the lens, and then we remain consistent with that primary lens, and we see that Shamgar is not an Israelite, but dedicated to the goddess Anath. Because of the loss of leadership among that nation, here is your doctrine this morning. The loss of native leadership in the church Represents one more symptom of the canonization of God's people. And I know. That you have personal experience with the loss of native leadership in God's church. Well What we learn here as we put these pieces together is that when you see the loss of native leadership in the church, it represents one more symptom of the canonization of God's people. You can already feel the pressure on you, can't you? On what needs to be done? What it would mean to rear our children, for example. Well I want to unfold this doctrine and some imagery. I want to tie some of this together where we can see the themes running through the scriptures. So we're going to start with just an image that is given to us from Ezekiel, and then I want to give you some examples, and then we'll end with some questions. Image, examples, and questions. Let's start with an image. We're not going to only see this situation here in Judges. We're going to see it happen throughout the eras of the church. There is an image in Ezekiel chapter 19, verses 11 and 12 that really capture what's going on here within Judges very well. I learned of this image many years ago when I was reading a sermon from Jonathan Edwards. Do we have any Jonathan Edwards fans in here? Yes, no, maybe so? Yeah, okay. Let's see one So there's one person I can trust in here. Okay. It was titled this in Jonathan Edwards fashion. Probably longer, but this is as long as I'm going to make it this morning God's awful judgment in the breaking and withering of the strong rods of a community. You want to hear that again? God's awful judgment in the breaking and withering of the strong rods of a community. It was preached in Northampton, Massachusetts on the Lord's Day, June 26, 1748. What goes around comes around. The sermon from Jonathan Edwards was a memorial to his maternal uncle, and it spoke of the nature and character of leaders Who are the strong rods of a community, and what happens when they are lost. Now listen to the Ezekiel passage from which Jonathan Edwards preached. It says this, speaking of Israel, she had strong branches for scepters, for rulers She towered in stature above the thick branches and was seen in her height amid the dense foliage. Can you see that picture? But she was plucked up in fury. She was cast down to the ground, and the east wind dried her fruit Her strong branches were broken and they withered. The fire consumed them. This picture is analogous. If you haven't caught it, if you're not familiar with this kind of language, it's like looking out on a meadow or a fallowed field Above all the tall grass and the brush stands a tall oak with strong branches that draws your attention because of its stature. In Ezekiel, the thick branches symbolize the strong leaders of the nation. The great tragedy that we read of here, and you can read more in that chapter, it unfolds a bit more. But the great tragedy is that the strong branches were broken and they were withered and they were good for nothing but the fire. Jesus talks about that, at the leaders of his day. Edwards ends up saying this towards the end of his sermon. He says, Such rulers are eminently the ministers of God to his people for their good. They are the great gifts of the Most High to people. They are the blessed tokens of His favor and vehicles of His goodness to them. And therein they are images of God's own Son. The grand medium of all God's goodness to fallen man is Jesus Christ. And therefore, all of them are called, who are like him or figured like Christ as leaders. They are called sons of the Most High. You can see this in Psalms, by the way. That's what Edward's referring to. All civil rulers, for example, if they are as they ought to be, such strong rods as has been described will be like the Son of the Most High. Vehicles of good to mankind and like him will be as the light of the morning when the sun rises Even a morning without clouds, as the tender grass springing out of the earth by clear shining after rain. And therefore, when a people are bereaved of those strong rods, they sustain an unspeakable loss. And are the subjects of a judgment of God that is greatly to be lamented. Now that makes sense of our experience, doesn't it? Of what's supposed to be and then what it's like when it's not. The dark days of judges was such a day of lament. That's the image that's going on there in Judges. It's the image that should carry us through, that the Son has given us to carry us through all of the scriptures as we try to understand the church and what she can go through. Because the people had no native leadership and therefore became reliant on Shamgar, son of the goddess Anath. It was to their shame. The problem happens again in the time of Ezekiel, as I just read to you, and it happens in other times, many other times throughout the life of the church. I'd love to see the examples that you come up with. Where you can see over and over again that the loss of native leadership in the church represents one more symptom of the canonization of God's people. And it's to be lamented. Well, that's the image. And that image can shuttle us forward into seeing many examples in the scriptures, but I just want to cover two with you in two different domains so that you can get your head around this, so you can see how you should be using it. We can see the picture or the image of a tree and the meaning. And now I want you to consider the examples which analogously fit this description in the life of the New Testament church. And here's the first example. 1 Corinthians chapter 6. I'm thinking totally of verses 1 through 6 of chapter 6, but I'm just going to pare it down for the sake of time. Paul says this. I say this to your shame Is it so that there is not a wise man among you, not even one, who will be able to judge between his brethren? But brother goes to law against brother, and that before unbelievers. We have that in our bulletin if you want to look at the more of the verses. But what you can see there is that a conflict has erupted in the church. And one party in the conflict has decided to take the case before non-Christian judges. And Paul, in this particular circumstance, which we're supposed to learn from in our other circumstances, he criticizes the community for that choice. based upon the same assumptions that we see within Judges or Ezekiel. His underlying assumption is that the church community should have had the native leadership and wisdom to be able to handle this matter between brother and brother. And the fact that they did not, and yet were a church that bragged about their theological wisdom was a major red flag. Where they're not, if you wanted to put it in our terms so that we could connect all the dots through the scriptures Should they not have had native leadership and strong rods wise enough to settle this matter? That's how you could say it And then the answer is a deafening, they do not. And this is a great sign in the canonization of this congregation, it is a symptom of it. That's the first example, and that is how it can show up within the life of the church. And I wonder if you can think of analogous ways in which that shows up. Among us, that we were created to be a certain way, and then we are exposed as no longer having that capacity because of the choices we have made in following other gods. In the way that we've unfolded that and what that means. Well, here's a second example, and this is not how it relates to the local church per se, but to the family. And I'm going to take this example from 1 Timothy 5, verse 8. It says this: this is verses 3 through 8 of chapter 5 of 1 Timothy. Honor widows who are really widows. But if any widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show piety at home and to repay their parents. For this is good and acceptable before God. But if anyone does not provide for his own, and especially for those of his household, he has denied the faith, and he is worse than an unbeliever. Can you believe that the scriptures have the nerve to say that? Worse than an unbeliever. If you were to take that same passage, knowing what we know, and you were to put it in the terms of Judges and Ezekiel, what he's saying is that each household should have the native leadership And strong branches wherein they may support each other. Paul in Timothy assumes that the remaining family will take care of the widowed mother or father and therefore makes a distinction between true widows which have no one, and therefore the church must be their family, and then those widows who still have family, and they should be relying on that family for their daily needs. And this assumes the children have become pious. And you can talk to me after the service if you want a good picture of piety. I'll tell you right now, it's not effeminate. They have become pious and they have worked hard to be established, so in the language of the passage, they may repay their parents. The great tragedy would be this, according to Paul and Judges and Ezekiel. The great tragedy would be if a son or daughter was a withered and weak branch. Unable or unwilling to bear the weight of what the aged mother or father would need. You see how it's all the same? Iterating through the scriptures. And so you could hear the same thing again. You know what it would be, whether it's in local church, whether it's in a nation. Whether it's in the local church or whether it's in the family, you know what it would be if we saw that kind of weakness. It would be a sign of the canonization of the family. Or as Paul put it. They would be worse than an unbeliever. You could say it this way. They would be worse than a Canaanite. Well, you can see the picture that is given to us in the image of the tree, and you can see how those examples are fitting with that picture and the great tragedy of what happens when a nation loses her glory. Are you beginning to see the theme? Are you beginning to see the theme which was acknowledged in judges but threads through the scriptures? If the church is a tree, it is meant to produce the fruit of a wise and capable people. When you get a chance, look at the images of the church when she is in her glory. Read Proverbs 31, which is really about the church Married to her groom, Christ. And it makes us raise questions like this: what is our fruit like today as a church I usually lock eyes with the parents that are in this room because the parents tend to be attentive. I would like to speak to the children for a moment, especially. We just saw a list of folks that were are heading off into different domains, they're graduating. I want to ask you, let's say that you're in the seventh grade and up. This is really where I'm thinking, but if you're younger, Please please pay attention also because you should get this thought in your mind as soon as you can. I have a question for you, children What responsibility are you actively taking for the advancement of Jesus Christ's kingdom? What are you doing to prepare yourself to be a strong rod for the community of Jesus Christ? When we picture the tree, what branch do you want to be? The one that is withered and good for the fire in my solo stove Or the one that is strong and healthy and has fruit at the end of it that everyone can eat from I would say that especially if you're going from eighth grade into ninth grade, you need to seriously think about that question immediately. A hundred years ago at that age, you'd probably be a nurse or a captain on a ship or something You're really really moving slowly here, friends. And I think honestly Not that this is the ultimate point, but children, you would be happier. You are meant to be full of responsibility. It's where you will find your meaning. When you are responsible before God doing good hard work for Him, what responsibility have you taken for advancing God's kingdom? His kingdom in the family, his kingdom in the church, and his kingdom in civil society. As you get older, have you so neglected Christ and His calling that we will need to call for unbelievers to do the work that you should be doing? That's a major question. Will our children be unreliable? Will you children be so unreliable that I've got to do a Google search and find Shamgar to come fit in for you? Now that's a little bit negative and I'm not trying to give you a guilt trip Sometimes I look at my own children's faces when I'm just trying to talk to 'em and it looks like they're just thinking, You're giving me a guilt trip, even though it's not really in my spirit So let me try to give you a little bit of a positive vision of what I'm talking about here. Do you remember the scene in The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe? Whether you've read it or watched it, I don't care. Though the book is always better Do you remember the scene in The Lion, the Witch in the Wardrobe where the White Witch has finally reasoned with Aslan that there is a deep magic that needs to be fulfilled and therefore Aslan has to make his way to the altar. She doesn't know about the deeper magic. But she knows about the deep magic and he has to wend his way to the altar. Do you remember what happens to him on the way? There are ghoulish creatures mocking him. He eventually allows them to take him off his feet. And then do you remember what they do? I remember reading and crying at this moment in the book. Because he was so regal and so good, these fiends. Shaved off his mane. And he became small. And they started to treat him like he was a little kitty cat. That's how they talked to him. Did you catch your mice, little kitty cat? And they were mocking him. Do you remember that? Even if you've never read it or seen it, do you feel the loss of dignity within such a good and glorious being? That is what we are talking about this morning. I am talking about the Church of the Living God not having her mane shaved. Now that's a bit of a mashup of images and metaphors, but I think you get what I'm after. And it's not even that you just did it. Can't you feel the tragedy of that? Can you feel the tragedy of the shaved mane? Because it's what's being talked about within judges It is the loss of dignity of a great creature. It is the loss of when the church loses her dignity. I wonder if you have forgotten to what you have been called, and of what you are a member. Do you know what the bride of Jesus Christ looks like in the book of Revelation? Listen to this. Here's just one example: Revelation 21, 9-11. Come, I will show you the bride. She is the lamb's wife. She has the glory of God. Her light is like a most precious stone, like a jasper stone, clear as crystal. Are you starting to get a picture of what we are called to be? And if so, tell me that our doctrine does not hit home today. Is it not a true loss when we do not have native leadership in the church that is able to handle our business with wisdom? Is it not a symptom of our loss of glory and the canonization of the church This is my prayer. I pray that God would preserve us. And I pray that the church would grow into her glory. And that we would therefore find no need for people like Shamgar, the son of Anath. Amen. Let us pray. Father, part of the problem is that we believe lies about ourselves. And Father, part of the problem is that we believe lies as to what it means to really be glorious. We have the wrong