Verbs twenty-four, three through seven. Ma I'll go ahead and read one through nine just so you can see a little bit of the c the the ring that this jewel is embedded in Do not be envious of evil men, nor desire to be with them, for their heart devises violence, and their lips talk of troublemaking. Through wisdom, a house is built, and by understanding it is established, by knowledge the rooms are filled with all precious and pleasant riches. A wise man is strong, yes, a man of knowledge increases strength. For by wise counsel you will wage your own war, and in a multitude of counselors there is sacred fifty. Wisdom is too lofty for a fool. He does not open his mouth in the gate. He who plots to do evil will be called a schemer. The devising of foolishness is sin, and the scoffer is an abomination. To men. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for this wisdom that you've given to us, that you can show us how to relate to you and to our neighbor. We thank you that you're showing us your social order that is good. Pray, Lord, that from the preaching of your word would come wisdom, knowledge, understanding. Strength, the willingness to listen to counsel. Ask these things in your name. Amen. May be seated. Well, we've had a little bit of a taste of different sections of the book of Proverbs. We spent a consistent amount of time in chapters 1 through 9, and that is considered to be collection 1. Collection two begins in chapter ten and goes all the way to chapter twenty-two, verse sixteen. These are considered to be the two collections of wisdom by Solomon. And then in 2217, all the way till 2422, There is another collection. Some call it the Sayings of the Wise. Others based on a little bit of a different translation. In the Hebrew call it the 30 sayings. And that's where we are tonight. You'll notice that we're right there at the tail end. We're in chapter twenty-four. The thirty sayings of the wise end in chapter twenty-four And here we are taking up verses three through seven. So let me make a few observations about our passage. If you think that there are thirty sayings of the wise and not just sayings of the wise. Then we are looking at sayings 21, 22, and 23 by just looking at these verses that I've I've read, and that's verses 3 through 7 is the focus. So take a look with me. Before we get to 3 through 7, just notice, as I mentioned, that there's a kind of ring in which this jewel is placed. And the surrounding context has to do with this contrasting picture of the fool and how he conducts himself. Notice in verse 1, do not be envious of evil men nor desire to be with them. Now imagine this being spoken to someone who's coming of age, who's getting ready to venture out and start their own family. And the great temptation to have certain role models on how they should make a life for themselves and for their family. The father and the mother here warn them, do not make your role model an evil man or a fool. Now that can be a tempting thing to do, as we've seen throughout the collections of Proverbs, because sometimes the fool or the troublemaker has a lot of money And they have nice things. And that can be a temptation. A person can see that that the end the the way that their life looks and they can be tempted to model uh themselves after them. And there's a warning here that we shouldn't conduct ourselves as fools. You can jump down in in verse 7 and verse 8 and you can see he's still speaking about this this fool and that the end result, although at the moment might look good, the end result is uh devastation and tragedy and horror. Instead, and this is where we pick up in verse 3 and down into verse 6, instead we want to conduct ourselves as wise saints. We want to make a life for ourselves by the grace of God. And that's not through troublemaking, but through wisdom. And so take a look here in verses three and four. The way that he pictures the idea of a life is by the uh a kind of portrait of a house, a house being built. Here you see in three, through wisdom a house is built, and by understanding it is Established by knowledge the rooms are filled with all precious and pleasant riches. You can see the house moving from one stage to the next That there's the idea of the house being built, and then the house is established, and then the rooms are filled to where there is great stability. I I think that the rooms are not filled with rubies If that's your reading of precious and pleasant riches, but that these would be a sign of a good home dynamic and a good family. But surely here this included purchasing the land and the procurement of resources and all of the wisdom that goes into that kind of financial success and the planning of a house? Surely such activities were possible. You'll notice here a threefold division within three and four. that you better pay attention to. It is through wisdom that a house is built. It is by understanding that it is established and that it is by knowledge that the rooms are filled. That little trio there, those three amigos, if you will. They stick together in multiple places within the scriptures and they help us to see the larger picture of what the Lord is seeking to communicate to us here. If you look at verse 4, you will notice that more than a house is being built. This is not just about a literal construction site, but really there is a home. There's a home that's being established where inside the rooms there is laughter and there is stability. The second thing I want you to notice is that there's something else added to the picture in verse 5. And this may surprise you a bit. Verse 5 says that a wise man is strong, yes, a man of knowledge increases strength. It is not enough to have just wisdom and knowledge and understanding. The wise person is fueled And has an inner motivation to do the work that is necessary in order to complete the tasks. This is an inner energy and a motivation to get things done. It's interesting to me that that shows up here within the proverb, and it ends up being contrary to the idea of the lazy man. or the one who s sleeps or folds their hand when they're supposed to be getting to work at just the right time. And then the third thing I wanted you to notice was verse six. Look at what else is added here and we'll we'll end with this one. In verse 6, we see that homes can experience some kind of conflict. All these verses going together. You could have this as a picture of a house that's just the nuclear family. It could be a house in the sense of a kingdom that's being built by a king or the church, all of that would fit. by different extensions. And whether it's the nuclear family or a church or a kingdom, conflict arises And that's the point of verse 6. These conflicts can even rise in certain occasions to the level of war. Whatever the degree you see the teaching here From the 30 sayings of the wise, that what is needed is wise counsel. You can have knowledge And wisdom and understanding. You can have an inner energy and motivation to get things done, but you will need In the face of those who want to tear down the work that you have done, wise counsel in your life. Now, what is of further interest to me is that this counsel that's talked about here is not an echo chamber It's not a bunch of people that all think the exact same thing of you that just pat you on the back and say how great you are in the way that you think about stuff. The counsel here are people in your life that want the truth And they want you to have a truly good and beautiful life. And so they enter into real deliberation with you, and they tell you when you have a dumb idea. We also need that in our life. So when we pull all these things together, we can just enumerate the different parts here within these verses, and we can state the doctrine like this. Christians are called to make a life with wisdom, strength, and strategic counsel. Christians are called to make a life in wisdom, strength, and strategic counsel. So what I'd like to do tonight is I want to look at I want us to look at the scriptures together and see if we can we can ground exactly what we say here in this doctrine, which is That Christians are called to make a life with wisdom, strength, and strategic counsel. So turn with me to just a few chapters further ahead to Proverbs 31. And we'll start in verse 14. I want to look at a few of these scriptures with you. I don't think that I need to spend any time proving to you that Christians should build a life in wisdom, strength, and strategic counsel. I think we all accept that. What I would like to do is just see a similar picture to what that looks like. I want to ground it in a description and I have in mind Proverbs 31, beginning in verse 14. So let me read to you this description. And my argument to you, really, is that this is an illustration of what it would look like. To ideally build a house and a home. This is what it looks like to engage in a life of wisdom and strength and wise counsel. And I'm sure you could find other examples within the scriptures. So I encourage you to follow along with me here as I read the different sections from Proverbs 31, but then I saw but then also meditate yourselves on what other examples do you see? Look at what it says here about the noble woman. Proverbs 31, 14. Verse 16. She is like the merchant ships. She brings her food from afar. She also rises while it is yet night and provides food for her household Notice the emphasis there on the household. And a portion for her maidservants. She considers a field and buys it, and from her profits she plants a vineyard. Here she is in wisdom building her home. In understanding, she's establishing it to where she even has a portion for her maidservants. And in knowledge, she is filling her rooms. And you could read on in other descriptions of her of how her rooms are filled. She has plenty of clothes for her children. They never fear when it's cold or when it's too hot, because she's done all of this work in order to make sure that they're never destabilized. Now let's go to verse 17 through verse 20 and read what else it says about her. Notice that it picks up the language again from verse 24 on what it means to build a house. That first description I gave to you is what wisdom looks like on the ground floor. Now notice that it moves into not just wisdom, knowledge, and understanding, but strength. She girds herself with strength Strength and strengthens her arms. She perceives that her merchandise is good and her lamp does not go out by night. You see that inner energy? She stretches out her hands to the diaphragm, I believe that's how you pronounce that. And her hand holds the spindle. She even extends her hand to the poor. Yes, she reaches out her hands to the needy. You notice how she strengthens her arms, and then we have all of these pictures of what she does with the end of her arm, which is her hand. Not only for her own household, but for those who reside within the community, especially the poor and the needy. She is able, because of that inner strength, that inner motivation, and the get to the stick toitiveness within her spirit to benefit all those who are around her. It would continue if you were to keep reading in 31 verse 25. Look at how it talks of her strength there. Here she musters that inner motivation and strength to bless those in the larger community. It says, strength and honor are her clothing. She shall rejoice in time to come. come. She's too busy to party at the moment, but in time to come she knows that she will reap a great reward. She's not ashamed to work for rewards. And then lastly, please notice verse 23 of this poem. Here we see another constituent or another element that we saw in chapter 24, 3 through 6. It says here, her husband is known in the gates when he sits among the elders of the land. And here we see that wise counsel that is mentioned in the building of a home. You can imagine then that not only has her hard work, her wisdom, her knowledge, and her understanding done good for the household, and not only that, but her strength rises up to where even her community at large and the especially the poor and the needy are taken care of, so too with her husband working in the gates where major decisions are made on how the entire town or city would be He is there with others of wise counsel to make make sure that things are ordered well and that people can have a good life. Here he is deliberating in counsel and executing justice for the community that all would be safe from thieves, conflict, and perhaps even civil war. So I hope that's helpful to you to not just hear general terminology from wisdom literature, but to begin to see a picture that would have sat on the mantle as an ideal picture For all of the saints throughout the ages of this man and this woman and how they conduct themselves in the name of the Lord. This is certainly a blessed vision of the good life. Now, when I read the Blessed Vision of the Good Life, I cannot help but to see how I conduct myself not in wisdom. And not in knowledge, and not in understanding. And how though I say to myself, Oh, inner motivation and energy, please arise. That Nothing response. And I just watch someone turn wooden bowls on YouTube and don't accomplish anything for the next hour I'm sure that you have your own sin struggles that are similar to that. We know that each point that is mentioned here, we struggle as human beings. We are not ideal. We often lack wisdom, we get into ruts, and we can have no inner motivation. We ignore, a lot of the time we ignore the counsel of others, or if they have something to say, we just find them annoying, even if we know they're right. This is where it's important to start to see that triplet of knowledge, wisdom, and understanding throughout the rest of the scriptures so that you can get the fuller picture. You have not been left alone to figure out the wise life by yourself. You are the house and workmanship of another. The good news is that he is seeking the good life for us and with us. He is building a life Of course, we will build it with him, and it always requires hard work, but we have Christ working in us who knows how to build in just the right way. In fact, wisdom, knowledge, and understanding was used of the eternal Christ. In chapter 3 of the Proverbs, in describing his construction of the cosmos. It was also used in chapter 8 of the Eternal Christ. As the master craftsman who formed the sea and the land and the skies. He certainly knows how to build a house. And if you are in his hands, then you will be a perfect piece of work. Furthermore, I'll just bring to your attention, continuing to think of that triplet, that knowledge, wisdom, and understanding, both seen in Proverbs 3 and in Proverbs eight and in Proverbs twenty-four also, perhaps to your surprise, shows up in the letter to the Colossians. Listen to this, and if you want to follow along, you're welcome to. I'm going to read Colossians 1, 9 through 14. It says this, and listen for that tree. For this reason we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you, and to ask that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will. In all wisdom and spiritual understanding, that you may walk worthy of the Lord Fully pleasing him, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God, strengthened with all might According to his glorious power, for all patience and long suffering with joy Giving thanks to the Father who has qualified us to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints and the light. He has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of His love, in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. What a beautiful prayer Paul prays for believers. And you can't help but to think or wonder if he just had Proverbs 3 or 8 or 24, just kind of sitting in front of him, or if that was his morning time reading, and then he went into prayer for the churches. From that. Paul prayed and he expected God to fill the church, you and me, with knowledge and wisdom, and understanding. And he furthermore knew to pray that God would fill us with strength not by our glorious power, but by his glorious power. That's what it says. That we would be filled with all might or strength according to his glorious power. The same power that raises Christ from the dead becomes the power that is our inner energy and motivation to build good lives in the name of Jesus Christ, so much so that our neighbors are better. I wonder if you can lose this perspective sometimes. Sometimes among us, motivational literature is extremely popular. uh getting things done, listening to different podcasts like uh, well, whoever you find motivational, Jocko or Andrew Huberman, or David Goggins, or whatever it is. But here we see a different way. It is a way that has similarities and does not negate some of those ways. But here we see. The way of Christ and the power that He provides and the wisdom that He provides. And this is important for us to remember. I stand here and tell you tonight that He has not only sent us His Word Which you're hearing now. Christ has not only sent you a preacher to try to do his best to explain it, which I'm trying to do now. Christ has also sent us his spirit of wisdom, that we would be wise, that we would have knowledge, and that we would have understanding. You are new creations in Christ. And he has sent us his spirit of strength to give us strength in order to build houses and homes. In order to feed the poor and the needy, in order to take care of our children, in order, in other words, to have the good life of hard work in Jesus Christ. Christians, our doctrine tonight was this. Christians are called to make a life with wisdom, strength, and strategic counsel. But please do not hear that with just secular ears. Do not forget Christ. Let us hear not only the wisdom of Proverbs, but the wisdom of Colossians within the total canon And let it go down deep into the heart. And as we saw Paul doing, let us constantly be in prayer that God would grant us the grace to be. What we read, amen