It's good to see you all. You can bring me down a little bit. Thanks, Stephen. All right, let's open our service with prayer. Please join me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for gathering us again this evening. Thank you for giving us this whole day where we can remember you and the great works that you are doing. Lord, we pray that we would respond in the only proper way to the revelation of your person and your works, and that is to give you praise. We ask, Lord, that you would lead us in this service by your Holy Spirit, that you would commune with us. We pray that you'd be pouring out even the benefits that you have earned for us in your covenant of grace. Pray, Lord, that you'd give us ears to hear, hearts that cling to you. We pray, Lord, that you give us a sweet time of prayer and a sweet fellowship. We thank you for those who have served to make this possible We ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. Let's stand for the call to worship from Psalm 96, and then we're going to sing the same. Oh, sing to the Lord a new song. Sing to the Lord all the earth. Sing to the Lord. Bless His name. Proclaim the good news of His salvation from day to day. Declare His glory among the nations. Amen. Let's sing together Psalm ninety six. Most things are to the Lord sing to the Lord. Saint you know more time was each of them Is glory through all the structure is peaceful. Oh his break up, praise, break up, all God is here. For me, then God for my those way no. Before him honor majesty and Oh battery the bird not trying for glory to the Lord. Full strength on to the whole thing. Give to all more two is for so and bring that all In two simple and holy rolls bring worship to no more. For her people extending on proclaim Controlled by his low world center is Jos Let's see, speak of let's feel that all day all Their glory in the trees and putting praise He's for me on two His nation judge with people and worldness. Amen. Let's continue with our scripture reading from Acts 9, that will lead us into a time of confession. At Joppa there was a certain disciple named Tabitha, which is translated Dorcas. This woman was full of good works and charitable deeds, which she did. But it happened in those days that she became sick and died. When they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room And since Lydda was near Joffa, and the disciples had heard that Peter was there, they sent two men to him, imploring him not to delay in coming to them. Then Peter arose and went with them. When he had come, they brought him to the upper room, and all the widows stood by him weeping, showing the tunics and garments which Dorcas had made while she was with them. But Peter put them all out and knelt down and prayed. And turning to the body he said, Tabitha, arise. And she opened her eyes, and when she saw Peter she sat up. Then he gave her his hand and lifted her up, and when he had called the saints and widows he presented her alive. And it became known throughout all Joppa, and many believed on the Lord. So it was that he stayed many days in Joppa with Simon. a tanner. Amen. You may be seated. Let's go into a time of confession. Please join me. Oh Lord, we thank you for this wonderful recording from your book of Acts. Lord, we love that you give us these clear pictures as this morning, another picture of uh a dear disciple. Lord, we thank you for these details that Tabitha was mourned over. They mourned her death. And the details indicate that they mourned her death not only for personal loss, but because of what it meant for the community. Lord, we have here a woman after your own heart, one who knows how to build up not only her own household, but the whole community and the garments that she made for those widows. Lord, what a great tragedy to lose a strong rod of the community like a Tabbitha. Lord, we have heard this story before. It has fallen on our ears, but Lord, sometimes we do not remember these things with our own hearts Lord, sometimes we choose to conduct ourselves unlike Tabitha, and we take away from the community instead of giving to it. We deconstruct instead of build. We tear down instead of bringing life Lord, I'm sure there are many ways that we could, or many examples we could give you under each of those. uh listings. And I'd ask that you hear your people now as they confess their sins particularly how they have torn down instead of building up or taken away instead of giving. Ask that you hear them now in the name of Christ as they bring their confessions to you. Oh Lord Christ, you have poured out your spirit on us, the church, not that we would add to the chaos of this world. But that we would restore order. We therefore, Lord, ask for your forgiveness in the ways that we have torn down even the work that you have been building up. Lord, we ask that you would forgive us in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. And now hear your assurance of pardon from 1 Peter 2, 9 through 10. But you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, his own special people, that you may proclaim the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Who once were not a people, but are now the people of God, who had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. Praise God. Let's stand and sing, Come thou fount of every blessing. Oh god, come on down every blessing to my heart to sing my face. Strings of mercy never ceasing, for songs of our spray. Frage some downside, things are body, but the cards are unchanging love. You are raised by everyone. And I hope by the two by my home. Jesus thought he was strange for the dog. Is the rest of the most God Oh so hey I concentrated me. Let them face now by your From the deal then from believe the God Here's my arms deal. She live for my border. Amen. Amen. Let's uh get our scriptures out and turn together to Proverbs chapter 14. And I know in the bulletin it says the first two verses, but we're going to do the whole unit, which goes to verse seven. So 14, 1 to 7. And I'll begin reading in verse one. The wise woman builds her house, but the foolish pulls it down with her hands. He who walks in his uprightness fears the Lord, but he who is perverse in his ways despises him In the mouth of a fool is a rod of pride, but the lips of the wise will preserve them. Where no oxen are, though the trough is clean, but much increase comes by the strength of an ox A faithful witness does not lie, but a false witness will utter lies. A scoffer seeks wisdom and does not find it, but knowledge is easy to him who understands. Go from the presence of a foolish man When you do not perceive in him the lips of knowledge. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Lord Christ, you are the great author of all wisdom. We pray, Lord, therefore, that you would pour it out on us. in so far as we are needful. And Lord, whatever you give us, may we use it for your glory. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Now it's been a few weeks, but the last proverb that we had done together was Proverbs was uh was earlier in chapter 12, and it was summarized quite well by Proverb 27 verse 6, which I'll read in just a minute. But our doctrine from the last sermon here in the evening was that friendship is a gift from Christ to keep our hearts and lives true and cheerful. And I asked if you would please meditate on Proverbs 27, 6, which says this, Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful. That's quite helpful. I'd like to begin by making a few observations here about these seven verses, and then I have a couple applications or Hopefully some things that are useful to reflect upon. So let's begin with just verse 1, and we'll just step through these verses seeking to get a clear picture of Solomon's concerns by the Spirit. Verse 1 really is clear. Solomon shows us exactly what is on his mind. We have to remember that the setting here is uh always uh teaching proverbs where we're trying to raise up uh are young ones. And so implicit in here is a warning. There's specifically a warning that a young man would not marry a foolish woman. Why? He says it very clearly here in the first verse of this chapter, because they will tear down the household instead of building it up. When you add verse 2, you can see that they should instead aspire to marry a woman who fears the Lord. This should remind you of Proverbs chapter 31. It says, Who can find a virtuous wife? For her worth is far above rubies. The heart of her husband safely trusts her, so he will have no lack of gain. She does him good and not evil all the days of her life. It's the same kind of thoughts that are present here within this proverb and 14, and we saw the same kind of thing in chapter 12 earlier. It's all over the Proverbs. Now what we're meant to do here with this poetic depiction of wisdom is we're meant to match these verses, verses 1 and 2, with 6 and 7. You can do that more thoroughly on your own. But what you can see quickly is that Solomon expands this warning to everyone. He does not just want to limit this narrowly to marriage. or for a young man only to find someone who is wise. Whether you are a man looking for a wife or a woman looking for a husband, Or you're a small business person looking for a business partner. It could even go into that kind of application. Verse 6 and verse 7. Return back to 1 and 2 and encourage us to stay away from scoffers in verse 6 and to get away from the fool in verse 7. You can see in 1 and 7 we have the full that bracket the entire unit. For they will tear down the household with their own hands. is the point. And hands here end up being representative of all of the ways in which they know how to deconstruct. All of their attitudes, the unhealthy filters through which they hear everything, the words that they use, etc. All of the destructive thoughts and words and deeds are present here and they tear down. And this is a warning for the for us to be wise and to watch out for such things. That's the first thing I want you to notice is 1 and 2 and 6 and 7. The second observation is this. Solomon develops the idea of building a household. That was the one and two and the six and seven. He's going to continue with that theme all the way through. Solomon develops the idea of building a household in the realm of speech. Next. Take a look at verse 3. See the mouth here. This is a metinome for the For the first speech. And this means that the mouth of fools is a rod to themselves and their neighbors. It means that the speech of fools inflicts harm on their own households and the households of others. It has a destructive effect. It hurts instead of building up. The wise person ends up being different. The words will preserve their households, protecting everyone. They could protect it against the fool by having the right words to counteract with they have done, or even if there are no words to counteract, whatever they say, it builds up. It has, it produces fruit and advances us forward in the household as opposed to tearing down. Now verse 3, which I just mentioned, is matched up with verse number 5. You can see that verse number 5 is the particular application of speech. It's of great concern within the book of Proverbs. It points out deception and lying in particular. The ninth command. The emphasis is on the character of the person, though. From a faithful person will come true words, is the point of verse 5. And from a false person comes lies. You judge a tree by its fruit. It will be the character and the heart overflowing in words that will either destroy the house or build it up. This is all quite informative if you're looking if you're looking to marry, by the way, or if you wanted to start a business. And now we come to verse or to the third observation. This one could use uh some longer meditation. Perhaps we could talk about it over spaghetti. give you a little summary quickly. The last verse, if you've noticed, we've we've done that thing again where we're looking at the ends, and then we go in a little bit more. And now at this verse we're in the dead center. And that's an it's uh always interesting when you find yourself in the center of poetry. And here it is, when no oxen are, the trough is clean, but in much increase comes by the strength of an ox. Verse 4. Now we are still on the topic of building a household. Hard work, industriousness, good investments, that is the point. It will contribute to the flourishing of the home. Oxen, eat some of the food. That's the problem. You're not going to have as much grain in a sense. because you have to feed them. And the other thing you have to think of is you will have manure to clean up. But Those mighty oxen, it's actually in the plural, those mighty oxen will allow you to bring a harvest that not only benefits your individual family, but has the possibility of feeding the entire community. And so we don't want to be penny wise and pound foolish. So if you were to take all of these and knit them together, then you have this doctrine. One builds a household. on the basis of the fear of the Lord, which entails wise speech and prudent industry Let me say that for you again. You could spend a long time just reflecting on that, and then if you were to apply it, then we will have wisdom in the world. One builds a household on the basis of the fear of the Lord, which entails wise speech and prudent industry. Now there is a a lot of application that could happen on every one of those parts of that doctrine. I would really like to just focus on on a couple points on just one aspect here. Because we're I wanna I don't want to uh eat away into our prayer time. So let me just bring up uh few things here by way of application. First We benefit from noticing that Solomon frames wisdom in terms of God honoring goals, like building up a household. That is really instructive. He does not just talk about wisdom in general or wisdom in the abstract. He frames discussions of wisdom relative to particular goals that we are meant to achieve within the kingdom of God, such as the building up of a household This could have very easily stood for the building up of a household in the sense of a whole kingdom under Solomon's reign or the reign of his children. Honestly, if you think about it, how would someone know if their behavior is wise or morally skillful if they have no end goal for which they are striving? How would you ever evaluate if they're skillful in anything? Imagine trying to be good at a board game, but you do not know how to win. Imagine trying to be a good archer or a good sharpshooter, but you don't know the target. It's the same kind of relationship here with life We must know what targets the Lord wants us to hit. In this case, it is a productive household. But the Lord gives us many projects and many good works to accomplish in life And the first step to being wise, according to Solomon, is to know what the end is for which you serve the Lord. You could ask this question, actually. as you go through your life. And this doesn't have to be some major project where you're going to develop a section of New York City. It could just be little micro goals. If you want to call them that, but you must ask, what are the good works the Lord has assigned to you? What does it look like to accomplish those things well? That's implied here in the wisdom that Christ gives us by way of Solomon. Well, there's a second thing that we benefit from Solomon. We benefit from Solomon in that he shows us that we must be mindful of what will destroy our work for the Lord. When you are doing good work, I wonder if you ever think that way. A lot of the times we can gain a vision for the good thing that we want to accomplish. And see it in our imagination. It can keep us up at night because we're so excited that we know the Lord's will and we're seeking to accomplish it But here, Solomon says that's not enough. You must also be aware of what can ruin your efforts. I actually have started to do that with my garden. I will not plant squash in a particular bed of my garden because I know that there are squash vine borers in that bed It is futile to put any squash anywhere near that dirt. It is the same kind of thinking that Solomon relays to us here. Solomon warns of marrying the wrong person, for example. Solomon warns us about the wrong attitudes, the wrong words, and the wrong deeds. And what is so interesting about this that he does not relay all of these things to us in terms of just a private moral person trying to be pious He references it and those attitudes, those acts, the thoughts, the words. He references them to their effects on the things that you are to be building for the Lord. That you are to be aware of what tears down and what builds up. And it really leads us to these kinds of questions. Who or what around you or what in you is a threat to the work the Lord has you doing. What will you do? What will you say? What attitudes will you adopt to protect the endeavors that the Lord has given to you? Those are the questions of the wives. And then I just have one last one. We benefit thirdly From Solomon helping us to take our and others' destructive habits and actions seriously. Did you notice how serious some of the serious statements present within the proverb that Christ gives us through Solomon? Listen again to the strong language of verse number two. I was really taken back when I first read this. I'm still taken back. It's actually rocking me quite a bit He who walks in his uprightness fears the Lord, but he who is perverse in his ways despises the Lord. That makes my heart think or sink to think that some of my actions reveal that I actually in some ways despise God. That's really serious. And that is placed there for us in the scriptures as a kind of motivation to let you know that this is serious business. It is a goad to help us to be wise. The upright person in that proverb is contrasted with the perverse person. Are you familiar with that kind of language between those two? what that means. When we say perversity, we mean a particular thing within America, but it's much broader within the scriptures. Actually, if you want to look at perversity, you should read the book of Jude and the how it talks about the angels. A perverse person is one who does not stay on the path that God has designed. They transgress. That means to break the boundary. They go through something. They transgress God's moral and created order. The upright person, therefore, is the one who is true to God in God's ways. The most startling statement in those in that Proverbs verse 2 concerns the real heart of the matter. The upright person is the one who fears the Lord. They love the Lord. They have reverence for the Lord. They have joy in serving him. The perverse person despises God. They resent him. And that ends up being quite the serious statement. When we transgress the created order of God, or others transgress those boundaries. The root cause may be that they despise God. It depends on the circumstance. Sometimes it's just ignorance, like a small child transgressing a balance. They're not necessarily despising God. But here Solomon is focused on the fool and the scoffer, who most always definitely, that is the root cause. They actually hate God and they resent That they have to stay within his boundaries. They see no good. And so therefore, Solomon supplies us as followers of Christ with two motivations. We avoid and protect ourselves against scoffers and the fool. And we avoid and protect others from the same tendencies that may be within ourselves Because we recognize that it is destructive, certainly. We don't want to tear things down, but he's given us more now with verse 2. It is also because such tendencies may be a sign that we or others hate or despise God. And may that never be the case with us. We love him too much to hold to have resentment for him. Well, as I mentioned in the beginning One builds a household on the basis of the fear of the Lord, which entails a few things, doesn't it? It entails that fear of the Lord and not despising him. It entails wise speech, and it entails prudent industry, like we see in the getting of uh some oxen. May God make his will our goal for each endeavor May he keep our work from being torn down. May he motivate us out of reverence and love for him. And may he move us further and further away from resenting him and his ways. We ask all of these things in the name of Christ. Of course. Amen. Amen. Please pray with me. Lord, this uh passage and that short of a time is like drinking from a fire hydrant. Pray, Lord, that you give your people time to meditate more fully on this chiastic structure in your Proverbs. Centering on industry and hard work. And I pray, Lord, that by the power of your spirit, we would more and more every day become people who are not tearing down, but are building up. I pray, Lord, for the young ones who are searching out a spouse. I pray, Lord, that you would give them the wisdom that they need. To find someone who is not a fool, find someone that does not despise you. I pray that such things would be revealed before rings are exchanged. Ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. Let's stand and respond to the grace of the Lord as He's poured out His wisdom on us. Let's give Him praise by singing, Exalt the Lord, His Praise proclaim. The Lord is praise for me to praise his face. Algorithm praise for things, sent for taking It's me for his own details, and did it all your face. I know the Lord is my He makes some a We hold our best His praise will all fame, oh yeah, serve Praise this day for game alone, thou sever and always turn as Amen. And now receive the Lord's benediction. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God the Father and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all. Amen. Amen. You may be seated for our