Our text this evening will be from is from Matthew 26, and I I am going to read a longer reading just so that you can get a gain a greater context. sense of what's going on here. And I'll begin in Matthew chapter 26. I realize it's dark and you're you're welcome to just listen. I have developed this so that you really could just listen. This is Matthew chapter 26. Now it came to pass when Jesus had finished all these sayings that he said to his disciples, You know that after two days is the Passover, and the Son of Man will be delivered up to be crucified. Then the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders of the people assembled at the palace of the high priest, who was called Caiaphas, and plotted to take Jesus by trickery and kill him. But they said, Not during the feast, let there lest there be an uproar among the people. And when Jesus was in Bethany at the house of Simon the leper, a woman came to him having an alabaster flask of very costly fragrant oil. And she poured it on his head as he sat at the table. But when his disciples saw it, they were indignant, saying, Why this waste? For this fragrant oil might have been sold for much and given to the poor. But when Jesus was aware of it, he said to them, Why do you trouble the woman? For she has done a good work for me. For you have the poor with you always, but me you do not always have. For in pouring this fragrant oil on my body she did it for my bear. Assuredly, I say to you, wherever this gospel is preached in the whole world, what this woman has done will also be told as a memorial to her. Then one of the twelve, called Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests and said, What are you willing to give me if I deliver him to you? And they counted out to him thirty pieces of silver. So from that time he sought opportunity to betray him. Now on the first day of the feast of the unleavened bread, the disciples came to Jesus, saying to him, Where do you want us to prepare for you to eat the Passover? And he said, Go into the city to a certain man, and they and say to him, The teacher says, My time is at hand. I will keep the Passover at your house with my disciples. So the disciples did as Jesus had directed them, and they prepared the Passover. When evening had come, he sat down with the twelve. Now, as they were eating, he said, Assuredly, I say to you, one of you will betray me. And they were exceedingly sorrowful, and each of them began to say to him, Lord, is it I? He answered and said, He who dips his hand with me in the dish will betray me. The Son of Man indeed goes just as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been good for that man if he had not been born. Then Judas, who was betraying him, answered and said, Rabbi, is it I? He said to him, You have said it And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, blessed, and broke it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat, this is my body. Then he took the cup and gave thanks and gave it to them, saying, Drink from it, all of you, for this is my blood of the new covenant which is shed for many for the remission of sins. But I say to you, I will not drink of this fruit of the vine from now on until that day when I drink it new with you in my father's kingdom. And when they had sung a hymn, they went to the Mount of Olives Then Jesus said to them, All of you will be made to stumble because of me this night, for it is written, I will strike the shepherd. And the sheep of the flock will be scattered. But after I have been raised I will go before you to Galilee. Peter answered and said to him, Even if all are made to stumble because of you, I will never be made to stumble. Jesus said to him, Assuredly, I say to you, this This night, before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times. Peter said to him, Even if I had to die with you, I will not deny you. And so said all the disciples Then Jesus came with them to a place called Gethsemane and said to the disciples, Sit here while I go and pray over there. And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and he began to be sorrowful and deeply distressed. Then he said to them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death. Stay here and watch with me. He went a little further and fell on his face and prayed, saying, O my father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me Nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will. Then he came to the disciples and found them sleeping, and said to Peter, What? Could you not watch with me one hour? Watch and pray, lest you enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. Again, a second time he went and prayed, saying, O my Father, if this cup cannot pass away from me unless I drink it, your will be done. And he came and found them asleep again, for their eyes were heavy. So he left them, went away again, and prayed the third time, saying the same words. Then he came to his disciples and said to them, Are you still sleeping and resting? Behold, the hour is at hand, and the Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of sinners. Rise, let us be going. See, my betrayer is at hand. Please pray with me. You are in your glory. The Christ has suffered and entered into his glory. But you told us to remember your death. And so we do. And we see these disciples here. Would you help us to understand? To see you as you help the disciples to understand That's what we ask for. We ask that it would result in devotion to you and to your will, just as you were devoted to the Father's will. We ask these things. Your name. Amen. How can anyone And that means you. Escape the judgment of God. I think of just human powers of insight. I remember traveling to York, Pennsylvania with my great-grandmother Clint. And how even when I was walking up the stairs, she would say to my mother or my grandmother, he's up to something. And I never said a word. I didn't even know I was up to something at the time, but when I looked back, I was. She knew. And those were just by human powers of insight. I'm asking you Beyond grandma, great-grandma kleinbest, how will you escape the piercing, judging sight of God? Last Sunday, we celebrated Palm Sunday by seeking to observe the significance of Palm Sunday. The overall context of Jesus riding into Jerusalem, Hosanna. Obviously, it's a pronouncement from the prophets Coming true that Jesus is the King. The time had been fulfilled. That's the theme of all of Matthew's gospel. The time has been fulfilled. Been fulfilled, and the king has arrived. And yet, what Matthew was emphasizing at that moment in the gospel was not everything that you could say about kingship. The argument last Sunday was that the particular thing that was focused on in his kingship was that Jesus came as king to bring justice and he came to bring judgment This fact is established more strongly if you read beyond the Palm Sunday Triumphal and If you go beyond the parable of the two sons, if you go beyond the parable of the wicked vine dressers, if you enter into chapter 24, it becomes pure judgment Matthew records nothing but Jesus' teachings on judgment. In fact, Matthew inserts editorial comments during these chapters so that we don't miss the main point. Jesus is the long-awaited Son of Man from the book of Daniel, and the time has come for judgment. The pictures in chapter 24 are this. Jesus Christ in all his glory riding in on the clouds. To bring peace to earth for some, and to bring gnashing of teeth for others. That's the picture. Matthew 24, 29 through 31. Listen to this. Immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light. The stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. And then the Son of Man, the sign of the Son of Man, will appear in heaven. And then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and with great glory. And he will send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they will gather together his elect from the four winds, from one end of the earth to the other. And woe to those who are outside of the gathering. If you were personally present during this discourse of judgment, if you got to sit literally at the feet of Jesus and hear his seventy Lectures on justice and judgment. In the school of Christ, what would you have walked away with afterward when you went to get something to eat? What would you have talked about? With those who were present with you, would you have had your chest broadened with assured confidence and zeal that finally the kingdom was entering in? That he was going to ride in on the clouds. And I ended up on the right side of the tracks here. The stories of Daniel, son of man, were not new to the disciples. It must have circulated through family worship, in their Sunday schools or Saturday schools at that time, the synagogue discussions, through local artwork and theological writings. The coming of Christ, whom Daniel foresaw, was a common and familiar hope for these people. Their grandmothers would have told them about the Son of Man riding in on the clouds. And what they're hearing from Jesus is that the time is fulfilled. It has come. The Son of Man was standing before them. And that the kingdom Will be established in power and glory. You can imagine the confidence growing in their hearts. The disciples must have been filled with raw anticipation. And electricity must have been in the air. For his disciples. He lined up right where they had fought. And he drove them down a glorious and familiar road that they would have heard ever since they were children. But did you notice the shift from chapter twenty-four and twenty-five into twenty-six which I just read? We move from a time of Jesus riding in on the clouds to 26, and it feels so sudden. It feels like, wait a second, did I just misunderstand all of chapter 24 and 25? It's like a detour has been constructed. Have you ever traveled on a familiar route on autopilot? And you take all the normal terms and then BAM! You have to stop because somebody's doing road work and they're now gonna detour you back around? It happened to me for almost two weeks straight as I kept trying to go down West Benfield Road Continually rerouted. I knew there was a detour, and it would be too late by the time I would get there. And I wonder if that's how the disciples felt. They they were going down a familiar road, they understood That the Messiah would come, the Son of Man, and that He would liberate Israel. They would conquer all of the nations around them. They would gain their pride of place again. And then all of a sudden, 26 hits And it's the it they have to reroute all of their thoughts. 26. We don't see the Son of Man riding in on the clouds. This is what we hear. These are the first two verses. Now it came to pass when Jesus had finished all these sayings, the judgment sayings, that he said to his disciples, You know that after two days is the Passover, and the Son of Of man will be delivered up to be crucified. Can you imagine? You could hear them deflating or stunned in confusion. The disciples didn't understand. You know, they thought they were something. And it's just like God to take someone who doesn't think there's something and let them understand so that the disciples can learn from them. And that's what we see entering into the passage as soon as we pick up again after verse 2 We see in Matthew 26, 10 through 13, that there's a woman that enters the scene, and she gets it. The woman poured the oil on Jesus' head as he sat at the table. The disciples with the vision, can't you see it? The raw manhood and thinking they they don't they don't they need it's like a man trying to receive directions. They don't receive directions, they just stay lost We kind of have something like that here. The disciples with the vision of Daniel still in their minds couldn't see the significance of the act. And so they began to ridicule her. They said, Why are you wasting this? Don't you realize that we could have used that? We could have sold it for the poor. The fragrant oil could have been sold to the poor But she wasn't the misguided one. She understood the transition in the chapter 26 When Jesus became aware of the whole conversation, aware of his disciples' response, he responded to them. He says, Why are you troubling this woman? You're the ones that don't understand the Son of Man. For she has done a good work for me. For you will have the poor with you always, but me you did not always have. For in pouring this fragrant oil on my body she did it for my burial Hearkening back to verses 1 and 2 of this chapter. Assuredly, I say to you, wherever this gospel is preached in the whole world, what this woman has done will always be told as a memorial to her. And it is fulfilled in the saying again this year. As we think of her and the grace that God has given to her. You know, would the disciples understand After he explained this? When he said, This is for my burial, would they have finally latched on and gained clarity for verses one and two? I kept reading, and the answer is not immediately In fact, Peter is still so focused on the Son of Man vision riding in on the clouds that when the Father's decree in Gethsemane begins to happen and the betrayal unfolds, he draws the sword. It's another moment for Jesus to say, behind me, Satan. You don't understand the will of the Father. This is the road that I must go down. She was preparing me for my burial because I must be crucified. But by the time Matthew wrote this gospel, he got the picture And so he's able to look back in hindsight 2020 and record these things before us and arrange them. He reminds me of a photographer who Slowly is manually focusing in. And finally, after the Holy Spirit is given on the day of Pentecost, perhaps, Matthew gradually brings into picture what Jesus has been saying And I say this because of the way that Matthew has put together this account. It is the more you dwell in it, the more artful you see that he He is in communicating perfect clarity of the will of the Father and of the Son of the Holy Spirit. Think of just the arrangement of This historical narrative. He moved from the judgment sayings to anticipating Jesus' crucifixion, where Jesus predicts and the woman Anoints him for burial, to a repeated account as to why the Son of Man must die before he rides on the clouds. That's really how he has constructed this. Matthew, in hindsight, and what I mean by that is by the illumination of the Holy Spirit, sees that the Son of Man must die. And he arranges his narrative for us to see that the Son of Man must die because of the deep betrayal of every human being against God and against his Christ. And again, that means you Who can escape God's judgment? That's the pervading message after the anointing. Isn't it after the woman anoints him? Isn't the pervading message the sinfulness of humanity, the betrayal of God and his Christ? Judas agrees to betray Jesus in 26. 14. Jesus predicts that all his disciples will abandon him in 26. 31. Jesus predicts that Peter will deny him three times in verse 34. The chief priests and the elders, representative of the entire Jewish nation, enact the plan to crucify Jesus starting in verse 47. And even Pilate, representing all of the nations of the Gentiles, betrays the advice of his wife and hands Jesus over to death. Do you see the picture? That's all constructed right here in the narrative. Do you see the picture that Matthew so carefully constructs as he places each puzzle piece of the narrative? Do you see the face? Do you see the message? That is forming in the puzzle. The Jewish nation, the pagan nation, and even Jesus' closest followers have betrayed him Matthew dramatically has placed before all of us to read and acknowledge what Paul has said or quoted in Romans chapter 3. There is none righteous. No, not one. There is none who understands. There is none who seeks after God. They have all turned aside. And as Isaiah has said in Isaiah 56, all we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned, every one To his own way. That is the truth of this passage It is the truth about you as a human being. Matthew has, through artful narrative tension, raised a most important question. for all of human history. You know, it's right to come to a sermon and to listen to a sermon hoping that the pastor will give you some kind of practical advice from the scriptures on perhaps how you should relate in your marriage or how you should relate to your children or your friends or how you should relate psychologically to yourself. But I can I I can say with respect we should wonder about all of those things But our passage before you tonight makes all of those concerns that you would have of ordinary human life Trivial. There are truths that are communicated in this gospel by the power of the Holy Spirit that go beyond any earthly relationships that we have. More important than any practice that you might want to pick up. It's a question that is raised By Matthew, through the artful construction of his narrative, that may be the most important question for the entire human race. If the Son of Man will ride in on the clouds, bringing justice to the whole earth, and yet all humans are found unjust Not one is righteous. How will anyone be saved? Isn't that the question? How will God be just and yet have anyone remain who is justified That is the ultimate question of human existence. And the ultimate answer is given in the Lord's table. The great answer to the greatest human question is the Lord's Supper and what it represents. It is found in chapter 26, verse 17, and it is found in chapter 6, verse 27 through 29. If the Son of Man will ride in on the clouds, bringing justice to the whole earth, and yet all humans are found unjust, will anyone be saved? Is answered by the Lord's Supper. It begins with the context of the Supper in verse 17. You know, remember that Jesus And God the Father in his providence uses everything to tell his story, to prove a point. Jesus at this time has decided to superimpose the Lord's Supper over the Passover. Everything perfectly arranged. Perfectly arranged to where Judas could not betray him until after the Passover event, actually. The Passover was a meal memorializing God's redemption of Israel through the blood of the Lamb. And all those who had the blood of the Lamb upon their doorposts, the angel of judgment, would pass over and leave them in safety. And Jesus chose to superimpose and make the context of his whole Lord's Supper that, the Passover. And then the language that he chose in this context for his supper is the language of sacrifice. That we would understand what needs to be done for God to be just and the justifier of the elect. In verses 26 through 29, Jesus picks up the language of sacrifice. And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, he blessed, and he broke it, and he gave it to the disciples and said, take, eat. This is my body. Many took the cup and gave thanks and gave it to them, saying, Drink from it all of you, for this is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the remission of sins. He's just brought it all together. That he is the center and the solution of mankind's problem. have the language of sacrifice in the context of the Passover. But if we were to look through the scriptures at how the other apostles understood this event, we would find the interpretation of the Lord's Supper. Do you know what matches up very nicely with this entire section in Matthew is Romans chapter 3. It's amazing how much it's overlaid. And in Romans chapter three, Paul categorizes Jesus' sacrifice as a propitiation. To propitiate means to assuage God's wrath and instead gain his favor. You can see That the vision is still the Son of Man in the clouds, but the question is different now. How will anyone survive God's judgment? And the answer is propitiation. It means that God stops looking at you as an object of wrath and starts looking at you as his sons and his daughters, as his people. You move from the status as an enemy to a status of a friend, like Abraham was a friend with God. And this is even brought out in verse 29 of our passage. But I say to you, I will not drink of this fruit of the vine from now on until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom. Since the broken body and the spilt blood of Jesus is a pleasing and sufficient sacrifice to God as a propitiation, we will move from enemies to those who sit with him in the great wedding banquets of the Christ. That is his anticipation. It's been prophesied by Zechariah that the elect would be gathered, they would make it through even this betrayal. Based on the judgment section of Matthew, we with the disciples anticipated the Son of Man riding in on the clouds. But chapter 26 pushed something new into our faces, a great surprise. It was a surprise, Christian or non-Christian, because you have trouble remembering your guilt. guilt and what must be done with a just God. The surprise for us is that there must be a At first the disciples couldn't see, but over time the full truth about the Son of Ma man came into focus. And Jesus instituted the Lord's Supper that all disciples from that time would see a truth into which angels longed to see. God the Father has sent Jesus the Son of Man to have his body broken and his blood spilt for our sins. And to give us his righteousness, so that when the day of judgment arrived, we would not go away into everlasting punishment, but we as the righteous into eternal eternal life. In other words, when Jesus returns, we will not drink from the cup. Cup of wrath, but will drink the fruit of the vine in celebration of his final victory against evil, even the evil in ourselves. How can anyone survive the judgment of God through Jesus Christ? Our propitiation. When we take the time to observe what the scriptures say, when we are sympathetic listeners and we see how the Holy Spirit has worked through these men to construct these artful narratives with the most important questions and answers for human existence. Do you know what we end up seeing? Everything that I just said. But we see that if they had truly understood and read Daniel, they would have known this truth from the beginning. Let me end with this and then we'll go to the supper. Listen to Daniel chapter 9, verse 26 And after the sixty-two weeks, the Messiah shall receive the death penalty, but not for himself.