Here's the word of the Lord, starting in Hebrews ten eleven. And every priest stands daily at his service, offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God waiting from that time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet. For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified And the Holy Spirit also bears witness to us, for after saying, This is the covenant that I will make with them, after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my laws on their hearts. And write them on their minds. Where there is forgiveness of these, there is no longer any offering for sin. Therefore, brothers Since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that He opened for us through the curtain, that is, through His flesh. And since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith. with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the confession of our hope, without wavering For he who promised is faithful. And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works. not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another and all the more as you see the day drawing near. For if we go on sinning deliberately after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins. on the evidence of two or three witnesses. How much more worse punishment, do you think, will be deserved by the one who has trampled underfoot the Son of God and has profaned the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified, and has outraged the spirit of grace. For we know him who said, Vengeance is mine, I will repay. And again, the Lord will judge his people. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. But recall the former days, when after you were enlightened, you endured a hard struggle with sufferings sometimes being publicly exposed to reproach and affliction, and sometimes being partners with those so treated For you had compassion on those in prison, and you joyfully accepted the plundering of your property, since you knew that you yourselves had a better possession, and an abiding one. Therefore, do not throw away your confidence, which has a great reward, for you have need of endurance So that when you have done the will of God, you may receive what is promised. But my righteous one shall live by faith. And if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him But we are not of those who shrink back and are destroyed, but of those who have faith and preserve their souls. Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. For by it the people of old received their commendation. By faith, we understand that the universe was created by the Word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of things that are visible. By faith, Abel offered to God a more acceptable sacrifice than Cain, through which he was commended as righteous, God commending him by accepting his gifts And through his faith, though he died, he still speaks. By faith, Enoch was taken up so that he should not see death. and he was not found, because God had taken him. Now before he was taken, he was commended as having pleased God, and without faith it is impossible to please him For whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who seek him. By faith, Noah, being warned by God concerning events as yet unseen, in reverent fear, constructed an ark for the saving of his household. By this he condemned the world and became an heir of the righteousness that comes by faith. By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a place that he was to receive as an inheritance, and he went out, not knowing where he was going. By faith he went to live in the land of promise, as in a foreign land, living in tents, with Isaac and Jacob, heirs with him of the same promise. For he was looking forward to the city that has foundations, whose designer and builder is God, by faith. Sarah herself received power to conceive, even when she was past the age, since she considered him faithful who had promised Therefore from one man, in him as good as dead, were born descendants as many as the stars of heaven, and as many as the innumerable grains of sand by the seashore These all died in faith, not having received the things promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar and having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth. For people who speak thus make it clear that they are seeking a homeland If they had been thinking of that land from which they had gone out, they would have had an opportunity to return. But as it is, they desire a better country that is, a heavenly one Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared for them a city by faith. Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who had received the promises was in the act of offering up his only son, of whom it was said, Through Isaac shall your offspring be named. Thee considered that God was able even to raise him from the dead from which, figuratively speaking, he did receive him back. By faith Isaac invoked future blessings on Jacob and Esau. By faith Jacob, when dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, bowing in worship over the head of his staff, by faith Joseph, at the end of his life, made mention of the Exodus of the Israelites and gave directions concerning his bones. By faith, Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents, because they saw that the child was beautiful, and they were not afraid of the king's edict By faith Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to be mistreated with the people of God than to enjoy the fleeting pleasures of sin. He considered the reproach of Christ greater wealth than the treasures of Egypt, for he was looking to the reward. By faith he left Egypt, not being afraid of the anger of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. By faith, he kept the Passover and sprinkled the blood, so that the destroyer of the firstborn might not touch them. By faith, the people crossed the Red Sea as on dry land, but the Egyptians, when they attempted to do the same, were drowned. By faith, Rahab the prostitute did not perish with those who were disobedient. Because she had given a friendly welcome to the spies. And what more shall I say? For time would fail me to tell of Gideon Barak Samson, Jephthah, of David and Samuel and the prophets, who through faith conquered kingdoms, enforced justice, obtained promises stopped the mouth of lions, quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, were made strong out of weakness Became mighty in war, put foreign armies to flight. Women received back their dead by resurrection Some were tortured, refusing to accept release, so that they might rise again to a better life. Others suffered mocking and flogging, and even changed with imprison and imprisonment They were stoned, they were sawn in two, they were killed with the sword, they went about in skins of sheep and goats destitute, afflicted, mistreated, of whom the world was not worthy, wandering about in deserts and mountains and in dens and caves of the earth. And all these, though commended through their faith, did not receive what was promised Since God had provided something better for us, that apart from us they should not be made perfect. Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses Let us also lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross. despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured from sinners such hostility against himself so that you may not grow weary or faint hearted. In your struggle against sin you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your blood. And have you and have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons? My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be wary when reproved by him, for the Lord disciplines the one he loves For what son is there whom his father does not discipline? If you are left without discipline, in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and not sons Besides this, we have had earthly fathers who disciplined us, and we respected them. Shall we not much more be subject to the Father of spirits and live? For they disciplined us for a short time, as it seemed best to them, but he disciplines us for our good, that we may share his holiness For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but later it yields to the peaceful fruit of righteousness. To those who have been trained by it. Therefore, lift your drooping hands and strengthen your weak knees, and make straight paths for your feet. so that what is lame may not be put out of joint, but rather be healed. Strive for peace with every one, and for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord See to it that no one fails to obtain the grace of God, that no root of bitterness springs up and causes trouble, and by it many become defiled. that no one is sexually immoral or unholy like Esau, who sold his birthright for a single meal For you know that afterward, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no chance to repent, though he sought it with tears The word of the Lord. I love the book of Hebrews. I love it. Anyway, this is my chapters ten to thirteen is the conclusion. I just want to talk a speaker about the nature of faith, and I'm going to just stick to what what the author of Hebrews says. James contrasts saving faith to uh fake faith Here, the author of Hebrews assumes this is real faith. This is saving faith. And he divides he d he uh first off, backing up a little bit, you see the need for endurance throughout this, throughout this reading. We need endurance of faith. You see, you know, the group of Christians that struggled, the Hebrew Christians at the end of chapter 10, they They struggled, but yet they had the joy of the Lord, even as they were they said they were joyous even with the plundering of their property. But we're looking for here before we get into chapter eleven about the nature of f saving faith We see we see the the great quote from the book of Habakkuk about the righteous shall live by faith. But it's it's quite simple. Faith is the assurance every you know the passage, faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. That's it. That's this message. The assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of not things not seen. And then you look at all these Old Testament faithful saints How many of them had an easy life? I'm trying to look for this I tried to I scanned it this afternoon and I couldn't find any that had an easy life. This is the real gospel. The real gospel calls us to a life of holiness, which uh for the vast majority, if not all of us, include includes suffering. So faith is is being certain of God's promises. Looking at starting with A well started before Abraham. I'll I'll start here with Abraham. Abraham who you know was called and he was God spoke to him, he was certain, he lived in tents. You know, you didn't you didn't have an easy life. But uh When I when I you know, when I'm when I'm when I when I suffer, I've told you before I had a tough twenty eighteen, constant headaches and that kind of thing. It was difficult. Uh I tend to be a worry wart, so Wh where you know where do I where do I look for in the scripture? I look at the passage uh that Elder Chase read this morning. That's one of my favorite passages in scripture, Isaiah forty one ten. Do not fear, for I am with you. Be not dis be not dismayed. For I am your God. I will strengthen you, I will help you, I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. I I read Matthew six. Matthew six, you know. Don't lay up treasures on our Lay up treasures on heaven and the great discourse on uh on uh on worry at the end of chapter six, ending with Seek His command So faith is is truly believing and trusting in the promises of God, which are incredible. They're beyond description. The promises of God for His saints. Another key aspect of faith is the reward. Some p some of these uh saints called it a city, some called it a country, but they were looking, they were looking for the reward. They you know they didn't know in their life, I don't think they knew, that the reward was primarily heaven, the blessings of the afterlife. I mean you can you know, obviously God is faithful and bless bless them uh you know in their lives, but the ul you can you can you can tell from the the nature of this chapter it's a future reward So when we think about the nature of our faith, are we thinking primarily, oh God's going to bless me? I I believe in Jesus because He's going to bless me in the here and now. That's not how they were thinking They were thinking um reminded of uh the passage in uh first Corinthians chapter two. No ear has seen, no eye has heard what God has promised for those who are faithful to him. I'm just paraphrasing it Interestingly, in this chapter there's some who were commended for their faith who escaped the sword There's others who are commended for the faith who are killed by the sword. So it's it's it it's God's will. Whether he's going to call us to be escaped from the sword or he's going to call us to give our lives literally, we don't know that. To be faithful with the revealed word of the Lord. And guess what? We have so much more of the revealed word of the Lord than these Old Testament saints did. You see that At the end of chapter eleven. And of course, then that leads into chapter twelve, which most of you know. We're surrounded by such a great cloud of witnesses. We have these examples from these faithful Old Testament Saints. We obviously have the model of Christ that we heard this morning. What a wonderful message on on on Christ being the model for our humility and our uh So anyway, I want to talk a little bit about the first verse of chapter twelve. Talks about weights and sins. Really I want So we know the sin cleans things sin clings closely to us. How about the weights? By weights, I'm thinking these are the blessings of God that we tend to Bring in and distort, you know. Good things that we like, but they might be, you know, if are we spending too much time uh with our favorite app? I all see these people playing with these I don't even know what you call it, but you know what I mean. Uh just wasting time on on your favorite apps, whatever it is. Uh back before well I I I I came to Price at age twenty-nine And really into my thirties I literally would watch every Orioles game and I think now what an incredible waste of time that is. Even though they were good back then. I mean you're literally wasting three hours of your day for half the year. Years and years. Uh anyway, that's it that's one example of not a bad thing. There's nothing wrong with sports on its face, although you clearly can make make it Make it make it your uh your your your idol. You know, it can feed it can feed the idols of your heart. Anyway, there's all sorts of things that are keeping us from being fully faithful to the Lord, and it's not just a sin in our life That hopefully the Holy Spirit will bring to your attention. That's all the weights, the things that you you can call that a fear. I'll give you one example. This is what I'm I'm dealing with. The Lord has blessed me with a good job. I've now come to the point where I can retire, and so I've decided to retire. But it is it is a fear of the unknown. I wonder. This is all I've known my my life is is a w working. Yeah, I've worked for thirty five years. So I don't know what what the other side is, but I trust in the Lord that God has uh good things in store for me Uh it's just it's it's it's a simple example of faith. I'll give you a coup one one promise, like in terms of appropriating the promises of God. How about Second Peter chapter one His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness through the knowledge of Him who has called us to His own glory and excellence. promise by which He has granted to us His precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire. You you know the rest of the passage. Anyway, the the the the sc the scripture man it there's so much it's like an abundance of blessings You know, in terms of all the promises got God has uh put in the scripture. But we have to keep in mind the ultimate promise is is is seeing Jesus face to face We d we don't know, you know, whether he's called us to a a quote unquote I don't like using the term easy life because there's no easy life for a Christian. But but you know, w none of us are likely called to be martyrs, but I don't know that But we're called to uh to suffer. There's no doubt you look at Hebrews ch the rest of Hebrews chapter twelve and God disciplines those he loves. I know I need discipline You know, I tend to if I if I'm very task focused, give me a task and I'll do it. If I don't have a task, I kinda tend to flounder That's one reason why I'm a little bit leery of retirement. But uh but I I I think other guys can probably and and ladies can s can uh you know, probably have the same uh same vision. Anyway, uh just just wanted to share a few thoughts on on Hebrews uh eleven primarily. It's a wonderful chapter to encourage us what True faith is, and this faith is to oh one other thing I wanted to say is Hebrews 11 verse 6. Faith has two components. Believing believing that God exists That's not too hard for me. Probably not too hard for you. The second part is the harder part. What's the second part? That he rewards there it is. Those who have faith in him. It's hard for us to think, man, is the Lord of the universe, the creator of the whole world, everything? Is he really going to reward little old me just for having faith Faith in him? Yes, that's what the scripture says what faith is. And you see all these wonderful examples leading up to our Lord Jesus' uh sacrifice on the cross that our brother Brad and our brother Bill So that's uh the nature of saving faith. We all are in need of endurance. Not easy. It's not easy. And God calls us to tough things and we need to endure. And this is God gives us this scripture to uh have hope, to have perseverance, and to have strength And to with our local church to bear each other's burdens and be there for each other. So that's my brief meditation for tonight. On Hebrews chapter eleven. With that let us let us close in prayer. Well, say a prayer before we we send Let's pray. Our Lord God, we thank you, Father, that you have given us the gift of faith. Nothing of our own, Lord. Nothing of our own. It is only through your sheer kindness Sheer mercy, sheer love for us, broken vessels, us jars of clay, that you have bestowed this glorious gift of faith through righteousness in Jesus Christ. Christ. We thank you, Father, for giving us this chapter, for letting us know that the Christian life is not easy, but we have all these great Old Testament saints, and mostly we have you, Lord We thank you, Lord, and we ask for endurance, we ask for perseverance. Strengthen their faith in the name of Christ. Amen.