Please turn with me to James chapter five. Lord willing, we'll finish our James series next week. Tonight we'll look at verses thirteen through sixteen. Hear the word of the Lord. Is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing psalms. Is anyone among you sick? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith will save the sick, and the Lord will raise uh raise him up, and if he has committed sins he will be forgiven Confess your trespasses to one another and pray for one another that you may be healed. Please join me in prayer. Father, we pray that you help us to understand What James is seeking to instruct your church in. Pray that your spirit would seal these things to our hearts, and that above all, you'd help us to direct all of our our thoughts to you in all of the seasons of our life. In Christ's name. Amen. The song became an international hit in late 1965 and was adopted by the American folk rock group The Birds. Do you know what song this is? Yeah, who said that? Very good, yeah. Turn, turn, turn. The single Turn Turn Turn entered the chart at number eighty on October twenty-third, nineteen seventy and before before reaching number one on the Billboard Hot 100 chart on December 4th, 1965. Turn, turn, turn. To everything, turn, turn, turn. There is a season, turn, turn, turn, and a time to every purpose under heaven. I think we all know that song. We know that that's from Ecclesiastes chapter three, more importantly. And uh very much that is very much the message of James In this section of Scripture. James is pointing out something similar in this passage: that there are different seasons in life, and we need to know how to live in each of them as we wait for the Lord's return. Remember that James is operating under a much larger purpose in the letter. Beginning in chapter 4, verse 17, James says, But the wisdom that is from above is And he goes on to tell us what that wisdom is: heavenly wisdom as opposed to earthly wisdom. That is James' main focus. He instructs Christians on how to remain constant in heavenly wisdom. Because we are prone to wander into earthly wisdom. James brings back a heavenly perspective. So you could really go through, especially after chapter 4, and see that he's unfolding the heavenly viewpoint. So for example, earthly wisdom says to overpower others for your own sake. Heavenly wisdom bids you to disadvantage yourself for the community. Earthly wisdom encourages backbiting and slander. Heaven encourages charitable judgment and uplifting communication. The earth boasts of business plans, but heaven acknowledges God's power and human limitations. The earth is insatiable for money, but heaven works for others, and it does so for us When oppressed, earthly wisdom promotes grumbling. Heavenly wisdom, however, waits patiently for the Lord and for his judgment, as we wait for That's the teaching of James. He's teaching showing us the heavenly vantage point in all of those things. And James continues under that larger purpose with wisdom from heaven into this present passage. Here's the big idea. Heavenly wisdom tells us to look to heaven during all the seasons of our life. Now there's three seasons that I want to focus on in the passage before us, and then we'll look at the power or the efficacy of prayer next week The three seasons are this, the season of suffering, the season of cheerfulness, and the season of sickness. You can see those are three exhortations that are present within our passage, beginning in verse 13, the season of suffering. Is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. Suffering here is, and the prayer is a command, verse 13 commands us to look to heaven in prayer when we are suffering. I think we've all heard that. But it's a good question. Is that what you do first? Suffering here is all kinds of different situations. If you were to do a word study here, you'd find the same word being used in 2 Timothy 2, 8 and 9. Remember that Jesus Christ of the seed of David was raised from the dead according to my gospel, for which I suffer trouble as an evildoer. And then in 2 Timothy 1. 8, therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner, but share with me in the sufferings of the gospel. Now when Paul says that, think of all the sufferings and the different kinds. in his life. The word really has a large scope. 2 Timothy 2, verses 2 and verse 3, you therefore must endure hardship as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. Christ. That hardship there is the the same word. So it's really in a lot of ways James is ending as he began. when you're in the midst of various trials. That's how he begins his letter. And he tells us the same thing here about suffering. Suffering of all sorts. In fact, you could list out from the whole book of James the same categories that we just went through in terms of suffering. mentions, which includes persecution. You have the financial trouble of the poor in chapter two. Has anyone had any financial suffering? Because James covers that and he says if you do have financial suffering, pray. Or what about emotional suffering due to someone's toxic speech, as he mentions in chapter 3? Have you ever Had emotional suffering? Pray. What about being persecuted by the powerful in chapter 5? Have you ever been ridiculed or felt to feel ashamed for professing Christ or honoring the Lord's Day as He's instructed? Pray. What about fiss physical suffering that we see present also in the book? In this very passage itself chronic disease, cancer, just the difficulty of aging and ch Chapter 5, pray. All should direct your attention to God. All of these things, all of the suffering, the first thing that should happen is that we should pray We should be in a heart to where we would pray. Interestingly, within the natural human being, when we suffer, we walk away from God. But here in this passage, James is teaching The heavenly perspective is that when you suffer, walk to Him. It's actually contrary to what we may feel. We should pray. When we suffer in various ways, what is your first response? Because we've seen earthly sponsors responses throughout James. Grumbling, complaining, irritable, you put yourself into your own little shell and isolate yourself. Those are all responses that are earthly responses, but James is calling us back from wandering and into constant Christianity. And instead of turning away from God in all of these ways, we should pray. And it makes sense that he would say this. When you have a problem, you go to the person who can fix it. We do this in life. But what I want to what what I'd like to just end with here on this first point is what are some ways that you could pray? Let me just give you some practical things That were very helpful to me from one of my professors. He taught us from this same passage that we when we are suffering, the very first thing that we should pray is forgiven. grace, the grace to endure, and to endure with class. The second thing that we should pray, and this is the most insightful, Dr. Pipe taught us these in seminary. And this was the most helpful. I remember seeing his face with this. When you are suffering, pray for the lesson. Suffering is designed for you personally. There are things that you are suffering with right now that the person next to you would not be bothered by. God knows that. He has handed you providentially the things in your life. He has handed them to you personally. He knows your makeup. He understands Who you are, and the suffering has been sculpted and molded specifically for you, for you to learn personal lessons. It's like a private discipleship meeting With Jesus Christ. And so pray for what those lessons would be. And we'll talk more about that in the elder portion. Pray for release from the suffering. That's good news, but it's only the third prayer, not the first. And then lastly, pray for contentment. And I think the best way to put this is that you would have the patience of Christ Himself. As opposed to being lost in some philosophical word or virtue. Pray for the contentment and the patience of Jesus Christ. In the season of suffering, James is training us to take the heavenly way Pray. That's his command. But life is not just about suffering. God in fact does grant us many joys. passport and all of those that paperwork going through. This is the next part. He says here in the same verse in 13, is anyone cheerful? Let him sing Psalms It could be worship where you're feeling overwhelmed with joy and cheerful. It could be vacation. It could be children playing or your grandchildren playing It could be children obeying, which is quite rare, but still a great joy in the day. And during this time, oftentimes when these kinds of things Have you ever seen little children tearing into Christmas gifts or birthday gifts and then you have to remind them make sure you say thank you to your grandmother? in which to bring the excitement and the joy that you have to its full consummation. Listen to what C. S. Lewis says, and I've read this to you before. It's just so good. It captures human reality. here. I think we delight to praise what we enjoy because the praise not merely expresses but completes the enjoyment. It is its appointed consummation. It is not out of compliment that lovers keep on telling one another how beautiful they are. The delight is incomplete until it is expressed. It is frustrating to have discovered a new author and not be able to tell anyone how good he is. To come suddenly, at the turn of the road, upon some mountain valley of unexpected grandeur. And then to have to keep silent because the people you care with, you because of the people with you care for it no more than a tin can in the ditch? To hear a good joke and find no one to share it with The Scotch Catechism says that man's chief end is to glorify God and enjoy Him forever. But we shall then know that these are the same thing. Fully to enjoy is to glorify In commanding us to glorify Him, God is inviting us to enjoy Him. I think the question next, though, is what should we say? And I can't imagine, honestly, I was thinking through this and seeking truly to live a heavenly life because the new heavens and the new earth are coming. How could I actually put this into practice? And I truly can't imagine every time that I am joyful for the gift that God gives to me making up some new song. It would become absurd and the lyrics would be ridiculous, and they would just repeat We see actually when we ask the same question of how was this played out on the pages of the New Testament, is they say There was a hymn sung after Passover. There was a hymn, actually the two blend here, the suffering and the joy blended in jail with Paul as they sang hymns. So I believe that we should be singing from the Psalms and the memorization of them from our Bibles, and that we should be memorizing our hymn books. I think the instruction here that is implicit is you and your family should know the hymn book so that once something joyous happens, you know a song to sing. And I imagine that the Christian hymn book is getting larger and larger every year. There is a season. Turn, turn, turn. a time for suffering, a time for cheer, but also a time for serious sickness, which is our next point. This time too is a time to turn to God, but not as an individual that we can see shifting here in the passage, but with your elders. And here is the season of sickness. And I have puzzled over this section. I still it still remains a bit of a puzzle to me. I claim no um completion on it, but I have been greatly helped by Dr. Joseph Piper from Great. Greenville on this section. Hands down, he has what I believe to be the most accurate view of this in all my studies. And so we see the season of sickness that turns us to prayer with the elders. Verse 14, take a look. Is anyone among you sick? Notice the three questions here, and that's our sermon is Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the Lord will raise him up. And then verse 16, confess your trespasses to one another and pray for one another, that he may Verse 14 instructs us that if you are sick, then your duty, and it's actually a serious sickness, then your duty is to call the elders. Again, from a heavenly perspective. When you are seriously ill, is that's your initial impulse to call the elders. More than once have elders been surprised that you have been sick. That should not happen in Christ's church. I believe that this is not just normal sickness, following the Old Testament scholar Alex Montier, I believe is how you pronounce his name Here are some arguments for why I believe there's a very particular kind of sickness that's happening here. It's actually a very difficult illness, pretty severe. First, there is the fact that the elders are called to the sick man rather than that he should go to them. They believe it's because of the kind of sickness. Secondly, it is the elders who do all the praying, notwithstanding the fact that we just read in verse 13 that he urges everyone to pray who is in trouble. Perhaps this person doesn't have the strength. Thirdly, this is confirmed by the fact that he is called the weary and worn out one in verse 15. It's actually it, although my translation has two words, it says sick. If anyone among you is sick, and then in fifteen it says the sick man. They're two separate words. And the second one has more to do with being weary and worn out, pointing to a sickness either prolonged or serious enough to entail weakness. And then fourthly, the elders are said in a unique expression to pray over him. This does not necessarily mean more than that than that they stand while he sits But it could possibly imply that the isn't illness has confined this person to their bed. And this is pretty unanimous throughout the research. The main question that we can begin with is why call the elders? Why wasn't the individual prayer on your own and the singing of Christian songs in your car enough with the sunroof open Now, I want you to just look at the ingredients so that we can begin to answer this puzzle. Look at the ingredients of the passage and seek to discover what's going on. In verse 15, it says, if he has committed sins. In verse 16, it says, confess your trespasses to one another, that you may be healed. In verse 14, it then With putting this whole picture together that you were to call for the elders. Somehow those ingredients are meant to go together. In order for the sins to be known And then for them to be confessed, then more than prayer and oil is happening in this scene. Some kind of conversation is taking place between the person who is sick and the elders. Here's the best explanation that I've heard. The elders are going to this person with a serious illness to spiritually converse and counsel with the sick person. which includes prayer. They're coming for spiritual counsel. They're helping the sick to learn spiritual lessons in relationship to the sickness. The heart and the hands and the feet of Jesus Christ are showing up bedside and counseling with them from the scriptures as to what's going on with their illness. This is very difficult because here is a question that I believe it would have been asked in this setting if my reading of this is correct, and I believe that it is. Elders should ask this question. Do you think this illness is directly related to sin in your life? Now that's a very difficult question because we have a lot of fear associating that because I think in the past people have associated sin and sickness. in a place where they shouldn't be associated. But we should not throw the baby out with the bathwater. Sickness is not the only way God disciplines due to sin, but it is one way. Is it not? It is one way that God chastises. I found the greatest help actually in the Directory Public of Worship, which is in the back of our catechisms in a particular version. Here's what the Directory of Public Worship says on the visitation of the sick. Listen to this carefully. This is excellent. Times of sickness and affliction are special opportunities put into his hands by God to minister a word in season to weary souls Because then the consciences of men and women are or should be more awakened to think themselves of their spiritual estate for eternity. And Satan also takes advantage then to load them more with sore and heavy temptations. Therefore the elders, being sent for and repairing to the sick is to apply, they are to apply themselves with all tenderness and love to administer some spiritual good to their soul to this effect He may, from the consideration of the present sickness, instruct him out of the scripture that diseases come not by chance or by distempers of the body only, but by the wise and orderly guidance of the good hand of God to every particular person smitten by them. And that whether it be laid upon him out of displeasure for sin, for his correction and amendment, or for trial and exercise of his graces Or for other special and excellent ends, all suffering shall turn to his profit and work together for his good, if he sincerely labor to make it a sanctified use of God's visitation. neither despising his chastening, nor waxing weary of his correction. Now tell me that that's not good. It's exactly why the elders are supposed to show up to bring those kinds of lessons, lessons of comfort, and all other kinds of lessons from the scripture and to the seriously ill. The elder should help the sick to see the hand must communicate it with them that they might complete the ministry that Jesus Christ has given to them. At least serious illness. Now there's one more question that I want to ask and then we're going and then we'll end. What about the oil? This is exceptionally difficult. Should oil be a church ordinance today If you're to read most of the older commentaries from the Reformers, I actually depart from them. They look at this verse as basically from the lens of Mark 6, verse 13. Extraordinary gifts of healing in the church were happening then, but they are no longer happening now, and it should therefore no longer be applied. In Mark 6. 13, oil accompanies the healing of a person, and that's how they're viewing it. I don't think that that is warranted from this And every session throughout church history would have the gift of healing. And number two, the context has three exhortations in it that we've seen that are accompanied with questions, and those exhortations for the Christian for every Every single age, not a limited age where miracles were still going on to authorize or authenticate the message of Christ. Now there is another view I also don't hold to it. Here's another view. You should pray for healing, but then the oil was used for medicine. That's not what I think is actually happening. And I stick again, I've been greatly helped by Dr. Pipa, and this is his view, and uh it makes the most sense to me, but I'm open to talking about it. But it is what we practice here at Severn Run, actually. You would call the elders, they would pray, and they would anoint with oil, and this is the purpose of the oil. The oil is used to intensify and help the seriously ill and those around them. To have confidence and confirmation in the ministry of Jesus Christ through his Holy Spirit. And so, if we look at it that way, then we look throughout Christ's ministry and we see a number of other examples of how Christ ministers to his church in ways to intensify his lessons. And to intensify his presence and the ministry of the Spirit. And just recall to your mind quickly that Jesus used saliva, he spit and rubbed it together with mud in order to prove a point. He put his fingers in people's ears to intensify the situation. He made a fig tree wither, and he even washed feet. is not a sacrament. He washed their feet, all to intensify the lesson that is going on there and the ministry to to show forth and embody and intensify his ministry. Here's the conclusion. Heavenly wisdom tells us to look to heaven during all seasons of our life The season of suffering, pray. The season of cheerfulness, sing hymns and know your hymn book. A season of sickness, you better call your elders. Let's pray Father, we thank you for the heavenly perspective. We get the earthly perspective all the time. We thank you for this day where we could have time to hear it. And we pray that you would bless the preaching of your word, and that you, Holy Spirit, would seal it to our hearts in the name of Christ. Amen. Let's rise and sing.