All right, good evening everyone. Can you turn me down a little bit, Keith? Thanks. Great to see you all. Let's start our time together with a word of prayer. Please join me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you again for gathering us here this evening. Oh Lord, the morning and the evening of your day. Lord, we anticipate great blessings from you and to be able to bless you your name. Ask Lord that you'd minister to each person here. You know where they are. You are the good shepherd. You look at each person individually and know exactly the kind of medicine they need for health. Pray Lord that you'd use the medicine of your word tonight. Pray that you'd use this in different different forms like during the time of confession, the reading of scriptures, the songs that capture the spirit of your commands And precepts and promises. Pray, Lord, that you'd minister through prayer. Pray, Lord, that you do all of this for the good of your bride and for the gathering in of your elect. And that all of this should be unto your your glory and your great dignity in the world. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Let's stand for the call to worship. This evening it's from Psalm 111. Praise the Lord. I will praise the Lord with my whole heart in the assembly of the upright and in the congregation. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. A good understanding have all those who do his commandments. His praise endures forever. Let's sing together, immortal invisible. Important is simple God only, if I come our life, God bless it. Gloria the angels of day, Almighty Victoria, by praising we praise One resting, not tasting, and silence and fight, nor wanting, nor wasting, the rulers in life, thy justice thy night. Thy story no love, right now it's our thousand of goodness and love To all my thou given, to both great and small. In all life thou given, God, to life our law, we call and go. I waver and bear it for the changes Great power of joy, nor power of light, thine angels are joining for bearing their sights, for praise we would rest. Oh, help us to see 'tis only the splendor of thy depth Amen. Please remain standing as I read First Thessalonians 5, 1 through 10, and this will lead us into a time of confession. But concerning the times and the seasons, brethren, you have no need that I should write to you. Do you yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so comes as a thief in the night For when they say, peace and safety, then sudden destruction comes upon them as labor pains upon a pregnant woman. And they shall not escape. But you, brethren, are not in darkness so that this day should overtake you as a thief. You are all sons of light and sons of the day. We are not of the night nor of darkness. Therefore, let us not sleep as others do, but let us watch and be sober. For those who sleep sleep at night, and those who get drunk are drunk at night. But let us who are of the day be sober. putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and as a helmet the hope of salvation, for God did not appoint us to wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us. That whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with him. Amen. You may be seated. Please join me in a time of confession. God and Father of our Lord Christ, we thank you for these words that you've given to us in 1 Thessalonians 5. It is helpful to us to see the great imagery that you use between light and dark and night and day. And it is helpful for us to hear the kind of people that you have called us to be and in fact have made us to be by the power of your Holy Spirit, and that is that we are people of the day. Lord, there is something still that we wrestle with, though, and that is an attraction to the night. Lord, this happens in many different ways throughout our week, where we move off. from the place where you have called us. We go out of bounds into places that we were not meant for. I pray, Lord, that you would hear your congregation now as they bring those things to you. As they acknowledge the ways in which they have been like people of the night instead of sons and daughters of the day. Here their particular confessions, confessed particularly. Ask that you would do this now, that you would hear your saints. Lord, we thank you that we may freely come to you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen Amen. There's also assurance of a pardon you can find assurance of pardon that you can find in the bulletin from Psalm ninety-eight one through three. Oh, sing to the Lord a new song, for he has done marvelous things. His right hand and his holy arm have gained him the victory. The Lord has made known his salvation. His righteousness he has revealed in the sight of the nations. He has remembered his mercy and his faithfulness to the house of Israel. All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of Let's stand and sing together, Arise, my soul, arise. All right, my soul, all right, say all your guilty before Don't we track with flights and white Before the throat, my surety stands, before the throat, my shorty stands, my king is raised in all his hands. He never lives a call for me to enter me. His glory team, his blood, his precious blood to me, His blood are sown for every race, His blood are sown forever. Every risk that springs falls now got rooms by leaving nothing there. They for infection prayers, they call the people. Forgive him more, forgive a trust, forgive him more, forgive their trust, for that rent of single. God is reconciled, his warning voice I hear. He floating for his cards. I can no longer be With our badness, I now draw night, with our bed, I now draw night and run. Amen. Let's open our scriptures together. We're looking at Proverbs 6 now. We've made it this far. And the reading this evening will just be the first five verses. Proverbs 6, 1 through 5. My son, if you become Shurichi for your friend, if you have shaken hands and pledged for a stranger, You are snared by the words of your mouth. You were taken by the words of your mouth. So do this, my son, and deliver yourself For you have come into the hand of your friend. Go and humble yourself, plead with your friend. Give no sleep to your eyes, nor slumber to your eyelids. Deliver yourself like a gazelle from the hand of the hunter And like a bird from the hand of the fowler. Actually, we'll stop right there. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for the re inscripturation of your wisdom that we might live in community well, that we would know how to be neighborly. Pray Lord, that we would not only be hearers of your words, but doers. In the name of Christ, Amen. Amen. You may be seated. Last week we learned that the Lord understands that we struggle with antisocial behavior. That's behavior. Where we are destroying the society around us at some level. That's antisocial. Graciously, he gives us warnings and even helps. To preserve us and preserve our various communities. To be preserved within the boundaries of our God-given sexuality, we said. We must be attentive to God's word first and foremost. Be attentive to his word. Well I have a few observations about our five verses this evening and and then uh we'll we'll Dwell on those by way of application once I state the doctrine. Let's look at our scriptures together for just a little bit here. I have a few things for you to take notice of. The first thing is really about this most of this chapter. Or a good portion of this chapter, chapter 6. Take a look very quickly at verses 1 through 19. I'm not asking you to know all of it in detail But you'll notice that after we move from 19 to 20, we're going to move into a quite a different section. Verses 1 through 19 consist of three main lessons, and we're only going to deal with one lesson tonight. The lessons are on three different kinds of antisocial people. The kind of people that destroy community, whether it's in the home or the church or the county or what have you. Verses 1 through 5 are those who love carelessly. They're rash in their decisions. Verses 6 through 11 are people who are lazy. You'll see perhaps the word sluggard floating around And then 12 through 19 will concern the insurrectionist, the person who strikes against the foundations of the community. You could think perhaps anarchist if you want. Tonight we're just looking at 1 through 5, but that's just a little sneak peek for you as to the next two sermons after this. We'll speak on laziness and then on insurrection. That's the first observation I wanted to make, is just about where we're headed and where we are tonight. The second thing I want you to notice is tonight we are only looking at the warning against careless love. And you can see in verse 1 that what the father is doing is he's painting the fullest situation into which the son may or the daughter may enter into. In this scenario, the son becomes surety for the debt or the loan of a stranger, and therefore puts himself and his family at economic risk or crisis Imagine with me a situation where someone you don't really know that well asks you to be a co-signer with them on their mortgage, for example. And you, because you believe this is the loving thing to do, you're empathetic, you're sympathetic to their situation, whatever it is about their situation, it pulls on your heart strength. And you decide to be the cosigner with them, though you don't know them very well. They uh they're nowhere to be found. They default on their loan, and now it's you. And you're not able to pay that second mortgage. You can see this is what the father is concerned about, at least in the specific So I'm actually going to broaden it out a little bit. And that's why he ends up using the language of being trapped. There's a trap there, and you're walking into it, and it won't end well. That's the second observation of this fullest situation based on what you're calling goodness of heart. Or they're pulling on your heartstrings and so you end up making rash decisions. that you think are love. Observation number three is this. The father urges the son to get out of the trap as quickly as possible And this includes things like swallowing your pride. If you read the passage closely, he offers solutions in verses 3 through 4, which cover a range of different things. Which include do not sleep. You go out and make sure you get out of the trap. There's no time to rest. He says this, so do this, my son, and deliver yourself. swallowing your pride. Plead with your friend. Give no sleep to your eyes, nor slumber to your eyelids. Verses three through four. And then finally, I'll just point out the obvious that the Father wants the Son and this congregation to understand, all congregations really. The Spirit wants us to understand, and so he attaches our human situation to well-known situations that have to do with animals. So you have the final example in the final verse with the gazelle and the bird, both of which At least in this culture, they sought to trap them. And like a gazelle or bird, you would want to get out of the trap as quickly as possible when you notice that the net is being spread for you. Fly in the other direction, figure out a way out. That's his point. Now, when you put all of this together, overall, though he does have very specific economic concerns here, which tie to chapter 5 and the economic concerns on one of the concerns about committing adultery was an economic concern. You ruin yourself economically Uh that was his point in chapter five. Here he continues with that concern, uh specifically, but we can broaden it out to where the father's concern is more broadly considered a concern about the immature love that his children. Child has and demonstrates. Whether son or daughter, it does not matter. There is a way in which this child sees that they should love, but it is naive and immature and leads to destruction. It is a careless love. Immature love tries to love, and we also love to see we love to see that The sweetness of someone's big heart. But here, just a big heart is not enough, according to the Father. He wants the heart to be big and careful. Oftentimes when we meet people like this, this would go along well with the Father's teaching, is that person is so immature in their love that they actually think they're setting out to do virtuous things in their love. Love, but it is actually the way they perform it, is actually a vice. Let me give you an example. This isn't something new. The Christian Church has been talking about these things for a long time I've seen literature around 80, 500, for example, of saying things like this with this kind of unwise love. It's where greed disguises itself as frugality. I'm not going to spend money or help spend money on this. Looks like I'm a frugal person, but that could be disguising the fact that you're just greedy and miserly. like Ebenezer Scrooge. Ebenezer Scrooge, in fact, thought he was virtuous, but he was viceful. Or another one would be wastefulness. uh cloaked in the virtue of saying that no, I'm just generous when you actually give away things that you don't have to give away. Laziness can be considered kindness, or wrath appears as spiritual zeal, but really you're just an angry person. Or tardiness can be mistaken for For serious deliberation. You still haven't made the decision, even though it's been three months, and you're gonna you're gonna tell everybody, well, I'm just thinking through this seriously, but really you're just a procrastinator and you're late Those kinds of things happen all the time. Those are all different examples of the way in which we can seek to love wisely, but really it's loving Foolishly, whether we have a big heart or not. And so the main doctrine I'd like to place before you tonight is this. I think it's obvious. This is in the form of a command, that we are to love God and neighbor with wisdom. And we are to avoid foolish and careless and reckless love. Avoid foolish and careless and reckless love. love. You can see how the love would show up here and taking on the co-signership of a mortgage, but the father warns him that that's not love, that's careless love. So I have a few ways that I want to draw this out. One is the difficulty with loving wisely. It's actually pretty tough to love carefully. And then help with loving wisely. And then I have a few questions for you. So let's start with just the difficulty. And this won't be very long. I want to get into our prayer time. Together. Let's start with the difficulty of loving wisely. I want to relay a story to you. When I first entered into the Christian church, I joined A young adults group, and we were all honestly trying to be serious about Jesus Christ. Take his word seriously and love as he taught us to love. But I remember there being a specific example where some of the young ladies in the young adult group Decided that they should take Jesus' commands to love the poor seriously. So they were going to go to the streets of Baltimore and then bring homeless men back into their homes and take care of them. And I thought Yes, I'm sorry. Maybe I should have given a more subtle example. Where were their mothers? That's a good question. That's a different sermon. So that's the s that's the situation. And as a young Christian, I was actually torn because I You're supposed to love your neighbor. You're you're supposed to help the homeless and to put a uh roof over top of their head. That seemed like an obvious uh desire to serve Christ and yet even though I was just entering into the church and very much uh still you know ninety-nine percent pagan I thought this is pretty Bad that is a pretty bad idea. Uh but they they wanted to help the poor on the one hand. I was more in line with well, but don't we also want to isn't it also important to God that we protect our lives. Don't we aren't we supposed to take the life he's given to us seriously? Um and then the the rejoinder would be, but shouldn't we be like Christ and give up our lives? So you all I'm trying to point out is that you can end up in these kind of ethical dilemmas when you're trying to figure out what it means to love. I mean, let me ask you a question. Do people in our culture really know how to love? wisely these days. Have we really thought through that? I don't think we have. We actually are pretty immature on what love is supposed to look like, at least some of us. I think the heart of those ladies, I want to be as charitable as possible. The heart of those ladies is the heart of all of us. And it is captured quite well in the petition, the third petition of the Lord's Prayer. I wonder if you In the third petition, which is Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven, we pray that God, by His grace, would make us able and willing to know. Obey and submit to his will in all things as the angels do in heaven. Isn't that a beautiful prayer that we really do want to know his will? But when we run into situations like this, it can be very difficult because there's multiple principles conflicting, and it's hard to tease out which one should be the guiding one to go down the path. path. And so when you're young, you tend to want to love and taking Christ seriously, but you can do so carelessly. And I think I've given you a good example of that. Well, there are many helps. This is the second point of application. There are many ways to where we can learn to love wisely. I just want to give you one that has been exceptionally I hope this doesn't seem a bit heady for you. And it is this. We must accept that as we determine what real wise love is. looks like. We must accept that wisdom comes to us by the Spirit through the collection of His Word. We must accept that wisdom comes to us by the Spirit through the collection of His Word. Now the emphasis that I'm putting is on the word collection of his word. If you do not accept that wise love comes from a collection of his word, then you are going to target not a collection, but a single thing, and you're going to focus in on it, and you're going to miss the big picture of what real love actually looks like. And you're going to make poor decisions like having homeless men in your house as a single young lady. I want you to think of a collection of scriptures. Here they are. But you could think of them as a series of voices used by the Spirit in one great song, all sung in harmony It's a collection of voices. You can have the voice of Moses on the issue before us. You can have the voice of the chroniclers of sacred history. On the issue before us, the voice of the prophets on the issue before us. What do they say about these things? The voice of the apostles? On the issue before us. And all of these voices make a collection of voices which sing in harmony, giving us the knowledge of the will of God. Now the difficulty with me saying this to you is you probably think immediately in your mind, how in the world am I supposed to do all of that? I mean I need to make this decision in five minutes. How am I supposed to know the whole collection? And that's another point that has been is being brought out in Proverbs is that wisdom is not going to come by way of a few Google searches Wisdom is not going to come by you neglecting the word. Wisdom will come over time as you seek wisdom by his word. word and you and you as a biographical creature through the grace of the Spirit will become wise and then exactly what the Father is doing Is that even though the son and the daughter to whom he's speaking have not had the time to become wise, the father who has had the time can say to them, This is the path. And we can rely on that. That's how this has to work out. Wisdom is the fruit of much time spent on meditating on the Word of God by way of the illumination of the Spirit. Now, have you ever read that by the way in the scriptures? David saying, I meditate on the law day and night. Now, let me ask you, and I think I've asked you this before, what do you picture when David says, essentially, I grow in wisdom by meditating on the law day and night? What is he doing? Is he rehearsing the Ten Commandments over and over and over and over again? What he is doing is he is looking at the total collection to be able to understand the heart of God in things like the summary of the law in the Ten Commandments. And we are to do the same. You are day and night, that is to say, all the time, you are to be seeking wisdom by coming to know more and more his whole collection and not just the Ten Commandments. And that has been very helpful for me as I seek to learn how to love wisely and to help others to love wisely also. So let me ask you a few questions. Have you entered lately or in the recent past Have you entered into some situation where your heart was big, but as you think about it, it was careless? Did you know that zeal for God and His glory is that's good. Zeal for God and His glory is good. But do you have zeal without wisdom? And so are you less of a wise person, loving wisely, and more of a rash person? Loving rashly? Has your carelessness snared or trapped you? And then going along with what the Father has directly said here in this passage, how can you act like the gazelle or the bird and get out of the trap before it is too late. I don't know what your specific situations are, but these are good questions that flow out of the passage. How can you get out of the trap before it's too late? Do you need to swallow your pride? Do you need to confess that you have not acted in wisdom? And do you have to look like a fool for a minute to get out of this net? I wonder what you face. The doctrine that we have and the conclusion from this first proverb, just the first five verses, then we'll go on to laziness and insurrectionists. Is that we are to love God and neighbor with wisdom by the power of Christ and His Spirit, and by that same power may we avoid foolish and careless love. Amen. Amen. Let's pray together. Lord, this is a difficult word we're hearing this evening. There's so much more that could be said, but it does lead us to humble ourselves, which is perfect for entering into prayer. I pray, Lord, that you would help us in our time of prayer coming up after a song and benediction. I pray, Lord, that you would help us even outside of the prayer Help us to know how to love wisely, not carelessly, and help us to do so by meditating on your law day and night, even benefiting from those who have done so for long stretches of time. Give us wisdom from your inscriptuated collection. In the name of Christ, Amen. Amen. Let's stand and we'll sing together a hymn of glory. Let us sing. Ah he was glory that our king loose from throughout the world shall bring hallelujah Rise by All the way into it. And with his followers with me, Jesus is blended, pleasantly, hallelujah, hallelujah. Should be destroying night my standard game up on the sky Valeuya Vale Alleluia, hallelujah, in glory for the water. Amen. And now receive the Lord's benediction. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. Amen. You may be s