We're looking at just two verses today. It's verses twelve and thirteen if you'd like to follow along. I'll read and then I'll I'll pray for elimination. Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God who works in you both to will and to do for his good pleasure. Father, we just sang a song that captures everything that we could ever say in prayer And so we just ask, Lord, for illumination, that we would truly hear your word, and that we would be renewed, not as citizens of this earth, but as heavenly citizens. In the name of Christ. Amen. Please be seated. We're continuing our series on partnership in the gospel. It's about not about being an employee where Uh you can turn off at the end of the day, it's about being a like a small business owner where you take uh full ownership of The gospel just as the Apostle Paul took full ownership of his stewardship. That's what we're called to. We're looking at a a a lot, a lot of different aspects of this partnership, and I find them all very exciting. Uh last week we were looking at the faith of partnership and and um how simple the Christian faith can be. And usually it's not a knowledge problem, but rather It's a faith problem. It's having faith that God will fulfill the promises that He gives you. Particularly when you're seeking to be sacrificially generous You have to have faith that in the end it'll all be worth it and God will glorify your works. That's what we saw last week. This week we have the topic of change. It's the change of partnership. I think if there's anything we all think about quite often is change. How can I really have renewal and transformation in my life or within the life of the church? And Paul doesn't tell us everything about change here in these two verses But he does tell us something. He gives us a goal of change with this particular situation, the motive for change, and the power for change. And it's very different than what the world would tell you. So let's go into this right away and take a look at the goal of change, this change for our partnership with Jesus Christ. It begins right in verse 12 with the word, therefore. You have to make up your mind when you see this word to figure out what does it connect to? Does it connect with just the sentence beforehand, just a word in the sentence beforehand? And really, this therefore is referring all the way back up to verse 6. It's referring to everything that Paul has been talking about. in setting forth Jesus Christ to us as in his sacrificial generosity. Remember the whole argument here is that you're not supposed to be searching out your own glory. All that does is cause divisions and fights among you. Instead you're to be searching for the interests of others. Well what does that look like? Let me give you the premier example. It's Jesus Christ. He was willing to give up his glory, and then you see all the way through 6 and 11, he gave up his glory. uh even to the point of death on the cross, to retain his glory by the Father for being obedient. And it's the same thing that you're called to. And that's exactly what he's continuing with here. He's giving you the goal or reminding you of the goal of him speaking about any of this at all And that is, this one argument and one motivation after another for you to realize that the goal for you in changing is to be like Jesus Christ You know, Jonathan Edwards wrote a huge section in uh his book called Christian Charity, and he pulls out different verses to show us that we are to be growing in the image of Jesus Christ. Now that's really what it means to be human, because Jesus is the ultimate human or the ideal, and we are to be conformed to that form, if you will. Jonathan Edwards calls these passages that deal with us becoming like Christ the rules of the gospel. Isn't that interesting? These are the the rules It's a kind of a par uh oxymoron, right? You think of law and gospel as two separate things, and here he's saying the laws of the gospel. And he bring he brings this out by looking uh particular in John thirteen thirty four, where there are these commands that are given I don't know if you ever s I'm sure you've seen this command. I don't know if you've ever had the opportunity to meditate on it. But listen to John 13, 34. A new commandment I give you that you love one another as I have loved you that you also would love one another. Christ calls this a new commandment, Edwards points out. With respect to the old commandment, you know the difference? You remember the old one? Love your neighbor as yourself. And now he's saying, love your neighbor as I've loved your neighbor. Whoa. That's really different. Particularly as we think about the paragraph that we just got done going through in our preaching He calls to a new commandment with respect to the old of not loving our neighbors as ourselves, but instead loving our neighbor as Christ has loved us. And it opens up a duty to us on what it means to be human. uh that maybe we would have never thought of before and it primarily has to do with a new manner of being or way of being and not just a further degree. He would love, and of course that's a part of it. You can also see this again in John fifteen twelve. This is my commandment that you love one another as I have loved you. That's very different. That's a different picture of what a human being is supposed to be like. And Edward's drawing all this out. He ends up laying down these rules from these passages. And he says that the meaning is not that we should love one another to the same degree that Christ has loved us, though that ought to be a goal of ours, but rather that we should exercise our love toward one another in like manner to how Christ loved other people. Now think of think of this Christ has loved us so as to be willing to deny himself and to suffer greatly in order to help us. So the rule is that to be truly human we should be willing to deny ourselves in order to help one another. See how this is going? And the logic? This is the goal that we have for our change. Not just that we would love our neighbors. as we would love ourselves, but that we would love our neighbors as Christ has loved us. Christ loved us and showed us great kindness, though we were far below him. So we should show kindness to those of our fellow men and those who are far below us. Christ denied himself to help us, though we were not able to pay him back. So we should be willing to lay out ourselves to help our neighbor, freely expecting nothing in return. Christ loved us, was kind to us, and was willing to relieve us, though we were very evil and hateful, of an evil disposition, not deserving any good. But deserving only to be hated and treated with indignation, so we should be willing to be kind to those who are in of an ill disposition and are very undeserving. Christ loved us and laid himself out to relieve us. Though we were his enemies and had treated him ill, so we, as we would love one another as Christ has loved us Should relieve those who are our enemies, hate us, have an ill spirit toward us, and have treated us ill. Here's the goal. Here's the picture for you. of what it means to be human. This is to what we want to change. And it's just summarized in that simple little command for you That's what Paul's been talking about all the way from verse 6, and he's reiterating it now in verse 12 by saying, therefore, and he's going to draw this out a little bit more, by giving you a motive. He not only reminds you of everything that he's been arguing about, the goal for you as a human being that has been filled with the Spirit, but now the motive to be able to do that We've seen human beings, in other words, try to do good things for very wrong reasons. And that's certainly not what the Apostle Paul is encouraging us to do here, so he lays out a motive And here we need to step through the meaning of the verse a little bit because the words are a little unfamiliar to how we use it in our culture. Take a look at verse 12 with me And you also, if you want to start flipping, you can. I'm just going to read the verse to you, but we're going to look at Ephesians 6. 5 in order to be able to understand this verse 12 very clearly. Verse 12: Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your salvation with fear and trembling. So we have him not being present with a community and yet they still need to be working towards this goal. And sometimes he could be present and they still need to be working towards this goal But whether he's absent or he's present, he wants them to work out their salvation with fear and with trembling. Now what does that mean? You can clearly gain an understanding of this when you see another letter that Paul has written in Ephesians 6, verse 5. Now listen to this. And listen to the similarities between the two communications. Bondservants, be obedient to those who are your masters according to the flesh, with fear and trembling. You see that Be obedient to your masters according to the flesh with fear and trembling, and then he's going to start listing synonyms in sincerity of heart as to Christ. Not with eye service. He gives the opposite. Not with eye service as men pleasers, but as bondservants of Christ doing the will of God from the heart. What Paul is saying in this passage and what he's saying in the Philippians passage is that we are not to have a obedience and a longing to be a human like Christ is a human Just for the sake of ulterior motive, only when he's watching, only when he's present, but not when he's absent. Really, we have other desires and we have other goals. In other words, we're to have sincerity of heart. We're not to do things just because of eye service. You know there's some people that really don't want to work. Have you ever met them? Are you one of them? They really don't want to work. But when the boss comes around, they immediately pick up the rag and they start to wipe down the counter. Even though you're the one that just shined everything And perhaps maybe they would get the credit. That's what it would mean to work not out of sincerity of heart but with eye service. When he's gone you don't work. But when he shows up, you immediately get to work so you don't lose your job. You don't really want the job, but you can't afford to lose it. You're not doing this out of love. And that's exactly what Paul is talking about here. You see the similarities between Ephesians, he's talking about Christ uh not being right there in front of their eyes, only a human master is. So he reminds them that even if Christ were absent, he's not, he's still watching. You can see that later in the passage. Even if you were absent, you shouldn't be you should still work with integrity in your heart. Right And he and he's saying the exact same thing about himself. Even if I'm not there in the city with you, but I'm absent and I can't see all the things that you're doing, you would still have integrity in in your heart. You wouldn't just start doing good Christian things. Start Being sacrificially generous only when I show up. The tithing plate is full when Paul's in town. The tithing plate is not full when Paul's not there. What's tithing when Paul leaves? That's what he's saying here. Whether Paul or Christ is present or absent, we must work with a sincere heart, with a heart that has integrity, with a heart that has true longing and love. For our master is how it would be put in Ephesians. And here it would be for our great apostle, for them Because he was an authority and ultimately really he just wants them to do it because they love Jesus Christ. They love what it means to be human like Jesus is human They love to be sacrificially generous because that's the most beautiful thing that they have seen. And Jesus Christ has demonstrated it perfectly. You know, you see the same kind of theme in 1 Peter 5. 2 When it talks about elders not serving under compulsion but willingly. Someone can make you do something. And you don't really want to do it. Or you can do it because you love to do it. Or you love the person that you're doing it for. And that's what's going on here within this context is that our motive can't be just to shut somebody up or just to feel better about ourselves so that we don't have to admit that we're a bad person. But we would actually love to serve Jesus Christ Through sacrificial generosity for one another. Have you ever seen little kids who are told that they should share but they don't really want to share? I mean, isn't that what the Apostle Paul is just pointing out here? Don't be like little children that don't really want to share. What does it mean to be a human being that really does want to give sacrif sacrificially? To be superbly generous. That's the that's the picture that we have here. I I remember what it means to be compelled to do something as opposed to be being willing to do something. When I was I told the youth this. When I was in the fourth grade there was a girl that liked me and she would drag me to her class and she'd make me kiss her. And it was horrible She had these huge braces and it was horrible. It wasn't an enjoyable experience for me whatsoever. But now, when I think of my wife And being able to kiss her. What a delight that is to me. I try to kiss her as much as I possibly can. And I'm not compelled to do that. It's not labor for me. I do so willingly That's the same kind of thing that he's talking about here. So you have to ask yourself when you're considering this motive section, are you under compulsion to love as Christ loves, to give generously to each other, to live sacrificially? Is somebody making you do it? Do you only do it really so that you don't get a bad reputation? Or do you do it because you really love the person next to you Because you really love Jesus Christ. Do you love with freedom and sincerity of heart, or are you a slave? to the expectations of our culture here at the church or or abroad abroad, whatever it might be. Those are the questions that we have to ask when we consider the motive of change. Now what's the answer? I mean it you've gotta be honest, right? That's another good thing to do is to be honest that a a lot of the times when we begin to go into self-examination and self-reflection, we find that we oftentimes love another person just to get them to shut up and leave us alone so that we can go back to doing what we would like to do. Or or come up with whatever motive we have as human beings. I I tell you the truth. When you're just a human being left to yourself, is it even possible for you to love like we're talking about here? To have a motive of love for Jesus Christ. Here's the difficulty. This is so ingrained with us that you think that you can just do what I'm telling you to do up here, and then you're going to feel pride and you're going to feel great about yourself that you're a lover What you have to first realize, what I have to first realize, is that this is totally impossible for us. You can't all of a sudden decide that you're going to put on your big boy pants and start to live exactly like Jesus Christ And to love him with all your heart and to love others as Jesus Christ has loved you? Absolutely impossible for the human race It would make the Spirit of God to be sent to us a complete non-necessary person. A non-necessary act. It would be unnecessary. And so that's why we have to come to this last point. And this last point we're going to consider in one way this week, and next week we're going to keep drilling down on it because it's so important. We not only have the goal of change, which you're finding to be beautiful, beautiful, incomparably beautiful, but when you get to the motive of change, you realize This story's not gonna end well for them. Unless you just want to become legalistic. And be like the Pharisees and put it on on the outside, but have nothing going on on the inside. You know how easy it is for you? How many I mean don't answer me, but how many of you fought before you got to church? And then as soon as you got to church you started smiling I mean, that's not what we want to do. We want to be able to grow from the outside from the inside out in our love and our sacrificial generosity And the last point that he gives us is he tells us that he's going to give us the power to do so. He's going to give you, as a human being, the loving Jesus Christ from heaven, is going to give you the power to change into a person that can love sacrificially out of a love, true love for another person and out of true love for Jesus Christ. And that's what we see here in this last part, in verse thirteen. Take a look with me. Not just when I'm there, but when I'm not there. Have some integrity Work out your salvation with fear and trembling. Have sincerity of heart. Work on being sacrificially generous. That's what that salvation means there. And then he gets to 13. For it is God who works in you both to will and to do for his good pleasure. You know, isn't that a promise right there? Didn't we talk we talked about promises last week and how we really have to believe the promise Here's a promise that God's going to work in you to will. He'll be underneath your will. And he'll get that result out in the world. The love that people could see manifested that so that he would they would know that you are his disciples. All that's going to happen by the underlying and underneath work of God and Jesus Christ through his spirit You know, unfortunately, we've been lost to a philosophical treatise in this verse, and we lose the entire intent of the apostle. We want to look at this verse and we want to start arguing over God's sovereignty and human free will, not the intent of the verse. It's just one verse and then he moves on. Obviously he's not trying to talk about that. He brings together, in fact, you have to assume from this verse that he brings together our responsibility as three human agents and the sovereignty of God in some way they come together and we don't know how neither one is violated. It's just true, because this is what the apostle has said. It's not a philosophical time for us. He's trying to help us to have hope that we can change and be sacrificial and actually care about other people It's meant, in other words, this passage is meant to encourage you. You know the doctrine of election is meant for that too. It was meant to encourage you, not beat each other over the head with It's the same here. It's meant to encourage you that God is both the author and the perfecter of your faith. The very first sermon in this series we're talking about how Jesus Christ will start it in you and then he'll finish it. And you can see that in the doxology in the end of 1 Thessalonians also. He is both the author and the perfector of our faith. He who has, in other words, he who has begun a good work in you will in fact complete it. And we can talk more about how the Spirit works in us. That'll be next week. We're going to talk about the fruits of the Spirit. You can see him starting to list them in the next set of verses. But here we've got to deal with a single issue for the rest of the sermon. And that is that we have exceptional issue with this teaching right here. When we say, okay, yeah, I see that's the goal of change. I see that those are supposed to be my motives, and then I tell you there's great power, and for a moment you say Yes, there's an answer. But then I tell you, it's through the spirit. If you're not listening uh if you're listening, I I think if you pay attention to the way that we end up thinking about this, you start to lose some hope As soon as I tell you that it's the spirit. It's for in like for instance if I were in a um a pickup truck and it was rainy and muddy and I slid into a ditch and Jack was driving to me And I said, Jack, how are we going to get that get out of this? And he would say today, Dad, don't worry, I'm just gonna pull it out of the ditch It can feel a little bit like that, a little anticlomactic when I say you're going to have power to change, and then I say and the Spirit's going to do it. Because I say, oh, yeah, right. I've heard that before, and nothing changed And that's what we have to end up dealing with. We have to believe that the cause of change can truly happen through the Holy Spirit. That God really does work in us through the Spirit. But here's the alternatives that are given to you from our American or secular culture. They don't believe in the Spirit They don't think that they need him. All they need are human resources. And you there they're just a s one sound bite in your ear after another telling you the exact same thing. If you need to change in order to be a good person, what do you need to do? You need education. You need to have a good family life. You need to have a good environment that's not um full of processed foods and and you need essential er uh what what oils or whatever it might be And uh and you need to have all the right techniques and methods. In the seventies it was one way. In the eighties it was another technique, in the nineties another technique, and now we got another technique And we start to circle back on our techniques. And that's what's supposed to change us as human beings. But we end up seeing the same thing recapitulated throughout history that human beings are unable to share. They're like little kids in a sandbox. And yet we still keep believing this message that's given to us from our secular society, always looking within. And Hollywood ends up reinforcing it. To where in order to overcome the odds we have to be a Cinderella man, or we have to be a Rocky, or we have to be uh whatever. But all the resources are always from inside. They're never external. Underlying this, what ends up happening to us is that we start to become ashamed of our solution. Now we talked in each of the sermons about shame. The world is full of trying to ashamed make you ashamed of what you actually believe about the gospel. That Jesus Christ has sent the Holy Spirit to you to begin to change you, to bring heaven to earth starting now, to give you a taste, a foretaste of eternal life. That begins within your heart now. The world can't hear it. And if you were to tell them that, they would laugh in your face. Now we're aware of that. Hear what I'm saying I'm telling you that the world tries to make you ashamed of being a Christian upon each person of the Trinity. The world tries to make you ashamed of the Father. Think of all of the shame that the Israelites would have felt in the Old Testament concerning how the Father chose to reveal himself as one God. What was the main problem then? He's not one. He's all these other gods. You go from monotheism to polytheism. There's always this confrontation. You're a fool to believe that there's only one God. There are multiple gods. Now that's not your context. But think about the shame that you see with on the pages of the New Testament in regards not just to the Father but to the Son. The Greeks considered it a foolish message. They laughed Paul out of the Areopagus. The Jews thought he was weak and had no power in order to be able to accomplish the things of the of the kingdom of God, and yet Paul says he is both the wisdom and the power of God. You see the contrast there, and how Paul's fighting against the shame, whether it has to do with the Father or whether it has to do with the Son. And here in this passage You are confronted with this question. Are you ashamed that change comes by the Holy Spirit in your life? Now you have to ask that question. Are you ashamed of maybe you're not ashamed of the Father. You've reconciled him and the world together. Maybe you figured out a way to get Jesus and the world together, but can you get the Spirit in the world together? Or are you ashamed of him? The world thinks the idea of a supernatural spirit changing us is a joke, and the question is, do you also And I know you wouldn't say that right now. I wouldn't say that right now, but in the moment, in the moment, putting your hope in the spirit You have the goal of being like Jesus Christ and his sacrificial generosity. You have this motive that when we understand it, it's not just to love our neighbor as we love ourselves, but it's to love our neighbor as Christ has loved us. That's the motive. And then we also have given this power to change that is constantly at war with the powers that the world tell us. And now I wanna I want to just focus on this conclusion and trying to bring this home just a little bit more. You can see the dilemma that we have in accepting this change as true hope within our lives is that we tend to be ashamed of the spirit And of Jesus sending him to change. Now I want you to think again, I want you to meditate on this verse if you can this week. It's 2 Timothy 112. This is really turning into a theme for the whole book of Philippians, and really all of Paul's ministry of shame. 2 Timothy 112 says this, for this reason I also suffer these things. Nevertheless I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded That he is able to keep what I have committed to him until that day. I'm going to say it one more time. I know you know the song. For these reasons I suffer these things Nevertheless, I'm not ashamed, for I know whom I've believed, and I'm persuaded that he is able to keep what I've committed to him until that day. And so the question becomes, the exact same question that Paul is saying here, can you commit your change to the Spirit? Can you commit to him that You will change that he's promised to you that progressively you will advance into the image of Jesus Christ. Can you commit it to him or is he untrustworthy is the ultimate question The problem we keep running into in our midst is we keep thinking that we have a knowledge problem. Do you know what happens when you go to the medical office and it's serious and they misdiagnose you? You wither. It never gets solved. They prescribe you the wrong kind of medication. We keep diagnosing ourselves as having an intellectual or a knowledge problem. The problem is a faith problem. The question is, do you believe if you commit your change, your transformation, your revival, your reformation to God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, if you commit it to them, will He do it? Will he progressively transform you into someone that is sacrificially generous and beautiful as the beauty of Jesus Christ? Or will he not? That's what it ends up coming down to. Do you believe him or do you not believe him? Those demons believe that the Holy Spirit transforms people, but they don't have faith that he will do so for them They just believe that it's a truth out there. It ends up being the the main ailment for us as we go through our lives. Are you feeling disillusioned today? Are you feeling cynical? Are you depressed? Are you anxious? All of these things are from a lack of faith always in one or another of the persons of the Trinity And here this morning we're talking about the Holy Spirit. He's the one that God sends to work within us. Perhaps we have fallen into the shame of the world. You know another way to look at this same thing. I'm coming to an end here As we often hear people talking about the importance of our reformed faith with the assurance of salvation That we're not up one minute and down another minute, because we know that we've been justified by faith through grace, wholly upon the work of Jesus Christ. That's our our great battle cry. But let me ask you this Do you have assurance of salvation as he's talking about it here? There's salvation that happened in the past in the work of Jesus Christ. There's salvation that will happen when you hear God say, Well done, good and faithful servant. And there's salvation called sanctification right now happening. Do you have assurance of sanctification? Is what I'm asking. And if not, that's a faith problem. Does the Father keep his promises? Does Christ want to give to you from heaven? Does the Spirit want to create you? What's the answer to that? And when you see how you live your life, how are you really answering that? I think we struggle with shame in the spirit. That's why I'm belaboring this. Belaboring this. I remember when I was in The fifth grade, I started to be embarrassed about everything, particularly my parents. And and some of you are not old enough to even know what this car is, but it's a Ford Escort. My mom owned a Ford Escort and it had a really bad muffler system. And it was so loud and she'd want to drive me to school and drop me off there in the front And oh boy, I would figure out a way to be dropped off down the street, or I would just walk the whole way Do you have experiences like that? I'm trying to bring out the feeling of shame for a second. You remember what it was like to feel ashamed when your dad showed up the Parents' Day and he was wearing suspenders and really short shorts? those little fike shorts that they were f do you know what I'm talking about? I don't know what it was for you. You had your own different cultures and and it was difficult. Remember when Peter when the rooster crowed the third time and he said, I don't know him Is that how we really feel about the Holy Spirit and His work in our lives, because of what the world tells us? I think a little bit it is. And we need to work at not being ashamed of the gospel Part of the gospel is that Jesus Christ loves us and he sends his Spirit to change us so that we could be sacrificially generous. Here's my prayer, and I pray that it's your prayer this week. Lord, I believe. Oh, but Lord, help my unbelief in the changing power of the Holy Spirit. Let's pray.