Turn, if you will, to Matthew 18. Today we're looking at verses 1 through 11. We're going to focus only on the child in this passage. There's many things going on in it. But this is the heart of the passage, and that's where I'd like to concentrate. Today. Matthew 18, verses 1 through 11. I ask that you turn to that passage, realizing what you're doing. You're opening up the Word of God. You're opening up God's intent to reveal to you His will for your life and that for what you should believe. And so if we open it up in submission and humility and ask God to open your heart to what He would have you learn from this passage today. So with that, as you prepare to receive His Word, Hear these words from Matthew. At that time the disciples came to Jesus saying, Who then is greatest in the kingdom of heaven? Then Jesus called a little child to him, set him in the Therefore, whoever humbles himself as this little child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. Whoever receives one little child like this in my name receives me. Whoever causes one of these little ones Woe to the world because of offenses For offenses must come, but woe to that man by whom the offense comes. If your hand or foot causes you to sin, cut it off. Cast it from you. It is better for you to enter into life lame or maimed rather than having two hands or two feet to be cast into everlasting fire. And if your eye causes you to sin, pluck it out, cast it from you, for it is better for you to enter into life with one eye, rather than having two eyes, to be cast into hell. Fire. Man has come to save that which was lost. May the Lord add his blessings to the reading and understanding which comes from his word. I ask you to forgive me if I I take off this jacket, it's pretty hot up here. Perhaps one of my greatest joys in pastoring this church for the last twenty five years has been watching children who have been born into it or brought up in it. One of the most favorite times of all is when I'm standing at the back of the sanctuary uh after the worship service and I'm there talking to people and the little kids who have been off in the wors in the uh children's church come in. And they you see them, you know. They They come running in, they got this great big beautiful smile on their face. I'm thinking particularly, although there are many, but the two that really stand out in my mind right now are the Schwasi kids and the Horner kids. They come through, you know, they're just glowing. Everything is great, man. There's mom and dad and they're in and they come in to see 'em. Great big smiles. Just happy with life. Kids, especially those in the three to four year old category I think are like that. Their entire existence consists in running around and delighting in life. Everything is new, everything is exciting. Not every child in the world has these advantages, we know that, but they don't know it. Yet. And so for these kids, life, in a sense, is one big circus. It's been given to them for their pleasure. And what makes all of that joy that they have in their life that you see see expressed in their face at times like that. What makes that possible for them? What allows them to to have that sound sleep that we so wish we could do? When they when they found Turn out the lights and the eyes close and bong, they're out. What allows them to wake up in the morning and instead of saying, Oh no Oh, it's Monday. What allows them to jump out of bed and come walking into the kitchen and say, Good morning, mommy. Because the day is Bright. There's always adventure. In their mind, with mom and dad there, the boogeyman's gonna stay in the closet. That's where he belongs. They think, I am safe. Mom and dad will take care of me. They will protect me. They will provide for me. When I'm hungry, they will feed me. And once a year on October thirty-first they do some really neat stuff with me. They dress me up, take me out in neat cost uh they dress me up in neat costumes, they take me out places like the pumpkin patch and we celebrate Reformation's Day. Whoever heard, who ever thought that Martin Luther nailing those theses on the wall all would have such a great time with the kids in doing it. Life is good. Mom and Dad are there I submit to you that this kind of naive, simple, joyful trust is what Jesus meant when he held up this young child in this passage. in order to teach us and his disciples that true saving faith is childlike faith. See how clearly he teaches this truth in this passage. Look at verse 3. Assuredly I say to you. And the words here are very emphatic There there is no way that they can be expressed more emphatically in the original language than the way that he has in fact structured this language. statement. Assuredly I say to you, unless you are converted and become as little children You will by no means, with no exceptions, under no other circumstances Enter the kingdom of heaven. Now, can there be any doubt in what Jesus is saying here and how seriously he takes it? Jesus is saying very emphatically True saving faith begins with childlike faith. If you do not become as a little child in your faith, you simply aren't ever going to walk through the door of the kingdom of heaven. So saving faith Is childlike in its quality. Well, brothers and sisters, it's not childlike at all. Or it's not saving faith at all. Now we need to know What Jesus is saying here. We need to come to some kind of grips with that. And let's start off by looking at what childlike faith is not. So secondly, let's Let's notice very carefully that Jesus is not here speaking to the Pharisees. He's speaking to his disciples. Jesus is not here Something that once we have all of the various categories of saving faith clicked off in our mind, we're able to answer E the question the credentials committee throws at us. He's talking to his disciples, and he's doing so with a certain tension in his words. He is talking to folks like you and me, people who profess to be his disciples, and he is giving them a warning. He is telling them not to be deceived. He's saying, listen to me, guys. You see this little child? If you don't come to me with the overall character of faith like this little child Then you won't even get into the kingdom of heaven, much less be the greatest one in it. Because Jesus saw these disciples as being in very imminent danger of missing the whole boat. They had come up to him. Brain dead as they were, I suppose. They walked up with him. They had they had seen him do things. They had heard the words he preached. They saw all of those things, and here they come to him with the audacity of asking him who is going to be greatest in the kingdom The very question betrays their heart. They were still caught up in worldly ideas about Jesus Himself and His kingdom. They were Thinking about how in the world they can draw distinctions, how they can earn a little higher place amongst themselves of gaining honor in the relative hierarchy of the kingdom so that they would enjoy Privileges over their brothers and sisters in the faith. What they weren't doing was simply delighting in Christ. They were not rejoicing, first and foremost, in the kingdom that He has established. They were wanting to be honored, to be recognized, to receive glory for themselves. Now that's not child-like faith. That is not rejoicing in God's blessings and responding to those blessings with love and hope. That is pride. And at its root, it is deadly. Brothers and sisters, we have to remember that there is only one who is greatest in the kingdom. There is only one to whom all honor and praise and glory is to be rendered. There is only one who has lived his entire fleshly life completely devoted to doing his father's will, there is only one who has ever demonstrated perfectly the true quality of childlike faith Our little ones, delightful as they are, are sinners. If you don't believe it, ask their parents. We know that So even these young ones do not have perfect childlike faith. But our Lord Jesus Christ did. Delight was to do his father's will. I have come to do thy will. His delight was to do his father's will. No matter what was asked of him. Why? Because he was absolutely given over to the understanding that his father loved him passionately. His father loved him completely. And that nothing ever could change that love. In anything He faced, he would see his father's love triumph through that, whatever it was. God's love for him would bring good out of evil No matter what evil came his way. Now that is perfect, childlike faith. And that's what our Lord Christ did. Hebrews 3 teaches us that Jesus was faithful in God's house. It teaches us that Jesus was not faithful in God's house. As Moses was faithful. He was not faithful as a slave or a servant or a hard person. He was faithful as a son, as a child. As a little child would be faithful, completely devoted, completely given over, completely trusting his father. And for that reason, only he Is greatest in the kingdom of heaven. As he held up that child that day before his disciples, he was saying, To enter into the kingdom of heaven. Heaven. This is the faith you must show. You must be trusting, as this child is trusting. You must be trusting as I have trusted. Because the life of a child is living and delighting in the world that God has given him. It's the kind of life That is not only open to a child of God, but it is the life which brings glory to Jesus rather than glory to ourselves. Living and delighting in the world, as a child delights in the world, is the kind of life that is not only open to a child, but But it is the very life that brings glory to God. So childlike faith is not focused on First and foremost on ourselves. Rather, childlike faith is first and foremost rejoicing. In life, it constitutes the essence of our life. And in doing so, that's where the it comes back around, and that quality of life is what brings glory to God. Brothers and sisters, that's how God is pleased with his kids. When we delight him By being delighted in him. When we are not so much concerned with advancing our position in this world as simply delighting in the fact that we are Now perhaps we might ask ourselves at this point, is God delighted in me? for showing forth that kind of delight in him in my life today. Does he see me every day just happy to be his kid Does he see me wanting to spend time with him as these little kids come running into the sanctuary, glad to see their mom and dad and to be reunited? to them. Does he is he delighted to see us just simply trusting him as a child trusts that mom and dad's always going to be there? They're going to take Take care of me. Or are we, more like these disciples than we like to admit, mostly occupied with ourselves and the things which we And in the long run, which we discover to be pretty petty. What time left I have? I would like to talk about childlife faith a little more closely. First, I want you to consider this. Brothers and sisters, childlike faith is the foundation in which the whole structure of faith in our lives is built It's where we start, and it's the point from which we grow. There are two dangers, I think, facing Christians. When it comes to childlike faith. First, we come to faith as a whole, thinking of it in terms of amount of quality of doctrinal knowledge. The second pitfall is that we must avoid thinking that growing in doctrinal knowledge is somehow counter to childlike faith. So it's a it's a two-edged sword in that regard. We Americans tend to think of life as being measured by the accomplishments that we have. Even in matters of faith, we begin to think that the more I know about what the Bible teaches, the greater faith I have. Brothers and sisters, knowing stuff is not the same thing as believing it. Satan probably knows the Bible more better or better than anyone in the This room. He gains no benefit from it. So we must remember what Jesus says here: that the doorway to the kingdom of heaven is childlike faith. It's the if that quality of faith is absent, then adding to our knowledge is only going to deepen our sin. It will lead to pride, it will lead to error. Arrogance. It will lead to focusing on doctrinal issues as if that is the essence of the Christian walk. It is straining at a gnat And swallowing a camel. That kind of life, that kind of faith, is the kind that can come crashing down on our shoulders when we encounter difficulty. But secondly, let's make sure we're very clear. Having childlike faith does not mean that we are just to stay there at the entry level by which And growing in faith consists in this. It does mean growing in knowledge. Growing in knowledge both doctrinally and experientially. It means growing in our understanding of the world by knowing more and more what the scriptures teach us about life. Living in this world. But also growing in understanding and watching God at work in our lives. Growing in faith By gaining knowledge and experience that verifies that knowledge. So it must be both. But the coolest thing about this whole idea, the thing that is really neat that struck me this week and just caused me to smile even as I was putting together this sermon, is that this all begins with childlike faith, yea and amen But as we grow in knowledge and experience, this childlike faith doesn't go away. Rather, we become more and more childlike. Well maybe it wasn't as exciting to you as it was to me. It really was. Growing in knowledge and faith, growing in knowledge and experience Experience doesn't mean that we start with childlike faith and grow into adults. Rather, it means we become more childlike. We become more purely trusting. Purely accepting the fact that God loves us. Childlike faith is thus the beginning and the end of growing in faith. We grow in doctrine, we grow in grace, we grow in experience, and the more we grow, the more we embrace the faith of a child. The more we hunger and thirst to know Jesus Himself. The power of his resurrection, then the more we grow in doctrine and practice, the end result of which is doxology. The end result of it is simply coming before God as a child would come before his mother and father and just say, I love you. Thank you For being my God. That's the sum total of growth in faith. The end towards which all faith is directed is To sing a little child's song. The end towards which all faith in this world is directed is to sing a child's song. Sing it with me. Just the first verse. Jesus loves me this I know. For the Bible tells me so little ones to him be Yes, Jesus loves me Yes Jesus loves me, yes Jesus loves me, the Bible tells Brothers and sisters, there's a wealth of doctrine in that child's psalm. All the teachings of Scripture are summarized In it. In its fundamental form, it is a creed. It is a confession of faith. And it's a confession of childlike faith. And yet, to plumb the depths of what we just sung, what those words mean would require a lifetime of study. It points us toward a total freedom in our living. A total freedom to love, to get into our bed at night and sleep, and to wake to God's new will world that awaits us every morning. It points us to a life of knowing that God loves us and that nothing will ever It points us to the door of seeing the world as new and as exciting. Sometimes children even with loving parents Encounter sadness and they cry. But to whom do they run when they encounter sadness? To mom and dad. They run to mom and dad, and somehow or another they know that mom and dad are gonna make it all right. They may agree But grief does not overcome them because they are secure in the truth that they are beloved. Jesus loves me. This I know That's how it works. That is childlike faith, brothers and sisters, and it is saving faith. And there is no other faith at all that will save, nor any other faith. That can save. It is the it is the song of a child, and it must be sung as a child sings it. And that's the last thing I want to speak to very briefly. Whoever humbles himself as a little child, he is greatest. Here again, Jesus is the paradigm and the only paradigm. Perfect example of this. Only Christ was the first was the only truly humble man that's ever walked in the flesh on this earth. And therefore, he is the perfect exemplar of this attitude. Only childlike faith can save us. The song of faith must be that song that the child sings, but it must be sung with humility, with simple, almost natural naive acceptance of God's love in our life. Jesus is not speaking of humility in which we humble ourselves with respect to other people. He's not speaking of Speaking of that at all. Rather, he is speaking of that true humility that has to do with simplicity of faith. Not allowing all kinds of doubts and arguments or obstacles that would seek to undermine our faith, but in the face of those doubts and those arguments and obstacles, simply to trust. To trust his parents, because that's what a kid does. Adults look at them and laugh at them because they're so naive, so simple, they don't really yet that their parents are really sinners. They don't realize yet just how much evil is in the world. And so they are viewed to be naive and humble. Brothers and sisters, that is exactly the kind of humble submission and trust in our God and Father that Jesus is pointing at. It is the essence of humility To pray, Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven, and then to back up that prayer with this one. O Father, if it be thy will, let this cup be removed from me, but nevertheless, not my will but thine be done. Why? Because it is a naive, simple Dependence upon God that no matter what He's going to do in our life, God is going to bring good out of it. That is humility. To love God's kingdom, to love seeing it be done on earth, and to be completely given over to God. So that whatever God's will is required requires of us, we do it. That is the faith of a child, trusting in his mom and dad, even when it means a trip to the doctor's office. Only childlike faith can save us. And the song of a childlike faith Like faith must be sung as a child would sing it. Let's pray.