Last week we acknowledged that God will make some of our enemies and some of those who are unclean. He will take them and he will make them our brothers and our sisters. We therefore must exercise prudence. We must confess Christ's power to cleanse whoever He wants, and we must have a positive and optimistic future perspective. This week you have a premier example of an enemy of the church and one who is unclean and Christ's prerogative, and his name is Saul. This is an example of Christ choosing to cleanse an enemy of the church, Saul, and then you will later get to know him as Paul. Now you can see that this is how the whole account starts for us today in 9 verse 1. Then Saul. Now, this is a character you've heard of before. I'm sure you remember him from the stoning of Stephen Where they laid their clothes at him or at his feet. Luke is sure to paint a vivid picture here of this man. You can hear of his infamy in Ananias' response later on in the passage, can't you? This man is well known, and here Luke characterizes him as still breathing threats. Now, why does he say that? Luke says still, because Saul, as we just mentioned, was the cause, in a sense, for the stoning of Stephen. He is the one that brought it to that level. And what you have here is that since he is still breathing stress threats, Saul is not done. We have very vivid language here, with hot and murderous breath He is still on the move. He is pictured, therefore, as a kind of raging animal, like a dragon, if you will, because I just pick up on that because of the hot. The still breathing threats and murder. I think of that as as being hot and so dragon seems to fit. He's destroying with fire and claw. And you can imagine him having a tail like an oak tree swiping the church off the face of the earth, and there are arrests and deaths He is empowered by the high priests themselves in verse 2 to imprison every Christian. And I really hope that you pick up on that because Luke adds a detail, and you know details are important in the scriptures. This dragon will not only tear at men, it says in verse 2, but he will tear at women. As a man, I want you to imagine or As a husband or whatever, someone who is in their home with their family or friends, I want you to imagine that there's a knock on the door You know that there's something going on in the town. The knock gets louder and louder. And then all of a sudden the door is beat in and broken down. And this is happening in the middle of the night There are a set of torches that go into your foyer area, and you're looking for some kind of explanation as to why these armed men have broken in. Your children and your wife File in behind you to see what all the ruckus is because they're scared also. And you, what would you do? You would have your hands like this, wouldn't you? You would be keeping them back, pushing them into a safe spot, perhaps. If you want to, you can imagine yourself as a grandmother who has their grandchildren with them. But here with the emphasis of the passage, I want you to imagine a man. You spread your arms wide, becoming a wall between them and your wife and your children. And you would end up saying something like, Take me, but leave my wife and my children alone. It would be what you would say. I'm the one that you want. But the soldiers would look back at Saul because their own conscience is telling them that we shouldn't be dragging women down to the prison. We should just take the head of the home. But Saul would say, with a look in his eye and a nod, he would say, no, take them both. Which would leave, of course, and this is particularly difficult in this society, would leave the children at home without parents. This is the measure of his resolve. He has no interest in any mercy. He's blinded by his rage. He is an untamed animal But here's what happens. Let's say that he goes through Jerusalem, knocking down doors, dragging out men and women, taking them to prison. He's given success one door after the next to destroy what was called the way. He now full of pride And confidence is going to head on his way to Damascus, and something happens that he never expected A power that is beyond the power that had been given to himself. While he journeys, it says in verse 3 to the next town, a light shines from heaven. Saul falls to the ground, and the ascended Jesus Christ says, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? I am Jesus whom you are persecuting Now, it is quite remarkable when we think about Saul as an animal to then all of a sudden pay attention to his response after this one moment. Saul has been working night and day to destroy the way. Jesus shows up for five seconds and says a few words. And he's all of a sudden on the ground, and I want you to notice in verse 6 the first words out of his mouth after the question. What do you want me to do? I just want you to know we have submission immediately. Because Saul knows what this means. A light from the heavens is it's not a UFO. This is the Sakina glory. This is God Himself and the person of Jesus Christ, manifesting his glory as he has done in so many other times, and is not lost on Saul. And so, just as perhaps in Isaiah 6, or any of the other servants of the Lord, Lord, what would you have me to do? Within minutes this raging animal is made to sit at the master's feet. If Saul was likened to a pack animal like lions, and he will be known as a lion, Paul and Peter and James will be known as the the three lions in the church. Well, they're pack animals. What we have here in this account is the true alpha male has arrived. And they all get as low to the ground as they possibly can because they know that they are in front of the Lion of Judah. Saul has taken his humble place of humility before the king. And that is really the point of the rest of what you will see within this passage. It is the point of Paul's life. By the mercy of Jesus Christ. I want you to notice that Jesus is in total control. By the time you hit verse 15, Christ will say it explicitly. But the Lord said to him, to Ananias, Forgo he, for he is a chosen vessel of mine, to bear my name before Gentiles, kings, and children of Israel, for I will show him how many things he will suffer for my name's sake. This truly is the Alpha, where all things bend to His will and He shapes all of reality, including this raging animal called Saul. And this really brings us, there's many things to pull out of here, and we will over the next week as we see Paul and his ministry. But for today, our main confession must be that Jesus Christ, the resurrected Lord, has all authority in heaven and earth, and this is a particular demonstration of it Where you can see that he will tame whoever he wants and he will put them into his service for his glory. Jesus Christ owns Saul. And he will work for him. And I'm telling you this morning that Jesus Christ owns you. That is your confession also. He will tame you, and he will put you into service for his glory, and may it be by way of mercy and not wrath. Now, when we have a confession like this, this ends up encompassing all of life, that he will tame whoever he wants and put them into his service for his glory. But I just want to focus on two main lessons for us this morning with regard to this confession that we have of the reality of Christ in our life. And that there's a lot to learn here. I'm going to try to boil it down to two since we have time limits. And that is that we are to renew. There's going to be two R's this morning. We're going to renew, and we also are meant to rejoice at this. You can read later of Saul becoming Paul and how Christ, the one who tamed him, becomes the joy of his life. So we will focus on the two R's: renew and rejoice. Our first our renew is that we are to renew our minds in light of this truth. Particularly, we are to renew our minds from consumer Christianity. This is in the face of consumer Christianity, brothers and sisters. There is no room left in the room for a consumer mentality. Do you know what I mean by consumer mentality? In our culture, we are trained to be consumers Chase this morning mentioned that our culture catechizes you. All of their questions, it seems, try to get you to answer to become a consumer. Economically, America wants you to have a new desire every minute. They want you to get tired of everything that is old, and they want the new and improved. Then they want you to want the new and improved so that you are constantly in the mode of consuming. Hey, listen I've been using the same deodorant for 25 years, but guess what? I got something new and improved. When you turn the dial, these things squared up. It's amazing. It's gel deodorant. No, we don't like that anymore. Let's get back to whatever it is. In the eighties and we all want to die from some kind of disease. Let's spray our armpits with that kind of deodorant. Whatever it is, every year there's something new and they try to appeal to you that you're in a constant state of desire, that you are a consumer. They want you to be in a constant state of consumption, and in part, this is so that they that our culture would remain economically healthy. What has happened, though, when we move out of the realm of economics and the market mentality, what has happened is that all of life, all of life, is looked at through the model of the market. You are the consumer, and everyone else that is outside of you has got to get you to buy what they have. All of life has become a market, and you take the role of consumer, including Christ and Christianity. This is the primary mode in which the church exists, not necessarily us, though it is among us. I want you to get your head around this. I want you to imagine a large Costco. And if you are upset with Costco, then choose Sam's Club or whatever you want to do. But I want you to imagine one of those warehouse stores. But in this fantasy, when you go there, you find everything in life. There is a real estate aisle with homes And you see the newly married couple looking at the one-story rancher. There is a wife and a husband section where you can get married. There is a child section, and you get the picture. This is a big warehouse, okay? But here's the thing As if those weren't bad enough, there is also a religion section. This is honestly how we approach things. And here, just like you would in Sam's Clubs or Costco, when you go to these aisles, there's always you know my kids run to this, the samples. Yes, I know. We all know. like, wow, I did not expect that. I didn't even get that response when I said that Christ is Lord. Wow. You love samples. I'm just teasing. And so we see a little old lady handing out samples of Islam, samples of atheism. Samples of Buddhism. And because we're consumers, and those are kind of old religions, we have a new religion now called no religion, and I'm called a nun. And then when we look down all the way at the end, we see that someone is handing out samples of Christianity. And samples of Christ. And being who you are with your uh patriotic proclivities or the way you were brought up or the way things are looking or whatever it is, you decide to head on down there for those samples And you put, you decide this sample tastes good enough. Seems like it'll serve me well And you therefore pick up Christ and Christianity and you put them in your shopping cart and you head home Now, when you get home, you will put Christ and Christianity in a very important spot in your home. You will recognize it as a kind of fine china Because Americans do in fact have a kind of respect for it, yet you will still approach him as a consumer. He is still there for you. You own him. You bought him. You tried the sample first. You reasoned about it first, and you made the decision. You created the ProCon spreadsheet. And therefore, he is there for you and your desires, just like every other piece of furniture in your home, and the deodorant in the bathroom So then you decide that you want to go back to Costco, and you saw in that real estate section before you got to the religion section that they had two-story homes. And you only have a one-story home. And now the problem is you don't have enough money. But you know what you do have? You've got Christ on the shelf back at home. So you know what you could do? You could start to think, you know what, how can I get my desire? Ah, now I remember that sample. Jesus. O merciful one who saves by grace, please permit me to expand your kingdom by giving me a two-story home instead of a one-story. Oh God, three and one, please permit me to serve you with a new puppy dog. Oh crucified one, please allow me to bless our children with private school O blessed God of Martin Luther and John Calvin, God of the Reformation, please permit me to reform the heart of my husband that he might build me an addition on my home. And it's and it's funny because it's absurd, but I think it's also funny because it's just too close to home. Now I'm giving you kind of satiric and caricature of the situation, but caricatures are funny because they kind of look like the real thing. And when you look at our passage, the problem is that we don't see that at all. When we look in our passage, it is not consumer Christianity, is it? The picture is the other way around. Consider it this way. You don't own Christ. Christ owns you. If anything that the scripture says, it says, He buys you. He puts you in his house as one of his chosen vessels. Now that's a paradigm shift. And it's a paradigm shift that the whole world really needs to have, not just America any longer. Christ owns us, and you will do whatever He desires. We must renew our minds with regard to this model that we see here within the Scriptures. Let us renew our minds from consumer Christianity. Well, we have a second R, and that is rejoice. And it goes very well with the first R, renew. We're going to renew, and then we're going to step into our renewal with rejoicing. We're going to rejoice not in our own will for Him, but we are going to rejoice in His will for us. We will be thrilled and learn to be thrilled over time that we will live for his namesake. Just as it says in the passage for Paul. Now, I want you to notice as we consider the second R how Saul was chosen, and he was chosen in two ways. He was chosen by God to become a true son. That's what we've been talking about so far with us being renewed and recognizing that God chooses us. God therefore gave Saul, God the Father gave Saul to the risen Christ, and Christ took Saul from darkness to light, just like he did with the eunuch. And that is what Saul's blindness, and then his sight, and then the baptism, that's all there for that reason. That you could see that there's been a transformation from darkness to light with Saul. But you'll also notice that Christ has another calling on his mind here: that he is not only chosen to be his son, but he is chosen to be put into a specific kind of mission and service. Saul was also chosen for a specific mission to be the apostle to the Gentiles. You can see that in his account. And that is why, for example, Saul sees and hears the resurrected Christ Seeing and hearing Christ are the prerequisites to be the apostle, to the Gentiles, to kings, as you see there. You are chosen in the same way. You were chosen by God and given to be sons and daughters. Now you do not have the specific calling of apostle, but you are given callings that are a mission for your God. You have your own missions. Now Paul will bring this out later, Saul becoming Paul, will bring this out later in Ephesians 2, verse 10. He says, for we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. And the big question for us is that is there a revelation? Is there a way that we can know what we've been chosen for? We know that he owns us, but how will he put us to use for his own namesake? And this, my friends, is glorious. If you truly start to understand this, an analogy will be that He has called us to live in community with each other, all exercising our gifts in various callings. To where we kind of look like the Shire in the Hobbit. It's just one way to look at it. You are created to do good works in your family. You are created to do good works in your church. You are created to do good works in your county, in your state, in your nation. That is to say, you are to be a true patriot. And historically speaking, I hope you already hear what's going on here about this calling, why you've been chosen in each one of those callings. Historically speaking, the church has picked this up and they said Christ calls us to give us vocations. That's the word that they would use. It's from the Latin vocare, which means to call. And that's what you're called to. It structures every part of your life. Christ owns you, and you are made that you would love your God and your neighbor And that you would do so in the calling of a mother and a fat as a mother and a father, as a wife or a husband, as a son or a daughter. As a brother or a sister, as a grandmother or a grandfather, as a widow or as a single, Christ owns you and you are made to use your life and your gifts in the church in a thousand ways. And it is the same on why he has placed you in Anorano County that you would express yourself for the common good for your county and for your state and for your nation. And you will need to, by Christ's self, work out all of the particulars in each one of those stations of life that they may harmonize together. And that is what we call a life ordered to God. But here is a problem. When you go to do that, you will be the fool. Because everybody seems to be trying to escape from doing the dishes. They want more. In fact, as I was thinking about this, God in His providence brought to mind that you know we do have in our culture a show titled American Idol. And there are millions and millions and millions of people that loved, loved, or still do love that show. Why do they love it? Why is it called American Idol? It is because we are seeing somebody receive what we all want to receive. That is the picture of the future that I want. That is glory. Now, Chase mentioned the catechism before how the world catechizes us. We have stuff in our catechism about glory. And about eschatology and about the end times and the fruition that Christ will bring to this earth. This is their eschatology. This is their glory. And here is what you have to see about their glory. They are, before American Idol, they have a halfway decent voice that will be trained in the glory. But before that, you know what they do? They do the dishes. They do the laundry. They are mothers or fathers, or they work in restaurants, or they work down at the county permit and building division. Or their uncles or their aunts or brothers or sisters or whatever it is. And if the God of this world, lowercase g, shines on them, then they can get out of all of those mundane and ordinary tasks. And callings, and they can transcend to godlike status and be glorified. And we love the show because we, in some sense, want to be delivered from ordinary and mundane callings. And that is what makes this so difficult because you are up against a Christ who owns you and says, No, you don't understand I have planned your life and I control your life to where you will glorify me in what you consider an ordinary calling. Now, when they discovered this in the Reformation, for example, you know what picture became glorious for them? Martin Luther remarks on this. The woman out in the backfield milking the cow. That became a picture of God's real kingdom and where we're headed. And we need to reevaluate that. I'm not sure what you think the new heavens and the new earth will be like. But we are given every reason as we turn to Revelation that it will be like the Garden of Eden. And were we not farming? And do not farmers need shoes? Christ in the resurrection with this new resurrection body, the new heavens and the new earth, the first fruits of all those who will be raised from the dead, if you turn to John This new creature, Christ, goes to the beach and helps the disciples fish. And then he cooks them breakfast. We have to kick against the American idol culture and learn to once again rejoice in the vocations and callings. That Jesus Christ has handed to us as a simple people seeking to glorify him. And I mentioned the hobbit and the shire because I think you look at that and you say, you know what? That's very nice. I would I would like to be in a community like that. And it is kind of like that. That's why I mentioned it. But that is our second R, and it is going to take a lot of work. I'm telling you, the American Idol culture has their hooks in you We are thrilled when our young folks get mighty degrees, but I see far less praise for the hard work of the mother or the grandmother. And it's a real shame. The premise of that show is that you are elevated away from your ordinary work and your ordinary family in your ordinary church and in your ordinary country, and that you must become famous where everyone works for you We will need to repent of that vision of life. And as this R is saying, we must learn to rejoice in all of our God-given callings. Now here is the truth, brothers and sisters. Jesus Christ has all authority in heaven and earth He will tame whoever he wants, and he will put them into his service for his glory, and guess what? He is taming you. And therefore, we have two lessons. We need to renew our minds from consumer Christianity. Christ owns us. We don't own him. And we must rejoice. We must rejoice in His will. You must rejoice in His will for you in your ordinary vocations in family, in the church, and in the state. May the resurrected Lord Jesus Christ give us true contentment as we serve Him the way that He has called us to. Let us pray.