Beginning in verse 5, a fool despises his father's instruction, but he who receives correction is prudent. In the house of the righteous there is much treasure, but in the revenue of the wicked is trouble. Actually, I wanted to read to you the NIV So you can turn in your bullets in and I'll read from there. Excuse me. A fool spurns a parent's discipline, but whoever heeds correction shows prudence. The house of the righteous contains great treasure, but the income of the wicked brings ruin. The lips of the wise spread knowledge, but the hearts of fools are not upright The Lord detests the sacrifice of the wicked, but the prayer of the upright pleases him. The Lord detests the way of the wicked, but he loves those who pursue righteousness. Stern discipline awaits anyone who leaves the path. The one who hates correction will die. Death and destruction lie open before the Lord. How much more do human hearts Mockers resent correction, so they avoid the wise. Let us pray. O Christ, may we be in your school and hear your words. May we take our confession of not listening to you seriously and repent already And be attentive to your word this evening as preached. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Our doctrine in the last sermon was this people sometimes delude themselves about what course of behavior is beneficial. However, the wise are the ones who see where the path leads I want to make a few observations of our passage tonight, and then just have a brief application. The first thing I want you to notice, and I hope that you're starting to pick up on these things. We've been in Proverbs for some time now. I hope you're naturally starting to pick up on these proverbial poetic structures. That you're looking out for them. Here is one again. Verse five and twelve match together and create a single unit. And that's why, that's how someone Is going to stand up here and preach. They've got to figure out where one proverb starts and another one begins. And here you have those kind of bookmarks called an inclusio in verses 5 and 12. And it It's with the word correction. Just take a look so you can see the two words there being repeated at the beginning and at the end. But whoever heeds correction, verse five, mockers resent correction, verse twelve. There they are playing off of each other kind of anathetically. Well there's that match and you can see that most clearly in the NIV V, which is again why I've included it. We have therefore a kind of picture frame here. We have a nice frame And this frame is telling us the overarching main theme of this proverbial unit. And guess what the theme is? The theme is Christian education. It is the willingness and devotion to receive the sacred knowledge And the sacred ways pass down from the apostles and the prophets with Christ as the cornerstone. On the other hand, it is a warning, and it is a warning given to those who mock the sacred parental discipleship and avoid the wise. good summary or decent summary of five and twelve and it is a good characteration characterization to get back to what is Christian education uh most fundamentally. That's the first thing I want you to notice is that we have a frame that's built here in five and twelve. It shows us the main theme Christian education, and it has a main warning that those who reject it are heading down the wrong path. Now here's the second observation. Inside of that frame is a story There is a story about two children. Verse six shows the one child choosing the way of righteousness. Their house is full of treasures. What kind of treasure? Literal treasure is not out of the question, because we know that prudence and industry can result in great produce. But if you look at verse seven, look at the treasure that is being spread across the community. It is wisdom from their mouths. The lips of the wise spread knowledge, and they build everyone up. Those are the rubies and the diamonds that are being spread throughout. The other child, as a part of this story, is wicked. They have not received the holy traditions. They accept unrighteousness. They and so what they gather up destroys and ruins. It says right there in verse 7, but the heart of fools are not upright. And it mentions also the income of the wicked brings ruin. You can see the difference in this story between these two children and the past that they're choosing. That brings us to our third observation. The two children are now examined in terms of their theological lives. Combining verses eight and nine, the Lord detests the sacrifices of the wicked one, but loves those who pray in righteousness. It's still a story of the two children and then the way that they're going. How is it that we could say that the Lord detests the sacrifices of the wicked? The contrast is between those who offer sacrifices as a kind of manipulative magic, having no real love for God. Versus those who love God and want to see His will done on earth as it is in heaven. That was always the problem throughout the whole canon God obviously commanded sacrifices at a particular time. He still commands our lives to be living sacrifices. That was never really the problem. The problem is that they would offer it with no heart behind it, seeking to manipulate And there are so many scriptures to back that up. I don't think I'll I'll need to do that right here But you can see that this prayer is of those who love and want to see God's will done on earth as it is in heaven. And that brings us to our fourth observation after we've taken a look there at verses 8 and 9. It takes us to verses 10 and 11. Those who leave the authorized path of sacred knowledge and sacred living will experience pain from the hand of God and eventually will be brought to the ultimate judgment of death. Verse 11 assumes a question. What makes you think the world really works that way? Isn't that a great question? Great question. What makes you think the world really works this way? That people are actually going to get what they deserve? It appears that the evil they do, the evil they do, will there will be no accountability. It does appear that way, but here we see from the words of Scripture that God is the creator who has vowed to maintain his world in justice He sees verse eleven all things and will hold everyone accountable. The wicked will reap what they sow. Take a look there at verse eleven. This is another way of talking about God's omniscience. Death, this is going to be Sheol, and then destruction, Abaddon. They lie open before the Lord. This is known, especially Abaddon, was known of a place in the far reaches of the earth that is covered in darkness. And the point is that though it be that dark, God knows everything that takes place there. How much more will He know what takes place in human hearts and upon the face of the earth. Of course in this context, the implication is he knows these things and he will do something about them. He will he will make he takes people seriously and the path that they choose, he will see it to the End. And that brings us back then, of course, to verse 12, which matches up with verse 5. We've already mentioned that mockers resent correction, and so they avoid the wise. We can state our doctrine tonight just in terms of a question. It's a question that every youth must answer, and even going through your adult life you must answer answer it in some ways every day, but perhaps in a different sense. And here it is. Will you be educated by God or not? Will you be educated by God or not? That's the story of the two children in the frame. One said, No, I will not, and the other one Now what I'd like to do is I just want to um I don't want to to um interrupt our prayer time. So I just wanted to give you a couple examples of this same seriousness that we see throughout the whole canon Of taking God's word seriously, being attentive to what he says, and heeding what he says. It's another way for me to show you and encourage you, please be the child in the story that is righteous by the grace of the Holy Spirit. Please be the one who is willing to enter into Christian education. And I ask that you would especially be attentive if you're in middle school or high school, because this book of Proverbs is especially written to you. Because you're at a kind of crossroads trying to make up your mind on which child you're going to be that's framed in the story. So the first thing I wanted to bring up is just some confirmation from Jesus Himself. We saw one confirmation from Jesus in the bulletin earlier, where he said, you need to listen to my words. Well, here are a couple other examples of where we can see the same kind of thing. And you may want to write down these references just to confer with each other and to perhaps meditate a bit further. Matthew 17, verse 5 While he was still speaking, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them. This is in the Transfiguration. And suddenly a voice came out of the cloud saying, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Hear him I don't know of a more direct way to tell you that you are supposed to hear him in Christian education. There's another one in Luke 9, 26 that you could meditate upon. And it says this, this is from the lips of Christ himself. For whoever is ashamed of me in my words Of him the Son of Man will be ashamed when he comes in his own glory, and in his fathers, and of the holy angels. It is my prayer that that day would be a day of joy for you But if you do not listen to his words and you are ashamed of what he says, it will not be a day of joy. There is also a parable, and I like the idea of thinking of the parable of the soils in light of this proverb, and I'd encourage you as families or as friends Our brothers and sisters, to compare what's being said here in Proverbs 15, 5 through 12 and the parable of the soils Listen to it again with in light of this. Then he spoke spoke many things to them in parables, saying, Behold, a sower went out to sow. We know that Jesus clarifies this later saying that it is the word that is spread. That's the same emphasis And the Christian education of these two children, framed in our proverb, goes out to sow, and as he sowed, some seed fell by the wayside. And the birds came and devoured them. Some fell on stony places where they did not have much earth, and they immediately sprang up because they had no depth of earth earth But when the sun was up, they were scorched, and because they had no root, they withered away. And some fell among thorns, and the thorns sprang up and choked them But others fell on good ground and yielded a crop, some a hundredfold, some sixty, and some thirty. Now how would you put that parable In terms of Proverbs 15, that we've heard. Well, one of the observations you would have to make is, boy, is it difficult to hold on to the parental teaching and the word all the way through life to where you could actually be fruitful? This is not child's play. You're going to have to be diligent and heed the word. Well, isn't that what it says in verse 5 But whoever heeds correction shows prudence. Isn't it interesting that it shifts from uh heeding correction? It says a fool spurns of parents discipline But whoever heeds correction, that means that even if it is difficult to get the wisdom, the rubies and the diamonds of Christian education, that you'd be willing To do it, just so that in the end you would be the kind of soil where everything has actually taken root and is starting to bud and produce. What a beautiful picture and what a great opportunity for us to compare Proverbs fifteen with the parable of the soils. Let me ask you children, whether you're in middle school or high school, do you acknowledge the truth? Dangers of the word being taken away from you? How hard are you working to make sure that the word is deeply rooted within you and it's not taken away by the birds or scorched by the sun? or whatever other enemies are out there, including your own heart. The last thing I'll mention is I just want to give you some beautiful examples. I'm trying more and more to end on a positive vision and note I want to show you a just a couple snapshots. I'm not going to say much about them, I don't think. I want a couple snapshots of students in the School of Christ. Students who received a Christian education. The first one I give you is from Luke 19, 5 through 10. And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and saw him and said to him, Zacchaeus, make haste and come down, for today I must stay at your house. So he made haste and came down and received him joyfully. But when they saw it, they all complained, saying, He has gone to be a guest with a man who is a sinner. Then Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, Look, Lord, I give half of my goods to the poor, and if I have taken anything from anyone by false accusation I restore fourfold. Now before I give you the last sentence, what is, why is Zacchaeus in that tree? Why did he have to make haste to come down? Why was he up there? What's that? Right, but but it's more than that he was short. He needed to see Christ and to Christ. hear his teaching. That's how seriously he took his word. See the effort? Well, here's Jesus' evaluation Of a man like that, a student in his school who acts like that. Listen to this. And Jesus said to him, Today's salvation has come to this house, because he is also a son of Abraham. Isn't that beautiful? There's a nice little snapshot for you. You could think perhaps of a a yearbook. And uh and in the yearbook there's a little section that says students In the school of Christ, and the first one that we see is Zacchaeus. Well, here's the second one. At Joppa there was a certain disciple named Tabitha. This woman was full of good works and charitable deeds which she did. This is Acts 9. 36. If you skip down a little bit, it says, Then Peter arose and went with them. When he had come, they had brought him to the upper room, and all the widows stood by him weeping. Well, why were they crying? We've talked about this before. They were crying because of the kind of contribution and person she was in the community. And they began showing the tunics and the garments which Tabitha had made while she was still with them. Those tunics and those garments were signs showing that she listened to God. So there she is. Another example commended in the New Testament. And I've made the argument she's raised again to be able to contribute to the community for longer as a group Grace of Jesus Christ. There she is commended as a woman who had a true Christian education. And then the final one I'll give you is this. This is Acts 16:13. fifteen. And on the Sabbath day, when we out went out of a city to the riverside, where prayer was customarily made, and we sat down and spoke to the women who met there. Now a certain woman named Lydia heard us. She was a seller of purple from the city of Thyatira or Thyatira who worshipped God. The Lord opened her heart to heed the things spoken to her. There she is connected with verse 5 of our proverb. And when she and her household were baptized, she begged us, saying, If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord. Come to my house and stay. And so she persuaded us. Another beautiful picture of a student in the school of Christ. I encourage you to take the confirmations from Jesus, the parables from Jesus, the students in him. his school and that you would choose by the grace of Christ to be the righteous child in that story. The main question that lies before all of us in one way or another is: will you be educated by God or not? Amen. Let us pray together.