This is the gospel according to John. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him nothing was made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. And the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. This man came for a witness to bear witness of the light, that all through him might believe. He was not that light, but was sent to bear witness of that light That was the true light, which gives light to every man coming into the world. He was in the world, and the world was made through him. And the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own did not receive him. But as many as received him, to them he gave the right to become children of God. To those who believe in his name, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory The glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. John bore witness of him and cried out, saying, This was he of whom I said, He who comes after me is preferred before me, for he was before me. And of his fullness we have all received, and grace for grace. For the law was given through Moses, but grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has seen God at any time. The only begotten Son who is in the bosom of the Father, he has declared him. Let us pray. O Christ, we ask that you would glorify yourself through the preaching of the Word, that you would glorify the Father through the preaching of the Word, that your Spirit Would be present among us, illuminating our minds and renewing our hearts. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Now I already had the opportunity to speak with the children and without ignoring them Uh in fact, I hope they listen to this whole thing. I do want it some time to be able to speak to those who are not children. And uh I wonder if that comes as a bit of a surprise to you that I'm talking to you, that you're not exactly young anymore. Do you find, as you've gotten older, that Christmas feels different? You could be 14 years old, I'm asking you. You could be twelve, I'm asking you. You could be ninety, and I'm asking you. Does Christmas feel different? I I mean when when we were younger I'm sure that you can remember being overcome by excitement on Christmas morning, giving answers like you heard these children give that we're going to be up at 4 a. m. Because they were so excited, raising their hand that they won't sleep tonight. I'm sure you remember the soft glow of the lights. Or the smell of pine and spices in the air. And on Christmas Day, I wonder if you were had similar experiences to me. Where you would be playing with your presence all day long. For me it was a new football or a Baltimore Colts outfit. Maybe for you it was a doll or a doll a dollhouse or a Lego set that was supposed to take you a month to put together, but you put it together in 30 minutes. Or some video game. And I think the the the question I'm asking is related to all those things. And I'm just saying it's not exactly like that anymore, is it? In fact, if we were to jump right into the middle of how it will not be like our childhood. Some of you this year will be filled, even on Christmas morning, with a deep sense of loss because you have lost your husband. Or you have lost your wife, or you lost your brother, or your sister, or some other family member, or you lost friend or friends. And this will be the first Christmas without them. Or maybe the fifth. Others of you won't exactly have those experiences, but you have relational issues. Or the family just isn't like it used to be. You're not naive and oblivious to social realities as you are as a child. And uh maybe some of you have your relationships doing quite well, but you're not exactly sure how the bills are going to be met. Christmas, for all of these reasons and more, when we grow up, is just not the same as when we were children. But I wonder if, on the other hand, it's not supposed to be. I wonder if actually Christmas changing the quality and the color of it, the tenor of it. I wonder if that's the way that things are supposed to end up and that it's actually not that bad. I mean, isn't one goal of human life for us to grow up? For us to be able to see things from a different perspective, even if it's just from eyes that are six feet in the air instead of two feet in the air. And what if when we get older and we start to experience Christmas in light of some of the examples I just gave, like death and suffering, what if we discover That actually Christmas becomes more meaningful in the face of such realities. We've learned before here in this same room. That oftentimes birth and death are the vantage point to understand our lives the most clearly. What if that is true also on Christmas? Actually, it is the case with Christmas. And it's just this line of thought that is in our scripture reading from John. And I want to show you that there is this, these uh things that seem like their intention. There's this traditional Christmas theme of the incarnation. But it's also placed next to death and suffering here within this passage. First, I want to just make sure you know that John is a disciple of Jesus Christ. This is the gospel according to John. You can read of him in each of the gospels. What his relationship was like with Christ. He was called the beloved disciple. And he is writing these first 18 verses in a way that is very different than the rest of his gospel. This is called a prologue, and it's just set aside in so many ways. The language that he uses here in verses 1 through 18, some of the language he'll never repeat again in the rest of these chapters. It's very special. What he's doing in this prologue is he's setting the stage, he's framing the picture, he's giving you the lens that you would be able to understand who this Jesus really is. The other thing I want you to be able to see here is that in order for you to be able to see who this Jesus really is. John is going to use two Old Testament stories to make sure you really get his point. I wonder if you picked up on the stories that are present in the passage. The first comes from the creation account in Genesis. Did anybody catch that? If you ever get the chance to read Genesis someday, then you'll discover that that book begins by saying, in the beginning, And those are the same words which John uses to begin this prologue. In the beginning. And if you were to study this, you'd see that John is seeking to communicate something here about Jesus, that Jesus is somehow Related to the creation of heaven and earth. And then if you were to keep asking that question, well, what does John think his relationship is to the creation of heaven and earth? Just within this prologue, you would discover that John will go on to say that Jesus is somehow not only a human, but is also the same God who created all things. That's the first Old Testament uh reference or story, but then there's also another story that I wonder if you caught. Anybody catch another story that is present here? There's actually multiple more than what I'm going to mention to you. But the second Old Testament story that John is using to identify who Jesus is is from Exodus. If you get a chance to read Exodus, I encourage you to focus on chapter 30 and following, and read about Moses' interaction with God and God revealing his glory to him. You'll find that Moses asks God to see his glory. God is not able to show him or reveal this kind of intimacy that he's asking for. But God famously does reveal himself, hiding Moses in the cleft of a rock. He reveals his character and he says, The Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abounding in goodness and truth. And then he goes on. That's what he reveals to Moses about himself. That he is merciful, that he's gracious. That he's long-suffering, that he is full of goodness and full of truth And that is the story that lies behind verses 16 through 18 of this reading in John. John says that Jesus is the grace, is grace and truth. By Moses came the law, but Jesus brings grace and truth This is a Greek equivalent, race and truth, of this saying that we see here within Exodus. But there's a step forward. It's not just that he's speaking words again, like Moses heard. That Jesus is revealing who God is, but he is doing so in the flesh, which has never been done before. And you have to be careful here. John is not just saying, yeah, Jesus does nice things for people. He's a nice guy, just like God is a nice God. He is saying that Jesus is that same God who hid Moses in the cleft of the rock and revealed himself to Moses. That though he revealed himself in one way in Exodus, in various ways, showing his glory, the glory of the temple, the glory of the cloud. These different theophanies here, God is revealing himself by taking upon himself human nature, taking on flesh And that Jesus is the Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abounding in goodness and truth. But not just in word, in the flesh. The last thing I want you to be able to notice here in this passage is that though Jesus is God, the world will reject him. This is found in verses 9 and 10, if you ever want to get a chance to look at that at a later time. And so you can see these two themes now, the traditional themes of the incarnation, which is what Christmas is all about, but then also rejection. He says in 9 and 10 of our passage that was that though that he was the true light and gave light to every man in the world, and that though the world was made through him, the world did not know him. And though he came to his own, his own did not receive him. And if you were to follow the story of just what that looks like, what does it look like to not receive Jesus? You will find that the rejection at its mountaintop apex was filled with ridicule. Whipping him and eventual crucifixion on a Roman torture device for capital punishment, a cross. And so there you have it. You have the incarnation of God taking upon himself human nature Which is the basis for Christmas, but then right alongside it, you have his rejection, his suffering, and his death right here within this Christmas passage. And in fact, the disciple John would tell us that if we really want to get to the heart of Christmas, just as we explored early on in this meditation, if we really want to get to the heart of Christmas, Then we must understand and experience Christmas in light not of death and suffering in general. But specifically in light of the death of Jesus Christ, who is God in the flesh. Let me say that to you again. That if you really want to get to the heart of Christmas, that you must understand and experience Christmas in light not just of our death and suffering in general. But specifically in light of the death of Jesus Christ, who is God in the flesh. Now let's develop this a little bit. I assume that like me, you also would like to get to the heart of Christmas. So let's do so together. Now, we've already seen, or you've heard in this passage, that the incarnation and rejection they go together within the prologue. But John makes further connections throughout the rest of his gospel, specifically by way of the word glory. Now you've already heard in verse 14 that John said this: And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. The glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. And this is one of those verses that Exodus 33 sits underneath of it. Here we have this repetition of the word glory. Now if you went ahead and you went through all of the Gospel of John, maybe you use a computer or whatever it is, and you counted the word glory, you would find that John uses the word glory 42 times. And then if you were to start to figure out, well, where does he use the word glory, and you were to map it out significantly, you would find that John uses 24 of those 42 times In chapters 12 through 17, where Jesus is preoccupied with relaying to the disciples the meaning of his death. You'll remember that in 17 is this high priestly prayer, where he's explaining the meaning of all of these things. Jesus says things like, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son. That your son also may glorify you. There it is, showing up right in chapter 17, verse 1, as our word study would tell us in our word count. Now let me read that to you again. Father, the hour has come. Glorify your son, that your son may also glorify you. What hour? To what does he refer there? To the hour of his death. John will refer to it as the hour of his exaltation and being lifted up. Which is also connected with glory. This refers his hour to the time of Christ's death by crucifixion. And so if you're following me, we've walked down a path looking at what John is doing here, and we have arrived at a point where there's a serious question in front of all of you. How is it that Christ's death is a manifestation of his glory? How is it that Christ's death is a manifestation of the same glory he displayed as the creator of the cosmos, as we saw in the prologue And how is it especially the same glory that he revealed to Moses in Exodus 33? Long-suffering, gracious, full of goodness and truth. How? Does it reveal that glory? And here is the answer The death of Jesus Christ Is the ultimate example of the glorious reality that our God is the good creator bringing life And he is the one who revealed to Moses, saying, The Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abounding in goodness and truth. Keeping mercy for thousands, and forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. Do you follow the logic here of what John is doing? John is saying to us, What could be a greater example of what was revealed to Moses when God hid him in the rock? of God's character, than God Himself dying for His people that they might have life What could be a greater example of mercy than the cross? What could be a greater example of grace than the cross? What could be a greater example in the revelation of all truth and leading people into all truth than the cross? And of course his goodness. What could be greater than him dying, so that you may live? That's John's logic here. That the crucifixion reveals the glory of Christ because the crucifixion reveals the glory of the way God has always revealed Himself, whether it be to Abraham. Or to Moses. But here it is done in an especial way, as God reveals the same thing in his flesh. There's a funny little story that goes around my house. I happen to be you know, it's like a joking thing and I'm it's at my expense. And and um when you hear the story, you'll be like, yeah, you you still kind of have that personality. My father tells me that when I was young I would look throughout the house trying to discover my Christmas gifts every year. He would say, Jesse, you're gonna ruin Christmas? You can't keep looking for your gifts. This is supposed to be a surprise. And I just would not listen to him. I could not stand not having the gifts immediately I could not help myself. It actually got so bad in my house that my parents put a a um a key lock on their closet in their bedroom just so they could keep me from getting to the presence. Now here's the question that my we never really raise in front of my dad. Did the lock actually keep me out? We won't bring that up Of course, my father was right. But I want you, in a kind of laughable way, just to consider it for the sake of a metaphor here from my perspective. Because I wonder if in some ways you stand in my shoes before that locked door. You know there's gifts over there. I wonder if that ends up being a picture of how you have experienced Christmas in some measure up to this point. You know that Christmas holds the gift of some deep meaning. I mean, what could explain how many people are celebrating Christmas? During this season, across the world, you know that Christmas holds the gift of some deep meaning. But perhaps you feel a bit locked out from it. I'm wondering if tonight John has opened the door for you on this Christmas Eve. Perhaps you can now see that Christmas is really the deeper meaning of it when we reflect on it in the midst of the suffering of the Christ and his death. Getting to the heart of Christmas is about God who took on flesh to reveal himself to us as the one who gives us life through his death. It's not just about supernatural phenomenon. You don't notice them getting tied up in those kind of conversations in the scriptures. But they are tied up in making sure that you as a human being know who God is. Jesus is dead set on revealing that to you. And I think that is what is most desperately needed, for the human race to actually know who God is. At best, to most people, God remains a mystery. They would acknowledge that there has to be some uncaused cause that got the ball rolling. At best, even if they do believe in something like that, God is irrelevant. Doesn't make any difference. At worst, some of you perhaps even sitting in this room view God as cruel. Someone that you really do not want to move toward. You're trying to figure out a way to escape the social constructs of Western culture as you work out your atheism. But the problem that we have with this, of course, is that neither of those hypotheses, him being a mystery or irrelevant or him being cruel, None of these hypotheses account for what God did in taking on human nature. The very argument of John before you tonight is that If you want to see the meaning of the incarnation, then look to the cross. And when you look to the cross, you will find there a God who is not cruel. A God who is relevant to the deepest parts of your life. A God who is not a mystery. But who was taking steps to make himself known to you. I encourage you that on this Christmas You would at least think about returning to the true meaning of the holiday. I would encourage you to have the good memories of childhood, but to not pine for those days. I would encourage you to accept the deepened significance of this time as an adult. It's a good thing to grow up. It's a good thing to mature and become ripe. You can begin with the fact that it is quite possible that over this year at the very least, but maybe longer than that, maybe things have been going on for a while now. You begin with the fact that you and John severely disagree on who God is. And that you, when you stand up against the disciple, the beloved disciple, are going to be the one who is wrong. Begin with the fact that there is a super high probability that you have mischaracterized who God is. And that now knowing his character and seeing him work in the flesh as Jesus Christ, that he is good. And you will want to step towards him. Even to the point where you will want to celebrate him on this holiday. Now, isn't that the heart of Christmas? Isn't that what all the stories are trying to get into us? For us to see for just a split second, even Get us away from our human schemes and blindness. Though we rejected God. Jesus reveals who God really is. And when you see who He really is, you simply can no longer reject Him. Instead, we realize that God, even in our rejection of Him, and even if you reject Him tonight, as long as it is called today, We will find that He is there and that He is patient, that He is merciful, that He is long-suffering, that He is full of grace, and that He is full of truth. And that he is ready to forgive sin and transgression. We realize, as hopefully the children did with their stars and the story of the moon. That this Jesus is our light. And He's doing more than revealing to us how we're supposed to live in families or marriages or our various vocations. He's revealing to us and shedding light upon the most important thing to the human race. And that is a knowledge of God and his goodness. Amen. And Merry Christmas to you all. Merry Christmas to you. Merry Christmas. Let us pray.