Our scripture text from this evening is from John chapter 21. It is the final sermon in a series from selections from John. If you have not been present for those in the morning, you're welcome to look on our website for each of them. You can catch back up to this one. And hopefully I'll give you enough context to follow up. Along anyway, if you have not been attending. This is John chapter 21, and I will begin in verse 7. Actually, I'll begin and I'll start right at 21:1. After these things, Jesus showed himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberias, and in this way he showed himself. Simon Peter Thomas called Simon Peter Thomas called the twin, Nathaniel of Cana in Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two others of his disciples were together. Simon Peter said to them, I'm going fishing. They said to him, We are going with you also. They went out and immediately got into the boat, and that night they caught nothing. But when the morning had now come, Jesus stood on the shore Yet the disciples did not know that it was Jesus. Then Jesus said to them, Children, have you any food? They answered him, No. And he said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some So they cast, and now they were not able to draw it in because of the multitude of the fish. Therefore, that disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, It is the Lord. Now, when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment, for he had removed it, and he plunged into the sea. But the other disciples came in the little boat for they were not far from land, but about two hundred cubits, dragging the net with fish. Then as soon as they had come to land they saw a fire of coals there, and first laid on it, and fish laid on it, and bread Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish which you have just caught. Simon Peter went up and dragged the net to land, full of large fish, one hundred and fifty-three. And although there were so many, the net was not broken. Jesus said to them, Come and eat breakfast. Yet none of the disciples dared ask him, Who are you? knowing that it was the Lord. Jesus then came and took the bread and he gave it to them, and likewise the fish. This is now the third time Jesus showed himself to his disciples after he was raised from the dead. So when they had eaten breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me more than these? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Feed my lambs. He said to him again a second time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Tend my sheep. He said to him the third time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? Jesus said to him, and he said to him, Lord, you know all things. You know that I love you. Jesus said to him, feed my sheep. Most assuredly, I say to you, when you were younger, you girded yourself and walked where you wished. But when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will gird you and carry you. where you do not wish. This he spoke, signifying by what death he would glorify God. And when he had spoken this, he said to him, Follow me. Amen. Please pray Lord Jesus Christ, you know the fish and you know the sheep. And I just ask that you would gather one and perfect and comfort the next. And I pray that we would do likewise. And I ask these things in your name. Amen. Recently I heard a story about a pastor in Uganda. The pastor, uh this isn't anything very spiritual. The pastor had bad teeth. They were gapped, and the problem was that when he spoke, he's always been a little embarrassed throughout his life because he would make a whistling sound. Whenever he spoke, I can't do it. But there would be a whistling sound, and so he went to the dentist to have the teeth fixed. The dentist did his job and he excused the pastor to take a look in the mirror while the dentist went over and he washed his tools and he washed his hands. And then the dentist heard the most startling thing from that corner of the room where the where the pastor was. He heard this, Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ. Alarmed at the seeming irreligious speech of this pastor, the dentist's heart quickened. And all he could think to say to the pastor is, Are you are you okay? Are you okay? And the pastor replies, oh yes. It is just so sweet to say that precious name. without an embarrassing whistle. And I find this story refreshing that was told to me. In a world where people either could care less about the name of Jesus or only use his name in vain, someone finally considered the name of Jesus a precious treasure, one that he wanted to The story is more than refreshing though. It is a good summary of the Advent series that We have been hearing week in and week out here at Severn Run. Whether it's the prologue to the Gospel of John, I just read to you chapter one of the Gospel, but we were looking at the prologue earlier In the Advent season, whether it's the prologue or whether it's Nicodemus or whether it's the Samaritan woman, or Jesus holding a question and answer dialectical conversation in a synagogue in Capernaum There were always two types of people present in the crowd. There were those for whom Jesus' name was not a treasure. Sometimes it was a great offense, other times just a confusion, and nothing really to be hassled over. His name wasn't important. But there were those where Jesus' name was of in Inestimable worth, incomparable worth. That's a summary of all of those stories. It's a summary of the whole gospel. It's about God the Father showing people how precious Jesus is. That's really what that series was about. And I hope through the series that you maybe even for the first time were like the pastor and you thought of Jesus' name as precious and maybe you said it for the first time in a precious way. That was my prayer during the whole series. It was my prayer prayer and it's my it's still my prayer tonight that you would see Jesus precious and that he would perhaps be spoken of as precious by you for the first time. For this Christmas Eve service, I want to fast forward through the Gospel of John. We only made it to chapter 6 in the series, and we're here at the end in chapter 21. Of the same gospel. Chapter 21 is a bit of an anomaly. And this is why. Everyone expects John's Gospel to end in chapter 20. Now listen to the end of chapter 20. You can't see anything right now because the lights are out, but listen to this end of chapter 20. And truly, Jesus did many other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book, but these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. And that believing you may have life in his name. The perfect conclusion and summary of the gospel. Everyone expects it to end right there. It sounds a perfect conclusion. It perfectly states what the Apostle John accomplished. He set forth over and over and over again, showing what these little children said right down here. I couldn't get them to say Legos. They kept wanting to say that Jesus is the Christ, He is the Son of God. Praise God for that. Praise God that it came from their lips and that they could have life in His name. When they believe or if they believe. And you can have life in his name if you believe. Perfect summary. Through God's grace, many have believed in Jesus the Christ, the Son of God. Chapters 1 through 20 have been effec have been very effective in John's gospel. But there is a chapter 21. And it's a bit of an anomaly for people. But this is where chapter 21 arrives. It arrives after you have believed. Chapter 21 answers the question: what do I do with my time? How could I serve the Lord after I have believed in him? Once I have said, You are my Lord, how might I serve my Lord? One of the children actually said that too. Now there's two answers, and I'm not going to look in detail at every single word within this total passage, but I do want you to see two things that he says in chapter 21. That as believers in Jesus Christ, whether recently, even maybe happening tonight, Father drawing you, or for a long time, there's two things. You are to be fishers of men, and you are to be shepherds Fishers of men and shepherds. The first is that you are to fish. Good news. You get to fish. This is great for you. You become fishers of men in verses one through fourteen. This is the account. By the time Easter has happened, Jesus, this has already happened after Easter. Jesus has raised from the dead. He has already shown himself twice. This is the third time that he is showing himself to his disciples. Jesus was raised from the dead and he has manifested himself multiple times. In this scene, we find ourselves on the Sea of Tiberius in verse 1. This is another name for the Sea of Galilee That's very important to remember. In verse 3, like a good man, Peter decides to go fishing. I love that part. I love when Peter just says, I think I'll go fishing. Thomas, Nathaniel, and two other disciples decide to follow. And apparently, verse 3, they were out all night fishing and they caught nothing. And now you know some people will look at this and they'll say, This whole Bible thing is folklore and legend. And I say, as a fisherman, this is the one uh this is one proof as to why it's not Because fishermen would have never told the story when they never caught fish. This is definitely not a legend. This had to be written down as historical truth. It is historical truth. And when morning came, Jesus stood on the shore and he yelled to them, Do you have any food? And they said, No. And so Jesus said, they don't know it's Jesus at this time. That's also very important in the story. But he says to them, throw your nets on the right side of the boat. They'd been fishing all night, but one last cast was made. And they caught so many fish that they were unable, verse 6, to draw it in. Another key word, if you were part of the series, drawling. It in or dragging it in. Now, as soon as this happens, the disciple whom Jesus loved, John and Peter, realized that this was no ordinary fishing trip and that no man on the sh that this shore the man on the shore was no ordinary person. And he says, it is the Lord. And Peter, a another indication That this is a historical fact, talks about Peter putting on his outer garment and jumping in, a needless fact if you're writing a legend or a folklore. Puts on the outer garment, he jumps in to get to his Lord And that is the moment that is the key to the story and understanding what's going on here, that this is not just about fishing. There's way more going on. Let me ask you, you've heard the story, I read it to you, and I just repeated it for you in a kind of a paraphrase. Why did the large catch of fish make Peter realize that it was the risen Jesus on the shore? Why was it the large catch of fish that signified to him that it was the Lord? How did he know through that that it was the Lord Jesus Christ? Undoubtedly, Peter was thinking of when Jesus first called them on the Sea of Galilee, when all of the same people were out fishing. And as Jesus walked by, this is from Mark 1, 16 through 17, and as Jesus walked by the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew, his brother, casting a net into the sea. For they were fishermen. Then Jesus said to them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. Do you see what's happening here? It is historically true and accurate. It took place on this earth at the Sea of Galilee. But just as Jesus orchestrated symbolic moments of realization in the past, so too was he doing in this moment. Think about it The woman at the well, he orchestrated the whole thing to be a living parable about water from a well turning into living water that would last and spring up to eternal life. And with Nicodemus, the wind blowing, and then he begins to speak about the spirit. Or in the synagogue in Capernaum about bread, and then he takes it as a huge opportunity to talk about himself as the bread from heaven, God become man. And Jesus once again orchestrates a historically accurate, living parable for his disciples to know their purpose and to understand why chapter 21 is written in the Gospel of John. What should you do after you believe in Jesus as the Christ, the Son of God? You must become a fisher of men. It's exactly what we were talking about with the children. What's the best gift you could give? Tell somebody about Jesus that God has become man to save us. It is the best gift. It is the greatest thing you could do on Christmas to become a fisher of men. Now, people have all kinds of ideas. When I say Fisher of Men, you have all kinds of weird ideas about evangelism. I'm just talking about having a friendly and honest conversation with someone and telling them the most important thing that you know, that God has become man. The most common response that I hear to this Is that I'm not good at that. I can't become a fisher of man. I'm not a fisherman. I'm not smart enough. I'm not witty enough. I never took an apologetics course. But I want you to I'm going to remind you of verse 3 in this passage. The good news is that no one is good, even those who think that they are good by occupation And that point is brought out in verse 3 of chapter 21. They said to him, We are going with you also. They went out and immediately got into the boat, and that night they caught nothing. This is an extended parable of historical truth where they on their own can catch nothing. They were born and bred fishermen. They cast the net all night long and they came home empty-handed. Jesus said, Do you have any food? They said, No, not a lick. But with the Lord Jesus Christ, after he gives the word, cast your net to the right side. The net becomes so full that they can't drag it in. Now the net is used all the time for evangelism And that's the point. You throw the net, God does the gathering. Everyone here could do it. You know something of Jesus. With whom will you share that one thing? That's the name that belongs on the gift tag of that present. And I don't have enough of these ornaments to keep handing them to you if you're a major advantage. And you keep talking to person after person. So write it in whiteboard markers so you can erase that name and then put another name up. But you get the point. If you don't, this is the point. It's time to start If you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, it's time to start fishing, perhaps even just with your own children After you believe, you not only fish, but you shepherd. And this is what we see in 15 through 18, and I won't take long on this. This is short, but it is exceptionally important. This is a famous passage. Peter is recommissioned. Peter is recommissioned through the parable and the fishing scene. Scene. That was a little more difficult to get to, but we got there. He was recommissioned there. But Peter is directly, without a doubt, recommissioned in this shepherd scene Jesus asks Peter three times if he loves him, and I imagine that he asks three times to mirror Peter's threefold denial. That's very important to remember that Peter is a denier. He believed and then denied. By the end, Peter is embarrassed and repentant, I imagine, and so he confesses his love for his Lord. He's grieved. He says, Lord, you know everything. You know that I love you. I want you to notice three things from this threefold questioning with Peter and Jesus, this recommendation. Missioning as you think about yourself and what you're to do as a disciple of Jesus Christ and Christmas. Number one. First, Peter and Jesus' disciples not only go fishing in the world, but they give tender care to people that are fellow members of their church The apostles had a special place as shepherds, that's very true. None of you here are apostles. The elders of the church today have a special place as shepherds, but we are all called to care for one another. As brothers and sisters in Christ, we are all called in chapter 21, after chapter 20, to be fishers of men and shepherds to each other. And the elders, given that title, are to be examples to the flock. Here's number two. Jesus re-dash commissioned. He's not commissioning for the first time. He re-dash commissioned And that means that someone was commissioned but failed, and then Jesus had to recommission them into his service after the failure. And that's very important for you to hear tonight on Christmas Eve. 17 to 19 year olds, 20% of them, will deny Christ and leave the church, according to statistics. But they will return for Christmas Eve services like this one. 20 to 25 years old, or considered young adults, 70% of them will deny Christ and leave the church and then return for Christmas and Easter. to services like this one. If you are in those percentiles, this is what this passage says to you. If you, like Peter, deny Christ, Christ can take people like you and recommission you and make you a blessing to his church, following your repentance and your Faith in him. Now that is a great comfort to know that Jesus Christ is the kind of leader that doesn't just take smart people and make them useful. He takes failures And he makes them exceptionally useful. Think of all that Peter has done. All of the fish gathered in Acts chapter 2. All that he decided to do through him. And third, to shepherd, you must give up your life. To re-enter into Christ's service, you must give up that life Perhaps what you left for to begin with. To continue to serve Christ, to be a true shepherd, you must give up your life. Notice verses 18 through 19. Jesus shares with Peter that shepherding will mean cross-like sacrifice. That is the Christian life. You're called to bear the cross In fact, some say that Peter was crucified upside down. And that's really the Christmas story. Sometimes we can think of it as fluffy and clean. The Christmas story is about God becoming man and entering into the most abysmal of situations, to the point of death itself and that embarrassing death on a cross. To be raised again, of course, and to be at the right hand of God, of course, but that's the Christmas story. It is a story of God becoming man not to be served, not to receive gifts, but to give them. And that becomes your story. You pick up the narrative of the Christ in some way. Whatever the death, the life was one of carrying a cross for others. And this, too, is your calling. A good shepherd gives up his life for the sheep That's the point of these two stories that we receive in chapter 21. It's really the point of Christmas. It's not a it it it can be okay to sit around and have fuzzy feelings and to have warmth in your heart. But do you know why you would have any warmth in your heart? It's because someone was willing to die To serve you, that you would be saved from the evil within yourself and the evil all around you. And it is time for us, those who believe To start to give up our lives. It is the greatest gift that we could give for Christmas. The gift one of sharing. To those who don't know, that is to say, to be fishermen, to cast our nets, and number two, to give up our lives for Christ's sheep. God was born. He was born man to gather and to tend. And you who believe are reborn to fish and to shepherd. As Christ is the gift to you from the Father, may you be a gift to this world and each other, from God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. Amen. Amen. Let me pray for you. Father, this is the true meaning of Christmas. There was always service from the lowly place of your birth, Christ, to those chasing you out of town, seeking to kill you. To those offended by your words and eventually crucifying you, all that it would be finished. That you would be brought up, that you would be lifted on high, that all who look to you would receive life. We pray, Father, that as we look to Jesus, that we ourselves would bear our own crosses. Christmas gift through the rest of this year and years after, constantly giving. That we would become fishers of men and that we would give up our lives as good shepherds. I ask these things in your name. Amen.