Feeding on Colossians chapter 1, verses 9 through 23 this morning. I'd encourage you to keep your scriptures open. Colossians chapter one Starting in verse nine. God's holy word for you, God's holy people For this reason, we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you, and to ask that you may be filled with the knowledge of His will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding. That you may walk worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing him, being fruitful in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God, strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power For all patience and long-suffering with joy, giving thanks to the Father who has qualified us to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints and the light He has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of His love, in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. For by him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones Or dominions, or principalities, or powers, all things were created through him and for him And he is before all things, and in him all things consist. And he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he may have the preeminence. For it pleased the Father that in him all the fullness should dwell, and by him to reconcile all things to himself, by him, whether things on earth or things in heaven, having made peace. Through the blood of his cross, and you, who once were alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now He has reconciled in the body of his flesh through death to present you holy and blameless and above reproach in his sight. If indeed. You continue in the faith grounded and steadfast, and are not moved away from the hope of the gospel which you heard, which was preached to every creature under heaven, of which I, Paul, became a minister. Please pray with me. Almighty God, how grateful we are for your word. For your great wisdom that is communicated to us through your word, through this written word, and through the word, the Lord Jesus Christ. Help our minds not be distracted, Lord. Give us focus on Christ. Holy Spirit, bless us with understanding and illuminate our minds and vivify, give us life in our souls by what you have recorded for us. And I pray, O Lord, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength, my rock, my Redeemer. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. I entitled this sermon Christ Overall. And then the bulletins were printed. And then yesterday I wanted to change it. But I see that Christ overall still works. We see that right there. Christ is the preeminent. That's what it really means for Christ to be preeminent. He is supreme. He is over all things. He is above all things But as I've been focusing on this passage and preparing this for for today, I I have just been drawn to the idea of Christ at the center. Christ must be at the center of our lives. He must be at the center of your life. And I've been thinking of this in terms of, well, because I'm a nerd and I love nerd things, I think of this in terms of spacecraft. You know that spacecraft come into orbit around the planet. And when they're in a stable orbit, it takes very little energy to keep them zipping around. Did you know that the International Space Station is moving extraordinarily fast? It's moving at over seventeen thousand miles per hour. It orbits two hundred and ninety miles up from the planet Earth. But it is firmly tethered by gravity to Earth. It zips around, moves around, and stays in its orbit, in its path, because it is tethered by gravity. Now there are other forces that try to exert power upon the space station. They may try to move it out of its orbit or to destabilize its orbit. Well, as I think of that, that's just like you and I. That's like our lives. We have been brought into orbit of Jesus Christ. By God the Father, in his great mercy, He's given us faith to believe. Yet there are plenty of things In our lives and in this world, that are trying to destabilize us in that orbit. They are trying to be a new center around which our life should Focus. There are big things going around us, going on in the world. And there are big things going on inside of us, in our emotions, in our own lives. There are lots of ideas, as our brother Chase has already pointed out. Of different philosophies that are presented to us as though they are valid options for human flourishing, but it's not true. I wonder if you knew that this is exactly the situation that the Colossian Christians were in. They were surrounded by a lot of Wrong ideas. Wrong ideas about humanity, wrong ideas about God. They were tempted. to be pulled away from Christ and to follow these, as he said in our Confession of Sin passage, vain philosophies The Colossians were babes in their faith. They needed encouragement to remain stable. They needed encouragement to continue on the path of righteousness, that narrow path, following Jesus Christ. And so what did Paul do? The Holy Spirit had him record this to them, this letter to the Colossian Christians. And it is vital for us as well because we're in that same situation. Lots of things pulling us, seeking to pull us away from Christ and out of orbit. We are under that attack. And so we, all of us, you and I both need to be reminded by this passage that Jesus Christ must be the center of your life. Because he is the center of all life, especially eternal life. Brothers and sisters, Jesus Christ must be the center of your life. Because he is the center of all life, especially Eternal life. We're going to examine this under three headings this morning. We'll first look at Christ, the center of our personal life. We'll see that in verses 9 to 14. We'll look at Christ, the center of all life, in verses 15 to 18. And Christ, the center of eternal life. Verses 19 to 23. So first we look at Christ at the center of our individual, our personal lives. And we see this beginning in verse 9. Now I I do just want to preface this section with a just thankfulness to Chase for bringing up the Shema. We didn't coordinate that. I didn't ask him to do that. But the Shema is a vitally important passage to the Old Testament believers, to the Old Testament Church. The Lord is one. That's Deuteronomy 6. 4. In Deuteronomy 6. 5, do you know what it says right after that? You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength. And in Mark chapter 12, Jesus Expands on that slightly and says, Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. And as we look at these verses from verses nine to fourteen, at this prayer that is shared with us of what Paul has been praying. for the Colossians, I hope we'll see that this must be our prayer for each other. This must be what we pray for ourselves and for Our fellow Christians, we must pray that we would love the Lord with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength. And so we see here what he has been praying. I think we can find will fit into those categories. We look at verse 9 and we see that he is praying that the Colossians would love the Lord with all their mind. For this reason, we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you, and to ask that you may be filled with the knowledge of His will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. It's put elsewhere in Scripture as the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. If you want to know how to navigate this life, what's the very first thing you must have? You must have the fear of the one true God. The prayer that Paul has for the Colossians and our prayer for each other should be that We would be filled with the wisdom, filled with the fear of God. That we would know his will. Did you see that? We would understand what is God doing in this world? What is he doing in your life? And that as you see things happening in your own life, You have a spiritual understanding. You don't just see it and think, oh, this is it's very superficial. God's just mad at me, and so he's letting things happen. We need a spiritual understanding to recognize what is deeper than what is happening in our lives. I'm very glad that the Holy Spirit had Paul say filled in the way that he does. Filled. A friend of mine had uh made us a just delicious taco meal this week, and I have been feasting upon that for days. And the other night I ate so much that I couldn't possibly eat anymore. I was filled. There was no room for more tacos There was no room for anything that might have sweetened the meal. No dessert, no nothing. There was no room for anything because I was filled. This is the prayer that Paul has for the Christians, and it's my prayer for you and for myself that Christ would fill our hearts. Fill our minds, fill us with an understanding so much that we don't even want anything else. And when somebody brings it along, we couldn't even imagine trying to push that in here Because our hearts and our minds, our whole life is filled with Christ. This is Jesus Christ at the center of your mind, ever expanding, filling every space. Well, next we see that Paul's prayer is that we would love the Lord with all of our strength. We would have Christ at the center of our strength. And he says in verse ten He continues on, that you may walk worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing him, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. That you may walk. His prayer for the Colossians is that they would be filled with knowledge Because knowledge influences our actions and our behaviors and how we will walk along that narrow path that He has called us upon. That we would walk according to our calling, as a disciple of Christ, as a follower of Christ, fully pleasing him. In Romans 12, verse 9, it says, abhor what is evil, cling to what is good. If Jesus Christ is at the center of our mind, moving us into the center of our strength, he's in the center of our strength. He guides all that we do. That we would be fruitful in every good work, doing what he commands, doing what pleases him In John fourteen, verse fifteen. You can turn there if you'd like. I'll read it for us. John fourteen verse fifteen Jesus says, if you love me, keep my commandments And I will pray the Father, and he will give you another helper, that he may abide with you forever. The Spirit of Truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him, but you know him For he dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you orphans. I will come to you. Jesus Christ. He's at the center of our mind, and he expands, and is in the center of our strength. He influences what we will do and how we will live in this world. And this last thing that that Paul says, he says, um, increasing in the knowledge of God. And and I was trying to think to myself, oh, is are we bouncing back to mind? No. He's talking about this Experiential knowledge, a knowledge that you can only know by tasting and seeing that the Lord is good, by doing with your strength and with your walk. In 1 John chapter 5, verse 3 We are told that that is how we know that we are in Christ, that we love Him, and we we keep His commands and we love one another. Obedience strengthens our faith. Obedience strengthens the faith that is our tether to Christ, as gravity tethers the space station to the planet Earth. As gravity tethers the earth to its orbit around the sun, it is faith that God has given us that keeps us anchored to Jesus Christ. And that faith is strengthened in our obedience. Now, obviously, we can't earn faith. We can't earn salvation or redemption in Christ. By how we live, by what we do, but we can help ourselves through obedience And doing what we know pleases our God, that we would not be in as much danger of being pulled away from the center of our life by these other forces. He says that you would be strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power. I love this in the in the Greek it says with power empowered. With all of it. Doesn't that make you think of Pastor Desi's sermon on the Great Commission? What is it that Jesus now has? He has all authority, all power. In heaven and in earth. And is he hoarding that to himself? Does he need to keep that to himself? He doesn't. He gives that to you, his people, that you would be of great value. And spreading the gospel in this world. Our efforts will fail in our own strength because we are finite. But in Christ's strength, can we fail at all? If he is in you and empowering you with his Holy Spirit, can you fail at what he is planning for you and what he's calling you to do? We need Christ at the center of our mind. We need Christ at the center of our strength. Because he knows what we will face. He knows that this life is not easy and that our only hope to persevere in glorifying him and enjoying him forever is that we would do so in his power. This is what Paul says next time. He says that we're strengthened, empowered with all power. For what? For all patience and long-suffering with joy, giving thanks to the Father. I see this as our heart, our emotions. This is your heart. Is Christ at the center of your heart? What God has planned for you will not be easy. You need Him to be at the center for you to endure it in a way that honors Him and bears witness to Him, giving thanks to Him. As James says, that you count it all joy when difficulty and trials and tribulations come your way. Satan wants to harm Christ, doesn't he? He is in deep rebellion against the Almighty God, and if he could, he would hurt him. But he can't Satan can do nothing to harm Jesus Christ. All he can do is seek to harm those that Christ loves, to hurt you. And if Christ has saved you from the power of death and hell forever, can Satan give any lasting harm to you? He can't. But the Bible says that he will try, if it were possible, to make the elect stumble. And so what he can try to do is he can try to harm your witness. He can try to harm the way that you go through life. You have confessed Christ. You confess him at the center of your life and you tell everyone that you are a Christian. And then a hiccup in your plan comes along and you fall apart completely. What kind of witness is that for Christ? Is it any kind of witness? That's what Satan is going to try to do. He will try to make you hate the trials that God has ordained for you. But if he is at the center of your emotional life, if he is at the center of your heart, you will endure with patience. With long suffering, slow to anger, you will not seek vengeance against those who wrong you. You'll be able to love your enemies and to pray for those who persecute you. And then we see that Christ must be at the center of our soul. In the Old Testament and the New, this idea of soul is the idea of you. You are your soul. That is yourself. That's who you are. Christ must be at the center of your selfhood Looking at verse 12, the second part, we're giving thanks to the Father who has qualified us to be partakers Of the inheritance of the saints and the light, he has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of His love, in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. This is all about who you actually are. And in Christ, you are transformed. You are delivered. By his power, you are made an heir, an heir of the universe with Jesus Christ. Isn't that amazing? You're brought out of the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of the Son of His love. Everything about who you are, as one of God's chosen people, must be centered on Jesus Christ. Through him alone do we have the forgiveness of sins. In him alone can we be united to the Godhead. He must be the center of all of you. Your heart, your soul, your mind, your strength. This is why he saves. This is why he transforms you. It transforms you to make you his. You are his people. He is your God. So Jesus Christ must be at the center of your personal life. And this is this is beyond fitting because of what Paul then says next. Christ is at the center of all life. Do we see what it's there in verse 15? He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. Does that make your mind think back to Genesis? Mankind made in God's image. This is the true image of God. This is how we know God, God with us. Emmanuel. Jesus Christ is the only way that we can accurately know the Father. He says, if you've seen me, you've seen the Father. In Hebrews 1, we are told that God had revealed Himself through the law and through the prophets, but he decided now it's going to happen in a different way. He is now revealing himself through Christ. Because Christ is at the center of all life. He's the firstborn over all creation. That doesn't mean temporally, he's the first. In this statement, he's saying he is the firstborn, like the heir, like the prince, the firstborn of a king. The kingdom belongs to him. It's his He holds the scepter. He is enthroned on high at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. All that exists is his. Is there anything that is not Christ's? In this whole universe. By Him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created through him and for him. There is nothing left out of that. There's no nation on planet Earth that's left out of that list. There is no angel that is left out of that list I love what Martin Luther says. Lucifer is God's Lucifer. Satan is God's Satan. He's a creature. He was made by Christ, made through Christ, made through the Son of God for his purposes. And so if you think Satan can somehow win, you are mistaken. This is fact. No matter what anyone thinks, they are subjects of the King of the universe. And they are either in submission to him or they are in rebellion against him. Christ is the center of all the universe, all the cosmos. And he is also the center of all time. Look at verse seventeen. He is before all things, and in him all things consist. There was never a time when he was not. Jesus Christ is God. He's the God of all the past, he's the God of the present, he's the God of the future. All of it centers on Christ And this is intuitive to us because well w what year do you think it is? What year do you do you call it? We call it 2025. All of time centers on Jesus Christ. Even those who are in nations that hate Christ. They still count time, according to him. Christ is at the center. Of the church. We see this in verse 18. He is the head of the body, the church who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he may have the preeminence The church has been made. And he's the firstborn from the dead. I I don't know if you guys heard that Another brother has been taken home to be with the Lord. Pastor Bodhi Balcom died this week. I remember a sermon that he preached on this very same passage, and he says that at one point you will hear a rumor that Bodhibalkam is no more. And he says, Don't believe it. Because that's what Christ has done. Christ is the firstborn from the dead. That all of you, whom he has called to himself, will also rise from the dead. And that leads us into understanding this last bit of this passage, because Christ is the center, he must be the center of your life, because he is the center of all life, especially the only life that matters, everlasting eternal life. And we see this in verse 19. For it pleased the Father that in him all the fullness should dwell, and by him to reconcile all things to himself, by him, whether things on earth or things in heaven, having made peace Through the blood of his cross. There is no salvation without Jesus. He is at the center of it all. Only he is worthy to unseal the scroll. He's the Lamb, the Lamb who is slain. Only He is able to bear the weight of your sin and to cleanse you from it. That you would be there in a second. Only in him can you be reconciled to the Father. Only in Christ is the veil, the veil separating the Holy of Holies from all the rest of creation torn in two. Only in Christ can you find yourself in the presence of God the Father forever and ever and ever. Even better than at Eden. Because this is what he's doing. Christ is at the center of everlasting eternal life. He's at the center of salvation and redemption. And he must be at the center of your life. Because You who once were alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now he is reconciled in the body of his flesh through death to present you. Holy and blameless and above reproach in his sight Christ is at the center because he is saving you for his own sake. He doesn't save you because of how wonderful you are. He doesn't save you because of all it is that he needs you to do. He saves you for his own sake, for his own glory. It pleases him. To give his life as a ransom for many. And this peace comes through the blood of Jesus Christ alone. In him we are restored. In Him we have unfettered, unbounded access to the God who has made all things. And this is this last bit here is very important. Paul says, if indeed you continue in the faith grounded and steadfast, and are not moved away from the hope of the gospel which you heard, which was preached to every creature under heaven, of which I, Paul, became a minister. Now that could make us think. But there is something we have to do. But I love that the Lord God chose the Greek language to communicate this to us. It is absolutely clear here. This is in the passive voice You do not ground yourself. You are in a state of having been grounded, been established. That is what God has done. He gives you faith to believe in Jesus Christ. And you are established in him, established in orbit around Christ. And you must keep him at the center. Because there are all those other things that are going to try to pull you out of orbit of Jesus. What are those other things? Sometimes we think it's it's just the bad stuff, right? No, there are good things that can pull you out of orbit of Christ. Or maybe they can pull your orbit into a wobble and then you find yourself expending a whole lot of energy to stay stable. I wonder what things come to your mind. Sports? Jobs? A reputation? Political ideologies. Do they start to pull you out of orbit of Christ? Do they make it very difficult for you to stay stable and to be a stable witness for Him? There's a lot going on in the world these days. I have heard some people talk about it as the third great awakening. We're on the cusp of it in America Have you heard some people shouting and posting, Christ is King! Christ is King. Do you know that that could be a potential to pull you away from the orbit of Christ? You must believe that Christ is king if you're going to say it. It is not a slogan. You cannot just take it on and slap it like a bumper sticker on your car, and it means that Christ is your king. The third commandment says we should not take the name of the Lord in vain. And we must be careful, because there are many who are being drawn to this kind of slogan, Christianity Is that what Christ wants? So faith, to use faith as a slogan to get clicks Or both. We must be careful. We must be careful that we do not allow Anything to get in the way of our orbit of Christ. I know that one probably sounds strange. This is going to sound even stranger to those of you who know me. Did you know theology? Theology can try to pull you out of the orbit of Christ? If it doesn't serve his purpose in your life, if it doesn't draw you into a more loving and committed relationship with him. Then all of these theological disputes that you find yourself posting about on Facebook or I don't know what the things are now. My faith? The friendlies. I don't know. You find yourself in these disputes. Is that helping you? Stay in a stable orbit around Christ? Arguing with people? Because of this theologian who said that 25 years ago and this theologian who said that 225 years ago and this theologian who said that Two thousand two hundred and twenty five years ago? What is it? What are we doing? Brothers and sisters, are you willing to sacrifice whatever the Holy Spirit lets you know? He's pulling you away from Christ. Pulling you from his stable orbit, pulling you from him at the center. Are you willing Me saying put Christ at the center, I know that that sounds like an oversimplification, but it's not. It is simple. It's not complicated. But it's not easy, is it? Because things happen. Life happens. You know that the Earth, in its stable orbit around the Sun, goes through lots of different events that could be considered harmful to the Earth. Solar flares. Are you familiar with meteor showers or meteor storms? When I was little, I always thought that the meteors are coming at us from out in deep space. No The Earth is in orbit around the Sun, stable, and the Earth moves into the path of the meteors. God has a plan for you, and in that plan there will be meteor storms. But if you are orbiting Christ, He is at the center. It will not shake you. It will not destroy you. It will not pull you out of orbit of Him. And so, brothers and sisters, I encourage you all, pray as Paul prayed, without ceasing, for yourself, as he prayed for the Colossians, pray that the Lord Would be at the center, the Lord Jesus Christ at the center of your personal life. That you would recognize Him as the center of all that exists. Especially the center of your hope. Because Christ alone is the hope of the gospel. That He has done it. That He has won it. And that He shares that victory with us. Please pray with me. Almighty and gracious God, oh, you are so good.