Uh for this evening will come from the book of Colossians, chapter one. I encourage you to turn there if you have a copy of the scriptures with you or On your phone or something like that. Colossians chapter 1. Our focus will on the text will be verses 24 to 29, but I will read the entire chapter for us just to give us a reminder of what it is that Paul has already said. Colossians chapter one. I'll read it in its entirety, but our focus tonight will be on verses twenty-four through twenty. The word of God for the people of God. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God and Timothy our brother. To the saints and faithful brethren in Christ who are in Colossae, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We give thanks to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of your love for all the saints, because of the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, of which you heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel. Which has come to you, as it has also in all the world, and is bringing forth fruit, as it is also among you since the day you heard and knew the great For this reason we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you, and to ask that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will and all wisdom and spiritual under Redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. On earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created through him and for him. And he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he may have the previous thing. And you, who once were alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now He has reconciled in the body of His flesh through death, to present you holy and blameless and above reproach in Him. To them God willed to make known what are the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you. Hope of glory. Him we preach, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom, that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus. To this end I also labor, striving according to his working. Which works in me mightily. Please pray with me. Heavenly Father, Lord, this is your word. You have preserved it for your people. We ask Lord, that you will open our eyes that we would see you clearly in this passage. Open our ears that we would hear you speaking to us directly, and open our hearts that it would transform our lives. I pray, Father, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord. Our Rock and our Redeemer. Amen. Well, I think, brothers and sisters, that we're all pretty similar here in this room, aren't we? We all come from pretty similar backgrounds. We probably have similar views about things politically, socially Whatever it is. So I wonder if you and I are similar in our agreement with this statement. Cleaning is the worst. Cleaning is the absolute worst. Even as an adult, I can't stand cleaning up. There are just so So many other things that I would much rather do. So many things I would rather spend my time on than cleaning. But if I'm honest with myself and with you, I really like things being clean. It's really nice. I just have a hard time motivating myself to do that cleaning. Well as a child things were no different for me and I see the same thing in my own sons. At least in one of them. I see that they would agree that cleaning is the worst. But something truly amazing can happen. And maybe you remember this from your own childhood. or watching your own children and your families. If you tell the children to clean up, and that's all you tell them, what then happens might take an entire Day, and that day might be filled with weeping and gnashing of teeth. But if you tell them, clean up so that Alexander can come over to play, That changes things entirely, doesn't it? There's always a purpose to cleaning up, and that purpose is that things will be clean, but when you give this extra motivation When you see that the cleaning up has an exciting purpose, though cleaning up itself may not be very appealing, now this new purpose makes it so much better. Makes it so much easier. And those little children suddenly become superheroes, filled with super speed, cleaning up as fast as they possibly can. As soon as the purpose is clear, the thing which is awful becomes bearable. In fact, it might even become enjoyable. Well, Paul has written this letter to the Colossians to encourage them in their faithfulness as they mature in their Christian belief. They had heard the gospel preached from Epaphras, the very same gospel which Paul preaches, and the church's reputation, the Colossian Church's reputation As believers had become well known. They were Gentiles. Once they were completely outside of the kingdom of God, and now they had the hope of the gospel. These Gentiles have hope in God's mercy, hope in his grace, hope in the grace of God which reconciles enemies to himself through the sacrifice of Jesus Christ. Christ. And having written about the work of Christ to save sinners, Paul now turns to describing his own experience, an experience that his readers would understand. So that they can fully understand what it means to be a mature Christian. And Paul, being sanctified and growing in the grace of the Lord, has been granted the gift of examining his own life. And circumstances. And in his examination, he observes that God, in sovereign control over all things, has made Paul's life exactly what it needed to be in order to glorify God. Brothers and sisters, I hope that we will see from this passage that the Lord has given you your particular life To bring him glory through maturity in Christ Jesus. I hope that we see from these verses that God has given you your particular life That you might bring him glory through maturity in Christ Jesus. We're going to look at this passage together in two Two primary divisions. The first, we're going to look at the God-given life in verses 24 through 27, and then we'll examine the God-given purpose. Which is in verses twenty-eight through twenty-nine. Here, Paul's declaration about himself is full of valuable insight into God's will for the believer. For all believers experience a life similar to Paul. Paul's. It's similar in principle, though it's going to be varying in degrees of intensity. And taking Paul's words as not merely descriptive of his own situation, but of the similar circumstances of everybody believer, let us first look at the believer's God given life. And we will see in verses twenty-four to twenty-seven that that God-given life Is a life of suffering and a life of service. Don't everybody get excited at once. The God given life is a life of Suffering and a life of service. And Paul talks about the suffering, and he tells us very plainly, he starts at the very beginning, with that which is most important for us to realize about his suffering. Because it's most important for us to realize about our own suffering that suffering, when maturely understood, it can be for us a source of Great joy. Now I want to make sure we're all on the same page here. Paul is not some kind of weirdo. He is not a pain-loving masochist. He's not the kind of person who is enjoying suffering because of the suffering itself. No, it is not the act of suffering, but it's The act of suffering for the glory of Jesus Christ, which brings Paul joy. He has a mature understanding that his suffering is not only to be expected, but it is how God allows one who seeks to live Live for the gospel to glorify him. We know this because elsewhere Paul speaks about suffering. He says in 2 Timothy 3:12, Yes, and all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer personally. But we also know this because it is all it's the teaching of Jesus Christ. There are many places where he speaks of suffering and the suffering of those who will face He talks about the believer in Mark eight thirty-four needing to take up the cross and follow after him. Or in John fifteen twenty he says, Remember the word that I said to you a servant is not greater than his Master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours. Suffering and persecution, these are things that are part of the Christian life And it's hard for us to grasp this. Properly and maturely understood, that suffering which God ordains for you can bring you joy If you're like myself, that is perhaps one of the most difficult things that you've ever had to hear. Because it raises some serious questions in our mind. Does it mean that I'm not a Christian if I'm not rejoicing in my suffering Does it mean that I'm not a Christian if I am not looking forward to all the suffering that God has going on in my life right now? Paul was not a superhuman. And the Lord Almighty, he does not expect you and I to be superhumans. Be of good cheer, beloved friends. The Lord does not ordain your suffering to be without a purpose. The suffering in our lives Lives has a purpose. It may be hard to see it. It may be difficult even when we find it. But the suffering is not arbitrary. And that's a first step Well Paul wants us to learn other things about suffering, not just that it's joyful. Joyful might be the most important thing. important for he says now I rejoice in my suffering but he wants you to know that his suffering is a willing suffering he said that he fills up Fill up. Now the word that's used here, it it has a certain connotation to it. It has the sense of taking one's turn in fill up. Up. He expects to take his turn in suffering. He's not a wimp about it. He's not suffering just up to his ankles. No, Paul is willing to fill up his entire body. with suffering. He is willing to be filled up with suffering. We'll come to in my flesh in a moment, but I think it's more helpful to actually look at a different order than the order that the translators of the New Kingdom James have have put it in. It's helpful for us because it will avoid a little bit of confusion, so I'll come back to it. So we see that Paul's suffering is it's a joyful suffering It's a willing suffering, and it's a supplemental and necessary suffering. He said that he fills up what is lacking in Now we have to understand what is lacking, not to indicate that Paul thought that there was something of Christ's atoning work which was left unfinished. It's not that Christ needs Paul to suffer in order to complete some of the saving work. That would contradict so much of Paul's writings that we don't even have time to begin mentioning. No, Paul's instead pointing to your union with Jesus Christ. Paul counted the afflictions that he suffered not as his own, but as the tribulations of Jesus being in Body. Christ is united to you even in your suffering. He never leaves those who are his, and he will never leave you, no matter how deep and intense your pain is. Suffering might be. We also learn from what Paul says here, when he says, in my flesh, that this is a personal suffering. It's not some abstract notion of being emotionally distraught sitting under a tree bummed out because people may have said some nasty things To you or about you. There's a very concrete suffering. This is suffering in his flesh. It's a suffering about which not many of us Are familiar. Suffering in the body, real physical pain, constant physical pain. And we should take from that that we should have a greater sense Of love and of charity for those that we know who are in suffering, who are suffering in their physical bodies. It's a very painful and difficult thing to bear. And so we should remember that those enduring such suffering are enduring it for Christ I want us also to see what Paul sees here in declaring that his suffering, filling up in his flesh what is lacking in the affliction of Christ This is the mature perspective on suffering which Paul Paul demonstrates for us. He counts it all worth it because the suffering he endures is for the body of Christ. We can endure a whole lot if we deem whatever it is to be worth it. For example, in keeping with the cleaning metaphor, we don't like to clean. But if we have a good purpose to cleaning, it becomes Easier. Well, I ask you, would you clean your house quicker and better? Would you enjoy cleaning your house more if someone came along and offered you to do it, they would give you a million dollars if you did it? I think if we're all honest with ourselves we would. We would love cleaning up our house if every time we did it meant getting a million dollars. Well, what could possibly be more valuable and of more worth than the body of Jesus Christ? His church? To endure suffering for his church should be to us So valuable and so precious. But life is not just suffering, thank the Lord. Life is also service. Paul's life is one of joyful service to God. And he says in verse 25, Of which I became a minister. That service is an ordained service. It is a service that is given to us by God. You see, Paul was made a special servant of the Lord, set apart to fulfill God's holy will. He says that it was, he became a minister according to the stewardship from God. Because our service is a service given to us. By God. All believers share this in common with Paul. God has delivered you from the power of darkness and conveyed you into the kingdom of the Son of His love. We just read that. In verse 13. It is God who lifts up a man and equips that man to serve and glorify him. All that we have belongs to God. He merely gives us stewardship over it. He gives us stewardship over that which is his. Paul's service, Paul's ministry was a stewardship over the church, and it was given to him by God. And every single one of us in this room is in this position, though it may be in varying degrees. You may not be an elder or an officer of the church, but you are stupid. Of the life that God has given you. Parents, you are stewards of your children. And they were given to you by God that you would nurture and love them for His sake. That you would bring them up in the way that they should go for the sake of his church, that they would be added into the number of the temple stone. In the temple of Christ. Or you may not be stewards of children. Children, you can't be stewards of other children. But you are stewards of your parents' hearts Did you know that? God has made you a steward, a steward of your parents' heart. Your parents love you very, very much They seek to steward your precious lives for God's glory. Don't break your parents' hearts. Don't break their hearts Hearts with rebellion and wrath and hatred. All that your parents do for you is done for your benefit and for God's glory. Understand that And be good stewards of those hearts. The service that we have, even you little ones, is for God's glory, and it is given to you. By God. And it's not given to you by God simply for yourself, it is given for others. Paul's service, which was given as a stewardship from God, was given for the church. And this is amazing to me. And I hope it's amazing to you also. God reconciles us to himself, he makes us beloved children when we were his enemies. He gives us the privilege of stewardship over some bit of his magnificent creation. And we are not to do all that and to love it and to cherish it only for ourselves or our own benefit. No, it is given to us that we would do that for the benefit of others. Paul's conversion and ministry were not for himself, but for the benefit of Christ's church. For you, for me, we are benefiting from the stewardship given to Paul by God, and the suffering and service of his life has brought God glory Through you and through me. This is because in serving God, it is not up to us to determine what we have to do. God's will is to give us lives in which we will suffer for hell. Him and serve him. And that service is a definite service. It is to fulfill the Word of God. God defines our service to Him as He defined it for Paul. Paul was to serve God by serving as a messenger to the gospel. The gospel is recorded for us here in verse 26. It is the mystery which has been hidden from ages and from generations. Earlier in this chapter, Paul gives us a clear picture of what the hidden mystery was. God through Jesus Christ reconciled Sinners to himself, liberates them from the kingdom of Satan, and brings them into the kingdom of the Son of His love. Service to God is to serve the truth of the most wonderful news that anyone can hear. And those who do hear that news, should the Lord grant them faith, are then communicated into the church See, the service that is given to us by God and given for others is a definite service. It is a service of the gospel and service to the It says in verse 27, To them God willed to make known what are the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you. The hope of glory. The riches of the glory of this mystery of the gospel was at one time only for the offspring of Israel. Every promise was for Israel. The covenant was made with Israel. But in Christ is found the fulfillment of all the prophetic passages that refer to the eventual faith of the Gentile believers. Isaiah 9 2 The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwelt in the land of shadow of death, upon them a light has shined. Or in Isaiah 56, also the sons of the foreigner, who join themselves to the Lord to serve him and to love the name of the Lord, to be his servant. Everyone who keeps from defiling the Sabbath and holds fast my covenant, even them I will bring to my holy mountain, and make them joyful in my house of prayer. On my altar, for my house shall be called a house of prayer for all nations. The hope of glory, the mystery of the gospel Is now for all mankind and not just Israel. Christ is united to believers. Christ is in you, even in us Gentiles. Well, I'm assuming that you're a Gentile. The odds are that we are all Gentiles, ethnically. Even in you and I, who had no desire to be anything but an enemy and a rebel of God Even to those who thought that they were serving God better than anyone else, like Paul, and said they were in fact persecuting Jesus Christ personally, even to those Christ has united himself. I understand what you might be thinking. Suffering? A service? You're making this Christian life a pretty hard sell And it's true, when we examine the Christian life, we can be disappointed, even a little bit confused or doubtful. But Paul's life, his suffering, his service was not a source of doubt or disappointment to him because he maturely understood that the Lord had given him the exact life which he wanted for him. Paul had been equipped and trained not only by the apostles after his conversion, but by all of his life before his conversion, all of it was designed and enacted by God that Paul would suffer and serve as an example for us. Saul. He knew that God had not only given him his life, but a new and better life in Christ. That new life combined with God's sovereign training, even before his conversion. was to bring glory to God and fulfillment of his designed purpose for Paul. And so we come to the second side of this scripture. We've looked at the God-given life. Now we're going to look at the God-given life Given purpose. Verses 28 to 29. Your God-given life has a God-given purpose. For Paul, it was preaching Christ. And he says in verse 28, Him we preach. And he shows us that He preaches Christ with knowledge, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom. Wisdom. Now, warning every man can be thought of almost as admonishing. And the first way to understand this admonishment or warning is that faithful lovers of Christ will warn all men of the dangers of eternal death. For those that are not united with Christ. Every man must be warned of their need for salvation, their need to be reconciled to God. God. They must be warned to turn away from sin. Sins that they maybe hadn't even known were sins. And perhaps they don't even understand what sin is, but they must be warned. The genuine Christian life is a warning also against those who would falsely claim Christ. It is truly a miracle that anyone can turn from their own self-seeking and willingly submit to the Son of Christ. Offering and service required of God's children. And Paul says that he teaches every man He teaches every man. So men must also be taught, not simply warned, away from the bad, but actively steeped in the good. It's not enough to cut out the bad, but the void that is left must be replaced. By the good. Paul's letter so far has given a lot of teaching about what God has accomplished for his people through Jesus Christ. Remember that faith is not a feeling, though it certainly is accompanied by sincere and it's Fulfillment of His glory. Does this show up in your life as a priority? Is it important to you to know the Bible? Is it important to you to know what God has done for you and is doing for all of his people? Well, Paul warns and teaches every man. In all wisdom. And Christian, your faith is not foolishness. Despite what the world would have you believe, the biblical worldview, understanding all that exists in light of God's holy and true revelation, it's It's not the easy way out. It's not the unthinking way. Our religion makes sense. It makes more sense than any of the alternatives. And if you don't believe me, do the research Look into the competing worldview worldviews. Look into what people claim about the origins of the universe or the origins of life Listen to how they try to explain the complexity of the human brain or the complexity of living cells or subatomic particles. There is no system which better explains all of the observable universe. Christianity and the biblical worldview. If you disagree, I'd be happy to spend some time discussing those subjects. I'm sure there are others in this church that would also. There's a marvelous quote from G. K. Chesterton in his treatise, What's Wrong with the World. He says the Christian ideal has not been tried and found wanting. It has been found difficult and thus left untried. Paul warns and teaches all men in all wisdom. He does not impress all men, or convince all men, or blackmail all men. There are no special tricks or superstitious rituals or practices that Paul preaches. No, he preaches Christ. And he preaches with a person. It says here, Paul preaches that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus. Present them to God. And it's very interesting. If you remember last time we were looking at Colossians, we were talking about in verse 22, when the very same word is used here. That we are presented to God, blameless, utterly blameless before Him. Here, Paul is preaching Christ to present every man Man perfect in Jesus. It's not advocating the idea of universalism. It's not that God is actually saving every person that's ever lived. No, that would contradict most of the rest of scriptures. Rather, since one cannot know who is a true believer, one must warn every man, teach every man, hoping that Christ will transform everyone who hears the gospel. That he will transform them from an enemy and reconcile them to himself, making them a lover of God. Now it's interesting this term perfect. In Christ Jesus. The word there has many inflections, some of which can be complete or whole or fulfilled, but there's also another sense in which it means mature. Or matured. As in something that is completed, the plant that grows from seed to full form is matured and is completed or perfect Perfected. The mature Christian, one who is matured in Christ Jesus, is one who, as Paul mentioned a few verses earlier, is steadfast in the The faith, unwavering in the hope of the gospel. God is glorified in the sanctification of believers. The Christian is brought along their life through their suffering, through their service, according to God's will. to a point of maturity, a maturity that is in Christ Jesus. It's not a maturity or completeness or perfection in religious activity. activities or in rituals or in societal recognition, like the Pharisees thought. Perhaps you and I have thought that at some time in our lives. It doesn't mean being the member of a church for thirty years. It doesn't mean reaching the ripe old age of seventy-five Being perfect in Christ Jesus is about unity and union with Christ Jesus. Being mature in Christ Jesus, one who is mature in Christ understands and lives in the truth of the gospel. Without ever seeking solace in anything outside of Jesus Christ. He is the center of your life. He is the purpose of your life. He allows you to endure the suffering. To endure the service joyfully, serving him and serving his body. We strive for the gospel as Paul did. Because Paul's labor and ours are Similar. He says in verse 29, to this end I also labor, striving according to his working. The labor that we have and that Paul had is a self-sacrificial labor. Striving. The word there is intense labor. It has the meaning of physical violence combat. Striving. We must strive to be competent servants of God, able to give an answer for the hope of our salvation. This is intense labor for the kingdom. Paul is a good example of that. And you can look elsewhere in Paul to see all that he endured in his striving. And his intense physical labor. And it is a dependent labor that we have. We are dependent on God. It is according to God's will. Working. We recognize that it is God's work in us and not our effort which has produced the end result. A living being instead of a rotting corpse. The same will be true of anyone who is brought into the kingdom of God. It is the result of God's work which works in them mightily. And that's Paul's power, which is the same as our power The power of God's grace. God chose to work in Paul. He chooses to work in you and in I. This is not anything we've earned or deserved. And the power of the Christian comes entirely from God and his uninfluenced election to save sinners. This is the hope of Glory, brothers and sisters. Christ in you, the working of God which works mightily. Paul's power in our own comes from our union with Christ. We are union United to him in death. Our sins have been atoned for and forgiven, blotted out from the record books and washed clean. Jesus is our sanctification. We are being enabled more and more by His Spirit to die unto sin and to live unto righteousness. This is The righteousness that God gives us. So, brothers and sisters, God has given you a life, a life of suffering and of service. But it is a life with purpose to share his gospel by the power of Christ in you. Now it's difficult for us to do this because suffering is painful. And sometimes our service Is not fully understood. Well, brothers and sisters, our suffering, though we may dread it, is something that we're called And you may be suffering in a difficult relationship with family members or perhaps at work as a co-worker. Endure It joyfully, knowing that the purpose of it is that you would share the gospel of Jesus Christ. You can endure suffering to share the gospel of Christ. It is for his body and for his church. And the same is with service. Service is not optional. It is the stewardship in which God has called you. It can be difficult to find joy in serving. There's many reasons for this. But be sure if you don't Love serving God in the life that He's designed for you. If you don't see His purpose and pleasure in making you who you are and giving you your particular life You might be in danger, more danger than you realize. There's a very short path from I don't feel like serving to how dare you expect me to serve. Resentment follows closely to apathy. It applies to churches as well as to individuals. And if joy in serving is waning from a church, if it's hard to find joy in service and suffering in a congregation, perhaps it's because the clear purpose Of service and suffering is missing. A mature understanding of God's purpose for His church and a mature understanding of what pleases God, as it does for the individual, can revitalize And propel her into the future, rejoicing in the trials and opportunities before her. Brothers and sisters, God has given you your particular life to serve his particular purpose in union with Jesus Christ. I can't remember who said it. I just can't remember who. They said, if we could pray perfectly right now, we would ask God to make our lives exactly as they are right now. Right now. If we had perfect understanding and could perfectly pray, we would understand and know that God has given us our lives exactly as He wants us. them to be, so that we can develop and mature into the Christians that suffer for his glory and serve for his glory. We won't do this on our own because we can't. But be Being united to Christ, which is our only hope of glory, and maturing in our sanctification as He brings us through life, we can submit to His mighty power working in us. And so live our lives. Please pray with me. Gracious God in heaven It is amazing to us that you would love us so much that you would send your Son to reconcile us to you. And like our brother Paul, you've given each of us a life, a life called to stewardship of your creation. A life called to fulfill your word, to share your good news, the good news of Jesus Christ, to every man. And every woman. We pray, Father, that you would mature us in Christ, that you would make our union with Christ so real to us that it It would be that beautiful and glorious purpose that gives us joy in our suffering, joy in our service. Oh Father There is much about our lives that we don't understand. Help us to push all that aside, to trust you, to rest in you, as Paul did, and to understanding that we Must strive. We must strive working hard, laboring according to your will, according to your power, which works in us mightily. We love you, our Lord. Please take our lives and let them be used in service of your kingdom to glorify your name Among your people and among all the world. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen