Please turn now with me to your scriptures. We're looking at Proverbs Chapter 30, verses 1 through 6 this morning. If you need a Bible, please raise your hand and I'll have one brought to you. It's important that you follow along to see his authoritative words. The first six verses of Proverbs. The words of Agor, the son of Jacquah, his utterance. This man declared to Ithiel, to Ithiel and Uchhal, and I'll correct that in a minute. Surely I am more stupid than any man, and do not have the understanding of a man. I neither learned wisdom nor have knowledge of the Holy One. Who has ascended into heaven or descended? Who has gathered the wind in his fists? Who has bound the waters in a garment? Who has established all the ends of the earth What is his name? And what is his son's name? Surely you know. Every word of God is pure. He is a shield to those who put their trust in him. Do not add to his words lest he rebuke you, and you be found a liar. Please pray with me Father, your truth is good, and it brings health and vitality to the earth But this truth in particular is the water that we need for the parched ground of our culture. And we pray that you would water us this morning, that you would wash us in your word by your spirits. I would say that the overarching sentiment amongst those who are in high school or college to whom this book is written. The primary mode of being is confusion. Meaning, I'm not really sure. Yeah, that seems right. Oh, well, wait a second. They said this over here. Well, you're right, that seems right. Oh no, wait, that seems right. Oh no, wait, that seems right. The dithering, the on and the off is a marked attribute. Of that age group and is becoming a marked attribute of our entire culture. Confidence has been lost. The mind has become so open that it's unable to close on anything That is what is addressed in this passage. Besides all the other proverbs that we've looked at, I believe that this is most culturally relevant to what we are going through. even here within this church, a lack of commitment. And here he shows us how we might gain in that commitment. This is a beautiful passage. We're only going to consider the first six verses. This happens to be my favorite collection of Agor. The words of Agor is my favorite collection out of the seven. And I want to begin by just orienting you to what's going on here. Then I'll tell you what the big idea is and as I normally do the outline. But let's just start with the basic some basic observations of this collection. So that you could be oriented to what we're going to do this morning. And I pray that you'd give diligent attention to these words. First, I want you to take a look in chapter 30, verse 1. It says the words of Agor. This is an editorial comment, and if you've been following along in the series, it means that we've reached a different collection. We're now in collection six. If you look at chapter 31, then you'll see there's another editorial comment speaking of King Lemuel and the words given to him by his mother And that is collection 7. That's the last collection within the book of Proverbs. We're in the next to last. This is collection 6. It shows that the Proverbs were not only written, but they were arranged or compiled in an order and on purpose. This is the new collection, number six. And it says here that the words of Agor, notice it doesn't say the Proverbs, which are only designated for Solomon. Anyone else who's in this these collections, it says sayings or words And I think that's due to the honor due to Solomon. It says his utterance. His utterance is something that you would, this word here you would have read in Jeremiah or amongst the prophets. It means a prophetic burden. It means telling something to people that they really don't want to hear, but God has given you this message and you have got to say it. It is a prophetic burden that he has here, Agor. And the burden that he has is this. Do not, my son and daughter, go outside of God's boundaries. Do not go outside of his boundaries. That's the overarching message of this whole collection. I just want to point out to you, although I'm not preaching on these this morning, verses seven through nine, very familiar to us. That is exactly what he's saying. He's saying, God, don't give me so much money that I would go out of the boundary this way, and don't give me so little money that I would go out of the boundary this way. Instead, give me modesty. That's what true modesty is. Modesty is remaining within God's boundaries in every area of life. And that's what this entire collection from Agor is. He's showing his son Ithiel. He's giving him a prophetic burden, my son, do not go out of the boundaries of God. That's what this whole thing is about. It's the overarching context. He acts as a prophet, warning his son Ithiel to stay within bounds. Now it says, after his utterance, which is the prophetic burden, it says that this man, Agor, declared. Now you have to understand what this word means. Declared, there are different words in the Hebrew that mean different things in terms of declare. And and for example, some Hebrew words would mean the content of your speech. Other Hebrew words would mean the act of speaking. This Hebrew word here, declared, means I am in a state of inspiration and have received a message from God. That is what this means. It is repeated in Numbers twenty-four three. You can write that down and look it up if you would like. And it is repeated in 2 Samuel 23 1. It is very clear in those passages that the Holy Spirit has delivered a message to those men. And he is delivering a message to people from God. That is especially clear in 2 Samuel 23. 1, when it is said that the Holy Spirit is given to David that he might deliver a message. is said in Numbers 24, 3, the same word is being said here, declared. Agor is in a state of inspiration, speaking to you, words from God. Now, I want to deal with one last thing in terms of an orientation. If you have the New King James on your lap, this is what it reads. This man declared, or was in a state of inspiration, to Ithiel, then there's a dash, and then it says, to Ithiel and Ukal. It is exceptionally unlikely that that is a good translation. to Ithil and Ukal. If you do not have the NKJV, then it probably says this. I am weary, God, but I can prevail. Very different, right? I go with the second. I am weary, God, but I can prevail. The NIV does a particularly good job in general in the Proverbs because of who is on the translation. I don't say that about every book of the Bible. I just say that about Proverbs and the NIV. You may want to take a look at that. I'm not sure what the NASB says here, but I go with the translation and you might want to write this down. I am weary, God, but I can prevail. The reason why I think that is because to repeat two names, Ithiel and Ukal, as if he's speaking to two sons, is unique to this book. He doesn't repeat names. Ukal is not a Semitic name. It's very unlikely, therefore, that it would be here. And this translation, I am weary, God, but I can prevail, is an exact summary of all of the content of the collection. I am weary is the first part of the collection, but through God I can prevail is the second part of the collection. And some of the best scholars in my research have taken I am weary, God, but I can prevail. And based on this context and the introduction that I gave you, he could, in a sense, be saying, I'm confused, but with you I can know. And we need to hear that within our culture. So here's the big I well, I don't want to give you the big idea yet. So that is the that's the the the translation that I want you to see in this orientation. I am weary, God, but I can prefail. So what we see here is the final part of this orientation. is that Agor is giving instruction to his son Ithiel through an autobiography of his own experience. He's now going to take him through a journey of how he found that it is only with God that you can have wisdom. I want you to think of this as an autobiography of a struggle to find wisdom for life. There was a movie that I don't recommend to you, but it is a good example. It was called Away We Go. And in this movie, they found out that they were this um uh man and lady found out they were going to have a child. And being postmodern, they had no idea what the definition of a family was or what you're supposed to do with children. So what they decided to do was to Take a travel around the nation to visit friends and family members and ask them, what does it mean to be parents? They did their investigation, and by the end of the movie, they had three different decisions. In the end, they're sitting on the porch, having gone through all of these experiences, and the guy says to the girl, I think we've arrived at where we're supposed to go. And this is her conclusion after her whole life basically. I hope so. That is a postmodern movie because there's no surety. Is no certainty about what is right or wrong within family life. Everyone's just guessing, and then we die. That's the message of that movie, and that's the autobiography that Agor himself goes through. He is weary with it, but in the end, because he turns to Yahweh, he can prevail. With God, it is not impossible. So here's the big idea this morning. We're out of the orientation, and let me give you the big idea and the outline Although you are weak in figuring out how to live this life, through God you can prevail. And I know that we feel weak and confused. There are so many different options and positions out there. Which one do we take? I know that you're weary with all of the viewpoints and perspectives in a pluralistic culture. And although you are weary with those things, through God you can prevail and you can know how to have life and how to have eternity. That's the message of this passage, particularly the first six verses. So very simply, let's take a look at human weakness and God's strength Those are the two parts of the passage. Beginning with human weakness. Here's the autobiography, beginning in verses 2 and 3, and here's the main statement. You want to write this down: humans have failed to find wisdom. Two, surely I am more stupid than any man. Can you believe that's in here? And do not have the understanding of a man, I neither learned wisdom nor have knowledge of the Holy One. These verses relay to us an autobiographical journey as I have said. The presumed context is that Agor, on his way through a secular education, was not able to find wisdom, he was not, therefore, able to become truly human, and he was not able to find God. He was not able to find it innately. He was not able to find it through his professors. So you have to think of him here, I think, to understand this. Think of him as a college sophomore or junior philosophy major. I think that's the best way to frame this. And he's reading Nietzsche. And he's reading all the existentialists. Whether Christian or otherwise. And he's coming out at the other end and he's realizing that whether in himself or in the the literature, the classical literature of the Greeks He's been unable to find any kind of wisdom. He read all that the world offered and was able to find a firm foundation for living his life. Sure, when he went to his college classes, everybody said they knew what they were talking about. But he was smart enough to say Well, what are you resting that upon? How do you really know that what you're saying is true? How do you know that won't change? Because it seems like with philosophy, so too the science. We have some new experiment that changes everything. We used to think this and now we think this, and now they're old-fashioned, and we are now in the know. But one day we'll be old-fashioned and we won't be in the know, and people will laugh at us for what we believed. He saw all that as he became a junior within his secular college. Plenty of white philosophies, but how could he be sure that they had the right one? He kept having that nagging feeling in the back of his head. How can I be certain? He kept asking that question. The professor would say, well you shouldn't ask that question. As that we learned we don't ask that question anymore. But he was unsatisfied. He felt like he couldn't, he had nothing to drink. No one was offering any water to him Sitting in his dorm room, I imagine, or in a coffee shop, he makes two confessions. And that's what we see here in this passage. Scholars put it this way. I'm not just being posed. Poetic or cute. Scholars say these are confessions in his autobiography. I am more stupid than any man. After my education and seeking wisdom through all the men of the East, I don't have any understanding. I don't know God. I don't know myself. I don't know you. I don't know the way to live for certain It could all be swept out from underneath my feet. I'm a brute and I'm not a man. I don't have human understanding. It's interesting that he says I don't have the understanding of the man. I think his point is that humans are meant to know the purpose of life and how to live it skillfully. When we turn to animals, we find they don't know. They act off of instinct, and I understand they can do very what seems like intelligent things, but they haven't worked out a life philosophy. Some animals are smarter than others, maybe you've been tricked into thinking they have, but they haven't. David says something similar to this in reference, I'm the worm and I'm not a man. He references himself to a creature that's not worthy of any Particularly of the way a human life should be, and it's the same thing here. I don't have the understanding of a man. I'm more stupid than any man. And some of your translations say I'm like an animal. He has become like an animal because he doesn't know what it means to live life. He doesn't have certainty about his morals and about religion. He's become a mere animal. He feels like an animal. And that's the first confession you see there in two. Surely I'm more stupid than any man, like an animal. I don't have the understanding of a man, but like an animal. Confession too is I have not attained to the knowledge of the Holy One. His secular professors knew theories about God, but they were it unable to introduce Agor to Yahweh personally. I remember watching a college freshman struggle with not knowing his place within the universe. He went to the Bible teacher in the college seeking for a for personal knowledge of God. And the professor says, I just teach the Bible as literature. I can't introduce you to God. That's his experience here. It's his confession. Through this education, he couldn't arrive at it. Innately, he tried to work these things out, having monologues. But he wasn't able to do that. Just as none of his professors were, there was nothing personal. And this is the reality of his weakness, innately and through education outside of God's covenant people. And this is the confession of our culture. This is exactly what has taken place. The culture shifted. The tectonic shift plates have moved. They're already settled in another place. I want to give you an example of the tectonic move within our culture on how we've moved from a place of certainty because we used to rely on God to a place of ultimate existential human weakness. With no certainty. Listen to this. What do you think of Harvard University? A haven for godliness? I want you to listen to their student handbook. They first opened. Let every student be plainly instructed and earnestly pressed to consider well the main end of his life And studies is to know God and Jesus Christ, which is eternal life, and therefore to place Christ in the foundation as the only foundation of all sound knowledge and learning. And seeing the Lord only gives wisdom, let every one seriously set himself by prayer in secret to seek it of him Everyone shall so exercise himself, the student body, in reading the scriptures twice a day That he shall be ready to give such an account of his proficiency therein, both in theoretical observations of language and logic, and in practical and spiritual truths, as is his tutor shall require, according to his ability Seeing the entrance of the word giveth light. It giveth understanding to the simple. That's from the Harvard Handbook And I only say that because you can see clearly, without me citing the handbook now, the change that has taken place. And it has resulted in uncertainty. And this is what it looks like in our culture. We still have theology, we still have religion, but they are survey courses. There's survey courses of comparative religion because no one knows which religion would be right, so let's just study them all as a kind of historical interest. It's like if you don't know what to eat, go to Golden Corral, because they have everything. Or don't because you might die. Yeah. In this case, when you turn your back on God, you are limited to your Your personal observations innately, your observations outwardly, or the innate and outward observations of other people throughout history. Which means that you are limited by your finite knowledge and you have no Certainty, which is where we are. It's exactly where we are. And you can feel it, youth. This is what you feel. When you feel confused and you're not sure which direction to go, this is why. Because you are marinated in a culture that does not know. It's called postmodernism. It is limited to those personal observations and therefore can't know which is true, and so we'll just take a survey of them all and believe none Or be committed to none. And if we're going to come up with public policies as a government, because life has to go on even if there is no certainty in our theoretical system What we're going to do is what works short term to accomplish a short-term task, what is most desired by most of the public in this particular age, which will change in the next age. That's why you see the government polys that are present now. It's not based on a sense of duty or right or wrong or obligation. That's not the conversation anymore. It's what is the greatest desire and what what is Most prudent at the time for things we want later. There are no, this is what I'm saying, and this is what Agor is saying. When I did my secular education, when I looked inside, when I looked to my professors, there were no absolutes. That is human weakness. And actually, the existential philosophers that were true to themselves, like Jean-Paul Sartre, most of them committing suicide. They got it right. If you do not have God, if God is dead, you cannot know anything for certain. And Agor is saying the same thing. That's why Nietzsche and his prophet come down out of the hills, and he says, Well that God is dead, we may know nothing. The only thing that matters is who is stronger. The will to power. And that's his book. And that's what Agor is saying here in his autobiography. Somewhere along the way, however. I don't know if there was an intervarsity meeting for Agor. I imagine that it was Reform University Fellowship. But somewhere along the way, Agor came to the realization that in order to surpass this difficulty, he needed comprehensive of knowledge. He needed knowledge of everything in order to be certain about anything. And so he enters into discovering the one who is omniscient. And it is through God's strength and his omniscience and through these rhetorical questioning that we see next that we can enter into the way in which the church will prevail And not remain in uncertainty. So now we move to the second main point, which is God's strength. Yahweh is the strong, omniscient creator and sustainer. And you can see this in the little stanza of verse 4. Who has ascended into heaven or descended? Who has gathered the wind in his face? fists, who has bound the waters in a garment, who has established all the ends of the earth? What is his name and what is his son name? And it should say, Surely you know, not if you know No. Surely you know. Now those are rhetorical questions. He expects an answer back with the right answer. Those are rhetorical questions to Ithiel, his son. You know, this isn't the canon of the of the covenant people of God. You know the answer to this. Now I want to point out to you that there's some Hebrew poetics. I didn't put a cute little picture in the bulletin for you this week, I don't think. But I do want to point out to you just the structure here so you can see the real uh point that he's trying to bring out. Notice here it says who has ascended into heaven or descended. And that needs to be coupled with who has established all the ends of the earth so that we have an hour frame. With two verses left in the center. Do you see that? Who has ascended into heaven or descended? And then you have two ver two questions, and then there's the outer frame. Who has established all the ends of the earth You can set this up as a as one of those poetic devices of chiasm. Okay. There's a and then in the center is who has gathered the winds of his fists? Who has bound the waters in a garment? That's the center. And he's making two main points that we've already seen in this book. The first point: who has ascended in the heavens or descended, and who has established all the ends of the earth? This is the vertical axis He's saying, who has the vantage point of being able to see everything from heaven? Who is it that established and knows everything to the ends of the earth? That's what's being pointed out here. And then you have him well up in the heaven is his perspective. He can see, and therefore he knows everything. He has established it. It refers to the creation of the cosmos. And you can see that these type of things were brought up again. Let's just flip back to Proverbs chapter 7, verse 6. I want to show you where this same language was used again This is excellent. For anyone who struggles in living in this culture of postmodernity, this is your passage. Proverbs 7:6. For at the window of my house I looked through my lattice, and saw among the simple, I perceived among the youths, a man, a young man devoid of understanding, passing along the street Near her corner. This is a picture of the covenant head from a vantage point looking down at someone walking into the grave. He has a vantage point because God has revealed to him certain truth. He's able to see from a heavenly perspective. That's what's going on here. And you see this again with why we would trust in the wisdom and woman wisdom in Proverbs 8 verse 22. Notice how it uses the same language about being around when create when the earth was formed and the ends of the earth were established. The Lord possessed me at the beginning of his way, before his works of old. I have been established from everlasting, from the beginning, before there was ever an earth When there were no depths, I was brought forth. When there were no fountains abounding with water, before the mountains were settled, the whole point is that woman's wisdom has been around. She knows everything, has seen everything, and therefore has comprehensive knowledge. And that's the same point that's being made here in these rhetorical questions. The one who on this vertical axis Is able to see and has established and created all things. He is the one that would know. And then in the inner frame, who has gathered the wind in his fist, who has bound the waters in his garments, This has to do with his providence. Not only was there the creation and could see everything, but has been aware of all of the minutiae, of everything that has ever happened in the cosmos from that day forward. That's the point. Weather patterns and water cycles that keep the earth going. Flip to Proverbs chapter 3, verse 20, and you'll hopefully this will bring back, I prayed for your memory this morning. So hopefully this will bring back to memory what we have said here. The Lord, by wisdom, founded the earth. By understanding, he established the heavens. There's that vertical axis, and now we see the horizontal axis. By his knowledge, the depths were broken up, and clouds dropped down the dew. speaking of his providence. The same thing is being brought out again here. He sustains and he withholds. And therefore, the outer verses deal with his omniscience as the creator, and the inner verses deal with his omniscience as the sustainer. We're dealing with one who knows everything. Every detail at the atomic or whatever level we're at these days, Jaguar level, whatever it is. He knows. And I want to point out one last thing to you. In Job chapter 28, verse 20, the exact same argument is made. Job chapter 28, starting in verse 20. From where then does wisdom come? And where is the place of understanding? It is hidden from the eyes of all living. You see that? The autobiographical comment there? It is hidden from the eyes of all the living and concealed from the birds of the air. They can't get high enough. They're still below the firmament in the human Hebrew, they're still below the sky. In the atmosphere. Even the birds can't see it. Destruction and death, if you were to go the opposite way, all the way down, destruction and death say we have heard a report about it with our ears. God understands its way. And he knows its place. Now here it is. For he looks to the end of the earth and sees under the whole heavens. Now here it is. That's the creator part. Now here's the sustainer part. To establish a weight for the wind and a port and apportion the waters by measure. When he made a law for the rain and a path for the thunderbolt. Then he saw wisdom and declared it. He prepared it indeed. He searched it out. And to man he said, Behold, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom, and to depart from evil is understanding. We have in these rhetorical questions and through the autobiography of Agor run into one who has comprehensive knowledge, who will solve the epistemological dilemma of our culture. Humans fail to find wisdom innately and through human science because it cannot be comprehensive. However, Yahweh has comprehensive knowledge. So Agor encourages Ithiel That in order to have any way of knowing, to know how to live, he must turn to Yahweh in commitment. And go to God's strength instead of human weakness. To enter into this strength, the next point under God's strength, to enter into his strength, you must make this your commitment and confession. That's what it says here. In the final verses of that poetic portion of verse 4, what is his name and what is his son's name? Surely you know What is his name and what is the name of his son? Surely you know. Who is the son? Saying this to a room full of Christians, everyone thinks Jesus immediately. We have got to be careful we can get to Jesus, but we have got to start here with what it means, particularly in this book of the Proverbs. You have to ask because in Proverbs it is the Son who learns, and it is the Father who learns. Father who knows. And so the Son, first and foremost, is the disciple who is present within this book. In this case, it would be Ithiel. He is the Son. In a larger extent, we'd have to say that the Son is Israel because of Exodus 4. The whole covenant community in Exodus 4, I believe it's verse 22, says that you are my son, you are my firstborn son. Israel is known as the Son. And we know that Jesus, being the representative and the true Israel, is the Son. And so we have arrived at Him. And we know that those who are born of Jesus And so the answer to the question here, who is the Son, is all of those above Really, you could summarize it and you could say, for this son, he must realize that you in Christ are the Son. And God must teach you. You must confess that. Surely you know who this is. That's what he's asking him to do. This is a meaty commitment and confession at this point To grab hold of the strength of God, to move out of human weakness, you cannot intellectually assent. There has to be a true commitment. He brings his son Ithiel to a point of decision-making. Surely you know. I want to hear it out of your mouth. Who is the one that I talk about when I ask these rhetorical questions? Is it you? Is it your professors? Will it ever be any man or woman that has comprehensive knowledge and that can show you how to live? Where must you turn if you truly want to know about life? He's going to force it out of the sun. The sun will have to say something at this point. He has to join Agar in his autobiographical confession. Here the Son is called upon to confess what the people of God confess. He would have to say, Father, it is Yahweh. He is the only true God, and he probably would recite the Shema from Deuteronomy. It would be a true confession coming out of the heart of the Son, Yahweh, and we know with further revelation that we can confess the full doctrine of the Trinity at this point, the church. We are the Son, because we are in the Son. And now we are the disciples, and the Father is teaching us because that's the only place true knowledge where we can find true knowledge. And so we would say At this point of decision making, I believe in God the Father Almighty, maker of heaven and earth, and in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord, who was conceived by the Holy Ghost born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Platius Pilate, was crucified, dead, and buried. He descended into hell. The third day he arose again from the dead. He ascended into heaven and sits at the right hand of God, the Father Almighty From thence he shall come to judge the quick and the dead. And I believe in the Holy Ghost. That would be your confession as a disciple. Coming to the point of maturity and the right of manhood or womanhood is this confession would flow from your mouth. You're being led by Agar into true discipleship. And this confession, notice, it moves from intellectual categories into relational categories. It no longer says you must know Yahweh You must be with him relationally. What is his name? And what is his son's name? Surely you know It's not about knowing wisdom at this point, is what I'm trying to say. Or abstract concepts. In other words, it's not what you know It's who you know. In the end, it's who you know, not what you know. And that makes all the difference in the world Now the question is, how do we have access to the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit's comprehensive knowledge? If God is in heaven and we are on earth, how could we tap into knowing how to live our lives? Francis Schaefer has put it this way: God is there, and he is not silent. He has spoken to us. Take a look at the next verse. That's what he's saying here. Every word of God is flawless. Every word of God is pure. Every word of God is infallible. You can turn to the Word of God. He is a shield to those who put their trust in Him. And do not add to His words lest He rebuke you, because you will be the one that's found out to be A liar because he's the one with comprehensive knowledge. You have nothing to add. Every word of God is flawless. You know, this is actually a quote from the words of David, Psalm 18, verse 30. He's telling you if you want to have knowledge, certain knowledge of how you should live your life, turn to the can of the scripture delivered to you by the Spirit of certainty through prophets and apostles This places Agor himself in a state of inspiration, giving you an oracle in a prophetic burden, telling you from a state of inspiration what you can trust, which is the scriptures. The prophets, the apostles, the Old Testament, and the New Testament canon. This canon, verse 6, is the only authority we are not to add or to take away, since a human by nature does not have wisdom. Only those to whom God, the omniscient one, has Communicated has ultimate authority, and only their words have certainty. That we might trust in our scriptures to know how to live our lives Because the one who has comprehensive knowledge has spoken to us in them. And that is the solution to our postmodern dilemma right here in the autobiography of Agor. Who would have guessed a guy named Agor could solve our problems Think of this as a ladder as we come to an end. The first run was this. People have failed to find out how to behave. They don't know how to live life. That's where we are right now in our culture. They can't on their own find absolute knowledge. We are weary. Here's the third rung of the ladder. Only the Trinity has the comprehensive knowledge to make those kinds of evaluations. Fourth rung of the ladder. We must enter into deep relationship with him. We must confess that he is the one that knows, and that in our commitment to him it shows that we truly believe that he has the words of truth. And that his truth sets us free. We must confess the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit to be our God, and that we are his disciple That's what it would mean, those of you who are considering entering into the church and becoming Christians, that's what it means for you to become a disciple of Jesus Christ. is you commit that he has all of the words of truth and you will lean on him and you will build your life on him, everything that he communicates to you. Father, Son, and Spirit. Now let me end with a final application or really just an analogy to bring this home. This has been a pretty heady sermon. Agor's a philosophy major, so I didn't expect less. But I heard a professor relay a story that really connects to this. Most of you here, I believe, know of Westminster Theological Seminary. And then I believe on campus all the buildings are built around or encircle the main library. And being a seminary, the library and all of the research there, the professors' offices were located. There. It's the center. It's very important. And so when the job was given to architects, it would be given to the best architects, and they would apply all of their wisdom to making sure that this was the perfect building. There was a student that attended Westminster Theological Seminary who was also trained in the science of radon gas. And he tested for the government places, and he decided while he was a student at Westminster Theological Seminary that he would just have fun and test the library. So he brought in his radon gas test. Now let me give you a picture of this. In the atmosphere that you're breathing right now, there are four pico curates of radon. A chain smoker has 200 picocurries of radon a day. A uranium worker has four hundred picocurries a day. I think every year you have to take off the detox detoxify from a uranium mine. When he checked the library, he read 4,000 pieces. Eco Cures, present there of radon gas. What the architects could not see because they do not have comprehensive knowledge Is that forty miles below the building there was a break a fracture in the Earth's crust and it was releasing radon gas like nothing else. They had to develop a ventilation system so that it event out of the building. It's a picture of the human life without God. You will build your life. If you do not have God, you will build your life But in the end, you will find that it was not wise and it was a total mistake. Because you didn't know. You did your best as a human, but humans are weak and finite. You do not have comprehensive knowledge. You do not know what life is about or how to live it unless you have comprehensive knowledge Knowledge, evidenced here in the building by the greatest architects of this building. You will build unwisely unless you embrace in a committed relationship The one who has comprehensive knowledge, who is the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Although you are weak in figuring out how to live this life through the Trinity and His comprehensive knowledge, you can prevail. Please pray with me. Father, what is man that you are mindful of him? We thank you that you have communicated to us. We thank you for all of the ways That you have given your will to us, that you have shared your comprehensive knowledge with us. And we thank you most of all, Son of God, for taking on human flesh and revealing yourself to us for bringing heaven to earth. And we thank you that as you are now exalted to the right hand of the Father, you have sent heaven to earth again Again in your spirit, who is teaching us from your cons of comprehensive reservoir of knowledge, showing us where our salvation lies. And where truth lies and how we are to treat one another and how we are to think of ourselves. We thank you, Father, that you don't offer us comparative religion or survey courses. We thank you that you know. And I pray, Father, for this congregation, that they would build their life upon you, the rock that does not fail, despite the storms and the seas, and the ship Shifting currents of scientific information. And I pray these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen.