Then Jesus came from Galilee to John at the Jordan to be baptized by him. And John tried to prevent him saying, I need to be baptized by you, and you are coming to me But Jesus answered and said to him, Permit it to be so now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. And then he allowed him. When he had been baptized, Jesus came up immediately from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and alighting upon him And suddenly a voice came from heaven saying, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your witness here recorded for us under the superintendence of the Holy Spirit. I pray, Lord, that your word would go out and it would be effective. There is nothing that can withstand you. There is no one that can keep you from your way. And I pray, Lord, that your way here this evening would be to glorify yourself by reminding your congregation of their salvation, deepening their love for your son. and even saving others for the first time here today. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. In chapter three, you already notice a difference if you have been here for chapter one and chapter two. If you haven't been here for chapter one and chapter two. I wonder if you've already read those chapters before within your life. If you're not, or if you if you were not here or you haven't read those chapters, you'll notice that there is a a stark contrast between chapters one and two and chapter three. I was just reading uh a commentary on the book of Matthew and this gentleman in in meditating on these verses said that in ver in chapters one and two It was as if Jesus was buried alive. Why would he say something like that? What what observation is he is he making? What is he looking at when he makes that observation? He what he's looking at is that Jesus and his birth is largely hidden from the public world If you were to think of the contrasts in the first two chapters, you see people like Herod or the scribes and the Pharisees living in splendor and royalty with names that are known In palaces that can be seen for miles. And with Jesus, though He is revealed to be, to have all authority in heaven and earth, You read whether it's Matthew or Mark or Luke or John, you read that his beginnings are small. The scribes and the Pharisees, or really Herod, doesn't even remember where Jesus will be born. He needs to turn to experts for that on prophecy. They Joseph and Mary have to move Jesus around from one town to the next, and then they locate themselves in a know-nothing town called Nazareth. But then when we get to chapter three, you'll notice when I when I read that to you, it begins with then Then Jesus came from Galilee to John at the Jordan to be baptized by him. And this marks a real difference in what is being given to you by the Holy Spirit, and that is That Jesus was never meant to remain small. He was never meant to remain hidden. He was never meant to remain buried alive, so to speak. He was always meant to be known by the whole world. We already saw hints of that with the prophecies that have been lining up. That though he had small beginnings, this is something's different is going on here. And now in chapter number three we see that in spades. that though Jesus lay largely hidden, he is now going public. You know it reminds me. of being in uh darkness. And then there being a great light that appears And that reminded me of a time that I had in our camping trip as a church. Each time we go up to Covenant Village, there are several of us, if not all of us, that are always looking forward to finally being able to see part of the sky that God has created without light pollution to be able to trace out the constellations, to identify this or that. But the difficulty was is that it had been raining all day long and there were just grace gray clouds overhead. And I remember saying to someone, do you think we could get get together tonight and are we going to go ahead and and look at constellations like we normally do and to see the stars? And they say no because there's clouds constantly overhead and it's been raining all day long. And then we both looked up And we realized that the rain had ended, the clouds started to part, and you could see the stars shining through in all of their glory. And that parting of those clouds, being able to see a light in the midst of darkness, and joy instead of the gloom of rain, that's chapter three. Chapter 3 is Jesus finally coming out of hiding and moving into the public realm. Now, the Holy Spirit is not just giving this to you as just a cute history book for you to know about people that are going on in the past. This is for everybody in the world, including you. I just want you to, before I even move on to the next verses, I want you to think about what it means that Jesus has decided to make himself known. Do you know how many people now know about Jesus? You know he's not hiding any longer. I find that no matter where I go, people know his name. They may reject him. There might be a whole host of different things that they do with him, but they know him. They know about him, at the very least. And so we see that This is just the beginning here within our scriptures, and it has enlarged and become the greatest tree in the garden. The Holy Spirit continues with the rest of these verses where Jesus now is going public and now people have to deal with him. Really, everything else that I'm going to say to you here this evening is just answering the question in some ways, because it's too big to answer in all ways, but in some ways I just want to ask the question, how are we supposed to relate to him? And those are the ans those are the kinds of we get those kinds of answers here from this passage. We first see John relating to him. And we see God the Father relating to him. And you know what? You're going to need to relate to him. In verses 14 and 15, the very first thing that John does when Jesus comes to baptize him is something that all of the disciples have done. John says in verse number 14, he said, John tried to prevent him saying, I need to be baptized by you, and you are coming to me And that really gets at a kind of basic human impulse. I mean, it is nice that John understands the rank, right? It's nice that John understands his place within this whole picture. When John at another place says, I'm not even worthy to carry Jesus' sandals. That's true But Jesus doesn't allow John to stop there. Jesus takes him further because in verse number fifteen, Jesus says to John, but uh Jesus answered and said to him, Permit it to be so now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness, and then he allowed him. Does that remind you of anybody? Someone who is saying, you're too grand. In order for me to do this or for you to serve me, so let me just serve you the whole time. Does that remind you of any other Bible character, by the way? This is exactly what happened on the night in which the Lord's Supper was instituted. You could read about it in the Gospel of John where Jesus went to wash Peter's feet and Peter had a major problem with that. But Jesus said to him, unless I wash you, you cannot be clean. And that's really the first place that we have to stop. I understand from my own experiences in my own heart the desire that I have to serve Christ. He's given me that desire. I know that if you had any honor and dignity for Christ, that you would want to make sure that he is honored. But the big thing in being able to relate to him truly that Jesus himself brings out here by way of the Holy Spirit is that unless Jesus serves you, then God's will cannot be done. And that's a big flip, isn't it? Do you know you need Jesus to serve you more than Jesus needs you to serve him? That's what John has to learn here. That's what Peter had to learn. Is that we are going to have to learn that we must receive the service of Jesus Christ. If all righteousness is to be fulfilled. You need him I sometimes wonder if you think, well yeah, but I I just need him for now. And then there's going to come a time where, you know, like when we see him in the second advent, what what will happen is we'll all serve him. But then I was just reading in the scriptures, again here today, where it said giving the um the parable of the steward. Where it says that when he returns and he sees all of those who have been serving him in his kingdom, that he will set them down, that he will gird himself, and he will serve us in a feast. And there it is again. This is the first place where we begin to learn in this passage how we're supposed to relate to him, and we're supposed to relate to him in that Whether you like it or not, because of who we are and the problems that we have, Jesus Christ must become our servant. And that story is going to go all the way out that he's going to serve you even to the death. Well, he continues in verse number sixteen. When John finally permits this to be so in order to fulfill all righteousness, understanding that Jesus is the one who has to fulfill all of these laws on our behalf, he must be our substitute. He must be the Lamb of God slain for us. In verse number sixteen he finally goes through with it and when Jesus had been baptized, he came up from the water, perhaps coming up over onto the river bank, and behold, the heavens were open to him. The heavens were open to him. Now if you were to look in the rest of the scriptures as to what's going on here, I'm not talking about clouds parting. We could start to see that there's a resemblance here in what's happening with Jesus and what will happen later in the book of Acts with Stephen. Stephen About to die in the death of a martyr. He looks to the sky and heaven is open to him, and he sees Jesus at the right hand of the Father. And Jesus stands. The heavens open to him. Now you know sometimes we wonder, now that we're able to do all of this travel in space with SpaceX, we think, well, we're going further and further in the galaxy and we still haven't found heaven. There's an assumption here that heaven is uh in the back corner of the universe, and if we finally could get to the back corner, there it was. But when we look in the scriptures as to where heaven is, when heaven opens itself to us It is right there all around us. We have no access to it unless it is opened to us. And here it is open to Christ. It was open to Stephen. We see Old Testament stories where they're in battle and then all of a sudden God is able to see, gives people the ability to see the influence of heaven around them and they look around and there's angels everywhere fighting the battle for them. Heaven had been there on earth the whole time. Now I think it's important that this is happening right away, that the heavens open to Jesus, because what we're beginning to see here is that though heaven and earth have been rent asunder from each other, Because of the things that we have done, it is through Jesus Christ that heaven and earth are going to be brought back together. God and man reconciled. Heaven on earth. Emmanuel, God with us. Once the heavens open The Holy Spirit continues to teach us here by saying that, behold, the heavens were open to him, and then there is this moment that we talked about in the children's sermon. Where Matthew relates to us by the Holy Spirit, he says, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and alighting upon him. The Spirit of God and the dove alighting upon Jesus, who is the Christ. Now that should remind you of a lot of different things within scriptures, and I won't go into all of them, but one for certain that many people recognize is Isaiah 61, verse 1. The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me to preach good tidings to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to those who are bound. The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me because the Lord has anointed me. You see here at this baptism and coming up from the waters, the heavens opening up, and the Holy Spirit revealing himself in the shape of the dove or as a dove, bringing up all of these prophecies of what the Messiah will be and and and the the and what he will be given as gifts from heaven. Here we see this is his anointing, and that his anointing is to go forth in the power of the Spirit to preach not just good tidings, but good tidings to the poor. I think that should be double underlined because of the dove He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to those who are in shackles or those who are bound. And that's why the dove is there. You know, if you were to go ahead and look in your scriptures when the you know when you get some light, if you look there in the scripture, the word is D-O-V-E, dove. And we know what a dove is. But if you think about the the the dove as a thing, as a as a bird that really was there at that time, What the Holy Spirit wants you to do is to ask, why the dove? What was that supposed to mean? Because it means way more than that there's a bird in the story. And that's why I keep quoting this Isaiah passage is that the dove is symbolizing the kind of Messiah that is coming to you. I went over this with the children. He will be talked about as a lion. He will be talked about as a whirlwind, as one who calms the wind and the seas himself. But here, in the beginning of his ministry, as he starts to preach, he is talked about as a dove. Who brings peace and invites you into relationship with him with gentleness. He's not provoking fear That is how he begins. He's capable of so much. But here he places himself before you as the dove so that you would know how to relate to him. When you look back at the garden and you see one of the ways that human beings have chosen, the Garden of Eden, one of the ways that human beings have chosen to relate to him is they they They wreck their relationship with God and other human beings and then they hide. They don't take responsibility for anything. What Jesus is doing here for you now is he's saying you don't need to hide because I'm not approaching you where I want to hurt you. I want to help you. And so the dove is important. And River gave us an excellent example of what a dove sounds like in the children's sermon. A beautiful, peaceful cooing. Now if we continue on in the passage, we are starting to understand how we're supposed to relate to Jesus, especially through this figure of the dove. But in verse number 17, it's not only that we have, start to catch this, it's not only that we have the Son present. And it is not only that we have the Holy Spirit present, we now have a voice from heaven who is God the Father. Who is present? I don't know if you've recognized that before in this passage, but the entire Trinity is here. This is holy ground. If you're wearing sandals, take them off. And suddenly a voice came from heaven saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Now why would he say a thing like that? There are a lot of different reasons on why he would say a thing like that. I think one of the main reasons going through chapter 1, chapter 2, and chapter 3, and all of the rest of the chapters is that what the Holy Spirit is doing here is he's stacking up witnesses. I want you to picture that this is a law court and we're trying to determine Is Jesus God and is He the Christ and the Messiah? And what we're seeing is we're seeing witnesses take the stand. In chapters 1 and 2, we watched a series of prophets take the stand and say, I prophesied about this, and he is the fulfillment of the prophecy. Micah took the stand. Isaiah took the stand. Others took the stand. And now we have here taking the stand the Father Himself. The Son didn't contradict what John had said of him. The Son now is a witness. The Holy Spirit witnesses in anointing him just as the prophecy foretold. The Holy Spirit now takes the stand and he is a witness. And all you need are two or three witnesses in order to establish a fact. But the witnesses keep taking the stand and taking the stand and taking the stand, showing again how you're supposed to relate to this one who was basically buried alive, but now is going public. You're to relate to him as believe it. God has taken on flesh God has taken on flesh, and He is the Savior of the world. He is God with us. I think he uh gives all of the different witnesses as just another way for us to be able to move closer to him. He gave you the dove to do that, right? I don't want to go, I want to hide from him because I'm afraid. But then he he says, well, I'm I'm lowly and meek and gentle. Come to me. And then you say, but so many different people debate this, and so many different philosophers have said this one thing or another thing. And so he says, well consider all of the witnesses that I bring to testify who I am. The Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, all of the prophets and the apostles, all testifying to the same thing. And he testifies to that so that not only would you move you would start to move closer because fear has been dismissed, but you'd also be able to move closer because you're you're losing your doubts. If you were to look through this gospel, I'd encourage you to keep reading it. You'll notice that crowds form around Jesus. Let me just ask you, if it if if Jesus, if you were able to be there and you could be a part of the crowd, Would you stay out there on the fringes? Would you press forward in order to be close to him? Where are you right now with regard to this? And what is it that you have to say about where you're located in that crowd relative to all of the witnesses and what they're saying about who Jesus really is? Again, this is how we're to relate to him. We're not to hide, and we're not to have doubts. We are to believe. And we've been given all of the evidence that would be necessary. Witnesses from the Holy Spirit, the prophets, apostles, God the Father, the Son Himself. What greater witnesses could you have? John the Baptist? He's described earlier in the chapter as the one who was anticipated in coming eating locusts and honey. He testifies that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. How many other witnesses do you need to draw close? You know, one of the scariest things right now is that you may not be drawing close to Jesus Christ and acknowledging who he is this Christmas. Not because it's not true. Not because it's not true. But there's something going on inside of you where you don't want to admit that it's true I tell you, here this mor here this evening, at least for now, he still reveals himself to you like a dove. And invite you into his presence. He still approaches you tonight through all of these verses. He still approaches you here tonight with an invitation. He is gentle that you may approach him. He answers your doubts that you may believe him. He is public to the whole world, and there are so many witnesses now in every nation about who Jesus really is. And here, through the preaching and the reading of these scriptures, he's walking off and he's revealing himself to you personally. He's going public to you personally tonight, reminding you who he is and calling you to himself. If he were here, if he were to return and not just be here by way of the spirit, if he were to return If he were to walk down this aisle and push me out of the pulpit 'cause I'm no longer needed, because he's here. Let me just ask you, what would you do? What would you say to him? To his face? Would you deny everything that the scriptures say of him? Is that what you're doing now? I asked my children this question because in our Advent devotional reading, R. C. Sprohl asked us this question. I went around the table. Most of us said We wouldn't know what to do. We would just cry. And then if you let them talk a little bit longer, they would say, We would cry because we're finally seeing The person that we really love and who has loved us. That's who he really is. That's what it means to start to relate to him well is to realize that he is offering his love to you. And he is drawing you to love him. That's what all of this Christmas stuff is about. It is about hope and peace and joy and especially love. Perhaps he would say something like this based on our passage this evening. Here I am. I am your God, and I am your Savior. Come to me with your sin. Come to me with your fears. Come to me with your misery and find rest for your soul. I am Jesus, who is the Christ. Let us pray.