I was trying to think about Instances of security in the natural natural world. And I saw a clip of a person. They were videotaping a bear cub on their back deck. And maybe you have would have the same reaction that I do. When I see somebody showing a video clip of a little bear cub, I say, watch out. You know mama's not too far away. It's that mama bear effect. We're all aware of it. Perhaps if you haven't seen one of those clips, you've seen a cartoon where there's a little baby bear. And he's sitting there and some wolf or bad actress trying to have a quick snack or something like that. And when you see the little baby bear, you feel, oh no, this poor helpless little creature is going to be devoured. And then what happens? All of a sudden, over top of the baby, this massive shadow. And you realize that baby's not harmless. That baby's not helpless. That baby bear has true security. It should be no surprise to us that this is used so often in films and stories and cartoons, because it's true. And it's not only true in the natural world, in the animal kingdom, it's true for you and for me. If you don't believe me, ask any parent here. They will tell you, it is unwise to come between them and their beloved children. It will not end well for those who seek to do our children harm. So why then, I ask you, do we doubt our Father in heaven? Is he not more powerful than any mama bear or any papa human? Is he not wiser than all of us, knowing how and when to intervene to secure his children? Hasn't God protected his people on countless occasions since the beginning of human history? Well perhaps the real question is, has anything changed? Is now so different? Has God stopped providing this kind of security for his people? Has something changed that would cause those who believe in God to doubt this security? Well, my prayer in preparing to preach this sermon to you this week has been That God would use this Psalm, this passage, Psalm 91, to show us all that in Christ we have true security, which enables fearless confidence in God through His promises. In Christ, we have true security, which enables fearless confidence in God through his promises. We are going to look at this in three ways, and you may have heard the three divisions as I read the passage. We saw that verses one and two are themselves a division, and in that division we'll see the possessor of true security. And then the second division is verses 3 through 13, where we will examine the results of true security. And then together we will close with the guarantee of true security in verses 14 through 16. So let's jump right in, and we'll see that the first thing this psalm shows us is the one who has true security, the possessor of true security, there in verses 1 and 2. And we see in verse one that he has true security because he lives in God. Look at verse 1. He who dwells in the secret place of the Most High. The secret place. This is literally hiding place. And so I'd ask you, where do you keep your treasured possessions? Children, where do you keep the things that are most important to you? You keep them somewhere safe, don't you? Well, think about your parents. Where do your parents keep the things that are most precious to them? Do they make you sleep on the driveway? They don't. They give you a room with a door in a house with walls and locks. Your parents know how to keep what is precious to them safe and secure. And this is true for us as well. Because our Lord knows exactly how to keep us secure. This is the Lord Most High. This is Elona Adonai. Can you imagine anything that can violate God's secret hiding place? What can even find his personal hiding place, let alone break into it and steal or harm what is kept there? This is the one who has true security. He dwells In the secret place of the Most High, and he shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. And I think you see where this is going. If you dwell under God's shadow, for anything to touch you, it must first go through God. The one who possesses true security dwells in God, lives under his shadow in that place of security. And it is not a question to them. They know and they declare that true security is found in God. Look at verse 2. I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress. My God, in Him I will trust. The one who has true security is clear that that security is not found in any specific situation or circumstance or anything else. It is found in God alone. He is my refuge. And the word that's used here by the author, you may recognize it if you're a history buff, it's the same word that King Herod used to name his fortress, the fortress of Masada. And quite literally, it means uh a mountaintop or summit. Refuge is is like a shelter. A shelter where you would flee if there was a storm or something. So what we are being communicated is that we can go to God and flee to Him when we're in times of trouble. He is a fortress. Nothing can get in He is a shelter. And you can and should, whenever you find yourself in a time of trouble, flee to the Lord God. Flee to Him as though a shelter that can keep you from being harmed by the storm Or flee to the fortress, to the mountaintop, to the summit, where nothing can reach you. He says, My God, in him I will trust. And that should sound familiar to us. Because this confession advances to a very important declaration. The security that the psalmist is talking about is based on the covenant of God. It's his promise, old and new. And this has always been the source of security for God's people. Think about Genesis 7:7, where it says, And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your descendants after you in their generations, for an everlasting covenant. to be God to you and your descendants after you. Or think about how it's stated in Jeremiah 31 and 32. I will be their God and they shall be my people, or they shall be my people, and I will be their God. This covenant promise. Is our claim to true security. And it is exactly the same as the psalmists. Romans 8, verses 14 to 15 say: For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are sons of God. For you did not receive the spirit of bondage again to fear, but you received the spirit of adoption, by whom we cry out, Abba, Father Or 1 John 4, verses 15 and 16 say: whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God. And we have known and believed. The love that God has for us. God is love, and he who abides in love abides in God and God in him. And since we abide in God through Christ, though we were dead in our trespasses and sins, he has made us alive together with Christ. By grace you've been saved. Then what can possibly get to us? We dwell in him, in his secret place. We live and breathe and have our being under his shadow. What can touch you? Should you fear anything in this life at all? Do you have what you really need to persevere through all the adversity and challenges that will come your way? Well, here we will see, in these words, that the Holy Spirit has preserved for us, that there are some results of having true security. There are results of being the one who lives. Under the shadow of the Almighty, and they are fearlessness and confidence. These are the results of true security. And we're going to look at these together in verses three through thirteen. We'll first start by looking at verses three through eight And we will see that true security produces fearlessness. And this fearlessness, all of it, rests on who God is. and what he does, because he is our security. Look at verses 3 and 4. Surely he shall deliver you from the snare of the fowler. And from the perilous pestilence, he shall cover you with his feathers, and under his wings you shall take refuge. His truth shall be your shield and buckler. This Hebrew verb for deliver is in a very specific form. And this form is best rendered or translated as cause to be. So we can understand this as God will cause you to be delivered. And I think it's a helpful distinction for us because sometimes we don't get an instantaneous, miraculous intervention, do we? Sometimes when we are in a time of trouble, God doesn't just reach down supernaturally into our lives, pluck us up out of the trouble, put us somewhere else, and we're fine. That's usually not how it happens. Sometimes we have to wait. Sometimes we have to endure a long time of difficulty. Sometimes we have to pray fervently until all of a sudden. Though we may not have been entirely aware of it, we realize that the God has caused us to be delivered. Somewhere along the line, he caused us to be delivered from our difficulty, though we may have missed it when it actually happened. And from what does God cause us to be delivered? It says here for us, it's the fowler's snare. And that can be taken to mean the traps and the pits. Of Satan himself, of the enemy, which he lays for us, trying to tempt us away from trusting our God. The perilous pestilence is death. And you are blessed beyond what even this psalmist knew, for you know that the Messiah has come, and that this is now true for all who are in Christ Jesus. Though the wages of sin is death, you have been given the gift of eternal life through the Lord Jesus Christ. Because of all that He has done We are now counted as God's beloved children. We are his little chicks, and we are protected by his powerful pinions, his feathers, his wings. And just like a little chick, we're not only protected from enemies who would come and harm us, we are protected from the sin and the misery of this world. Little chicks would have been protected by their mother's wings from rain and wind and cold. And the Lord protects us from the misery of this fallen world. No matter how bad things are going for a child of God, it would be far worse to try to endure that same trial. Without the presence of our God, without his sovereign protection. In addition to this protected and guarded place, the refuge of God's wings, he gives us a means Of defending ourselves against the attacks that will come at us on our level. He gives us his truth And we can wield his truth, his faithfulness, to block the attacks of all the competing religions and ideologies and worldviews. We take up the shield of faith. Which Ephesians 6 tells us is capable of quenching all the fiery darts of the enemy. And so we have true security living in God because of who He is. and what he does, and thus we can be fearless. Look at verses five and six. It starts by saying, you shall not be afraid. That's where we get the fearlessness. You shall not be afraid. And what shall we not be afraid of? The terror by night. Now I don't need to see a show of hands, but I just ask, has anyone in this room ever been afraid of the dark? I know of at least one person. Two, now since Charlie did raise his hand. All of us have gone through a period of time, most likely, where the dark was terrifying and frightening. And this is natural. Because the dark hides things. What is in the dark is hidden from us. We don't know what could be lurking there. We don't know what could harm us. But because of who God is and what he has done, you no longer have to be afraid of all the unknown things out there that could come and harm you. They have to get through God first. So we don't need to be afraid of the terror by night, nor of the arrow that flies by day. And this is the opposite end of the spectrum from the terror by night. Arrows, we know exactly what arrows are, don't we? We know what they're designed for. They're designed to poke holes in things. They're designed to harm. We know what they will do to us. And what happens in the daytime is no secret. If it happens in the daytime, you can see it coming. And so because of who God is and what he's done, you no longer have to be afraid of all the many things that you know could harm you. You don't even have to be afraid of those things that you can see clearly around you that can harm you. He also says that we don't need to be afraid of the pestilence that walks in darkness. Now, I hope you see what the psalmist is doing. He's advancing us through the thought, and he's using a typical Hebrew idiom called parallelism, where he sort of repeats himself. He's using this to drive home the point. He goes from the unknown things that might harm us to the known things that will harm us. And now he's repeating back two unknown things, but these are slightly different. They're the unknown things that can kill us. The pestilence that walks in darkness. And this has been the human condition since the fall. There are so many things out there that can kill you. You can't possibly know what all of them are and you don't need to. You don't You don't have to be afraid of the unknown thing that will eventually take your life. If you are under the shadow of the Almighty God, then you know it has to go through Him first. And lastly, you do not need to be afraid of the destruction that lays waste at noonday. This is the final category. And these are those things that we know can kill us, and we see them coming. They aren't an unknown factor. Noonday isn't to be taken literally as though that's exactly the time of day it's going to happen at 12 noon. That's when we see it. Noonday refers to the obviousness. Everyone is able to see it. And we might think of this as like natural disasters, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, the floods that we've been seeing throughout the country in the last few weeks. And some of these events, because of God's gracious gift of technology, we can see these things coming days in advance. But knowing that they're coming doesn't take away their power, does it? Knowing that it's coming doesn't take away the destruction, yet I would remind you any earthquake or volcano or flood, even an extinction level asteroid. In order for it to affect one of God's children, it has to go through him first. We no longer have to be afraid of all these possible known or unknown threats of harm or death, even when we see them all around us. And we don't have to be afraid of these because we understand what's happening. Look at verses 7 and 8 with me. It says, A thousand may fall at your side, and ten thousand at your right hand, but it shall not come near you. We watch these things happen, diseases, disasters, explosions, things happening in the news, and yet we do not have to be afraid of them. We understand God's special protection of his beloved people. We know that he alone decides the time and the manner of our passing into glory. It says, Only with your eyes shall you look and see the reward of the wicked. And when we see the affliction and the destruction around us, it must not lead us to pride or hubris. We must not think that there must be something special in us, that this isn't really affecting us very much. Rather, we must know And recognize that when we see and hear all around us, terrible destruction, difficulties that others are facing, we must recognize that it is God protecting us. He is meeting out the reward of the wicked, and we know that we deserve that very same reward, if not for his grace and mercy. For those who are secure in Christ, we do not have to fear destruction, for we know that the price of our wickedness has been paid We are secure from the ultimate destruction by the atoning sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ. And though we are spared, while we witness others' suffering, it should drive us to repentance. Confession, and thanksgiving, as we recognize God's special care for us. Because of who God is and what he does, we have true security and can be fearless in the face of life's challenges and suffering. But there's another result of true security, and that is confidence. And we'll see this in verses 9 through 13. In God, nothing can touch us. Look at verses 9 through 10. Because you have made the Lord who is my refuge, even the Most High your dwelling place, no evil shall befall you. Nor shall any plague come near your dwelling. Now there's a little bit of tension here as a result of the translation. It can easily be misunderstood as though we do something and what we do is then reciprocated by God then doing something. We make him our dwelling, and he makes no evil befall us or no plague come near us. And this word that's translated because can also properly be translated as surely. And it was translated that way in verse 3. Thus this verse can be read as the ASV translated with the first part as an interjection: Surely you, O Lord, are my refuge. And the next part is then a change. You have made the Most High your dwelling place, a change in speaker. And I think it helps us see that there is no reciprocation being indicated here. This is simply an objective truth. Those who make the Lord their refuge, the Most High is their dwelling place. And he protects them. If you live in God, what evil can break into where you live? What plague can come near your dwelling if your dwelling is the Almighty God? What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? As if that were not enough to produce in us confidence through our true security, the Holy Spirit has included in this psalm Something that should surely embolden us for the Lord. We see here that God uses His tremendous power to preserve us. Look at verses eleven and twelve. For he shall give his angels charge over you, to keep you in all your ways, in their hands they shall bear you up, lest you dash your foot against a stone. His angels are with us, protecting us. Do you remember that account from 2 Kings 6 when Elisha's servant went out and saw the whole Syrian army camped around them? Do you remember he was terrified? And Elisha says, Do not fear, for those who are with us are more than those who are with them. And Elisha prayed and said, Lord, I pray, open his eyes that he may see. Then the Lord opened the eyes of the young man and he saw, and behold the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha. Can you imagine the kind of confidence that we would have if we were like Elisha knew and could see the armies of the living God all around us? Now we must be careful though. We must be careful to learn the lesson from Matthew chapter 4 and Luke chapter 4 when the enemy himself tried to ensnare our Lord Jesus into sin using these very words. It is this very passage that Satan uses to try to tempt Christ. And what does Jesus answer to him? He says, it is written again, you shall not tempt the Lord your God. And so we must not use these verses as a license to tempt or test the Lord. He has commanded his angels to care for us, to keep us in all our ways. And that truth Must be a shield and buckler for us, the same shield and buckler as it was for Jesus Christ. We do not need to test God to know this is true. We confess and declare that He is our God, our refuge, our shelter. In him we trust. He has said it, and that is enough. And we won't test him. We won't test the angels by foolishly walking around in this world as though we're invincible. Remember, we can still physically die. For the Christian, it is the sting of death which has been removed. God's angels will help us. In their hands they bear us up. No matter what occurs, He will not allow us to fall off the path of righteousness upon which He has placed us. And so that you don't just think this is an Old Testament kind of thing, something that was going on then but isn't anymore, I would point you to Hebrews 1 verse 14. Where in reference to the angels it says, Are they not all ministering spirits sent forth to minister for those who will inherit salvation? Yet again, we cannot use it as a source of pride. It should humble us, that God would send armies of angels to protect us. Lastly, our true security in God produces in us confidence, which strengthens us with the power to conquer our enemies. Look at verse thirteen. You shall tread upon the lion and the cobra, the young lion and the serpent you shall trample underfoot. And these are all different kinds of enemies. The lion is that obvious enemy. It's terrifying and frightening with its large roar, and we know how skillful lions are at killing. The cobra, this could be understood as those sneaky enemies, the snakes. They're venomous. They're hidden. They attack, yet they are deadly. Young lions don't seem like they'd be much of a threat, do they? Yet if you got a hundred young lions altogether, they'd be they'd be a problem for you. And these are those Enemies who, at first glance, they don't look like they're too dangerous, but they're so overwhelmingly numerous that they become a kind of challenge for us. And then this last one, serpent. I prefer the Old King James translation. It says they're dragons. It's the same word that's used in Ezekiel 29, 3, which is translated as monster. And I think that's helpful for us because it helps us see that some of the enemies we face They may seem to be overwhelmingly powerful, so strong that we would have no chance of standing up against them. But I want you to notice what it says here. It doesn't say that you will simply survive the attack of the lion. It doesn't say that you'll make it through the bite of the serpent or the cobra, or that you'll manage to get by alongside the horde of young lions or the dragons. What does it say? You will tread upon them. You will trample them. When the enemies of Christ show themselves His brothers and sisters will not cower in defeat, nor will they limp along and attempt to adjust to a new normal if that new normal is against God's commands. When the time comes, and it surely will, for as it says in 2 Timothy 3. 12, yes, and all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. When it happens that the godly in Christ must stand up to that persecution, you better believe it'll be a triumphant stand. But it's good to remember That a triumphant stand in the church's history hasn't always looked like a triumphant stand to the worldly. Sometimes it looks like thousands upon thousands of Christians losing their physical lives. For their faith. As God's beloved children, we dwell in Him and we have true security because of who He is and what He's done And this security allows the child of God to be fearless and confident in the face of life's many and varied trials. There never needs to be any doubt in the true security of the one who dwells in God. Because it is not based on anything any one of us can do. It is based on the only wholly reliable thing in the entire universe. And we see it in these final verses. We see that it is based on God's promises. God's promises are the guarantee of true security. And let's look at verses 14 through 16. True security is guaranteed because he promises special protection for his people. Look at verse 14. Because he has set his love upon me, therefore I will deliver him. I will set him on high, because he's known my name. Those who love God have the security of his deliverance. He delivers those who love him. And this has a very similar tension as we saw before in verse 9. The first part of this verse can also be translated, surely. Surely in me he has loved, and I will deliver him. The most important thing to take away from this, though, is that this should cause us to spend a focused time and energy examining ourselves Examining our own thoughts and our own desires and our own hearts to know whether or not we truly are setting our love upon the living God. And the second part of this verse is clear. To know God's name is to know God. And this is not a trivial thing. It is the most important pursuit of your entire life, for it will never fail to be a fruitful exercise. As you can see here, knowing God is not without benefits. Those who know God have the security of his protection. He exalts them, he sets them on high above danger. And though we may endure difficulty for a time, this is absolutely clear. We are not in danger The chastening of God, it's never pleasant at the time, but painful, yet it produces a harvest of righteousness and peace in those who've been trained by it. Just as our children, when they get a little wacky in their brains and they have to endure a little bit of chastening difficulty on their backsides, they're not in danger. They just need a little bit of redirection. And sometimes God organizes our lives to redirect us away from bad paths, away from bad decisions. You who know God do not need to fear. You can be confident in what He has said He will do. I ask you, if you have a doubt about this, find an older Christian who's been living this way for a while and ask them, and they'll tell you it's true. That they've gone through periods of ups and downs, yet the Lord is constant in his faithfulness, delivering them through all their trials. True security is guaranteed because God promises his special attention and his presence. Look at verse 15. He shall call upon me, and I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble. I will deliver him. And honor him. God's people have the security of his attention. There's never a danger that the Lord of heaven and earth will be distracted or absent. God cannot be defunded. If you call upon him in faith, look at what he says he will do, he will answer. God's people have the security of his attention, and they have the security of his powerful presence. There is nowhere you can go. There is nowhere you can be forced to go that will separate you from God. There's no decree. There's no law. No government can make a statement. There's no custom of society. There's nothing at all which can separate you from the love of God our Father. Lastly, true security is guaranteed because God promises satisfaction and salvation. Look at verse sixteen. With long life I will satisfy him and show him my salvation. God causes his people to be satisfied with a long life. And literally it's translated here, literally it's length of days. And again, we have this specific verb form that means cause to be. And that helps us understand that this is not a promise that all believers will live a long time here in this world. It's not a promise that Christians will live longer than non-Christians. No, this is actually a far more marvelous and significant and amazing promise than even that. The promise of God is that the one who dwells in him, who is truly secure, who's fearless and confident because of who God is and what he's done, who loves him and knows him, who calls out to him in times of trouble, this person will be satisfied with whatever length of days God gives them. And that is made only more astounding by the further promise that God causes his people to see his salvation. There's no end. It never ends the blessings that God bestows upon his people. No matter how long they live, they will be satisfied. And when they do die, they will be saved from the destruction that awaits all sin and evil. It's no mistake that God told Mary to name her son Yeshua. That's the same word used here. Jesus is so named because he is Jehovah's salvation. Is there any better promise than that God will cause you to be satisfied with the length of days you have? And that he will cause you to be saved when those length of days are over. Well, brothers and sisters, do you feel like you have this true security? Does who God is and what He has done alleviate your fears and give you confidence to navigate all the difficulties of your life? Is your hope for the future and for this s security because of anything you have done or are planning to do? Or do you trust in his promises alone as the guarantee of your security? I know this isn't news to you. I know it's not the first time you're hearing this. But I never weary of repeating the magnificent and majestic promises of God. Brothers and sisters, nothing else can save you except Jesus Christ. You have no security in anything except in Jesus Christ. If you have never cried out to God and begged Him to cause you to see His salvation, then that's what you need to do right away. If the kind of security that this psalmist describes is totally foreign to you, I encourage you, don't let another day go by. Call the officers of this church. Get in touch with Pastor Jesse. Have a conversation with us. Let us help you see what God is doing in your life. It may be one of the most important conversations you ever have. But now I speak to those of you who do not doubt, who have been shown your salvation, who have long believed in God and in his gospel. You who are growing in grace, pursuing the Lord and seeking to live according to his love, I encourage you, I exhort you Do not cheat God of his glory by putting your hope for security in anything else. Nothing else can save you. Only Jesus Christ. There is no court, no court decision, no president, prime minister, or king. There is no congressional majority that can save you or give you security. There's no political system, there's no government program, there's no doctor or attorney or special counsel fill in the blank. There is nothing which can spare you the challenges and difficulties of this life and grant you the true security you need to get through them. All these things that I've mentioned, they can work. God works through secondary means. He does it all the time. He will continue to do it. He will bring about his glory and his will through these other institutions. But we must not look to those secondary means as the source of our hope and security. We must recognize that they only are effective if God ordains them to be When in your trials and suffering, do not doubt. Do not ask, where is God in all this? How will I ever survive? Will this ever end? Instead, I encourage you, as the psalmist says, say to yourself, Jehovah is my refuge. Jehovah is my fortress, my God, in him I will trust. His promises are sure, and they are all fulfilled for you in Jesus Christ. Here before used the proof. The bread, the wine. His promise is signified to us. His body broken to atone for our sins. His blood shed as the seal of the new covenant, which is made effectual unto our salvation by the Holy Spirit. Through the gift of faith that He has placed in your heart. God has proved He has great love for you. And the proof is right here: the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. In this covenant, we have true security. By the Holy Spirit, I pray that we would be strengthened unto fearless confidence in our God. through his faithful promises. Our God has done this. It is marvelous in our eyes. Please pray with me.