O God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, this is a time to that we have set aside to celebrate the great work that you have accomplished in the sending of your Son and His first Advent and also looking forward to his second Advent. Oh Father, I pray that you would work this evening, this Christmas Eve, through your preached word. I pray that you would take these words and that you would carry them into the hearts of the people sitting here. I pray that you would do the work that only you can do. That you would convict us of sin and you would show us where to find forgiveness. And I ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. This is the final sermon for the Christmas and the Advent series. There's been an image that we've been working with. At least is uh that uh there's several different images, and the image that I brought up uh this past Sunday was the image from a boyhood memory. This is the image of a snowstorm that had left uh at least a foot of snow on the ground. And I was I lived in a country area, just catching you all up who weren't here last Sunday. And I went out and I followed deer tracks in the snow. And the tracks led me deep into the forest, into a clearing And as I stepped into the clearing and looked around, I saw that there were many trails or tracks all leading to the center. It was a kind of gathering place for deer in the forest. And I likened that to what has been going on in the Gospel of Matthew. From the beginning in chapter one, we've seen Matthew quoting different prophecies from of old. And I likened the prophecies to tracks that we would follow to a central clearing. We had prophecies that went as far back as Adam and Eve in the garden in Genesis 3. 15. We had prophecies from Abraham. We had prophecies with David and his the Davidic dynasty consummating. And a final king. Last week, this past Sunday, we had prophecies from Hosea and Jeremiah and Isaiah. You see how many trails of tracks there are leading to a center? And the most important part of the series so far is that when we get to that center, when we get to that clearing in the center of the forest, With all of the tracts of prophecy, is we find a single person, and his name is Jesus, and he is declared to be the Christ or the King Given all authority in heaven and on earth, the one that we've all been looking for. Now when I just read to you from chapter three, It feels like we jumped out of Christmas stories. Because I started talking to you about John the Baptist. And all of a sudden, it's some hairy guy eating locusts and honey. He just kind of honestly when I read about John the Baptist on these pages, I just think he sounds crazy It doesn't sound like a birth narrative or a Christmas narrative any longer, but here's the thing, it actually is a continuation with even more emphasis than the prophetic tracts, because here's the connection We have here in this passage with John the Baptist not just prophetic tracks that lead to Christ. We have come face to face with a prophet himself. Who is pointing you to the same one again who is Jesus the Christ. And he's doing that, and this is why Matthew has him here in his gospel. Because God has planned even this evening for you that John the Baptist would prepare you to meet Jesus. And that's why you're here tonight. You're here tonight, by the will of God, for John the Baptist to prepare you to meet Jesus. There's a few ways in which John the Baptist is going to do that. The first way is that he's going to prepare you to meet Jesus by making sure you know that he has some good news to preach to you. If the lights were on, you could take a look at the passage in ver but um you'll just have to listen. I'll reread them so you know that I'm preaching the word here. But in verse uh verses one and two and three John the Baptist's message is summarized as in those days John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea and he sent and saying, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And I was reminded recently. by a mentor of mine of how that is such good news for us That there is a kingdom that has arrived. Not a kingdom that we're waiting for. It's a kingdom that has already arrived. And that that is good news. But Here's the thing. When you read the rest of the passage and you hear about him cutting down trees of people that are unrepentant, it doesn't sound like good news initially, but that's because it's coming from a prophet. And when prophets speak, especially ones like John the Baptist, he has a particular way of sharing good news. Prophets are unique individuals sent by God. You can tell even just with his he's clothed with camel's hair. I mean, how more unique does it get? He has a leather belt around his waist. He has for his food it's locusts and wild honey. And we've seen this imagery before. It's not the first time we've seen someone dressed like this. There is another prophet in 2 Kings 1. 8. His name is Elijah. It says of him, a hairy man wearing a leather belt around his waist, and his name is Elijah. And he is known, particularly in Kings, for confronting false religion. For confronting corrupt leaders like Ahab and Jezebel, who were kinds of Arids that we read about in our beginning chapters here of Matthew. In other words, he gives good news, but he gives good news like a prophet gives good news And prophets give good news primarily in this one frame of mind. They are extremely sensitive to suffering and injustice. Do you know anybody that's like that? I've been around people where I could watch a some video on a swipe and watch a video on whatever social media it is and they see an injustice Like a Jewish man dragged to the ground and kicked in the middle of a street. They could watch it and it's entertainment. And then I'll watch other people who have something like the spirit of a prophet. And when they see stuff like that, You can see their body tensing up and in their interior asking the question, how much longer will these kinds of things go on? That's the spirit of a prophet. You can see it in other prophets, for example, like Nathan. I wonder if you all know about Nathan the prophet. Nathan the prophet saw an injustice committed by King David. You can read the story in the Old Testament. King David used his power in order to exploit, in order to be with a particular woman. But here's the problem, is the woman was already married And in order for him to not bear the consequences of his actions and lust for her, he even planned it out to where her husband would be killed. Because he had that kind of power. Well, Nathan the prophet wouldn't put up with that. So Nathan showed up, he told him a story, and there's a famous line, and he says, You're the man. And it is at that moment that David began his repentance and recognition of what he had done. But it was that spirit within that prophet who's very sensitive to injustice. And so keeping that in mind, think about the message about how important it is for John the Baptist to say, it's good news that the kingdom is here. Because essentially what he's saying to you is that somebody has arrived and a kingdom has arrived where all of this stuff that we see that we know that is wrong All of the injustices that we see, all of the corruption, all of the exploitation, all of the taking of advantage of the poor, all of the interest rates that we particularly see, they're coming to an end. Because God was never deaf to what was going on with his people. And he has finally sent one who will bring things to rights. So now perhaps you can see even a little bit of a paradigm shift within yourself when John the Baptist is saying those corrupt trees that bear no fruit, those snakes that we heard about within our passage, when he says The axe is already at the root. I'm telling you right now, if you're in your right mind, that's good news. Because it's those trees, it's those snakes that keep biting people. And though God would plead with them. They never turn from their ways. They say they're sorry, and then as soon as their mom leaves the room, they say your haircut is ugly again. That's the good news from the Prophet. In this context, John the Baptist announces that a kingdom has arrived that will in fact stop the injustice. God was not inattentive. God is still not inattentive. And he is doing something about the corruption, and that's good news. But it's good news from a prophet. Now the other way in which John wants to prepare you to meet Jesus besides giving you good news is you see if you get the chance, you'll see in this quote from Isaiah. that John the Baptist prepares you by making you clear the path. It says it right here in the third verse. It says In speaking of John, it says, For this is he who was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah, saying, He's the voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord. Make his paths straight. I know that much of this room has read those verses before, and I wonder if you've taken time to stop for a moment and ask, what in the world is he talking about? Well, John has been sent to fulfill a quote a quote, a prophecy from Isaiah chapter forty, verse three. And if you combine this context with that context, you'll see that John is meant to clear a path so that, let's say, I Would be able to clearly walk and get to my Lord and my God. And that God would be able to get to me. Prepare a road where God can get to his people. If you look in other places, it talks about mountains being in the way. It talks about valleys being in the way. And then we hear songs. Or we hear phrases like, we'll bring all of the mountains low. And we'll bring all the valleys high. And the idea is that there's a path that's being created to where you're not prohibited by the obstacle of a deep valley, because it's now been made a level path. Nor do you have to go through a mountain range, because mountains have been made low and now you have a clear path. And that's what John is doing. He has come, even by way of the Spirit, to you this evening to remove those mountains and remove those valleys. I'm sure you've seen on the news, especially after some kind of natural disaster where a major highway is wiped out. Have you seen things like that? Or or uh and this always scares me to death because you never know apparently when this is going to happen. A sinkhole just kind of opens in an asphalt road. And and um that's scary. Well, the path isn't clear any longer. But then we know that the state highway administration shows up and they clear those obstacles so that people can drive to their destination. And the same thing is what John the Baptist is doing here, what the Holy Spirit is doing here for you this evening. But he's not removing literal valleys and mountains for you. This place around here is pretty flat. The real problem are the mountains and the valleys of your pride. The mountains and the valleys of your selfishness. The mountains and the valleys of your enmity with God. There's a basic instinct inside of you that operates like clockwork. If God says one thing You want to do another. It's a fundamental reality about human beings. And God sends John the Baptist and a Spirit to you here tonight to remind you of those things, and that if they remain, if you do not acknowledge the fact that you have these mountains and you have these valleys There can be no path for you to God. God is not a fool. Just like the example that I gave you of the mother earlier, she wasn't a fool. She knew where her child's heart stood. In other words, the prophets, even John, don't just focus on those people out there. If you read Matthew 3, 5, and 6, it says this, in fact, after he's crying out in the desert and he's revealing everyone's mountains and valleys to themselves. the sin and the ways in which they have turned from God. He says, then Jerusalem and all Judea and all the region around the Jordan went out to him and were baptized by him in the Jordan, confessing their sins. It wasn't just one small group. Everybody was hearing that they had some sin that they needed to acknowledge. That they just weren't right with God, and that they needed to get the path clear. And the same thing can be said this evening. If you don't acknowledge your own evil contribution and inclination, your path is not clear. Now, I bet you there's some people in here that when I say that, your heart is already hardening and closing to what I'm saying. And that is very dangerous. I'd encourage you to pay attention, become self-conscious for a moment, and see what your heart is doing. I'd encourage you to do something different. Stay still for a moment and be willing to acknowledge before God that things are not right. Be willing to admit that there are things between him and you and they need to be cleared. It says in the scriptures that if we don't admit that we're blind, we will never see. That's profound. Sometimes Jesus puts it in terms of a door. There's no door open to you to get to Jesus if you don't go through what I'm talking about here. John chapter 9, 39 through 41 puts it this way. He says, And Jesus said, For judgment I have come into this world. that those who do not see may see, and that those who see may be made blind. Now listen to this very, very carefully, and I'd encourage you, when you're having your Christmas casserole, To really think about this next line, because we're now going to go to the center of all of reality. He says this. Then some of the Pharisees who were with him heard these words, and they said to him, Are we blind also? And Jesus said to them, If you were blind, you would have no sin. He's getting deep here. But now you say, we see. That was in the intonation. Therefore your sin remains. Do you see that? Oh, that's dangerous. That's very dangerous. It's very dangerous to not take this heartwork carefully. If you are unwilling to acknowledge your own evil contribution, then your path is blocked. That's the beginning. When I was down there with the children, I said, what's the very first important fruit? And they said, an apple and a pear But what would you have said? No longer being a child. The very first important truth would be for you to acknowledge that you are sick And you desperately need a physician. That's the first fruit. And can you begin to see now That you've had placed in front of you, oh, there's such good news. I can't wait for a world where there's no more tears. I can't wait for that. I can't wait until all of the injustice is gone And then do you see the next step that's happening here in this passage when he says, well then if that's true, we're going to have to begin with the ways in which you make people cry. The ways that the snakes that are in you. We have to begin with that, because your path isn't clear. You see how John's preparing you to meet Jesus? Oh, before we had this talk, you would have thought, oh, I'm just fine. Nothing between me and God. And that's the way the Pharisees thought. They thought they saw, and therefore they were blind, and their sin remained. And here's a moment for you on Christmas Eve of all moments. How beautiful And Christmas Eve, for you to be able to not be like them and to say, you know what, Lord, I am blind. And I need you to make me see. Strangely, it's here in the fear of the Lord that wisdom begins. It's very contrary to our nature. But that's the point. We're going to have to turn around from the way we would normally do things, which is another way of saying repent. In other words, John calls us all to repentance that the mountains and the valleys of our pride, the mountains and the valleys of our selfishness, the mountains and valleys of our resentment towards God are removed and it would give us a clear path straight to them And now that we've gone through that, John the Baptist has officially prepared us for the very end of the passage. John the Baptist says, I'm not worthy to be baptizing you. Christ permits it in order to fulfill all righteousness. The heavens open, again, shining the central spotlight on the one who is in the center of the clearing in the forest where all the tracks lead. There it is, right there. And then we hear the voice from heaven. And we're prepared to hear it because of the process that we've gone through in John's preparation. John the Baptist places you before Christ Now that you have acknowledged your sin, he places you before Christ in order for you to receive mercy. That's really the point of Matthew 3. 17. It says this, and suddenly a voice came from heaven saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Now, this is actually another quote from the Old Testament. It has significance right there in that moment. I don't have time to talk about that, but it is definitely a quote from Psalm 2. This is my son, who I have set on my holy hill. This is my son, in whom I will deliver mercy to the nations, that they might be gathered back to me and no longer be an enmity. And at the end of that psalm, it says this, which you get to do now because you recognize what you need. You understand your place before Christ, and you're ready to meet him. But guess how you're going to meet him? You're gonna meet him on your knees and you're gonna kiss him and you're gonna ask for his mercy. It says this in Psalm 2, 10-12. Now therefore be wise, O kings. Be instructed, you judges of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice with trembling Kiss the Son, lest he be angry and you perish in the way, when his wrath is kindled but a little. And this final word is for us. Blessed are all those who put their trust in him. Do you see how even in Psalm 2 there's a kind of journey that we had to take? Towards the center, and right in the center in the clearing is the king. And because of the preparation of John, we now know how to interact with him And the scales have fallen off. We know what to ask of him. We know our place with him. Another way that you could put the whole thing is that when you follow those deer tracks through the soft snow, into the center of the forest. There's something you're going to find there. And John the Baptist has prepared you to be able to see. What you find is a gift. It is a Christmas gift. And it is Christ himself. You have removed the logs from your eyes by the grace of God, and now you can see that you need mercy as it is offered in the gospel. And the gift of Christmas is Christ Jesus, and with him the mercy that he offers. This Christmas, as we celebrate the gift of Jesus Christ, Let John the Baptist's message prepare your heart. Acknowledge your need for mercy. Clear the briars and those things that have overgrown the path, like your pride, and see Jesus as the ultimate gift of God's abundant grace. It is through him that we receive joy. It is through him that we receive peace and hope and love as we learned this Advent season. And salvation that only He can bring. He alone is at the center of the woods. I encourage you, no matter who you are this morning, no matter what age, To embrace the mercy of Christ and to rejoice in the gift of Christmas. Amen. Please pray with me.