And just listen to God's word as I read to you the story of our Lord's crucifixion. Would you please stand if you are able Then he released Barabbas to them, and when he had scourged Jesus, he delivered him to Barba. Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the praetorium and gathered the whole garrison around him, and they stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him And when they had twisted a crown of thorns, they put it on his head and a reed in his right hand, and they bowed the knee before him and mocked him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews. And then they spat on him. Took a wreath and they struck him on the head. And when they had mocked him, they took the robe off him, put his own clothes on him, and led him away to be crucified. Now as they came out they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name, him they compelled to bear his cross. And when they had come to a place called Golgotha, that is They gave him sour wine mingled with gall to drink, but when he had tasted it, he would not drink. Then they crude Crucified him. They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they Cast lot. And sitting down, they kept watch over him there, and they put up over his head the accusation written against him. This is Jesus, the King of the Jews. And two robbers were crucified with him, one on the right and the other on the left. And those who passed by blasphemed him, wagging their heads and saying, You who destroyed the temple and And build it in three days, save yourself. If you were the Son of God, come down from the cross. And likewise the chief priest also mocked with their scribes And elders said, He saved others. Himself he cannot save. If he is king of Israel, let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe him. Let him deliver him now, if he will have him, for he said, I am the Son of God. Even the robbers who were crucified with him reviled him with the same thing. Now from the sixth hour until the ninth hour there was darkness over all the land. And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, Lama Sabhaksani, that is my God, my God. Why have you forsaken me? And some of those who stood there when they heard that said, This man calls, is calling for Elijah. And immediately one of them ran ran and took a sponge, filled it with sour wine, and put it on a reed, and offered it to him to drink. The rest said, Let him alone, let us see if Elijah will come to save him. And Jesus cried out again with Then behold, the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom, the earth quaked, the rocks were split, and the grave Were opened, and many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised. Coming out of the graves after his resurrection, they went into the holy city and appeared to many. So when The centurion and those with him who were guarding Jesus saw the earthquake and the things that had happened, they feared him greatly, saying, Truly, this was the Son of God. And many women who followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering to him, were there looking on from afar. And among whom were Mary Magdalene, Mary, the mother of James and Joseph, and the mother of Zebedee's sons. And when the evening had come, there came a rich man from Arimathea named Joseph, who himself had also become a disciple of Jesus. This man went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Jesus. And Pilate commanded the body to be given to him. And when Joseph had taken the body, he wrapped it in a clean linen cloth and laid it in his new tomb, which he had hewn out of the rock, and he rolled a large stone against the door of the tomb and departed. Mary Magdalene was there, and the other Mary sitting opposite the tomb On the next day which followed the day of preparation, the chief priests and Pharisees gathered together to Pilate, saying, Sir, we remember while he was still alive how that deceiver said, After three days I will rise Therefore command that the tomb be made secure in the third day, lest his disciples come by night and steal him away, and say to the people, He has risen from the dead. So the last deception will be Pilate said to them, You have a guard. Go your way. Make it as secure as you know how. So they went and made the tomb secure. Sealing the stone and setting the guard. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word, and please be seated. We've been walking on holy ground for two weeks now. And here we are. Gathered today at the most holy place of them all. Nothing in all of creation, nothing in all of history is so holy, holy. Holy as the cross. Here is the ultimate altar towards which all other previous altars or have been directed. Here is the ultimate high priest consecrating the ultimate Passover lamb Here is the ultimate shedding of blood, which validated all the other sacrifices that went before it. And here is the shedding of blood Blood that negates any further sacrifice being offered again, especially for the remission of sins. This is it. There is no doubt in my mind that angels and demons were gathered around that hill called Gagatha that day. The drama of Jesus Jesus' life was enacted before a spiritual audience of infinite proportions. Every being that was in heaven and Around the throne of God was focused on this event. Heaven and earth hung in the balance. The out Outcome was known only to God Himself, and here before our spiritual eyes we see what they saw. As Jesse mentioned earlier, it is possible and not all that uncommon for Christians to grow complacent about this story. Shame on us if we do But today we must guard against that. Brothers and sisters, I beg of you, let's open up our hearts. Let's open up our hearts Open up our souls. Let's open them up to Christ on the cross. And let's let the incredible reality of what Jesus did there transform us. us in the very core of our being. These things are recorded so that they may affect us deeply. Affect us even more than it did those heavenly angels and the demons who saw them with their own eyes. Let's gaze intently At this scene. What do we see there? In Matthew's version that we're studying, we see Jesus alone. He has gone out of his way. to emphasize that to us. Matthew is very stark in his depiction of the resurrection. It's a very br I mean of the crucifixion. It's a very brief account, quite frankly But it is a brief account in which he gives us no relief. None. The focus is on the horror. The focus is on the on is on Jesus' agony. It is on Jesus' ultimate humiliation. And it is unremitting. It is bang, hammers blows one right after another. Bang. Bang, bang. John in his gospel account speaks with great tenderness of how Jesus looked down from the cross at his mother and John and said spoke to them tenderly. Luke tells us how Jesus told the uh the uh other robber that was there this day You will be with me in paradise. At least there were glimmers of things that were nice there. In Luke, we even hear Jesus praying for those who crucified. Him so as to leave us with some idea that even what that there was hope for them. And of course there was, but Matthew is not about that. That's not what Matthew says here for. Matthew is saying, look at Christ and look at what he is doing. There is There are no warm touches here. Nothing to make it more palatable to our uh queasy hearts, if you will. There's nothing to make us think Think, well, maybe it wasn't so bad after all. You know, it only lasted a few hours, it could have been worse. No. Matthew won't say our hearts to break. He wants our hearts to break when we see the cost that our Savior paid for our sin. So Matthew keeps Jesus at center stage. He keeps him alone. He presents him as alone and surrounded by enemies. Jesus, we see We see him beaten. We see him scourged. We see him whipped with diabolical leather straps. Things uh a whip that was designed as only Roman efficiency could design it to inflict maximum pain, but not kill. We see him surrounded by by those Roman soldiers who were mocking him and spitting on him. We see them dressing him in a scarlet robe of blasphemous Blasphemy uh beyond imagining, putting a crown of thorns on his head and striking him with a cane. Now you may not realize, but but if you've ever been beaten with a bamboo Leucane, i it is hard stuff. It can give you a concussion and a heartbeat. That's what they beat him with Bloody and despised. That's how Jesus that's how Matthew wants us to see him. And to drive it home just to show us how weak Jesus had become at the hands of these men over this extended period of horrible treatment. He's so beaten, so hurting. Someone has to carry his cross for him. Simon, from a North African city called Cyrene. We don't know much about Simon. It's possible he was black We know he's from Africa. He was probably a Hellenistic Jew. But there he's been given a place. Carry Christ's cross. And here we have a glimpse of how this story was recorded for us. Matthew wants us to know that this horrible picture that he is that he is presenting is not Something he just made up. Matthew wants us to know there were eyewitnesses to whom he had access to get this information. He didn't, he, this is no fairy tale Simon. He calls him by name. He knows who he is. He speaks of Joseph by name of Arimathea. The women gathered around. By name, Mary. Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James and John. All of these would have been important witnesses to the early church They would have told this story over and over again in the darkness that the church was gathered in its hunted stage. They would have told it to men and women just like us who were Hungering to hear it and had no access to the Bible as we do. Matthew wants us to be sure that we don't fall into the modern trap. Of thinking that this is just another story made up by the church a couple of hundred years after Jesus' death in order to keep poor people who have no hope in chains of slavery. Imagine talking to one of these witnesses. People who had nothing to gain. They were Motives could not be doubted. The disciples, let's face it, they did have something to gain. And often they are criticized for being perpetuators of their own power by telling stories like this. However, that is not true, but that's what people said of them. But these people had nothing to gain. They just happened to be there, or perhaps they were followers. People who were not respected very much, like the women who followed. And imagine the wonder, the passion that must have gripped their souls then. And imagine hearing these same words from those people who were there, knowing that they had seen it with their own eyes. What did they speak of? They spoke of Jesus on the cross. Naked or nearly naked. Blood streaming down from his face. The soldiers before him doing the equivalent of rolling dice in order to keep his clothes or to divide his clothes among them. They mention a sign hung over his head. This is the king of the Jews. The soldiers put it up there as a sign of contempt. Contempt for him, Jesus, and contempt for the Jews, whom they despised. Contempt where they should have been showing deeper reverence. It was a true statement though. That's how God works. He even used sinful men and sinful intentions to proclaim the truth of his son because this was the king of the Jews. And not only Only that, the King of the Gentiles. This was the King for whom all creation was made. But imagine those men who nailed that sign to Jesus' cross. Imagine them standing as they stood at one Point before the throne of judgment and seeing Jesus there, looking at them, He over whose head they nailed this sign in contempt and imagine the horror that was in their heart. And I ask you to feel Sorry for them. For that terror must have been unbu unimaginable. The story continues. What Matthew does is add detail to detail. He tells us, as I've said, about the soldiers dividing up his clothing. He tells us as the about the sign That was put over his head. And now he tells us about the way he's surrounded by scoffers, by mockers, by blasphemers. It was not just the Roman soldiers that mocked him. Even those who were hanging on the cross in Matthew's story. did it. And the average guy, the average Joe below Hebrew. I don't know what uh a good word for Joe in Hebrew is, but Imagine one. He's walking along the road, going to Jerusalem. He has to pass by this hill. He's passing by, and there's Jesus up on the cross And this ordinary guy just stops in order to throw contempt and to hurl abuse upon Christ. We see the chief priests and the scribes and the elders, all of them laughing at him. Laughing at the Son of God. And all this time, there is Jesus alone Taking it. Drinking it all. The pain, the humiliation, the loneliness. Each of it is mounting up in ever increasing intensity. He is suffering beyond the endurance of any other mortal man. His suffering is so intense that it Was only Jesus' divine nature supporting his human nature that enabled him to hold up That's why he was born of a woman, born of God. That's why he was God and man, so that he could do this. That's why this suffering could be endured, for it is far more than anything you and I could ever handle But then in the progress of the story, a climax is reached. Matthew puts it to a I mentioned it over the last two weeks. A crescendo that is of being achieved here. The symphony, which is Jesus' life, is is reaching its glory. is finale. And its finale is a cry of unbelievable agony. Eli, Eli, Sabat Fani. I can't yet come close to expressing how that that must have been expressed by our Lord. The sheer magnitude of the passion with which it was expressed. So So impressed those people around him that they were wondering what was going to happen here. Maybe Elijah was going to come and speak to uh save him. But there was something in the in the manner in which Jesus said that. That focused everybody's attention new upon him. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Now why did Jesus say that? Jesus knew this was going to happen. He's been telling his disciples for weeks exactly It is a modern heresy that some scholars believe Jesus' word here means that he became disillusioned, that he was disillusioned Disappointed with himself. He believed that God had betrayed him, that he was supposed to be the Messiah leading the Jews in their revolt against Rome, and that didn't work out too well. And here he He is on the cross in a less last desperate act, asking God to come down and to s uh restore him from the cross so that the people would unite behind him and he would lead That, brothers and sisters, is abominable heresy. And many in our liberal religious institutions and religious Teach that very thing. So why did he say it? He said it in order to point us to Psalm 22. And brothers and sisters, he did that to point us to Psalm 22, amazingly enough. That at this point our whole interpretation about how we're to view the cross is to change. Because now we change from suffering Psalm twenty two, picking up with where Jesse left off this morning. After going through the description of the cross The terrible things, all of those things that I have tried to get in your mind, a picture of his sufferings after seeing those in Psalm twenty-two. Messiah cries out, you have heard me. And then look at the hope that comes out of this. Read along with me. I will declare your name to my brethren in the midst of the Assembly, I will praise you. Those who fear the Lord, pray you who fear the Lord praise him. All you descendants of Jacob, glorify him, and fear him. For he has not despised, nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted, nor has he hidden his face from him. But when he cried to him, he Heard. My praise shall be of you in the great assembly. I will pay my vows before those who fear him. The poor shall eat and be satisfied Those who seek him will praise the Lord. Let your heart live forever. All the ends of the earth, all the ends of the world shall remember and turn to the Lord. And all the families of the nations shall worship before you. For the kingdom is the Lord's. And he rules over the nations. All the prosperous Of earth shall eat and worship. All those who go down to the dust shall bow before him, even he who cannot keep himself alive. A posterity shall serve him. It will be recounted of the Lord to the next generation. They will come and declare this righteousness to a people who will be born That he has done this. Changes everything, doesn't it? Jesus' cry, his repetition of the opening words of Psalm 22 points us, yes, to the description of his suffering, which you must understand. This is a prophetic fulfillment But more than that, it is what he has done through the suffering that Jesus is pointing us and His listeners that day to do it. When Jesus cried out these words, he was declaring victory. He was telling us, he was telling the world that we must understand this story fundamentally and most crucially as being the story of victory. Psalm 22 tells us everything we need to know about the cross. Hundreds of years before the cruelty of man had devised this sadistic means David was given a vision of what it must have been like to die on one, to hang there, and to have to fight against the horrible pain that it took in order to push it again. Against the pain the nails in your legs in order to push up and let your your uh chest expand in order to breathe. To endure agony so terrible that it can only be explained as being abandoned by God, of being surrounded by enemies, being ridiculed by them. He spoke of having his limbs being pulled out of joint, of stretch to dislocation and agony. Of having people standing around scoffing and saying, okay, let God deliver him now, as they did. David saw Christ being pierced, saw his garments being divided by his enemies, saw his unrelieved agony and the horror that must have terrified him. David himself as he beheld it. And that's the first half of Psalm twenty-two. I commend it to you for your close study. But then halfway through there is this sharp change. half is about horror, about the total giving over to of the Christ to the torment that he endured, and then Christ calling out, You have heard me. My God, my Father, you've heard me. It is enough My job is done. It is finished. I have been faithful in the endurance of this trial, and now my God, my father. has answered me. And the rest of Psalm 22 is given over to David speaking of that victory. It tells of how the Christ will declare God's name in the Midst of the assembly. How the writer of Hebrews, the writer of Hebrews himself, quotes this verse as we have already read at the beginning of this service and speaking of the magnificent David speaks of how now with the victory won, that the poor will eat and be justified, and those who seek the Lord will have reason to praise him. And most importantly, he says that all the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the Lord. All the families of the nations shall worship before Yahweh. The Christ in David's vision at this point cries out in prophecy and testimony and declares that now the kingdom is the Lord. And he rules over the nations. He speaks of how every one of them will bow down before him. Bow down to the very one who is crucified on this cross. And David's vision closes with this glorious word. David Not only saw the Christ on the cross, brothers and sisters, David saw us. We who are sitting here today, who know and love our Jesus Christ, who have been a From his death and his resurrection. David spoke of us and said, A posterity shall serve him. Future generations will be told about him And people who were yet to be born will be told, he has done this. He's done it. Finished. There's nothing more to be done. Brothers and sisters, please feel the excitement. Hear the excitement in these words. Whether you've been a Christian for five minutes or fifty years. These words should ring in your head like Big Ben ringing out over London. These words should Sound out like a trumpet, that trumpet trill that I love so much in the hallelujah chorus. Chill bumps should pop up on our skin. He has done it. This is the gospel. This sums it all up. Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God, has done what no other man Could do. He was born, he has borne the sins of his people in full and complete obedience to his father, and thereby completed the trial. that he was to finish. He has suffered complete humiliation, humiliation beyond anything we could know. He who was worshipped by angels was spat upon by He who was bathed in glory so bright that mortal eyes could not look at him was made to be so disgusting to our eyes that we would near wretch when we We looked at him for the damage that they did to his body. This was the Christ, the second person of the Trinity, the creator of all that is, and he and he alone suffered This humiliation to become sin in order to bear the suffering that sin begins. That was not all. And when he cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Yes, he was pointing us to Psalm 22 But he was registering the fact that God really had forsaken him. As God forsakes all of those who descend into the pit of hell. It was because Not only was he humiliated, he was also the object of God's wrath. He whose love for the Father was perfect and untainted by any self-interest. This was the man who was treated like an abomination as he suffered the full cup of God's wrath for your sin. This is the obedience of Christ. And with these words, Jesus signified that it was over. That he had done it. It was finished. And God had heard him. He further signified that now it's time for the party to begin. Now is the time. A couple of cold night nights in a cold tomb, and then a beautiful sunrise on Easter morning And all that he had been promised would be done. The world would hear of his work, the world would produced its harvest of believers, of blessed saints who were transformed by the Holy Spirit, all of them would hear the story, the story of the cross and of what he did there, and one by one they would come forward. Forward each in due time each in his season. The Lord God would look down through the Holy Spirit and He would touch their hearts. And suddenly this story, the story of the cross, would become the most precious, the most holy thing in their possession. Where once it had been just another myth, another tale, another story, an ancient people told. Now, through the Holy Spirit. It would be seen as true, and it would be seen as true for you. The victory Jesus won that day, the glory That he gained was our victory. His glory was our glory. And the joy which was set before him such that he endured the cross, despising its shame, was our joy. Not only Christ died on that cross that day You and I died with him. Our sin nature was united to him, our sin nature was punished, and the victory that he won It's ours to inherit. Brothers and sisters, Jesus has won a new life for us here on earth. He's opened up a kingdom to us that we cannot see with physical eyes, but which is real, which is open to our hearts and is recognized by our spirits. A kingdom in which the Christ who died on that cross Dwells with his people. He is with them always. A kingdom where love is the dominant theme of life, love of God and love of our neighbor. A whole new kingdom, a whole new city. That is what he accomplished on that cross. And all of us who come to that cross and know what it means Recognize it as being terrible and scary, but no longer a matter of horror, but rather of being infinitely Precious. More precious than gold. More beautiful than silver. This is the cross on which the Prince of Glory died. By his stripes we are healed. He was wounded for our transgressions, and the Lord has laid On him the iniquity of us all. He has done it. There's nothing left for us to do. You or I But believe and be saved. The time is fulfilled. That is the theme of the sermon series in Matthew. And on this cross, it is finished That's prayer.