Mark chapter 1, verses 40 through 45. Now a leper came to him, imploring him, kneeling down to him, and saying to him, If you are willing, you can make me clean. Then Jesus, moved with compassion, stretched out his hand and touched him and said to him, I am willing, be cleansed. As soon as he had spoken, immediately the leprosy left him, and he was cleansed. And he strictly warned him and sent him away at once, and said to him, See that you say nothing to anyone, but go your way, show yourself to the priest, and offer for your cleansing those things which Moses commanded as a testimony to them. However, he went out and began to proclaim it freely and to spread the matter, so that Jesus could no longer openly enter the city, but was outside in deserted places, and they came to him from every direction. God's holy word for God's holy people. Let us pray. Oh Lord, help us to see ourselves in this passage. Help us, God, to see your Son in this passage. Help us to understand rightly what your spirit wants to do in us because of this your holy And Father, I pray that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight. O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. I know that each one of us is unique. We're all special snowflakes No two of us are exactly the same. And yet we all share a lot of similarities with everyone who is alive right now. And, though it may not seem that way, we share a lot of similarities with those who have been alive in the past. I wonder if you share this similarity, one I've seen in many people, myself included. When you're excited about something, do you find yourself with an almost irresistible urge and need to share your excitement with others? Do you want others to watch that great show you discovered? Do you want others to be as excited about that movie as you are? Or do you want them to eat at your favorite restaurant and to just be as overjoyed with their taquitos as you are? Do you want them to listen to your favorite band? Well, tonight we're going to see someone who lived a long, long, long time ago, yet with him we have a lot of similarities. And from him, I think we can also learn a lot. Now, I just want to remind you that in going through the book of Mark, we've seen that this is the good news of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. And Mark has been showing us the Messiah, the Christ, every step of the way, what he's like, what he does. Mark has shown us that God prepared his people through the Old Testament prophets and all of the scriptures that he had already given. And he especially prepared them through the last Old Testament prophet who was John, the one who baptized. We saw that Jesus of Nazareth is the Christ, and that he himself was prepared for his messianic ministry. He was proven to be the perfect spotless lamb because he underwent the temptation of the enemy and yet he came through it without sinning. We saw that the gospel, the good news Jesus preached, requires a response from us, which transforms our lives. We saw that when he called the first disciples. And we encountered Jesus' true authority in both his teaching and in his commands when he cast out the demon, the unclean spirit. It could not disobey Christ. We saw that Christ saves us for a purpose. If you recall in the ordeal of his saving Peter's mother-in-law and healing her. We are saved to serve Jesus Christ. We've also learned that Christians submit the disorder of their lives to Christ even if they don't fully understand what He's going to do with it or how He's going to resolve it. And the last time we were in Mark, we saw that like Christ, we must be willing to do whatever is needed, despite what others expect, to accomplish what God wants. Well, tonight the Holy Spirit continues to show us the Messiah, our Lord Jesus Christ, in this gospel And he will be teaching us from this passage that when Christ resolves our desperate need, we must carefully follow what he then requires of us. Christians, when Christ resolves your desperate need, you must carefully follow what He then requires of you. We're going to look at this passage in two divisions tonight. We'll look first at verses 40 through 42, in which we will examine our need. And then we'll look at verses 43 to 45 and we'll see our obedience. So let's begin by looking at our need in verses 40 through 42. The first thing we see is that we have a very desperate need. Look at verse 40. Now a leper came to him, imploring him, kneeling down to him, and saying to him, If you are willing, you can make me clean. The first thing we see of our desperate need is our desperate condition. And this is one of those ways that we find similarity to the leper. Now I've got to point out for you, I don't want to go too far into this, but biblical leprosy, whenever it's mentioned in the Bible, leprosy or a leper, it's not exactly the same as how we conceive of it today. It is not Hansen's disease Which today is the medical term that we use, leprosy. It's a very specific condition. But what we need to recognize tonight, and I'm I'd be happy to go into that TED talk for you guys. guys if you want about biblical leprosy, but won't do that tonight. What we need to recognize, all of us together, is that the man who came to Christ was recognized at that time by all of the people, Greek and Jewish alike, as being a leper. And that means two things. It meant that he had a physical disease or a disorder which, though it was inward inside his body, it manifested itself outwardly on his skin. It was the kind of disorder that would give him lesions or Or pustules or all those kinds of things. So somebody could look at him and see there was something else going on. But we also need to understand that it was the kind of disorder Which didn't just give him physical turmoil, but it made him ritually unclean according to the law of God. Now we share similarities with lepers Their outer appearance showed an inner problem. Something was wrong in this man's body, which caused those sores and those lesions and and which prohibited him from participating in religious rituals and in the the fellowship with God's people. Our sin does the same for us. It infects our whole being. It shows up on the outside in various ways, but it is a sign of an inner problem. I'm sure you've heard this. We sin because we are sinners. And our sin not only does it make us unclean before God, but you've probably experienced this as well. It makes us very undesirable. before others. Well our plea is also similar to the lepers. We are equally desperate We implore, we beg God, we plead with Jesus to help us because we know that there is nothing we can do to change this in ourselves. It's important to note that though God gave his priests the authority to recognize and to declare a leper clean ritually, to make a leper clean, like we read in that passage from Leviticus, it is not in their power. to remove the underlying condition altogether. I want you to recall Naaman and Elisha, if you can, from 2 Kings chapter 5. Elisha didn't remove the leprosy from Naaman. He didn't touch him, he didn't breathe on him, or do anything else, which Elisha's power then removed the leprosy. Do you recall what happened? Elisha gave instructions to Naaman. He told him what God wanted him to do, which was to wash in the Jordan River seven times. And upon his obedience, which was a reluctant obedience, and we could go into that in a different TED talk, upon his obedience, Naaman arose from the river, cleansed. The leprosy was gone. Was it Elisha who did it? No, it was God And throughout history, all kinds of peoples who had recognized this leprous condition or the condition of lepers They knew that it could not be cured by human intervention. Doctors couldn't remove leprosy. It could not be removed by mere men. Only God could remove leprosy. And this is why we, like the leper, must go to Jesus and plead with him in worship and submission. In the parallel passages in Matthew and Luke, we get a little bit more information. Luke writes that the man fell on his face. before Jesus. Matthew comes out plainly and gives us just the clearest of what it is, and he says, he worshiped him We also must go to Jesus, recognizing who he is. Only God can remove the condition which plagues us, just like with the leper. Notice how he submits to Christ. He doesn't try to persuade him. He doesn't try to convince him to save him. All he says is, if you are willing. And so, brothers and sisters, we too must go to God with our desperate need, knowing that He has the power to resolve it. But we humble ourselves to leave it with him. We leave it to him, trusting that he will accomplish all his holy will. Well now we move on to verse 41 in which we see Christ's compassion. If you have a different translation, it might have a different word there. third TED talk that we'll have to go into to explain all the reasons why you'd have a different version in the New King James as in another. But this is what it says. Then Jesus, moved with compassion, stretched out his hand and touched him and said to him, I am willing be cleansed. What we see here is that Christ's compassion is an act of compassion. He doesn't just give the man a tortured facial expression. He doesn't change his tone of voice to sound super sensitive to him. He doesn't just give a kind word. What does Jesus do? He stretches out his hand and he touches the man. He touches a leper. Who knows how long it would have been since this person had had such an encounter with a human being? Even if his disease had gone through periods of remission in which he was then declared ritually clean and could be Back amongst the fellowship of the people, do you think anyone would have been willing to risk their uncleanness by having him over for the Sabbath lunches But Christ is under no such risk. Jesus is the refining fire He is the purifying agent of the Almighty God, sent to cleanse the world of sin and to restore his people to a right relationship with him. So Christ was under no risk. And he acts as one who has no risk of uncleanness. We also see Christ's voluntary compassion. He is willing. No one forced the Son of God to take on the form of a bondservant. To come in the likeness of fragile, frail human flesh, being vulnerable to all of the miseries of this life, under the wrath of God? He did it because he knows our condition. He remembers that we are dust and that we cannot bear the penalty of our sin. We can barely endure the results of sin and this estate of sin and misery into which we've all fallen. Only the perfect God man could take our infirmities and our iniquities as his own. Yet not be guilty of them. Only the Christ could take our sins to the cross and in his death vanquish them forever. And the last thing we see in this division is that Christ's compassion delivers a total resolution. Look at verse 42. As soon as he had spoken, immediately the leprosy left him and he was cleansed. The resolution is immediate I've gone into this importance of this word immediate in Mark, and we're going to just keep getting it because he never lets go. But there was nothing else that needed was needed to produce the necessary transformation. God speaks And it is. He spoke the universe into existence, and we'll see later in Mark that Jesus will command storms, and even they will obey him. We also see that the resolution is comprehensive. Jesus is God. And by the power of His word, He restores the man's health and removes the condition which no man can remove. Leprosy. The leprosy left him, and he was clean. When Jesus restores order to his physical body and to his religious life, the man is no longer in need of further healing or treatment or cleansing. So Jesus heard the lepers' plea regarding his desperate need, and he resolved it totally, absolutely, and completely. And so we need to figure out then why does Mark give this next bit which describes what happens after this? Why didn't he just leave it at, he's healed and he's cleansed, let's move on? Well, it's because we need to see from this example that after Christ resolves our desperate need, there are requirements that He puts upon us, commands from Him, which require our obedience. And so that's what we're going to look at next in verses 43 to 45. And the first thing we see is that our obedience is to Christ. Let's look at verses 43 and 44. And he strictly warned him, and sent him away at once, and said to him, See that ye say nothing to anyone, but go your way, show yourself to the priest, and offer for your cleansing those things which Moses commanded. as a testimony to them. Christ gives commands. And they can be found throughout all of the scriptures But in case you're one of those who has a difficulty between Old and New Testament, there are a plethora of commands that Christ gives in the New Testament. We don't want to fall into the trap of thinking that obeying commands is entirely an Old Testament, Old Covenant kind of thing. We see in this passage that right away, or at once, again, it's another one of those immediately, Jesus is very, very serious with this man. He's strictly warning him. And then again, he immediately sends him away. This is a very serious thing that's going on. Now, it could seem insensitive to us, but that's only because we we're we're just looking at part of the picture. What Jesus says then in verse 44 shows us what is his expectation, Christ's expectation. He expected the man to be obedient to God. He's commanded him to go and do something, and if you notice what he's commanded him to do is not a new command. It's what God has had his people do for centuries after he removes their desperate condition of leprosy. He needed to follow the Torah, the teaching of Moses, and be examined by the priests. He needed to be declared clean, and then to offer those sacrifices of thanksgiving which were commanded. Basically, Jesus wanted this man to go and give thanks to God his Father in the way that God his Father had com had given his people to show their thanks since time immemorial. Jesus is pointing to a reality that would become clearer to God's people after his death, resurrection, and ascension. The law never had power to cleanse or to heal. All of it was a testimony to Christ. All of it was a testimony to the one who would come with the true power and the true authority to fulfill all those laws and commands. Which were just a shadow, just a sign of the true resolution that was coming. The offerings given would be a testimony to both the priests and to the Torah. The priests would recognize that a true cleansing had occurred. They know that only God can do that, and so those priests would glorify God. Imagine how strange it would be for them later on to find out that the man that they examined and that they declared clean, that he had been cleansed and healed by Jesus of Nazareth. That would have been a pretty amazing thing to happen to them. And the Torah, the teaching that Moses recorded, would be validated itself by Jesus' actions. He who gave them the way back. Way back then, he who gave them a means of restoration, even in the old covenant, has not changed. It is still God alone who can save us, God alone who can resolve our desperate need. We see then in verse 45 that our obedience to Christ has a purpose. Look at what he says. What we're told here. However, he went out and he began to proclaim it freely. And to spread the matter so that Jesus could no longer openly enter the city, but was outside in deserted places, and they came to him from every direction. Jesus' commands have purpose. From this last verse, we see that Jesus wasn't arbitrarily commanding the former leper to do something that didn't make sense. What he required of the man was to accomplish his perfect holy purposes. He wanted the man to spread a different message. Look at what God has done for me. Glory to God in the highest, for he has resolved my desperate need and cleansed me of my horrible disorder. You may be encountering some similarities in your mind to previous sermons in which we were talking about what Jesus did with that unclean spirit. Remember that he he silenced them. It would not allow them to speak. It's because he didn't want people clamoring for a miracle or a miracle worker. He didn't want people coming to him thinking, oh, this is the one who destroys all evil, and so he'll destroy these evil Romans, and now we're going to have this amazing Israel. He didn't want people looking at Christ in that way. He wanted people to seek the light of God which had come into the world. He wanted them to come to him for his primary purpose. Remember what he said he came for? He came to preach and to teach He came that they would hear the good news, and that good news is that God is restoring his people to a right relationship with him. At that very time, God the Father was fulfilling his covenant promises and providing deliverance and redemption for his people. Remember what Jesus says early on in chapter 1. The kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe. He came to preach. Jesus came to give that good news to God's people. He did not come to set up a miracle clinic in which everybody could come. And this is what we have to realize is that that physical healing, as marvelous and miraculous as it is, is nowhere close to as marvelous and miraculous as the spiritual cleansing and purification that the Christ delivers to God's people And so here in the final verse of our passage, we can see the sense and the logic of Jesus' commands to the former leper, because we see that his disobedience has consequences. Jesus' ministry is now forced out into the wilderness. He couldn't openly go to the towns and the villages and the cities that he came to preach to. He couldn't do this. Why? Because everybody was looking for the miracle man. Everyone was looking for some physical healing. They wanted to be restored from their fleshly disorders. But it didn't keep them from trying. They came to Jesus from every direction. So they may have only been going to receive a miraculous healing or even just to watch it. We know from later on that even though that's m that's what they went for, they got a whole lot more from Jesus. Brothers and sisters, when Jesus Christ shows us compassion and fully resolves our desperate needs, we must carefully follow what He then commands us. So I want to conclude our time together by simply focusing on two applications of this teaching. The first is that you must be like the leopard. You must despise and hate your condition so much that you are willing to go to Christ and submit to Him, to submit to Him alone to deal with it Your condition is being a sinner. And it will haunt you all of your life. Without Christ, if you die a sinner, you will face God's wrath and his curse, which your sin rightly deserves. You will not stand in that day. You will not be acquitted. Without Christ healing you, without Christ cleansing you and purifying you, you will be unclean permanently and cast out into the outer darkness. He will say to you, Depart from me, I never knew you. Like the leper, there is nothing that you can do to transform yourself from being a sinner. You must submit to Christ's voluntary healing. I know this isn't news to you, but I do not weary of repeating it. And if you have not yet fled to the cross If you have not yet pled with Jesus, then I beg you, don't waste another second, don't waste another day. Beg him tonight Beg him to cleanse you. Go to him in worship, recognizing who he is, fall on your face before him and declare that you need him to cleanse you. Your prayer can be simple. It doesn't need to be complicated. Think of the lepers, please. Follow the leper's advice and his example and go to Jesus and say, I know that you can save me. If only you are willing. Like the leper, recognize God's holiness. Fall on your face, worship Him, and don't you dare go anywhere else. for the cleansing you need. You will not get it from Pop Psychology. You will not get it from a YouTube video. You will not get it from a TED Talk. The only thing that can give you the restoration you desperately need is Christ and his voluntary compassion. So throw yourself upon the compassion of Christ. And the second thing, so the first thing was be like the leper. The second thing, don't be like the leper. He received what he desperately needed from Christ, and then he went away ignoring what Christ wanted him to do. Let's be charitable. Okay? I'm trying I'm trying a new thing. God is trying new things on me since I started working here full-time. And that is to be dominated by an attitude of charity and not criticism. So I'm not gonna criticize the leper tonight. Except for what I've already done. Let's be charitable. He was so excited Excited beyond anything we could probably imagine to be healed. He was no longer a leper. He was no longer unclean. He was no longer required to stay away from everybody. He was no longer, and and I imagine, he no longer cared whether somebody looked at him like a leper. He knew that he was no longer a leper. It was the best news of his entire life, the best news he had ever received. And he just had to proclaim it freely. He just had to spread it around. Honestly, I don't know if I'd be any different. Would you? When I met Ashley, I told everybody. Anybody who'd listen. I didn't really care if they wanted to know or not. Didn't care at all. It got even worse once we were engaged. Well, people were much more willing to be gracious about that, be charitable to me about that. They understood how special it was. They understood my excitement about meeting a girl and getting married. But sometimes, as we learn from this passage and what Jesus commanded the leper, sometimes we need to learn how to control our excitement. So that we can see the bigger picture, so we can cooperate with Christ in the purpose and plan of what he is doing, accomplishing his purposes in his timing. Very similar to when I met Ashley and blasted the world with my joy and excitement was when I first discovered Reformed biblical covenant theology. What you might call Calvinism. Perhaps you've heard this phrase. Maybe you have. If you haven't, there goes another TED talk. Cage sage Calvinism. Have you ever heard that? It's called the cage stage because it refers to that first stage when somebody r uh discovers reform theology. It happens to a lot of us. We get so excited about it that we just can't help. Every time we encounter somebody who has not heard of these concepts, of these things, who hasn't doesn't know the solas, or who we get to explain tulip to them. Every time we do that, it feels like we are dragging them into the Thunderdome. One man enter, and no man leave. We are just getting them into this battle where we want to just bombard them with what we've learned. When in this stage individuals may come across as very unloving. and very uncaring. Mainly because they're so excited to have finally discovered the biblical truth that they just they just put it all aside. They just want people to know truth. They just want everyone as excited about the truth as they are. But like the former leper, if you can't control yourself and you can't heed Christ's commandment, do you remember the new commandment that he gave? Love one another. Then as Paul details for us, you become nothing but a clanging cymbal. You become a banging gong. You become, probably worse than those things, an incessant narcissistic drone. We cannot help anyone see the glories of the gospel and of Christ if we're trying to beat them over the head with theology. Especially especially if we just discovered it ourselves We need to follow Christ and His purpose. He saves us into the church. And as we were reminded this morning, the church has been given many gifts. Bring your excitement to those who will be just as excited as you are. If you're just discovering something about theology and you want somebody else excited about it, I can tell you 35 men in this congregation who are happy to sit with you and just let you launch your excitement at them. I can tell you 170 people who that's not going to be the best time of their lives. You love theology, you love learning these new things about God? Wonderful! Find the people that are there also. But you don't need to turn every conversation with your children. You don't need to turn every conversation with your spouse into another TED talk. You not need to turn it into a beating them over the head with the new theology you've discovered And I'm speaking from experience here. Be patient. Brothers and sisters, give time for Christ to work on others as he worked on you. Give the time. We were reminded this morning that we're all on a path. And if you've read Pilgrim's Progress, you know that that path is the same path for all of us. But we're on different parts of the path at different times. You cannot charge in on a helicopter and pick somebody up where they are and drop them where you are just because you're super excited about where God has you He is working out their sanctification according to his timing, according to his plan, to fulfill his perfect purpose. Let them become lovers of Christ at his pace, the one that he defines right. Brothers and sisters, when you have submitted your desperate need to Christ and in compassion he has resolved it, be careful to obey what Christ requires Of you. He has a purpose and a plan which he is bringing to completion, and he commands us to do what will serve him in that plan. Please pray with me.