21 The Word of God for the people of God. He who dwells in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my strength. My God in Him I will trust. Surely He shall deliver you from the snare of the fowler and from the perilous pestilence. He shall cover you with his feathers, and under his wings you shall take refuge. His truth shall be your shield and buckler. You shall not be afraid of the terror by night Nor of the arrow that flies by day, nor of the pestilence that walks in darkness, nor of the destruction that lays waste at noonday. A thousand may fall at your side, and ten thousand at your right hand But it shall not come near you. Only with your eyes shall you look and see the reward of the wicked. Because you have made the Lord, who is my refuge, even the Most High, your dwelling place, no evil shall befall you, nor shall any plague come near your dwelling For he shall give his angels charge over you, to keep you in all your ways. In their hands they shall bear you up, lest you dash your foot against a stone. You shall tread upon the lion and the cobra, the young lion and the serpent, you shall trample underfoot. Because he has set his love upon me, therefore I will deliver him I will set him on high, because he has known my name. He shall call upon me, and I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble. I will deliver him and honor him. With long life I will satisfy him and show him my salvation. Please pray with me. Father in heaven, Lord, this is your word This is what you have given to your people, that we would be strengthened, that we would be emboldened, that we would be transformed into the image of our Lord Jesus Christ. We pray that you would use this your word to do exactly that. And I pray, Father, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer. In Christ's name I pray. Amen. Please be seated. Now, if you've ever seen a movie or read a story that had to do with animals, you may have seen a scene. Sort of like this, where there's a cute little baby animal. Looks all alone, vulnerable and weak and helpless and harmless. And there may be something that comes along either to seek to do harm to that little animal, perhaps it's looking for an easy snack. And then you see the camera comes from above and you see this huge shadow. Come over the animal and over whatever threatened it. And you realize that little helpless, weak, vulnerable, harmless little baby Is not in quite as much danger as one might have thought. I call this the mama bear effect. And it's used so frequently in many stories and movies because it's true. It's not just true for animals, it's true for us. If you don't believe me, ask any parent here. It is unwise to come between them and their beloved children. It will not end well for the one who seeks to do them harm. Why then do we doubt our Father in heaven Is he not more powerful than any mama grizzly or papa human? Is he not wiser than all of us, knowing how and when to intervene to secure his children? Hasn't God protected his people on countless occasions since the beginning of human history? Well, perhaps the real question is: has anything changed? Is now so different. Has God stopped providing security for his people? Had something changed that would cause those who believe in God to doubt the security that comes from Him? My prayer in preparing this sermon this week has been that God would use this passage. Psalm 91, to show us all that in Christ we have true security, which enables fearless confidence in God through his promises. Brothers and sisters, in Christ we have true security, which enables fearless confidence in God through his promises. We're going to look at this in three sections this morning. We'll see the first section is the possessor of true security in the first two verses. We'll look at the results of true security in verses 3 through 13 and then the guarantee of true security in verses 14 to 16. Well, the first thing that this Psalm shows us is the possessor of true security, or the one who has true security. Look with me at verse 1. He who has true security has it because he lives in God. It is he who dwells in the secret place of the Most High. The secret place or the hiding place. Now children, pay attention. Kiddos with red hair especially Where do you keep your most prized and treasured possessions? Do you leave them on the front yard where somebody can just grab them or stomp on them or break them? You put them in a very protected place. Well, if we know how to do this to protect the things that we love and the things that are special to us. What about God? This is the Lord Most High. The word here is Elion, and we know that from the name Eliona Adonai. This is the Lord Most High. Can you imagine anything? In the entire world that could violate the secret place of the Most High God? What can even find God's personal hiding place, let alone break into it and steal or harm what is kept there? The one who has true security, he shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. The Almighty, there's another name of God. I know you know it's El Shaddai. I think you see where I'm going with this shadow of the Almighty, or rather where God is going. Just like with the mama bear. If something's going to get to that cub, it's got to go through mama bear first. Well, for you who dwell under the shadow of the Almighty, if something's going to get to you, it has to go through God first. The one who possesses true security knows this. It's not a question for him. He knows and declares that his true security is in God. Look at verse 2. I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress. My God, in Him I will trust. The one who has true security is clear that such security is not found in a specific situation or a circumstance or anything else at all. It is found in God alone. He says, God is my refuge. And the word used here is often translated shelter, as in a place to which one might flee from a storm or an attack. You can and should flee to God when you feel you are under attack, no matter what danger you're in, no matter what you think might be going on. The one who has true security says of God, he is my fortress. And you would recognize this Hebrew word because Herod used it to name his fortress, Masada. And the word literally translated means mountaintop or summit. And the idea here is that God puts you on high and sets you in a place where nothing can reach you. Lastly, he says, My God, in him I will trust. His confession advances to the most important declaration. His security is based on the covenant of God His promise, old and new. And this has always been the source of security for God's people. Genesis 7:7, and I will establish my covenant between me and you and your descendants after you in their generations for an everlasting covenant to be God to you and your descendants after you Or in the statement of the new covenant in Jeremiah 31, when he says, I will be their God and they shall be my people, or in Jeremiah 32, when he says, They shall be my people, and I will be their God. This is our claim to true security, just as it was theirs. It is exactly the same as the Psalmists. Romans 8:14-15 says, For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are sons of God. For you did not receive the spirit of bondage again to fear, but you received the spirit of adoption, by whom we cry out, Abba, Father. Or 1 John 4, 15 to 16. Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God. And we have known and believed the love that God has for us. God is love, and he who abides in love abides in God and God in him. Since we abide in God through Christ, then what can possibly get to us? We dwell in him, in his secret place. We live and breathe and have our being under the shadow of the Almighty God. What can touch us? Should you fear anything in this life? Do you have what you really need to persevere through all the adversity and all the difficulty that is coming? Well, here we will see, in these words, that the Holy Spirit has preserved for us, that there are results of true security, and those results are fearlessness and confidence. First, let's look at how true security produces fearlessness in verses 3 through 8. The first thing we'll notice is that all of it rests on God Who he is and what he has done. He is our security. Follow with me in verses three and four. Surely he shall deliver you from the snare of the fowler and from the perilous pestilence He shall cover you with his feathers, and under his wings you shall take refuge. His truth shall be your shield and buckler Now, literally translated, the Hebrew verb here is in a very specific form, a form that is properly rendered as he will cause you to be delivered. And I think it's a helpful distinction for us because sometimes we don't get a miraculous intervention. We don't get God's hands supernaturally reaching out of the sky and whisking us away from all harm. Sometimes we have to wait. Sometimes we have to endure. Sometimes we have to pray and trust The situation that we're in may not change very much, but if we're waiting upon the Lord. The suffering and the difficulty we've endured will all of a sudden not be so bad. We will suddenly find ourselves able to glorify God and thank Him for putting us through it. In fact, we will find that we've been delivered even though we didn't quite know exactly when it happened. And from what does God cause us to be delivered? The fowler's snare here can be taken as the traps and the pits which the enemy lays before us, trying to tempt us away from trusting in our God. The perilous pestilence is death itself. And you are blessed beyond what even this psalmist knew, for you know that the Messiah has come. You know that this is now true for all who are in Christ Jesus. Nothing can pluck you from the hand of your Father. Though the wages of sin is death, you have been given the gift of eternal life in Jesus Christ. Because of all he has done, we are now counted as God's beloved children. We are his little chicks. And we are protected by his powerful wings, protected not only from the enemy who would harm us, but just as the little chick would be shielded from the cold wind and the rain and all the elements, so too Are we shielded from the sin and the misery of this fallen world? No matter how bad things are going for a child of God, it would be far worse to endure even a lesser trial without God. In addition to this protected and guarded place, the refuge of God's wings, He gives us a means of defending ourselves against the attacks that will come at us on our level. He gives us his truth as our shield and our buckler. And if you were here during uh Pastor Jesse's Proverbs series a few years back, you would remember the phrase Chethed Vaamet His loving kindness and his truth. This is that Amet, the truth, the faithfulness of our God. We can wield his faithfulness, his truth, to block the attacks of competing religions, ideologies, and worldviews. We take up the shield of faith, as it says in Ephesians 6, to quench all the fiery darts that can be thrown at us. Now we'll see this just a little bit clearer later on in this sermon. So we have true security, living in God because of who he is and what he does, and thus we can be fearless Draw your attention to verse 5 and 6, starting right there at verse 5. You shall not be afraid of the terror by night. Children children. You ever been afraid of the dark? I know one of you has. Most of us have. And this is a very natural fear. It's very natural because in the darkness things are hidden. We don't know what's there. It could be something that would harm us. But because of who God is and what He has done, you no longer have to be afraid of all the unknown things out there that could possibly harm you. They have to get through God first. He says that you shall not be afraid of the arrow that flies by day And this is the opposite end of the spectrum from the terror by night. Arrows are designed to harm. We know what they will do if they strike us. And what happens in the day is not a secret. We can see it coming. Because of who God is and what he has done, you no longer need to be afraid of all the many things you know can harm you. You don't even have to be afraid of those things you can see clearly around you all the time that could harm you. You don't need to be afraid of the pestilence that walks in darkness. And the psalmist, he's just driving home the point. He keeps advancing it one after the other from unknown things that might harm us to the known things that will harm us now to the unknown things that can kill us. That's the pestilence that walks in darkness. This has been the human condition since the fall. There are so many things out there that can kill you. You can't possibly know what all of those are. And you don't need to. You don't need to be afraid of that unknown thing that will eventually take your life. If you are under the shadow of the Almighty God, then you know whatever that is. It has to go through him first. You shall not be afraid of the destruction that lays waste at noonday. And this is the last category. These are those things that we know can kill us And that we see coming. They aren't unknown. Noonday isn't to be taken literally as referring to the specific time of day in which this laying waste occurs, but to the fact that it is obvious. It's known to us. This could be natural disasters like tornadoes or earthquakes or hurricanes. Some of these events, because of God's gracious gift to us, of all the different technologies we have, we can get many days' warning for these things. But seeing it coming and knowing that it's on the way does not remove its destructive power. Yet we still do not have to be afraid of these destructions. Even a volcano has to have permission from God to touch the one who dwells under his shadow. We no longer have to be afraid of all these possible threats or unknown threats of harm or death, even when we see them all around us. Because we understand what is happening. Look at verses 7 and 8 in the scripture. It says, A thousand may fall at your side, and 10,000 at your right hand. But it shall not come near you. We watch these things happen: diseases, disasters, explosions on Christmas morning. Attacks. But we do not have to be afraid of them. We understand God's special protection of His beloved. We know that He alone decides the time and the manner of our passing into glory. Only with your eyes shall you look and see the reward of the wicked. When we see the affliction and the destruction around us, it must not lead us into prideful hubris. We cannot think that there must be something special about us that makes us immune somehow, or that because we're not affected, it simply isn't real. Rather, when you see and hear that all around us there is terrible destruction, you must recognize that God is protecting you from it. He is meeting out the reward of the wicked, which is destruction. And you know, just like I do, that we could just as easily be receiving the reward of the wicked As we are receiving the special care of God's providence. For the secure, we do not have to fear destruction, for we know that the price of our wickedness has been paid. We are secure from the ultimate destruction by the atoning sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ. Though we are spared while we witness others' suffering, it should drive us to repentance From our sin and thanksgiving as we recognize God's special care for us. Because of who God is and what He does, we have true security and can be fearless in the face of life's challenges and suffering. But there's another result of true security, and that is confidence. And we see this in verses 9 through 13. In God, nothing can touch us. Verses 9 through 10 say, Because you have made the Lord who is my refuge, even the Most High, your dwelling place, no evil shall befall you, nor shall any plague Come near your dwelling. Now there's some tension here as a result of the translation, and we can misunderstand this. It seems as though what we do is then in some way reciprocated in what God does. We make him our dwelling, and then he makes no evil befall us or no plague come near us. Now this word translated because can also properly be translated surely, as it is other times in this very psalm. Thus, verse 9 can read, as it is in the American Standard Version, with the first part as an interjection. Surely you, O Lord, are my refuge. That would then make the next part a change in speaker. You have made the Most High your dwelling place. I think this helps us see that there isn't a reciprocation, you do something, then God must do something. But simply, the psalmist here is describing objective truth. If you live in God, what evil can break into where you live? What plague can reach your dwelling if your dwelling is the Almighty God? Whereas it says in Romans 8. 31, what then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? As if that were not enough to produce in us confidence through our true security, the Holy Spirit has included in this psalm something that should surely embolden our service for the Lord. We see here that God uses his tremendous power to preserve us. See in verses 11 and 12. For he shall give his angels charge over you to keep you in all your ways. In their hands they shall bear you up, lest you dash your foot against a stone. His angels are with us, supporting us, protecting us. Do you remember that account saved for us in 2 Kings 6 when Elisha's servant goes out of his tent and he sees the army of Syria encamped all around them? He was terrified. Elisha says, Do not fear, for those who are with us are more than those who are with them. And Elisha prayed and said, Lord, I pray, open his eyes that he may see. Then the Lord opened the eyes of the young man and he saw, and behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha. Can you imagine the confidence with which Elisha lived, knowing that around him were the armies of the Lord God? Now, we must be careful to learn the lesson from Matthew 4 and Luke 4 when the enemy himself tried to ensnare our Lord Jesus into sin using these very words. You remember the devil said? He took him up onto the pinnacle of the temple and he said, just throw yourself down, nothing's going to hurt you. And he uses these exact words from this psalm. Jesus answers him, It is written, You shall not tempt the Lord your God. So we must not use these verses. Knowing that the armies of God are at our back, supporting us, protecting us, guiding us, we cannot use this knowledge as license to test the Lord He has commanded his angels to care for us, to keep us in all our ways. And that truth must be the same shield and buckler for us as it was for our Lord. We do not need to test God to know this is true, for we confess and declare, as the psalmist does, that He is our God. In him we will trust. He has said it, and that is enough. We won't test sin by foolishly walking around in this world as though we are invincible. Remember, we can still experience pain. We can still physically die. For the Christian, it is the sting of death that has been removed. God's angels will help us In their hands they bear us up lest we dash our foot on the stone. No matter what occurs, he will not allow us to fall off the path of righteousness upon which He has placed us And so that you don't just think this is an Old Testament thing, an old Kingdom of Israel kind of thing, that's something that was going on but isn't anymore, I would remind you of Hebrews 1:14. That in reference to the angels says, Are they not all ministering spirits sent forth to minister for those who will inherit salvation? Our true security in God produces in us a confidence. And this confidence strengthens us with the power to conquer our enemies. See what it says in verse 13. You shall tread upon the lion and the cobra, the young lion and the serpent, you shall trample underfoot. These are all different kinds of enemies. The lion is the strong enemy, the one that's difficult to withstand. The cobra, these are venomous enemies, sneaky and deadly. The young lion, these are the overwhelmingly numerous enemies. And the serpent, which is often translated in the King James Version, as I prefer, as dragon. And this reminds us that the enemies we face will sometimes have Overwhelming power, they will seem like monsters. Now, I want you to notice that it doesn't say that you will survive the lion and the cobra, or that you will somehow manage to get by alongside the serpent and the young lion. No. Christian, you will tread and you will trample them. When the enemies of Christ show themselves, his brothers and sisters will not cower in defeat, nor will they limp along and attempt to adjust to the new normal, if the new normal violates God's commands. When the time comes, and it surely will, for it says in 2 Timothy 3. 12, Yes, and all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. When it happens that the godly in Christ must stand up to that persecution, you better believe it will be a triumphant stand. But we would also do well to remember that at times in church history, such triumphant stands didn't always look so triumphant from a worldly vantage point. As God's beloved children, we dwell in him and we have true security because of who he is and what he has done. This security allows the child of God to be fearless and confident in the face of life's many and varied trials. There never needs to be any doubt in the true security of the one who dwells in God, because it is not based on anything that any one of us can do. It is based on the only wholly reliable thing in the entire universe. And we see this in these final verses. We see the guarantee of true security, which is God's promises. And this is the last section, verses 14 to 16. First, we see in verse 14 that true security is guaranteed because he promises special protection for his people. Because he set his love upon me, therefore I will deliver him. I will set him on high because he's known my name. Those who love God have the security of his deliverance. He delivers those who love him. And we have a similar tension as before because of the translation. The first part of the verse could easily be translated: surely in me he has loved, and I will deliver him. Most importantly, this verse should cause us to spend focused time and energy examining our own thoughts and desires and goals to know whether or not we are truly setting our love upon God. The second part of the verse is very clear. To know God's name is to know God. And this is not a trivial thing. It is the most important pursuit of your entire life, for it will never fail to be a fruitful exercise. As you can see here, it's not without benefits. Those who know God have the security of His protection. He exalts them, or He sets them on high, literally above danger. And though they may endure difficulty for a time, it is clear that they are not in danger. And this is just like a child. The child is not in danger when their father begins to recognize bad habits, which can lead to their destruction, and he causes their backsides to endure a little bit of difficulty? Or perhaps the child simply needs to be cut off from the one thing that has drawn their attention away from what is good and what is Right. Those who know God do not need to fear. They can be confident in what He has said He will do. Go ask someone who knows Him. They will bear witness to this truth. In verse fifteen, we see that true security is guaranteed because God promises his special attention and presence. He shall call upon me, and I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble. I will deliver him and honor him. God's people have the security of his attention. There is never a danger that the Lord of heaven and earth will be defunded. God's people have the security of his powerful presence. There's nowhere you can be forced to go that will separate you from him. There is no decree or mandate or custom or anything else that can separate the one who's united to God in Jesus Christ from him. Lastly, true security is guaranteed because God promises satisfaction and salvation. Verse 16: With long life I shall satisfy him and show him my salvation. God causes his people to be satisfied with their length of days. Now again, we have a specific verb form that means cause to be, and it helps us understand that this is not a promise. that all believers will live a long, long, long, long time here in this world. In fact, the promise is far more significant and amazing than that The promise of God is that the one who dwells in him, who is truly secure, who is fearless and confident because of who God is and what he has done, the one who loves him, the one who knows him, this person. Will be satisfied with whatever length of days God gives him. And that's only made more astounding by the further promise that God causes his people to see his salvation There's no end to the blessings God bestows upon his people. No matter how long they live, they will be satisfied. And when they die, they will be saved from the destruction that awaits all sin and evil. It's no mistake that God told Mary to name her son Yeshua, for that is the very same word used here. Jesus is so named because He is God's salvation. Is there any better promise than that God will cause you to be satisfied with your life and that he will cause you to be saved? Well, brothers and sisters, do you feel like you have this true security? Does who God is and what he's done alleviate your fears and give you confidence to navigate all the difficulties of your life? Is your hope for the future and for the security because of anything you've done or will do? Or do you trust in his promises alone as the guarantee of your security? I know this isn't news to most of you. It's certainly not the first time that you're hearing this, but it is so important that it bears repeating. Nothing else can save you except Jesus Christ If you've never cried out to God and begged him to cause you to see his salvation, that is what you need to do right away. If the kind of security this psalm describes is totally foreign to you, don't let another day go by without sincerely begging for God to open your eyes to see his constant goodness and his grace. And if you don't know whether you love God or whether you know him, you need to find an elder today and set up a meeting on your calendar. for what might be the most important conversation of your entire life. But now I turn to speak to those of you who do not doubt Those of you who have long believed the gospel, believed that God is true. To you who are growing in grace and pursuing the Lord and seeking to live according to his love, Do not cheat God of his glory by putting your hope for security in anything else. There is no court, there is no president or prince, no congressional majority, no political system. No government program, no government handout, no doctor, no attorney general, no special counsel, no medication, no therapist, no vaccine, no cleansing ritual No fashion, custom, nothing can achieve the security we all need without it being God's chosen means of working. He has, does, and will continue to work through secondary means. God can use all those things to bring about his glory and the blessedness of his people. But we must not look to those secondary means as the source of our hope and security. When in your trials and suffering, Do not doubt and ask where is God in all this? How will I ever survive? Will this ever end? Rather, say as the psalmist does: Jehovah is my refuge. He is my fortress, my God. In him I will trust. His promises are sure, and they are fulfilled for you in Jesus Christ. Here's the proof. This table of the Lord Jesus Christ, instituted by Him for His people and for our blessedness. His promise is dignified by the bread and the wine. His body is broken. It atones for your sins. His blood is shed, and it is the seal of the new covenant, which is made effectual unto your salvation by the Holy Spirit through the gift of faith that He has placed in you. In this covenant we have true security. Through this sacrament, may we be strengthened unto fearless confidence in our God through his faithful promises. God has done this. It is marvelous in our eyes. Please pray with me