Christmas Eve meditation is just that. It's not really a sermon. So the Purpose is not to bring out the depth of of every meaning that is contained within the passage, but simply to enter into the thrill of the passage and to Ponder it, if you will, which is the theme of what we're doing this evening. Tonight's passage is the Christmas story as is uh recorded in Luke. Luke 2, verses 1 through 20. I would ask that you just hear it. That's how the first Christians did. It was read to them. They just sat and they listened and they listened in wonder. Here are the words of Luke, the Word of God, as it is uh written there. And it came to pass in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. This census first took place while Quirinius was governing Syria. So all went to be registered, every one to his own city. Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth unto Judea to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem Because he was of the house and lineage of David, to be registered with Mary, his betrothed wife, who was with child. And so it was that while they were there the days were completed for her to be delivered. And she brought forth her firstborn son and wrapped him in swaddling cloths and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn. Now there were in the same country shepherds living out in the fields, keeping watch over their flock by night, and behold, an angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were greatly afraid And then the angel said to them, Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which will be to all people. For there is born to you this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. And this will be the sign to you. You will find a babe wrapped in swaddling cloths lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest and on earth peace, goodwill toward men. And so it was. When the angels had gone away from them into heaven, that the shepherds said to one another, Let us now go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has come to pass, which the Lord has made known to us. And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. And when they had seen him, they made widely known the saying which was told them concerning this child. And all those who heard it marveled at those things which were told them by the shepherds. But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen as it was told to them. And may the Lord add his blessing to the thoughts and meditations which come from his word. Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart It's hard for me to imagine how Mary m uh Mary's earthly life must have been Now in heaven, sh I'm sure she is in heaven and and everything is more clear to her, certainly now. But back then, while she was here on this earth, she must have sent spent her entire life In something that I would call a state of amazed confusion. Angels Come and telling her that she's going to have a baby and she knowing that she's never had carnal knowledge of a man. What Her cousin Elizabeth's baby, John the Baptist, jumping with joy in Elizabeth's womb when Mary walks into the room while she's carrying the infant baby, Jesus with in her. A normal pregnancy, I suppose. We have no word of it otherwise. And then she and her husband Joseph have to go to Bethlehem because of a Roman census. They get there. She's got this miraculous child in her womb. There's no place for them to stay. She's got the royal baby of God in her womb, and there's no bed. Confusion. They didn't have enough money to bribe their way into an inn. So they're sleeping in a hayloft of sorts. And now in a strange city, far away from all of her support system, from her friends, from her mother, I suppose from the midwife, which she would normally be using and probably had experience in perhaps helping. Now of all times the baby comes Why now? She must have asked. She must have wondered. And then here come these shepherds. And they're telling this fantastic story. They come pushing and shoving into this little township of Bethlehem. Now remember, these folks are shepherds. We're not talking polished and sophisticated gentlemen here. They were rough. They had to be. They were probably uneducated and they most probably were very poor. And yet These men, Mary, Mary sees these men, these strange, unkempt shepherds. Coming and saying that God has spoken to them through an angel and a multitude of angels A multitude had filled the sky proclaiming that God was doing a great thing, that God was sending a Savior into the world. A Savior. Can you imagine that? A Savior. And not just any old Savior, but a King, Christ the Lord. And what was the message that they were saying that these angels had proclaimed that this Savior, this king, this Messiah who was coming, was not just bringing joy to Israel. Which is the fullest expectation that anybody had at that time. He was not coming to bring joy just to the people of the Jews. This man This baby, this child who had been born, was to bring joy to the whole earth, to all the peoples of the world. Now that must be some kind of baby that she just delivered I imagine these shepherds are so excited that they're running around just kind of babbling. Have you ever seen somebody just really excited? They're so excited that they just can't stop talking I know I saw some some some faces flash through your minds even as I was thinking about that. Some people they just get so excited about things and when it does, it's just gotta be talked about. I can't imagine these shepherds being anything less than that. They had seen a sky full of angels telling them this baby was the savior of the world. What an excitement that was. Mary saw this. And Luke says She stored it up and pondered it in her heart. She wondered about it. She thought about it. How is this going to work? She's ignorant of God's great plan for this child. She knows something's going to happen. But that's about it. She's wondering, confused, amazed, astonished, excited. And scared. I think this is pretty much the state in which Mary spent most of her life here on Earth. After all, this was her firstborn child. Not her only child, as some religions falsely teach, but certainly he had a special place in her heart as her firstborn child. But not only for being firstborn, but because of the circumstances of his birth. She must have watched carefully from that point on how things were going to be uh to develop, because look at how his life had started She must have taken special care to notice things. Nothing was insignificant about this child, so therefore nothing passed her attention. So I imagine she stayed as close to him as she could. I think she stayed close in touch with him even when he was absent. We know from other gospels that when things were not going well for Jesus and and he was causing such an uproar in the countryside that people were very upset, we know that Mary and his brothers and sisters came to see him. So that means that she must have had some kind of information coming to her on a fairly regular basis of what was going on with Jesus, and even when he was not there with her in Nazareth. Her life must have been filled with great pride for him, as well as humility for herself. But I think her life was characterized by anxiety and concern and fear. And as she did here at the first. I think she spent throughout her entire life. I think she kept a very close record in her heart. about what she saw, heard about, or experienced with Jesus. And I imagine that just as she was here at the beginning of his life, she pondered them. And turned them over and over and tried to see how they all fit together. And I can see her there, 33 years later Standing at the foot of a cross, looking up at her firstborn child. Leaning on the Apostle John's shoulder because she's so weak with what is happening to her son Hearing him looking down from the cross in the midst of all of his agony over what he was experiencing And calling her with a great deal of affection and saying, Woman, behold your son, giving her into John's care for the remainder of her life. How confused she must have been at that point. How does this fit with that? How can this suffering and his death be reconciled with the fact that I became pregnant by the Holy Spirit and on the night he was born, the angel saying in heaven I think some of it came together for her as a resurrection. The very last thing that we read about Mary in the New Testament is written by the same author, Luke, however it's in the book of Acts. In the first chapter where she joins with the disciples in prayer after the Lord's ascension into heaven, So she knew he ascended into heaven. The scriptures are silent as to whether she saw him there or saw him do it. And so I think that when she saw that, I think she said, Yeah, it fits. It fits But even there, I think she was still confused and pondering. Her Savior, her Lord, her son, had risen from the grave, and now he was with those very angels that had sung at his birth But it would take the Spirit coming at Pentecost to enliven the minds of the apostles and all that followed in that day for them to begin to make sense of what happened in the life of Jesus, and for Mary to be taught what her own son had done. I think Mary was probably one of Luke's primary sources for this gospel, either directly or through Paul telling Luke what she had told him. Everything about Jesus was mysterious. She gave him a great deal of insight into facts and things that he would have had no access to otherwise. But I think that what Mary communicated to Luke, which kind of goes throughout his entire gospel, is that everything about this Jesus was mysterious. Incredible, awe-inspiring, and more than just a little bit scary. And brothers and sisters, that's how we ought to be feeling tonight. You see, this is what we must know That angel really did appear to Mary before her conception. Don't listen. To what those in the world are telling us about how this is nothing but myth. That angel was there talking to this woman, Mary. And she really was a virgin. That's not just ancient storytelling. She became pregnant by the Holy Spirit. And if that doesn't strike you dumb, such that you cannot even imagine such a thing. Then your heart really does need to be open to the magnitude of that about which we are speaking. That child in her womb that was conceived by no earthly father, but conceived by the Holy Spirit himself, took on flesh. He was born of a woman He was born under the law, and therefore he took on flesh that experienced the corruption that our first parent Adam brought into the world. And he did so because of her. But because he was born of the Holy Spirit, he was born without guilt of sin, either his or of Adam's. So this child, this precious child, was ideally fitted for that for which he was sent to do. He was sent, brothers and sisters, to be the Savior of the world, to bring tidings of great joy to all the peoples of the earth, not just the Jews. He was born to bring great tidings of joy to us. You and I gathered here tonight. Gathered here in Millersville in the solemnity and silence of this moment. He was born with angels shouting for joy, singing songs of triumph in heaven. And he lived his life ideally fitted for his purpose. And his purpose was to go to a cross and to suffer for the sins for those for whom he came to save. That's what he was sent to do. That's what he did. And he came to hang there in agony with no angels singing around him while he was on that cross. But rather all heaven black with the thundering wrath of an angry God who was punishing sin, your sin and mine. The angels are silent on that day. But they were not silent shortly thereafter. For on the third day, Jesus was born again into this world. On the third day he walked out of the womb of death into the glorious eternal life in the flesh that he had purchased for all of his adopted children, the adopted children of God. And my oh my, how heaven must have erupted at that moment. There must have been shouts of triumph for the wisdom, power, glory. Of God the Father, as it was revealed for all, with spiritual eyes to see. Brothers and sisters, this is the mystery we celebrate tonight. This is the amazing thing that should grip our souls tonight And like Mary, the only appropriate response to what God has revealed to us is this. We should hold it close in our hearts. And we should ponder it. We should wonder. We should gaze at this with our spiritual eyes. And we should just simply fall down on our knees and worship. This, brothers and sisters, is your God. This is your Savior. This is your Prince of Peace. This is your king. Let's pray. Lord and God create in us a sense of wonder. It is so hard in this materialistic age with stuff on the internet with being able to talk to people on the other side of the world and actually see their f face on the screen in front of you while you're doing it. To live in houses where we're insulated from the cold and to have significant enough money that w not anybody specifically, I think, here is starving to death. We live so far removed from the immediate conscious need of your upholding and saving hand that we really don't experience the holy very much anymore We don't sense we don't have that hair-raising experience of being out on a cold, clear night. Trembling not only because the weather is cold, but trembling because there is this sense of something holy about us. Something far removed from us. Something that is beyond us. And knowing that this something is a someone, someone to whom we should turn our hearts and minds, and someone we should fear if we are not reconciled to him So, Lord and God, I ask that you, through the power of your Holy Spirit, take us this night and remove those things that would hinder us from becoming awestruck. And instill in us a sense of awe, a sense of the holy, a sense of the tremendous, incredible reality that you did on that night so long ago. And then Lord God, help us to turn our thoughts and hearts toward this child and to see him for what he is. Our Lord, our King, who is a baby no more, but is sitting at the right hand of God the Father Almighty, clothed in glorious light. And who will come again someday to redeem this world from the corruption that is yet in it, and to take all of those for whom he was sent, and gather them to be with him forever. Grant us, O Lord and God, that awesome understanding this very evening, for I ask it in your own name, our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen