Our reading tonight is from, and sermon is from Matthew 27, verses 35 through 50. Then they crucified him. and divided his garments, casting lots, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet. They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots Sitting down, they kept watch over him there. And they put up over his head the accusation written against him. This is Jesus, the King of the Jews. And then two robbers were crucified with him, one on the right and the other on the left. And those who passed by blasphemed him, wagging their heads and saying, You who destroy the temple and build it in three days. Save yourself. If you're the Son of God, come down from the cross Likewise, the chief priests also, mocking with the scribes and elders, said, He saved others. Himself he cannot save. If he is the king of Israel, let him now come down from the cross and will believe. He trusted in God. Let him deliver him now if he will have him, for he said, I am the Son of God. Even the robbers who were crucified with him reviled him with the same thing. And now from the sixth hour until the ninth hour there was darkness over all the land. And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice. voice saying, Eli, Eli, Labai, Lama Sabhaxani. That is, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Some of those who stood there when they heard that said, This man is calling for Elijah. Immediately one of them ran And took a sponge, filled it with sour wine, and put it on a reed, and offered it to him to drink. The rest said, Let him alone. Let us see if Elijah will come to save him. And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice, and he yielded up his spirit. Please pray with me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, our great request to you This evening is that we would see your Christ, that we would give our life to Him, that we would understand that His life was given for us And that we would taste and see that He is good. We ask these things in your name. Amen During the season we've really been making our way through the Passion of Matthew. Last night on the way home, I hoped you got a chance to talk about the sermon, because we were not able to talk about it here. I asked My family some questions that went along these lines. Why do you think Matthew arranged the Lord's Supper to fall directly after the judgment discourses? And of course, if you look at the scriptures solely as history, one answer is because that's because one came first. and the other came second. That there was a chronology of events. And yet anyone who has spent time studying the gospel knows that although the events are historically true, their top priority the gospel writers, their top priority is not to be historians as we understand it. The gospel writers are making significant theological points. They are seeking to persuade and to convince About God the Father and His Christ. What this means practically, what it means practically is that you cannot just look for historical facts within matter. Matthew, you must look for meaning. Matthew arranges all of his material in order to impart deep truths. I hope that you began to see that last night So for example, last night we made the observation that Jesus gives a grand vision of being the Son of Man and riding it on the clouds as prophesied from the prophet Daniel. However, when we hit chapter twenty-six, there's a kind of detour, a rerooting of the same old past, because at one point Jesus says he shall be victorious, riding it on the crown the clouds, but then And 26, he says that he will be crucified. And the natural question really arises, and I believe Matthew wants us to ask the question: what will it be? Is it chapter 24 and 25 or 26? Will Jesus be the victorious Messiah riding in on the clouds, or will he be mocked and ridiculed and overtaken and crucified? What I'd like you to picture really through the whole meditation tonight is this. Remember the old scales? Now we have scales that are electronic and you just put something on them. You can tell the weight. The old scales that could tip one side or the other, like the scales of justice I want you to picture that scale. And I want you to ask: which side, according to the Gospel of Matthew, is more weighted? Christ as Victor or Christ as Victor When we look back at the beginning of chapter 26, the scales are obviously tipped toward Christ's crucified. In 26 verses 1 and 2, he announces that he will in fact be crucified. He says, after he gave these sayings, he spoke about how the Son of Man must die and be crucified. 26 six, one and two. And you can see that that is a kind of headwaters of a stream that will come rushing forward through the rest of this narrative called Matthew's passage passion and it's all pushing like an an irresistible current, dragging us toward Jesus' death. When you got to the point where sh where Jesus was anointed for burial last night, couldn't Couldn't you feel the current? Couldn't you see the scales begin to tip holy in favor of the crucifixion? He said he would be victim. But everything is pointing towards the opposite, that he'll be crucified as a criminal. But it was interesting as we celebrated the Lord's Supper, it was as if something took place in the stream and the currents changed. Have you spent much time around streams? When I had time, I used to fly fish And we would go to streams. And the thing about streams is that there's a main current, or multiple main currents, but depending on the rocks and the bed There are eddies that swirl and sometimes just seem like completely still water on the sides The current can be ripping down the center with white capped riffles, but on one of those sides, and at the right place in the inward bend of a stream, it can be as calm as as smooth as a Mercury. That's what it felt like last night for a moment, didn't it? When we were gathered and communing with Christ and Jesus had carefully selected that moment that they would go off of the main current and they'd sit in stillness together. He selected particular disciples to find a place to celebrate the Passover. When you get a chance, note the detail in the passage that Jesus has sent out disciples so that Judas wouldn't know where this where the celebration would be. So that he could not be betrayed that night. He still yearned to institute the Lord's Supper with them. He had set it all up just perfectly So that their meal would not be interrupted with a betrayal. And there, in the calm of the meal, by candlelight, Jesus broke the bread and he poured the wine for his disciples. And we, communing with him last night, we took up the bread, and we took up the wine, and we communed in the stillness of holiness. With our Christ. They ended their time with a hymn, and so did we. Those are the kind of things you can only do in a in an eddy. If you're down in the main current on a raft or whatever, there's no time to sing hymns. You lose your balance and you drop your hymn book in the center of a stream. But then something takes place after the supper. Here during the supper we begin to question and we say, well, well wait a second. Maybe this Scales are coming back. Maybe he really is the one that Daniel prophesied. Maybe he is victorious. There's so much stillness now, so much control Maybe I've gotten it wrong. But then something happens. The current begins to feel strong again. Like an oak leaf that would swirl on an eddy. All of a sudden there is a current that sucks it back out into the center, and down the stream we go again And we see Jesus going to the Garden of Gethsemane praying with deep anguish. The disciples, they still seem like they're in the eddy. In some sense, because they're falling asleep. Maybe they had too much wine, maybe they had too much to eat. Maybe there was too much meat Well, they fall asleep multiple times, but that's not the tenor of Jesus' affections. Jesus is aware. This is what he says Behold, the hour is at hand, and the Son of Man is being betrayed into the hand of sinners. The disciples didn't even have time to discuss. It's it's on. We're moving downstream and there's nothing that can stop us. A kind of undertow pulls them all out into the center, and they're dizzied by the experience And while he was speaking, behold, Judas, one of the twelve of the great multitude with swords and clubs, came from the chief priests and the elders of the people. Where are you now with the scale? You can hear the metal slamming it down to one side. They have the upper hand. Christ will not be victorious. You can see that this is exactly what Peter is thinking. Peter is concerned. He sees that there is a threat to chapter 24 and 25 of what Jesus has said. And John relates for us the details of this: that it is Peter. Matthew just says, one of those who were with Jesus stretched out his hand, drew his sword, and struck the servant of the high priest, and he cut off his ear. John fills in the details and says that Peter drew the sword and cut off an ear of a man named Malchus. And you can see why Peter would do it, the threat to the vision that had been given to him. He still hadn't understood what the woman was doing. With the anointing. He had in his mind Christ riding in on the clouds, and so he raised his sword to heaven and he struck. He saw the scales tipping. And if he were like someone today, he may have said, Out of my cold dead hands, Judas. You can hear the whop of the metal against the flesh, and you know. That even if you were just having your hair cut and your ear is nipped, the kind of blood that is involved. But that was Peter's perspective. Things began to move too fast for him, and so he struck out with what he knew, and how he had understood the narrative that was going on so far. The big question mark for us to ask while we're still in the garden is that how Jesus Jesus saw. But Jesus said to him, put your sword in its place. For all who take the sword will perish by the sword. And here it's key. Or do you think Then I cannot now pray to my Father, and he will provide me with more than twelve legions of angels. How then could the scriptures be fulfilled that it must happen thus? Have you ever been on a boat or by a pool or out on a picnic Some picnic and someone brings your attention. You've been so distracted by having so much fun, and then someone brings to your attention, they say, Look at the horizon. And you look to the horizon, and there's dark black clouds And somebody says, we better be going in. We need to pack up. the storm, Jesus acknowledges the storm, but somehow remains calm and doesn't see any fluctuation in the scale. And that ends up complicating it for us because even his disciples who will end who are who are apostles writing in this inspired word are having trouble at this point. It complicates our project. Which way are we going? Can someone tell me? Has it you ever had someone make you close your eyes and they spin you and then you have to try to walk in the same direction that you were originally facing That's kind of how we feel at this point. Are we moving towards dick toward victory or are we moving toward defeat? Which one is it going to be? For at the same time that the enemy is gaining ground, Jesus reminds us again by quoting what he did, judgment chapters, and him riding it on the clouds. Somehow, the prophecy of Daniel is still pushing through in the Garden of Gethsemane. It is the paradox of paradoxes at this point. But if you continue in the text with me, the paradox is going to the break. The scale will slam now to one side. Because the time is drawing near Peter was right when he pointed at the horizon, and the approaching storm grew darker and darker. In 26, 69 through 74, Peter will deny Christ three times. Christ will be left alone. The time and the fellowship that He had at the Supper, there will be no one remaining. by his side. Beginning in chapter 27, Jesus is delivered to Pilate. Judas's betrayal was actually successful. The governor Pilate examined Jesus as to the accusations of the Jews, as you heard in the readings from Luke. And by this time were caught up in the narrative in such a way. In this story, the stream is too strong. There's no going back. Surely, I hope you all realize that Jesus Christ will be crucified The storm will make landfall. In twenty-seven fifteen, it seems like there is a uh light that breaks through the clouds and Perhaps there is some kind of hope that Jesus will fulfill the prophecy of Daniel because Pilate has decided that today, as he has in the past, he will release a prisoner And he makes it kind of obvious for them as to which one should be released. Because one is innocent and one is obviously guilty. Comes from his own mouth in the reading of Luke. Pilate knew that the man Jesus, the God-man Jesus, is innocent. So he offers for the crowd to choose. That's the light ray breaking through the storm. Maybe the clouds will part. And he places before them Jesus and Barabbas. In Pilate's mind, the decision was easy. Barabbas was a notorious murderer, as it is mentioned in the text, and he led a rebellion. He is a kind of terrorist. Jesus, not a terrorist, not a murderer, brought life to everyone that he knew and that came in contact with him. So Pilate asks in 27. Which of the two do you want me to release to you? It's a moment where the scales could tip. And to his surprise, they said, Barabbas. Pilate said to them, What shall then I do with Jesus who is called the Christ? And they said to him, Let him be crucified. And then the governor said, Why? What evil has he done But they cried out all the more, no answer, no substance to the accusations. They just began chanting as a mob, let him be crucified And when Pilate saw that he could not prevail at all, but rather that a tumult was arising, he took water and he washed his hands. Can you imagine this? Can you see it? That he washed his hands before God's people of this man's blood. And he says, I am innocent of the blood of this just person You see to it. And all the people answered, and they said, His blood be on us and on our children. The die was cast. I think you've probably made up your mind by now. Even if this were the first time you've ever heard this story, you know what's going to happen. The fate is sealed. The scale is tipped. The storm off the coast has made landfall, and Jesus will be Christ crucified. You've probably heard me say this before. It's kind of a motto I go by in my life, just to let me not take myself too seriously. Someone once said to me, Everyone has a plan until they get punched in the face. The road to the cross will be more than a punch. In twenty twenty-seven, twenty-six, they will scorch him. which is similar to a horse whip. In 27-29, they twisted a crown of thorns and put it on his head. They placed a reed in his right hand to act as a mock scepter. Do you see what they're doing? to him. How embarrassing this is. In 2730 they spat on him. They struck him on the head. And in twenty-seven thirty-five, they did it. They crucified Jesus the Christ. From the sixth hour until the ninth hour there was darkness over all the land. And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, Labah, Savaxini. That is, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? That's the passion. This is Good Friday. Let me ask you to return to where we began. I hope that in some sense you have been watching the Passion of Jesus Christ. But I want you to drop back now and ask yourself the question. That we began with. I want you to picture an old-fashioned scale, like the scales of justice. Which side is more weighted? Christ victorious For Christ crucified, there are many people that have over the last hundred years, perhaps long They point out to this and they say, Well, it's very clear that the t scales have totally tipped to Christ not only crucified, but Christ the failure. Because he loses his faith and he gives up the dream. He had a good heart. He had innovative political ideas, but in the end he was a failure. And yet we have to ask the question: is that the truth that Matthew is communicating? Remember our foremost principle Matthew is not relaying simply chronological history, but chronological history on to the end of theological significance. And so we have to ask, what is Matthew's meaning? Now you know, I hope you know, that every time Matthew quotes Scripture, Whether on his own as an editorial comment or through the mouth of Jesus Christ, it has great weight in the argument he's making. As a quiz, what's the last piece of scripture that has been quoted Matthew 2746 is an Old Testament quote It is coming from the mouth of Jesus when Jesus says, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? It is a quote from Psalm 22, and we have sung it this night. Psalm 22 is a vision and kind of experience that David had that would come true for the Christ. David records the anguish in that psalm, the betrayal, the ridicule, the mocking, the power of the enemy, and the personal pain, and the parching as his tongue sticks to the roof of his mouth. The piercing of the hands and of the side. It's all present in Psalm 22. And all that comes rushing back into this story for theological significance. Because then in Psalm 22, verse 21, after all of the cries of the Messiah to God the Father, this is what it says. The Christ says to the Father, You have answered me. And from that point on The psalm is a psalm of total victory and celebration and power of God the Father and His Christ and what they have accomplished. And actually, Psalm 22 is divided into two halves. Can you guess what the two halves would be? Christ crucified and Christ victorious. It wasn't a paradox after all. We asked Matthew in the beginning, which is it going to be? 24, chapter 24 and 25, or chapter 26? And Matthew replies, If you truly understand, it's all the chapters. It's both. The Son of Man who rides the clouds redeems his people from their sins through his planned and decreed obedience even unto death. If you wanted to summarize it with the Apostle Paul, listen to this. Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God, did not consider it robbery to be equal with God. but made himself of no reputation, taking the form of a bond servant, and coming in the likeness of men, and being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death Even the death of the cross. Therefore, God also has highly exalted him and given him the name which is above every name that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, and of those in heaven, and of those on earth, and of those under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God. Of God the Father. Oh the wisdom of God. In the end, this is what we see And I hope the image is burned into your brain. Jesus Christ is the Lamb of God, but this Lamb has the Claws of a lion. Blessing and honor, and glory and power be to To him who sits on the throne, to the lamp, for ever and ever. Amen. Amen. Please pray with me It would be more appropriate, God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, for us to be on Our knees at the wisdom that you have displayed in the Christ. Whereas we would choose one or we would choose the other you have combined into both and taken the middle road. We have both the Lamb of God and the Lion of Judah. We stand in awe at your magnificence Work, Lord Jesus Christ. We stand in awe that your work was to die. The death of the And that it was for the redemption of your people. It is through this act, in obedience to the Father, that you have gathered Gathered us in from the east and from the west and from the north and the south. I pray that our hearts would be fully given over to you. Because while we were still sinners, you died for us. In the name of Christ. Amen.