Uh Acts chapter eight for the next morning. And I ask that you follow along in verses one through four. Now Saul was consenting to his death, speaking of Satan. At that time a great persecution arose against the church, which was at Jerusalem And they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles. And devout men carried Stephen to his burial and made great lamentation over him. As for Saul, he made havoc in the church, entering every house, dragging off men and women, committing them to prison. Therefore, those who were scattered went everywhere, preaching the word. Let's pray. Oh Christ, you give us your word that we might respond as your bride in glorifying you. And we know, Lord, that you will do this as we become not just hearers, but doers of your word. We pray therefore, Lord, that you would sanctify us by your truth, that you would wash us by the water of your word, and that we would be your witness that you are the great I Am In your name we pray. I am seeing that. Two weeks ago We acknowledged that Christ is, not was, that he is standing at the right hand of God. We acknowledge furthermore that what this means, at least in part, is that he is he has and he is and he will continue To strengthen his church with wisdom. Not the kind of wisdom where people just sit around and think about things. But the kind of wisdom that brings help, encouragement. Love and faith and hope to a community. He gives us wisdom, we learn, in the midst of discouragement. He gives us wisdom in the midst of doubt. And we saw that at a heightened point within the church that he even gives us encouragement during persecution, whether it be Stephen or the believers we heard about in Laos. The young teenage girl, for example, who was removed from her home. We therefore, as all the saints in the clouds of witnesses, stand also as witnesses in the cloud. We testify to Christ's constant care and rule from heaven. We are continually in our actions and in our words and our confession Always in one way or the other saying the same thing over and over again. Jesus Christ is Lord. If you follow what that means throughout the scriptures, really our confession is to say that Jesus Christ is Yahweh. That He has been given the name above all names. And we witness to that fact at all times. We also acknowledged that in that, as we see that Christ pours out his wisdom as a way for us to witness to his glory, that We are to participate with Him in some sense for the church across all lands by praying, especially for the persecuted church. I gave you some examples last two weeks ago on prayers that you should be entering into. And I'll just mention two more recent examples. This happened two weeks ago and uh a community in Nigeria. They send urgent prayer requests because they have been under attack by Kulani militants, a Muslim extremist group. The area has re re uh experienced re uh repeated attacks. Uh and when I say attacks, this is what I mean They're continuing at a bit of a lower level right now, but last year the attackers killed seven of the Christians in this area and they burnt down 13 homes And um they have displaced over 500 people uh recently and have left eight more dead And so I'd ask that you please be in prayer for the community of Moragan in Nigeria. You know, when we hear things like that, whether it's this week or two weeks ago, perhaps it is surprising to you to then look down at your scriptures and see the same picture. Yeah, displacement, loss of homes. Once we remember that uh whether we're hearing about those in Nigeria or looking on the pages of Scripture, that this has been happening for some time It was not the Fulani Muslims, as we see in our scriptures in verse 1, but as you can pick up, it is a man named Saul who spearheaded the great persecution at Jerusalem. Saul, you see in verse 3, where it starts to go into some of the details, he made havoc of the church. He entered every house, for example, and he Drug off men and women and he committed them to prison. Just stop for a second right there and imagine what that would be like if that took place among us. Imagine how you would feel. Imagine the kind of thoughts that would rush into your head. Imagine, for example If you're at work, there's a lot of people here that end up working under security clearances, so we're not able to reach you during the day. You're in your little building where no one talks to each other. You just look at the walls as you pass them all. Why don't you imagine being in that space? And then you when you get back to your car, you have 15 voice messages and 10 texts from different kinds of people. Letting them know that someone has invaded your house and has taken away your wife and your children to prison You can see the kind of difficulty that they're dealing with here. Later on we'll see in Acts that this same Saul, Christ will confront him, change his name, and then they will start asking him, this guy To come into their homes to teach and they at first they don't want him around, as you could guess. I'm sure that some in Jerusalem wanted to fight. Just as you would want to fight, I know some of you'd be keen to start some kind of militia. But whatever happened, uh they lost that kind of courage or saw that it wasn't going to work I wonder if it was just seeing that that entire political power structure was just too powerful to fight, especially when you have children in your arms trying to keep them safe. That just changes the battlefield zone. And so you can see what ended up happening in verse 1 Is that they scattered. It says that they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles, which I believe they stayed back to offered kind of stability and leadership as strong rods of the community. Christians left behind their homes and belongings and fled into the neighboring regions of Judea and Samaria. And it makes you wonder as you look at this account in the scriptures or you Fast forward to a couple weeks ago, I wonder where the Christians in Nigeria fled when their homes and churches were burned. You can see the overlay and how the history has become far smaller than we realized. Now when you look at something like this or you hear about it in the world, there are a few possible responses, and I just wonder what yours are. I see a little bit of your your basis, what I can see. I think one initial response that you could have to something like this when it starts to get so close is that you could be overwhelmed with a kind of fear, a kind of pain, a kind of helplessness. And these kinds of things, fear and pain and helplessness, they can overtake a person It can be like an irresistible riptide just pulling you out, and they consume you. You can't live normal life any longer. But I do want to ask, as you look at how perhaps a normal response would be, I want you to ask, Luke being full aware of a human response, where is Luke's attention and emphasis in the record that he gives to us? Which was not a record for the past, but a record for all the saints. Where is Luke's attention? Is he overwhelmed with fear? Lost in it? I think Luke shows his hand with three different signs here to let you know what he's really focused on. And I hope that you notice the same things. The very first sign is in verse 1 when he mentions Judea. The second signal that he gives to you so that you can see what he's focused on is Samaria. And then lastly in verse 4, there is this, you just wouldn't expect this to happen, but look at what he puts in there. He says, those who were scattered went everywhere, preaching the word. And that, putting those three things together, should tell you immediately what is going on here according to the Spirit. And it should bring you back to Acts chapter 1. And let me just read it for you. This is verse 8. But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be witnesses to me in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, in Samaria, and to the end of the earth. Amen. They, what we end up seeing here with Louis Emphasis, and they have joined the cloud of witnesses as we had spoken of two weeks ago. And they are now witnessing to Christ having been dispersed. They witnessed in Jerusalem, we've seen that throughout the chapters, and now they're moving outward to witness to Christ in Judea and Samaria. And by the time we get to the end of this book, we'll see that it will even enter into Rome. Luke's emphasis, in other words, is that through the power of the Holy Spirit, Christ is being highly exalted. You remember when he said, When I ascend, I will send power. That's the testimony here. That's still Luke's emphasis. That's the emphasis of the Spirit. That we see here, even in this situation, that Christ is bringing his glory and the glory of the Father to the world. He began in Jerusalem, and now he is moving out to Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth. What you end up seeing here is a confession of the saints from above, from back at 214, for the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. That's loose emphasis. I think it's rather obvious. Now when we see this confession, then it's ours also. Those are the things that we need to confess. There are two questions that can come up for us. Or two questions that I have for you anyway. And here is my first question to you. When you see the Son of God glorified, does it bring you joy? Because that's what's happening here. So you see the Son of God glorified and that he is showing, exercising his power by taking his glory to the ends of the earth. And I know that it does bring you joy. How delighted you must be to see the waters of God's glory stream out from Zion or Jerusalem to the world. As one author says, they are the happiest Christians who have the lowest thoughts of themselves, and in whose eyes Jesus is most glorious and precious. I think that's how we should be doing this, and there should be a kind of joy. But that is a very difficult thing to realize. When you start off the passage and you hear in the sermon the situation in which the glory takes place. When you heard, for example, Jesus say in Acts chapter 1, verse 8, that he would go out from Jerusalem and then to Judea and then Samaria, I knew that you were excited about him covering the earth with his glory. But I want you to notice now what it looks like for him actually to do so. He is going to go to the ends of the earth to reap a harvest for his great glory. And here's the second question. Did you think that he would accomplish his will in this way? Did you think that he would do it by bringing havoc to the church, confiscation of personal property? Yes, to at least one of the members so far. Is that what you have signed up for? Did you think that he would accomplish his will through Sony through arrest? And I have and I guess I have a third question because there's another question here on my paper. It's a good question. So here's a third one Are you surprised to see that this is how Christ has chosen in his providence to move forward his kingdom? Are you surprised? And as we have been saying, I think for four weeks now, you shouldn't be surprised. Because this is how the eternal Christ has always operated. In his rule over his people. I'll remind you of Genesis chapter 3. The serpent will bruise the heel of the woman, but she will crush his head. That's what you see happening in the passage again. It's just being worked out of the specifics of his history. We acknowledge that as a reality, the striking and the bruising, and it is a kind of summary of history. And we can even add that as the serpent bruises the heel, even in that bruising will come the pressing of the head. That is how God ends up working this out. It's a wisdom that has been of old. For example, from Proverbs 1, 17 through 19, surely in vain the net is spread in the sight of any bird, but they lie in wait for their own blood They lurk secretly for their own lives. So are the ways of everyone who is greedy for gain. It takes away the life of its owner. It's the same wisdom that means it's operating in Christ's providence as he chooses to extend his glory by way of the world. of this persecution and the suffering of his people. But there is wisdom that came before even the proverbs. I wonder if there are these uh moments of wisdom that you see within the record of scripture and you're starting to remember them. But one of the most famous is the story of Joseph. In Genesis 50, the completion of Joseph's dream comes true. It says this: then his brothers also went and fell down before his face, and they said, Behold, we are your servants. And then we see from that moment forward, how is that ever going to take place? Given this history of Joseph, and then we get to Genesis chapter 50, almost right at the end And we see Joseph summarized the whole account of saying to his brothers, But as for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good In order to bring it about as it is this day to save many people alive. You see, it's the same kind of wisdom that Christ is exercising in the early church, it's the same kind of wisdom that He's been using. from the beginning. And we can see him doing it. We can recognize our shepherd and how he leads the sheep throughout all of history. Genesis and Proverbs are certainly premier examples. I think actually that the Genesis passage is on Paul's mind in Philippians when he's in prison But do you know what the most famous example of this kind of providential wisdom is? It is a wisdom that has been Present all along that had come into fulfillment at the crucifixion of our Lord. It is the great wisdom of the cross And as we see the summary in Acts 2, verse 36, therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. Surely, they spreading the net in front of the bird was in vain. Comes to fruition there. And we see, of course, the ultimate Joseph. What they intended for evil, with that cross, God intended for his glory and for their good. And what they intended for evil here at Acts and the taking of personal property or the killing of Stephen, Christ will gather all of these things in. There is no stopping him as he seeks his own glory, the glory of the Father, and his own. the spirit and even of his own bride. He is unstoppable. Would you intend? You can hear him saying it over all of history What you intend for evil, I will turn to good and to my glory That is what's going on, whether you look in Nigeria, or if you look in this passage here, or if you look to see The presence of the eternal Christ throughout the rest of the scriptures has always been leading his cloud of witnesses in the same way as they look onto him in faith. That even though by sight things look like they're out of control, we know, as we look to him, that he is not only the author, but the finisher. Now when we take all of that in, when we s can see really all of Scripture and all of history In this single passage in Acts chapter 8, verses 1 through 4, I think that there are two main things that the Spirit wants you to remember this morning. And the first we've already gone over, but I just want to remind you that I'm not just up here speaking for you to forget. So please remember Luke's emphasis. The eternal Christ is spreading the glory of Christ through the whole world. He began in Jerusalem, he moves out now into Judea, he'll go into Samaria and to the ends of the earth. That is what he's doing. We talked this morning before we began the call to worship of him gathering in all things unto his glory. We read about this in Colossians And that's what we see here, and he began in Jerusalem and moved out. We must be committed to his glory and filled with unquenchable joy as we see his glory cover the world. We must remember that. Because that is what's going on here, despite how difficult it is. And now here's the second thing that I ask that you would remember. Not only Luke's emphasis. That Christ is glorifying himself. But then you must remember that you are under the same eternal Christ as all the cloud of witnesses are This eternal Christ has chosen to show the glory of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit through not only his own cross. But through all the crosses that his church will bear until he returns, that means everybody's cross that is here also. You must not think that as his servant you do not have in some sense the fate of your master. He reminds us of that in the Gospel of John. And so this morning I ask that you would not only remember those things, Luke's emphasis and also the promise of the cross, as that would be how he ushers in his glory But I ask that you would not only remember, but commit yourself to the cross that God has given to you for His glory. Whatever that is, whatever the different seasons that you have with the different crosses. That you would stop looking at it as an accidental feature of your existence now and start to recognize that this is how God chooses to glorify Himself. He will reveal through you his glory in his providence far more greatly as you carry your cross than if you did not. That is what he has revealed to us He will reveal your faithfulness that he has given to you. He will reveal your mercy that he has given to you. He will reveal your hope and your love and the cross that he gives to you. We will bring it all out. It will be a revelation of what he himself has given to you, which is his very character, which will rebound back to in a kind of response, as the world is then able to see him through you, and he is glorified. Those are his intentions. There's a lot more to say about that. It's all over the place. But we have to accept the means that he has chosen. It has always been the way which God glorifies himself, whether through the Son or through His bride. It is not just a reality to be left to the pages of Scripture. This reality, in other words, continues off the pages of Scripture Which is where you are. Or if you were in Nigeria, they have accepted the girls. You know, I've been trying to look throughout history and off the pages of scripture where Christ has done this and his providence. I came across this one example. That makes me just want to stay on my knees and worship. There was a heavy cross handed, apparently, to the tribes in Africa who were kidnapped by slave traders. You can read a little bit about this from one person's perspective in John Newton's biography. He'll show you the different places he went and how the treatment along the shifts and how they get that It is recorded. That when the evil slave traders brought the slaves back to England, that it is there that they were introduced away from their tribal gods and to Christianity. And in massive multitudes, Christ gathered them as his people in England. So, in 1833, do you remember what happened? There was the abolishment of slavery in England And they actually sent some of those freedmen home back to their native country. And guess what they did when they returned to Africa? They preached Christ just as we see in this Acts passage. And do you see what has happened once again? What the slave traders meant for evil, Christ has meant for good. Truly the crosses of all the saints. are not in vain in the Lord. Let me just tell you that it is reported at this point. That though before it was nothing but idolatry within tribes, there are presently, according to some statistics, eight million Christians in Africa. This is the glory of your Christ. It is one of the revelations as to why you are here to worship him today. and not yourself. This is Christ, who, whether he is persecuted or not, will have his way. When anybody even intends for evil, evil turns are good.