Welcome everybody. I'm not getting you to stop talking. I'm just doing our first sound check because we're just kind of winging it tonight. Welcome. Christmas to remember, Severn Run 2021 Glad you all are here. Merry Christmas. We have gathered tonight on the eve of the day in which we celebrate the incarnation of our Lord and Savior. I welcome and greet you. My name is Bradley Schwastik. I'm a ruling elder here. A lot of you are very familiar, some of you I don't recognize. You'll notice that Pastor Jesse is the one who's labeled there as doing all of this, but um the crutch leaves have been struck by illness, and so the Lord in his providence has given us tonight to to keep going. I would also draw your attention that there's just a couple things that will change. Our elder Joe Mackis will be doing the first two candle readings and our elder Mark Donovan will be doing the second two And that's pretty much it for the bulletin. So we can stop thinking about technical logistics and we can just start thinking about Jesus. This is the night in which we celebrate Christ. We have celebrated hope. We have celebrated peace. We have thanked our God for the joy that He gives us and for the love that He has bestowed upon us in Christ Jesus. Tonight we light the candle, the Christ candle. And later on in the service, all of our candles that we light will be lit off that candle. showing us that the light that is Jesus Christ, He who is the light and life of men, will spread through us to all the world. What a glorious calling we have been given. Brothers and sisters from Isaiah 7:14, heed these words of God. Therefore the Lord Himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive And bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. Let us pray and begin our service proper. Most awesome God, Emmanuel, God with us. Oh, what a joy that is tonight, for we need you with us in order to worship you. For any of this to be something that pleases you, it must be you within us making it happen. And so we rejoice that you are with us, our God. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Continue to be with us throughout this service as we seek to glorify your holy name. And God, would you please. Give us great joy and excitement as we anticipate tomorrow celebrating Christmas Day. We pray this in the name of He whom we celebrate, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Would you mind if you're able standing for our call to worship this evening? Comes to us from Isaiah chapter 9, verses 6 through 7. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government will be upon his shoulder And his name will be called Wonderful, Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace there will be no end, upon the throne of David and over his kingdom, to order it and establish it with judgment and justice from that time forward even for ever The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. This is why the angels came. This is why everyone rejoices at this time. Let's sing together our first hymn, Joy to the World. Let every heart with every room and nature sing And nature sing What held that cause, what happens? He goes to make his blessings go for as a curse in runs, for as a curse in runs, for as forever. The glory of Christ used and wanders of No God's people say, Amen. Please be seated. Please join with me now in a confession of our sin. I will lead us And a corporate prayer of confession, and then I'll leave a little bit of time in silence for you to confess your own sins, for this is what we must do in order to worship our God. We must recognize our position before Him as sinners in need of forgiveness. Let us pray. Almighty God, joy. Joy is not always a good descriptor of our attitude. or of our general mood. Lord, we know that we should constantly be rejoicing. We should be rejoicing always for what you have done. And yet, Father, we find ourselves often distracted by woes, by fears, by doubts. By the world itself that seeks to draw us away from our hope, from our peace, from our joy. God, it is not good that we would go through life afraid When we know the truth, and that truth is that you have sent your Son, our Savior, that we could be forgiven of all our sins. We know that this is true, and yet our gods, sometimes we we ignore it. We follow our own thinking and our own desires. And we end up with less than joy. Sometimes we are downright discontent. God, we ask that you would please forgive us of our sin of not having a right and true sense of who you are. And trusting you, even when it seems impossible to be joyful. Lord, it is difficult because unexpected things happen. People get sick. Stress comes upon us and we feel like we are justified in being downtrodden. Yet the song we just sang reminds us we can't. Because there are no more thorns that infest the ground. The thorns that were wrapped around your son's head saw to it that we would be able to To look at you and see you and love you and live with you forever. Please, God, bring to our minds now the sins that we commit, that we may confess them in our hearts and receive your forgiveness. Lord, we know that you hear the innermost thoughts. You know our innermost desires. You know exactly what every person in this building has confessed to you tonight. And we thank you, Lord, that you have given each of us the faith to believe that you forgive us of our sins, even those sins that we have just confessed. We thank you, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. You know why we know it's true that God forgives our sins? Because He's told us in his word. Look at what he tells us in our assurance of pardon tonight from Luke chapter 1, verses 68 and 69 and Matthew 121. Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited us and accomplished redemption for his people. He has raised up a horn of salvation for us. You shall call his name Jesus, for it is he who will save his people from their sins. Therefore, all the people of God, you here at Severn Run, and you at home worshiping along with us. Know this, your sins are forgiven by the Lord Jesus Christ, our Savior, and our Redeemer. Amen. We are here tonight to celebrate the God of hope, so I will light the candle of hope. When I think of hope and I think of what the scriptures speak of, I think of Hebrews chapter 6. It says some wonderful things about hope. It says that We are to have a full assurance of hope until the end. It encourages those that have fled to refuge for Christ to have strong encouragement. to hold fast to the hope set before us. And then it and then a wonderful metaphor. It says that that hope in Christ is really the only sure and only thing in the world. We live in uncertain times The scriptures say hope in Christ is sure and steadfast as an anchor to your soul. Because it because Christ is in the heavens and he has secured our salvation eternally as our high priest. So let us celebrate that tonight. Hear the word of God from Luke chapter 1, verses 26 to 38. Now in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent by God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth, to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph of the house of David. The Virgin's name was Mary, and having come in, the angel said to her, Rejoice, highly favored one, the Lord is with you. Blessed are you among women But when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and considered what manner of greeting this was. Then the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary. For you have found favor with God, and behold, you will conceive in your womb and bring forth a son, and shall call his name Jesus. He will be great, and will be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. Then Mary said to the angel, How can this be, since I do not know a man And the angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the highest will overshadow you. Therefore, also, that holy one who is to be born will be called the Son of God. Now, indeed, Elizabeth, your relative, has also conceived a son in her old age. And this is now the sixth month for her who was called barren. For with God nothing will be impossible. Then Mary said, Behold the maid servant of the Lord Let it be to me according to your word. And the angel departed from her. Let us celebrate and sing. Stand up, please rise and sing, O come, all ye faithful Joy bent joy o come to me. Santo, Oh come, Santo, Oh come, Santo, Christy Church and who are we? Sing for the angel, sing in exalation, sing for you, saves of heaven. Glory to God, Glory in God, all God, oh God. Hey Lord, we greatly for this happy morning, Jesus. Please be seated. We worship the God of peace, so I will light the candle of peace. When I think of peace, I think of the peace That we all need the most, the peace with God. I think of Romans 5:1, which says, Therefore, since we have been justified by faith We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. A reading from Matthew chapter 1, verses 18 to 25. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. After his mother Mary was betrothed to Joseph Before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Spirit. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man and not wanting to make her a public example, was minded to put her away secretly. But while he thought about these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take to you Mary, your wife. For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. And she will bring forth a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. So all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying Behold, the virgin shall be with child and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated God with us. Then Joseph, being aroused from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took to him his wife, and did not know her till she had brought forth her firstborn son And he called his name Jesus. Please stand as we praise Jesus by singing, O come, O come, Emmanuel. S Oh call me well and rest of that baby. That would be so be so deal until We join, rejoice in To now come to thee for west trial for God is bringing Our spirit was like that to me. And best our shadows voice. Majorist, me joys in a new world. Shall come to the prider or thou run of the My Lord Ross has taken me from death of hell by the same And give them gifts we all And open my garden before. They go with me on my and both of us have to make the reason. Shall come to thee our trials O come For me holding one call and mine with our second piece. When we thyself are king of peace, we chose retails Please be seated. Consider joy. We can only consider joy in light of Christ. Here are these scriptures reminding us of just that from Luke chapter two, verses eight through twenty. Now, there were in the same country shepherds living out in the fields, keeping watch over their flock by night. And behold, an angel of the Lord stood before them And the glory of the Lord shone all around them, and they were greatly afraid. Then the angel said to them, Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy. Which will be to all people, for there is born to you this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. And this will be the sign to you. You will find a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes lying in a manger. And suddenly there was With the angel a multitude of heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest and on earth good will toward men. So it was, when the angels had gone away from them into heaven, that the shepherds said to one another, Let us now go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has come to pass, which the Lord has made known to us. And they came with haste, and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. Now, when they had seen him They made widely known the saying which was told them concerning this child, and all those who had heard it marvelled at those things which were told them by the shepherds. But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. Then the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things. that they had heard and seen as it was told them. Praise be to God. Let us rise and glorify God in our singing of joy. Hark the herald the angels sing. For my hero take tells me glory to the new war me, peace, honor, and mercy, my old God and Cinder. Joyful all ye nations cry, joyful triumph of the skies, with the children control. Christ is born in every hand for the heroes angel seed, glory to the new forty. Try my eye and Lord, right the everlasting for his God spring up. Fail in Christ are God enzyme, failing garnet, paid nice and with the health. Jesus sorry man you well for the old angel seed for me to the new body Hill the hemorrhage of me, they'll not righteousness, I have life for the rain written with healing. While we lace it for reply, for that man no more may God, for makes us until For to live the second birth, Lord the Herald Angel says, Glory to the new border. You may be seated. We finish with the the subject of love. What great love is this that our Savior would see fit to come down to earth To save us from our sins, that we may have the privilege of glorifying Him. What great love is this! Let us be encouraged and reminded. Of this amazing love that God has for His bride as we read Matthew 2, 1 through 12. Read along with me. Now, after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem saying, Where is he who has been born king of Jerusalem, saying, King of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east, and have come to worship him. When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, He inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. So they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea For thus it is written by the prophet, but you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are not the least among the rulers of Judah. For out of you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people, Israel. Then Herod, when he had secretly called the wise man, determined from them What time the star appeared? And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search carefully for the young child. And when you have found him, bring back word to me that I may come and worship him also. When they heard the king, they departed And behold, the star which they had seen in the east went before them, till it came and stood over where the young child was When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy. And when they had come into the house, They saw the child, the young child, with Mary, his mother, and fell down and worshipped him. And when they had opened their treasures, they presented gifts to him, gold, frankincense, and myrrh. Then, being divinely warned in a dream that they should not return to Herod, they departed from for their own country another way Let us rise, brothers and sisters, and bring glory to God as we sing this next hymn. Which will be staying seated. Which will be staying seated. And in our minds. Sorry. We've approached that time in our Christmas service where we'll have a children's meditation. If there's any kids out here who would like to come down, you can come down here right to the very front. Little children, right here. Come on right down here. And I think we have an ornament to give them, though I see it nowhere. Wondering there they be. There they be. Okay. Go ahead, have a seat right here, guys, right here on the floor. Shh. Sit down, sit down. Hey there. Oh look at ya. Look at all you little ones. Wee little barns. Hi. Some of you look really excited. What are you guys excited about? It's a question, you can answer it. Christmas, you're excited about Christmas. That's a good thing to be excited about. Why do we why do we have a holiday called Christmas? Christ, Christ. Yeah, because Christ was born. We celebrate that Jesus was born. Who else was excited on that very first Christmas? Do you know anybody? Who who you? You weren't there on the very first Christmas. Who one of you? Do you know who else is excited on that first Christmas? Joseph and Joseph and Mary, that's right. Boy, they were really excited. They had a whole big thing about it, having a baby in a s in a stall and laying them in the manger. Who else is excited? The wise men? The wise men, they were excited, but that was probably after he had been born and they came and stuff. But they were so excited that they traveled thousands of miles just to to come and see Jesus. Who else is excited? God. God. God, we could say that God is excited. He was bringing to fruition all of his plans. Weren't there uh some people that we just heard a reading about? The angels said something to them? Who were they The shepherds. Shepherds were really excited. Now think about this. When the shepherds were out there in the field, they were just working. They were at their job, like your mommies and daddies do, right? Your parents have jobs, right? Because the Bible says if you don't work, you don't eat, right? Yeah. So they have jobs. So they all of you can eat. And these shepherds were out there and they were just working. They were at work. Man, it's really hard to get excited sometimes to go to work. So I imagine that these shepherds got there and it was just a night like any other. They were gonna watch after their sheep. But something happened. Do you remember what happened? Judah? What happened? He was born, that's right. But the shepherds were out in the field. They didn't know that he was born. How did they find out that he was born? an angel and they started changing. That's right, the angels sang and the angels told them that the Savior was born, Christ our Lord. Isn't that amazing? Angels broke through into the the real world and they said to the shepherds, go and find this baby. And what did the shepherds do? They went and found him. Yeah. These are not good workers. They should have stayed and taken care of the sheep, shouldn't they? Like good workers. No, no, they shouldn't have. You were right. They were so excited that they left their jobs. They left their livelihoods. So that they could go and that they could find Jesus. Now we have this ornament for you guys. It's a shepherd. See that? Look at this cute little thing. So Shepherdee, every one of you is gonna get one in a second, in one just one second. Here, I'm gonna actually let's do it this way Well let's take this basket. Take one and then pass it around to everybody. And what I want you to do, when you put this shepherd on your Christmas tree, I want you to remember those shepherds. And I want you to remember that they were so excited at hearing the good news of Jesus that they were willing to drop everything. They were willing to leave. what was there so that they could go and find Jesus. And little ones, look at me. Look at me now. Pay attention. This is our prayer for you We pray for every single one of you that when you hear the gospel, when someone tells you about Jesus, and when God calls you to Himself, that you're most excited about that and you're willing to drop everything. And go find Jesus. Can you remember that? When you look at your shepherd, remember the shepherds who were so excited about Jesus that they went and they dropped everything. Thank you. Merry Christmas, little ones. There's extra ornaments by uh orders of magnitude, so I'm sure that others can have ornaments as we go. Thank you so much, Kiddos. Go on back to your seats. Can I get an extra set of crutches? Oh yeah, definitely. We'll we'll definitely send some of the crutchings. Here we go. We'll put them out there. What's next? There's something happening now. Oh yes. So uh the choir is going to sing and we have uh we have a different way of that we've been taking communion. We're not gonna pass the plate around right now. But I wanted to remind all of you that there is a box out there. We are taking a special gift. And for the last several years we've had a relationship with the Reformed Church in Kenya. And we've been sending them uh funds. We take uh these collections on Christmas Eve. And it says there that it's for food for their poor, and that's true in both senses Because we are able to use these funds, they're able to use these funds to feed their congregation and then to get Bibles in their own language, the language of Kisi. And those aren't very cheap. So give generously so that the Reformed Church in Kenya, uh his name is Pastor John Omoke. If you want any more information about that, please come talk to me. But that is what our offering tonight is going for. And so please enjoy the seven run choir as we sing, All My Heart This Night Rejoices. Ooh, Mental Portugal. Oh my God, this night we joys As for dear foreign dear, sweetest things of voices Cry says for their cards are singing It'll be there everywhere now with joy is ringing. Four to day for Conquer. Who seen and woe that I call or crawl? He says one with our border Shall we still make us Who to say freely gave his most cherish treasure He is also from the road of his mighting heaven. For our law is only tender And our race by his grace meet for morning From Yonder Ranger Soft and sweet, soft and sweet, free from war and danger You are free all you need. I will struggle Come is all your For then all great and small come with songs of gladness. Hail the star near and far, light and joy be story. Though my breath fail in death, yet I shall not pay Thereon high in that joy which that man is never Had any of you heard that song before? Oh, it's a lovely song written by uh Paul Gerhart. Lovely Lutheran songwriter. He wrote over a hundred and thirty hymns that are still sung nowadays. If you you want to know about him, I'd love to tell you about his life. He had a very interesting interesting life. Brothers and sisters, we have come to that time where we will examine my prayer is very briefly. A part of Scripture, and we have already had it read in its fullness from Luke chapter 2. And what we were are going to focus on tonight comes from Luke two, verses fifteen through twenty. And so you'll have that passage. It's written there for you, Luke 2, 15 through 20, right there on in the bulletin, but you also have the extended passage, Luke 2, 8 through 20, which you may want to have open, because I'll be referring back to that. Please pray with me. Most awesome God, you have given us your word. You have given us your word in flesh. Because of what he has done, it gives us a love for you and a love for your word. And so here we are, ready to hear from you, to be transformed by you. We beg you, Father. That by your spirit you would make us more like Jesus because of what your word teaches us tonight. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke chapter two, and I'm just going to read verses fifteen through twenty three. So it was, when the angels had gone away from them into heaven, that the shepherds said to one another, Let us now go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has come to pass, which the Lord has made known to us. And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. Now when they had seen him, they made widely known the saying which was told them concerning this child, and all those who heard it marvelled At those things which were told them by the shepherds. But Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart Then the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen as it was told them. This is God's word for God's people. I don't know if you've ever really thought about it, but God sure has a tender place in his heart for shepherds. Think about this. As early as in Genesis chapter 4, we're being told about a shepherd. We're being told about a man who kept flocks. And from that flock he would take the very best and he would offer it to the Lord. Do you know who that was? That was Abel. Abraham and his family after him were shepherds. That's exactly what Joseph's brothers say to the Pharaoh when he asks them what their occupation is. In Genesis 47-3, he says, They say, Your servants are shepherds, both we and also our fathers. Do you realize that Moses married into a family of shepherds and that he was tending Jethro's flocks when he encountered the Lord Almighty at the burning bush in Exodus 3? That man was called to be an even greater shepherd, leading the Israelites into the promised land. Of course, there's Amos, the shepherd who was called by God to be a prophet. And here comes a shameless plug for the Men's Bible study. If you want to know more about Amos, that's the very next book that we're going to be studying. I think all of you would agree that the most famous shepherd in all the Bible is David. And he was that shepherd who was called to be a king. And of course we can't forget that the Lord gave that shepherd king A beautiful song, the 23rd Psalm, in which by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, he tells us explicitly that the Lord is our shepherd. The prophets refer to the Messiah as the shepherd. And we in our household love this time of year, not just because of Christmas, but because the Handel's Messiah is on like every single day. And you'll recognize these words from Isaiah chapter 14, where he says, O Zion, you who bring good tidings, get up into the high mountain O Jerusalem, you who bring good tidings, lift up your voice with strength, lift it up, be not afraid. Say unto the cities of Judah, Behold your God. Behold, the Lord's God shall come with a strong hand, and his arm shall rule for him. Behold, his reward is with him, and his work before him. He will feed his flock like a shepherd. He will gather the lambs with his arm and carry them in his bosom and gently lead those who are with young. Do you see what I mean? It seems like God really wants us to notice shepherds. It's as if there's something that He wants us to learn from shepherds. Now consider this. Were any of those shepherds, and that's certainly not all of them in the Bible, that's just a few, were any of them as blessed and as fortunate as the shepherds in our passage tonight? Moses, David, Isaiah, Amos, every single one of them would have given anything to be one of those shepherds out in that field 2,000 years ago. The shepherds were out there, they were doing their jobs. Like I said to the kids, they were working. That was their livelihood. And like anybody who is Doug the same thing day in and day out. They knew what they were doing. They knew what they were about, what they were supposed to do. They knew how important their job as shepherds was. Now, I think we can understand the job of a shepherd as consisting of two main components, or you could call them goals. Shepherds care for their sheep, guiding and defending them, making sure they stay alive and well. And they do that so that the sheep are enabled to fulfill their purpose. Shepherds care for their sheep. They guide and they defend them. They guide their sheep. They guide them to green and fruitful pastures so that they're fed. Like the Psalm says, they guide them beside still waters so that they're safe and sustained. They're led to follow the safest path as they get to these fields and these fountains. Why? So that they won't be injured. So that they won't stray off or be lost Shepherds not only guide their sheep, they defend their sheep. They defend them against predators. Lions and bears and wolves and vicious creatures that would eat them alive. And the shepherds protect them from thieves who would come and steal them. They don't care anything about the sheep at all. They don't know that one sheep from another. They just want to steal it and see what they can get for it. And the shepherds care for their sheep so that those sheep are then enabled to fulfill their purpose. Sheep and livestock aren't cared for, kept alive and safe, just so that they can frolic and gamble about amongst the lilies Sheep can serve many good purposes, like wool for clothing, or even meat for eating. 2,021 years ago, many sheep were cared for meticulously. For what purpose? So that they could be offered as sacrifices in the temple of God. The sheep are cared for until the time comes And the shepherds then usher them into the fulfillment of their life's purpose. Whether that means shearing them, keeping them healthy and clean so their wool can be used to bless God's people, keeping them healthy and safe so they can be used to feed God's people as meat. Or, like I said back then, whether it meant keeping them free from blemish and injury and infection so they would be fit to be sacrificed in the temple. Shepherds care for their sheep, and they enable them to fulfill their purpose. Now something happened to these shepherds in the countryside around Bethlehem, as they were out in the fields with their flocks, being shepherds, doing shepherdly things. The Lord Almighty interrupted their lives and their livelihood to show that he was truly their shepherd. Look at how God cares for them, how He guides and defends them. He sends angels to point them toward the most wondrous and perfect food the world would ever know. He points them to the one who is called the bread of life in John 6, verse 35. God, through his messengers, lead them to the source. of life, to the very one who can give the water of life. He who would later say, Whoever drinks of this water will thirst again. But whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him will never thirst, but the water that I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water springing up into everlasting life. That's from John four Do you see how our God led these shepherds as his beloved sheep directly to that which they needed more than anything? Can you see how the Lord defends them? He defends them because he allows them to overcome all of the obstacles that could have hindered them from seeking Jesus. When the angels show up, these guys are scared. They're terrified. And rightly so. I mean, maybe it was one of those Ezekiel I angels that showed up. Four different faces, four different wings, like something you'd never could never find on the planet Earth. They were terrified. And yet, God allowed them. He defended them from fear and allowed them to overcome That fear, and to hear the good news from the angels. He defended them against one of the worst enemies we all ever face: doubt. He gave them faith to believe what the angels said. Granted, it would not be that hard to believe when a message is delivered so spectacularly. But we all know what doubt is like. Doubt makes us the judge. And we don't care. We don't care what anybody else says. We don't dare believe a single thing unless we understand it. Unless we get it, unless it makes sense to us, we must fully understand it before we can fully obey it. That's what doubt does to us. Well, not these shepherds. Their heavenly shepherd overcame all their possible doubts, and they believed what they were told. It's right there for us in the scriptures, verse 15. They say to each other, Let us now go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has come to pass, which the Lord has made known to us. Their shepherd in heaven defended them not only against fear, not only against doubt, but against themselves. He allowed them to overcome their own will. They did something that their professional training would never have allowed them to do or accepted their doing. They left their flocks unattended. And we can reasonably infer that they left them unattended because the scripture says in verse sixteen that they came with haste. There's no way they were coming with haste and having a hundred sheep in tow. That just doesn't move hastily, especially in the dark of night So they left their sheep there, vulnerable. They could have been stolen or eaten, but that didn't matter. It didn't matter. They dropped everything to heed the words of God and to seek Jesus, the Savior. Now, most importantly, God, their shepherd, enabled them to fulfill their purpose. So he cared for them, he's guided them and defended them, but he enables them to fulfill their purpose. Ultimately, They are enabled to glorify God. That's what it says in verse 20. Then the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen as it was told them. And what was told them? That's what we have in verse 12. You will find a babe wrapped in swabbling clothes lying in a manger. Guess what, people? That was true. That happened. They found him. That's what it says in verse 16, exactly as the angels told them they would find him. Now, wait a second. If that was true. And it was. Then doesn't that mean that all those other things that the angel said was also true? When they said, Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which will be to all people. For there is born to you this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. That was true. And the Lord led them to the baby. He gave them the message of the angels, which he proved true. And so he enabled these shepherds. To engage in a new calling, one that was more important than even their calling and their vocation as shepherds, it was to share that good news. And they share that good news with everyone, everyone they can find, and everybody who heard it, what does it say in the scriptures? They marveled. Now when they had seen him, they made widely known the saying which was told them concerning this child. That's what the angels told them, and all those who heard it marvelled at those things which were told them by the shepherds. We're told that Mary never, ever forgets this circumstance. Verse 19, but Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. She never forgets that the shepherds came that very night and confirmed yet again what God had said to her and what God had said to Joseph. What he had been saying for all those many long ages to all of his people, this is the promised seed of woman. This is the promised Messiah, the Savior, Christ the Lord. Is that not the most wonderful news that could have been shared? I love that it was shepherds who were called to drop everything and make their way to the bedside, the manger side of a baby who would one day say this. I am the Good Shepherd. The Good Shepherd gives his life for the sheep. I am the Good Shepherd, and I know my sheep, and I am known by my own. He is the true shepherd. Brothers and sisters, the Lord Christ is your shepherd. He cares for you. Jesus Christ, whose incarnation we are excited, overjoyed to celebrate, He will guide you all the days of your life and beyond. He will lead you where he knows you will thrive. He will feed you. He will provide all that you need for your physical sustenance, but he doesn't just stop there. He does so much more than that. He feeds your soul with his own broken body. He gives you himself the bread of life. He feeds you by his holy word that you can know him You can know all that he has been doing and all that he has been saying to his people since the beginning of creation. He gives you his miraculous water of life. And John 7, verses 37 through 39 tell us that that water of life, that's the Spirit. That's the Spirit. He says, if anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. He who believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. But this he spoke concerning the Spirit, whom those believing in him would receive, for the Holy Spirit was not yet given, because Jesus was not yet glorified. The Lord is your shepherd. He guides you as he cares for you. And he also will defend you always. He will always defend you. He's filled you with his spirit, and by that spirit you now have the power to turn away from sin and to overcome your own will, to submit to his will. To submit everything that you say and think and do to Him. He's done that for you. In Christ, our God conquers all of our enemies. He kills sin itself. He has slain death. You don't need to fear sin. You don't need to fear death. We are defended against them by our God. Now, I know it's hard, it's really hard to catch all the words when somebody is singing a song that you're not familiar with. So what I wanted to do for you right now is just read the words to the song. The poem that the choir sang. All my heart this night rejoices, as I hear far and near, sweetest angel voices. Christ is born. Their choirs are singing, till the air everywhere now with joy is ringing. Forth today the conquer goeth Who the foe? Sin and woe, death and hell forethroweth. God is man, man to deliver. His dear son now is one with our blood for ever. Shall we still dread God's displeasure, who to save, freely gave his most cherished treasure? To redeem us, he hath given his own son from the throne of his might in heaven. He becomes the lamb that taketh away sin away, and for a, that means forever, full atonement maketh. For our life his own he tenders, and our race, the human race, by his grace, meet for glory renders Hark, a voice from yonder manger, soft and sweet dot entreat, flee from woe and danger. Brethren, from all ills that grieve you, you are freed. All you need, I will surely give you Come then, banish all your sadness. One and all, great and small, come with songs of gladness. Love him who with love is glowing, hail the star, near and far, light and joy bestowing. Dearest Lord, thee will I cherish, though my breath fail in death, yet I shall not perish. But with thee abide forever, there on high, in that joy which can vanish never Can you see your heavenly holy shepherd in that song? Through his great providence and salvation, Jesus Christ, your shepherd, enables you to fulfill your purpose, to glorify him. and to enjoy him forever. Like the shepherds in the Bethlehem fields, you will be enabled to share to all those whom God puts in your path the very same message of hope and peace and joy and love. That is the gospel of salvation in Jesus Christ. A Savior has come, and that Savior is Jesus, the Son of God. He alone has freed you from your woes, from the burden of sin. and the fear and the lasting pain of death and hell forever. He alone can give you the righteousness you require. He alone can forgive you of all your sins and make you fit for the glory that is everlasting life. Only through Jesus' perfect life, death, resurrection, and ascension can you be given the gift of the Holy Spirit God himself dwelling in you, the everlasting Emmanuel, God with you. Only in him Are you enabled to truly sing with all the angels and the heavenly hosts, Gloria in Excelsis Deo, glory to God in the highest? The Lord is your shepherd. He has cared for you. He has guided and defended you, and he always will. And remember, as you celebrate tomorrow, our great God, your shepherd, has guided you to Christ. He has conquered your sin, and he has gathered you to himself as one of his precious sheep in his flock And he enables you now to live the life that he has designed for you. Brothers and sisters, be good sheep and follow your holy shepherd, the Lord Jesus Christ. Please pray with me. Most awesome and gracious God. What can we do but praise your holy name? For you have done it. You have completed what must be done. He has come into the world, taken on the form of a bondservant, the form of man, uniting us to him forever. Oh God. Would you please guide us as our shepherd? Guide us throughout this whole night. Get us to tomorrow and show us your son That we can celebrate Him and rejoice in Him. May that be what excites us most. And may everything else fade away. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Please, brothers and sisters, let us stand and rise in response to God's word and sing together, Angels, we have heard on high. A weird we may be able to And all the turn in reply, death crawl back, their joyous rings Share with why this humanity, why your joy is taken along. They want to bring a hidden key, which inspire your family song. Come on, see, give those birthday days, come on to me, right from the Please remain standing for prayer as I close our service before we do our candlelighting. Most awesome God, thank you for this night that you've given us that we could come and gather and worship you. Please, God, go before us. That we would follow after you, our good shepherd. May we respond to your voice because of what you have done in our hearts and in our minds. We pray, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. Just very quickly I want to go through our process of candlelighting. Many of you have probably taken part in candlelighting services before, but it's always good to have a good a fire safety reminder Fire burns things. It makes them really hot. It burns the wax of the candle and makes it uh liquid, but it's really, really hot liquid, so make sure you got your little thing there so it doesn't drip down. But in order to keep that hot liquid wax from going all over everything and all over your hands, what we do is we take our candle and the unlit candle is the one that moves into the lit candle. The unlit candle moves into the lit candle, the lit candle just stays straight up and down And what we will do is I will light my candle from the Christ's candle. And then from my candle, the elders will come forward and they will have their candles And they will then go and light, and we will pass the light from the Christ candle through the whole room. And all the while we'll be singing together, Silent Night. So I know there's a lot to coordinate and think on. Just enjoy yourselves. Have fun with it. And we'll be singing. This is the light of Christ. Our God, our shepherd, enables you to fulfill your purpose, to share this light throughout the world. Oh please Cries are evil Crice has made the free. No, no, no, no, I'm not gonna baby. Walls my life With me trouble. Merry Christmas A say there is born. You dismiss. Gently, carefully. Gabriel, that was not gently in for carefully