Beginning in verse sixty seven of chapter one of Luke, we continue the Christmas story. Now his father Zacharias was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying Blessed is the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people, and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. As he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets, who have been since the world began, that we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us. to perform the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant. The oath which he swore to our father Abraham To grant us that we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies, might serve Him without fear, in holiness and righteousness before Him all the days of our life. And you, child, will be called the prophet of the highest, for you will go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways, to give knowledge of salvation to his people by the remission of their sins. Through the tender mercy of our God, with which the dayspring from on high has visited us, to give light to those who sit in darkness in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace. And so the child grew and became strong in spirit and was in the deserts till the day of his manifestation to Israel. Please join me in Oh God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you have given us your word to feast upon And for us tomorrow to feast furthermore in praise and worship of you and to actually feast with each other even after the worship service. Glorious celebration Of the coming of our Christ, of your arrival and first visitation, Jesus. We thank you that you are here with us even now by your Spirit, and we thank you that you You shall visit us again, and that you shall make all things right, and that you do, in fact, protect us. In the name of Christ, Amen. I've seen some faces tonight that I have not seen through all of the sermons that have been going on during during the This Christmas full Christmas season, otherwise known as Advent Advent Season. What we've been doing around here, and of course if you've been here Here each Sunday you know this. But what we've been doing is going through these chapters in Luke, working our way to a Christmas morning to be able to better understand and even take to heart and to give forth in praise our glory to Christ the king, and what God the Father has done in him, and the Spirit, really worshiping the triune God. Now, I wonder if you have noticed, those of you who have been here at each one of the sermons, I wonder if you have noticed that there has been a major theme. repeated throughout each of the stories that we've witnessed, whether it was with Zacharias or Mary or Elizabeth. their songs or or angels speaking to them. I wonder if you picked up on a theme that is carried through all of them, or if you had to guess what the repeated lesson was in these stories, what would you guess? Well, the answer has been that God keeps his word. It has been that simple. It has been that he is our God and he keeps his promises. This has been evidenced. I don't know if you've noticed this. I haven't made this remark for you yet, but I will this evening. This has been evidenced actually in each of the names that we've seen throughout the story. If you were to take the time to translate these names, you'd see that each of them have to do with God holding his word dear and his promises. fulfills. For example, consider Zacharias. His name means God had re-has remembered us again. Isn't that fitting Or if you think of Elizabeth, it means God is my oath, or an oath, and this has to do with the fact of God being faithful to his promises again. The oaths that he takes, he fulfills. Or John. We're seeing this Zacharias as John's father. John means God is gracious, and again, it is referring to the inevitable destiny that God has promised. Promise to his people all the way through in these names, uh tick by tick, there has been the repeated message that God keeps his word and he shall fulfill all of his promises. Now as we continue in this psalm or this song that Zacharias has composed and that has been recorded here for us um by way of the Holy Spirit, we can see the the same theme continue. I wonder if you heard it in some of the lyrics to his He is going over and over again that God is faithful to his word of promise. If you had the scriptures in front of you, I'd tell you to turn to verse 73. Uh this speaks about God accomplishing his salvation that he promised even as far back as Abraham, he mentioned. that that finally this is coming to fruition. This tree was planted a long time ago and we've been waiting for the fruit and here it is He will deliver us from our enemies, verse 74. And then the appearance of John, verses 76 through 80, is just one great sign in preparation of the greatest sign, the Son of God. taking upon himself human nature. Well, that's been repeated, and it continues even into this evening. But there's an added theme that I want to draw your attention to. tonight, and that theme will continue even into tomorrow morning or Christmas morning. What is added tonight, besides God fulfilling his promise, Is how God will fulfill his promise. Not just that he fulfills his promise, but how he fulfills The biggest clue we have in answering this question of seeing how God fulfills his promise is in verse 69, and it was already alluded to when I was speaking with the children and the ornament that they received. This evening. And it says this, just to remind you, and God has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. Essentially, if you really want to make sure you leave here, not forgetting this message tonight, you want to ask yourself this question. We know God keeps his promises. But how does he do so? How will he keep that promise of the restoration of the whole world? And the answer is that God keeps his promise. By raising up the great horn of salvation. And his name is Jesus Christ. That's the Christmas message here before us in this song that we've been led to by Luke under the guidance of the Holy Spirit. Now when I actually uh mentioned the horn of salvation down there with the children, they all started giggling, because it just sounds kind of funny. It strikes our ear weirdly, we're not used to talking about that. If if you met uh someone that you thought was strong and powerful, you it would be very rare to hear someone describe them as a great horn. You know. The closest we would get here is maybe some of you got excited because you think that our Savior is a a French horn player in a marching band or something. I know there's musicians present, but sorry to disappoint you, Brad, and your euphonium. There's actually a pretty deep biblical background, I'm being silly for a minute. But there's a pretty deep background here that in the scriptures that uh if you were reading this in the original culture you'd know exactly what was meant. The horn has a long biblical background symbolizing things like kingly dominion, rule, defense. And the given authority by God Himself to conquer all in His name, all enemies, and to establish peace and justice and Goodness, a family around the table enjoying each other. Those who have no family invited in to families. Those kinds of pictures are all behind the authority of this biblical image of the horn. I want you to consider, for example, and you could look this up later, but Psalm 92, 8 through 10 speaks about this idea of the horn of salvation specifically. It says, But you, Lord, are on high forevermore. For behold, your enemies, O Lord, for behold, your enemies shall perish. All the workers of iniquity shall be scattered But my horn you have exalted like a wild ox. I have been anointed with fresh oil. You can see the Zacharias is revisiting this image as a source of hope and strength to his people. That's why he put it in the song. He sees God the Father raising a great deliverer who was like a bull or an ox in strength, conquering the world for good. And I gave an image earlier of a buffalo protecting its young. And that would carry forward also, because that's what Christ does. Now the most difficult thing about this, whether you can, you know, we just had a little history lesson of what the scriptures say about the Great Horn and what You could see why it would be a a source, hypothetically, of strength and comfort for the people. All of us want evil to go away. We need someone to deliver. We can acknowledge that the scriptures say this and we can see what it means, but it doesn't mean that we don't have our death. Even on Christmas Eve, we sit on the other side of this song. You know, there's a lot of history that has taken place since this song was first sung. There's a lot of water under the bridge, so to speak. We have heard from faithful witnesses that Jesus has been installed with all authority in heaven and earth at the right hand of the Father. We could connect the images and we could say, Our great bull reigns. And yet sometimes I fear that that image has lost its weight under the constant experiences we have of feeling. Like he does not have authority over heaven and earth. If you have enough things go wrong And if you see enough evil people remain in power, you can really begin to doubt if Christ's horns are long enough for the trouble of this world. Now I know theoretically you would never say that out loud. Maybe to your closest friend. But I think that's how we can begin. to feel with so much water under the bridge that Zacharias's song held promise, but it seems to be failing us. In other words, it seems that all other powers except Christ's power is present. It seems that the wicked rule and grow stronger every day to accomplish wickedness In reality, that's not an illusion. There are many people, in fact, in power. And the thing I want to start off saying to you tonight, on the eve of Christmas, is that this is not new. If you were to read through the scriptures, you would see that God already told you that this is what was going to happen. If you read through the scriptures, you'll notice, actually, that the Messiah is not the only one who has horns. I want you to consider, for example, a passage from a book called Daniel. And he has a night vision. He's seeing how God will unfold his plan in actuality on earth. There's a lot of symbolism to get at the reality of what God is going to do. A lot of it needed to be interpreted later. But just listen to the imagery. Listen and tell me that this is not a description or a model or framework by which you should understand your existence and world He says this after this I saw in the night visions, and behold, a fourth beast, dreadful and terrible, exceedingly strong. It had huge iron teeth. It was devouring, breaking in pieces, and trampling the residue with its feet. It was different from all the other beasts that were before it It had ten horns, and it had a mouth that spoke pompous words That's Daniel 7, 7 through 8. Or if you'd like another more more recent example After the ascension of Christ, we can pick one from Revelation. And it is the same kind of framework given to you as the church to understand more of why you see experience the way that you see experience. It says this, then I stood on the sand of the sea, and I saw a beast rising up out of the sea, having seven heads and ten horns. And on his horns ten crowns, and on his heads a blasphemous name. In other words, what this tells us Is that God has permitted and He still permits monsters to rise from the deep. Your concern, therefore, about what you see around you is real. We're not meant to be unrealistic as Christians. But it actually, and in being able to acknowledge that it's not an illusion, there is real evil, there is real trouble and terror. It's actually not the problem that we really need to address on the eve of Christmas. We all know that the current state of the world is real. The real question is: is the current state of the world the world hopeless? And will evil win? The question you have before you always, in the most mundane of the activities that you set forth each day Will be whose horn will win? Which beast will trample all beasts And what we see here, even within the song of Zacharias, especially in that verse 69, like I said, is that Jesus Christ will. Does it not in some strange, perhaps undefinable way, give you comfort to know that even if a monster rises, it is because of the sovereign choice of Jesus Christ to the glory How can we say that we have hope in the face of such contemporary destruction? We say it because we believe with Zacharias and all the rest that God keeps his promises. That's number one. Boy, is Luke hardcore. He did not layer upon layer on you complicated theological concepts. He brought to you a basic message and asks you this Christmas, do you believe that God is faithful even in this? And that's the toughest thing to be able to go through as a Christian. If there is any lesson that we should be taking during this Christmas, it should be that we would say yes. But oh Lord, would you please help me in my unbelief? At the right time Jesus Christ, he will break the horns of his enemies. If you were to go through all of the scriptures and look at all of the images That is connected with this, what you will see is that God allows some to come to power for his own purposes, and then when he wants them to not be in power, it says he cuts off their all her their horn and he breaks their arm. And they can and then he says they're so weak they can't even hold the sword any longer. And he gives the sword to someone else to accomplish his purpose as there. There, all leading to the ultimate purpose of Christ Himself, organizing the entire cosmos onto his own ends, of the glory of the Father, which includes peace peace and justice and love once again across the face of this world and among humans. Perhaps at Christmas Eve there is no better time than to remember Easter. Perhaps now is the time to remember the example of the disciples when they were faced with the horn of Rome. Do you remember their disillusionment? They watched the enemy crucify their ox. They watched the enemy gorge him in the side. All seemed lost. The shepherd was struck, and the disciples split. The word of God seemed null and void. The promise would not come true. And yet, we know the Easter story We know that God uses all of this to accomplish his promised purposes. In fact, I'd like to share a vision with you tonight. It is another vision about the one with horns, Jesus Christ. Listen to this This is from Revelation 5, verse 12. And I looked, and behold, in the midst of the throne and the four living creatures, and in the midst of the elders, there stood a lamb. And the lamb had been slain. This lamb had seven horns Worthy is the lamb who was slain. They started to sing. To receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. Now, did you ever expect to see those symbols together? Knowing what you know about horns, did you expect them to expect to see seven, the perfect number of strength and power Symbolized by the horns. Did you expect to see them on a slain lamb? The very figure of humility and seeming powerlessness Oh, the juxtaposition needs to be explained. And we are able to explain it because the Spirit has worked in us to illuminate our minds. To have the mind of Christ. We know the answer. Together, we can see That even when it looks like the other beasts of the earth and the monsters rise up with their sharp teeth, and it looks like they are destroying the work of God, they are actually establishing it. You see this with the lamb who was slain, who has the horns of authority. In essence I think the great thing that I hope we all realize it at the same time on the last day. I hope I look at you and you look at me and you go, are you thinking what I'm thinking? And then we would all say together, as a summary of everything that we've seen God do, as a great Christmas story of what he's going to accomplish and be taking upon himself human nature I hope we will look at each other and we'll say the words of Joseph. We'll say what they all intended for evil. All that they surmised and all that they planned. Look at it now. God had intended it all to end up as this good There is a day and it is coming, and we are reminded of the day of Christmas, that Jesus Christ shall set this world to rights. God will do good for us. He will do so through his ox of a son, just as he has promised. Promised. It ends up being true, that old song. O little town of Bethlehem, how still we see thee lie. Above thy deep and dreamless sleep, the silent stars go by. Yet in thy dark streets shineth the everlasting light. The hopes and fears of all the years are met in thee tonight. O Christian, I give you a present this evening. I present you with your hope With your joy and the answer to all of your fears. God keeps his promise by raising up the great horn of salvation, and his name is Jesus Christ. Blessed is the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people, and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. Amen. Amen. Would you please stand and join me in song now as we respond to the gospel? We're going to sing together hymn number four, Hark, the Herald, Angels Sing.