With me to Colossians chapter three. We'll be looking at verses fifteen through seventeen tonight. I'll start in verse twelve, however. And uh this should be very familiar to you. I prayed through it this morning for the pastoral prayer and quoted it uh towards the end of the sermon this morning This is Colossians chapter three, twelve through seventeen, concerning church life. Therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, put on tender mercies: kindness, humility, meekness, long-suffering, bearing with one another and forgiving one another If anyone has a complaint against another, even as Christ forgave you, so you also must do. But above all these things, put on love, which is the bond of perfection And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also you were called in one body, and be thankful. Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another. In psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. And whatever you do, in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. Please pray with me. Father, church life is difficult. You have witnessed many churches We pray that the words here tonight that you've inspired from your Apostle, that they would sink deeply into us, that these words would dwell in us richly, and that they would make the difference. They would keep us as one, they would keep us in love. And in peace. We ask for those two bonds. In the name of Christ. Amen. Children, I want you to imagine That your parents run out for an errand across town. And so let's say if you live in Severn or something like that, then they would go to Annapolis. Alright. And they're just running some errands, and while they're there, something happens in the world to where they are not able to return back home to you for one week. Do you see the picture? They're able to call you. Don't look too scared, Molly. This is just a hypothetical. Okay. They're able to call you and what do you think they would say to you? They literally, they cannot get to you for one week. What will your parents say to you When they call. I'm sure they would express love, they would express concern, they would tell you that everything is going to be just fine. But after their senses come to them and they stop freaking out I think they're going to start giving you a list of things that they want you to do to make sure that the house doesn't blow up and that you don't burn it down. And so uh you can think of some of those make sure your brother gets his schoolwork done. They may still be concerned about school with this Cataclysm that's happened in the world. Make sure your sister still takes her nap at 2 p. m. Make sure the trash goes out on Sunday night. Whatever it's going to be. Make sure you turn the oven off or don't use the oven or w you can think of those different things. This is how you turn off the gas if you need to. There would be a lot of different instructions just so that you are able to stay safe and to stay healthy. Something similar is taking place in the letter to the Colossians. The Apostle Paul is separated like you'd be separated from your parents. He is separated from the Colossians. He's not able to see them. He has never been able to visit them personally. And so he doesn't use a phone, but he sends a letter. And he sends the letter for the same reason. He is seeking to keep them from blowing up or burning down their Christian community. It's a very real problem. And we can benefit from this instruction also, because it can be a very real problem for us. It's difficult for church folks to re Remain getting along. There's many stories that we have in our own lives of us hurting each other. Last week we hit a pinnacle for remaining healthy as a church. That's what this whole section is After we're done these verses tonight, we'll move into, you can see verse 18 and verse 19, we'll deal with husbands and wives and 20 children. So you can see in 21 family comes up next, but for now we're dealing with the church. To stay healthy as a church, last week we learned that love was the bond. Love was illustrated by seeing Jesus in the footwashing of the disciples, and we learned that love is laying down your own life for others. In a word, it's serving. And thus to stay healthy as a church we must serve each other. That's what the lesson was last week. And it was uh in kind of If you want a good way to remember last week's sermon, besides think like Calvin and act like Calvin, Like Mother Teresa, there is another way to think of your service as a Christian too, and that is to be a back-of-the-line Christian. To be a back of the line, Christian, is to oppose the world. The world always rushes to the front of the line. They want to be first. They want to be the most beautiful, the most popular, the most wealthy. But you will be as a person running to the back of the line. You will let everyone in front of you. But here's the good news if you do that. If you run to the back of the line, there will always be a person there to meet you. And that was why we had the example within Paul of Jesus, to forgive like him, to love like him. And so we would be in good company. Tonight, Paul is going to continue these instructions to maintain a healthy church, and he gives three commands. Take a look with me. He gives three commands starting in verse 15, and let the peace of God rule in your heart. And then 16. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, and then seventeen, and whatever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. And I just want to look at the two lets. Let the peace And let the word. And of course, the whatever you do will be a summary at the end. And so let's unfold those two as we seek To sit under Paul's instruction, inspired by the Holy Spirit, learning what it takes to be a healthy church. The first thing we see in verse 15 is to let the peace of God rule within your hearts. To which you also were called in one body, and be thankful. In our culture, when you hear the word peace, usually it refers to some inner state of twin tranquility. That you could gain if you wanted through Valium. But it usually is some kind of state of tranquility. You could gain it through your uh toes in the warm sand of a beach also It's tempting to read this command in verse fifteen to mean the same thing, especially when you look there. Look again at your verse. There's some there's some flags that make us think it's speaking about an inner ch tranquility because it says, and let the peace of God rule in your hearts. It seems like an interior thing that's going on And if that's the right interpretation, then keeping an inner tranquility would be the key to church health. And I guess, in a sense, one should have some kind of inner tranquility, but that's not Paul's intent in this passage At all. That's not what he's seeking to communicate in this verse. Notice that after the comma, Paul gives the purpose of the peace. Why would we want to have peace? Why would you want peace to rule? It's to maintain the calling of being a single community or body of believers, not broken up and not splintered. It's not something that's just inside. It's something that makes a difference for the whole community. A very similar thought is taught in Ephesians. If you were to read Colossians and Ephesians side by side, you'd see that there's much overlap. And so listen to Ephesians 4, 1 through 6, where Paul communicates the same thought. I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you to walk worthy of the calling with which you were called. With all lowliness and gentleness, with long-suffering, bearing with one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called and one hope of your calling, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is above all, and through all and in you all. Those are a lot of reasons that we would remain one. Did you hear the similar language and the focus in Ephesians that we hear within Colossians? The bond of peace, like the bond of love, is accomplished through service. That's what Ephesians is saying when we pick up on Paul's words. It's what Paul, this whole context of Colossians is saying If you go back and you read the Ephesians of Ephesians chapter 4, there you'll see the servanthood language through and through, with all lowliness and gentleness, is exactly what a servant does. With long-suffering, exactly what a servant does. Bearing with one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. The servanthood was for the sake of keeping the bond of peace. It's also what we use to keep the bond of war. Peace, then, is the healthy unity of the church from the heart You contribute to this unity by giving up your own desires and like I said in the beginning, heading to the back of the line. It doesn't have to be a literal expression. I mean we're gonna have spaghetti here in a minute and I don't want everyone rushing to the back of the line. It'll be c AIS. It's a metaphor. Sometimes, other times you can literally go to the back of the line. It's giving up your own desires, not superficially, but from the heart That will form the bond of love and the bond of peace by the power of the Holy Spirit. Now let me give you what I consider to be a pretty advanced spiritual application of This is very, very difficult. What is placed before us here? Whenever we talk about the example of the Lord, we know that it's going to be exact because how exemplary He is Is. But by the Spirit, we can enter into this, and here's an advanced spiritual application. One pastor said this in thinking about servanthood in relationship to love and to peace, and those bonds that will keep a healthy church. You cannot even make your physical needs of primary importance. People who make their physical needs of primary importance are a great hindrance to the work of God. The greatest obstacle for the gospel of Jesus Christ in the world today are Christians who love their lives more than they love the Lord Jesus and the peace of His. Church. Now that's advanced. That is an advanced view of membership of the church. Paul knew this advanced view. Let me paint a picture for you from Acts 14, 19 through 20. Then Jews from Antioch and Iconium came there, and having persuaded the multitudes, they stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city, supposing him to be dead. And what did he do? When the disciples gathered around him, he rose up and he went back into the city. And the next day he departed with Barnabas to Derby to continue the preaching. He was not concerned about his own physical needs, making them of primary importance. He was concerned about the peace of the church, the peace that they would be reconciled to God and the Peace that they would remain one body under one spirit, one Lord, and one baptism. One thing that seemed to Paul, to help Paul, if you were to read the little sections of his biography in Colossians And other places where he reveals it in Galatians and some other spots. One thing that seemed to help Paul very much in giving up his even his own physical needs for the sake of the church. Was for him to remember that this is his calling. That on the road to Damascus and at other times he received a call from the Lord. And he embraced that call. Now that's exactly what he tells the church to do in Ephesians chapter 4. He says, embrace your call. Live worthy of your calling. The question is, does he say it here in Ephesians? I mean in Colossians. Take a look at verse 12. Therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, As those who have been chosen, as those who have been called to something in particular. That's what the elect of God are, and that's what it means there. Paul is laying the same kind of reasoning on us and the same motivations that he himself would use. We did not have a Damascus Road experience. From that point forward, Paul strove as a runner, running a race, to cross the finish line of his God-given task. And in verse 12, he tells us to take a similar view of our life, to help us in this servanthood that he's calling us to. And that's the question that's before you, especially as American Christians. Will you accept the calling or will you not? The calling is difficult. There is much trouble in the world, but let's not fear because Christ has overcome the world. One of your callings, according to Colossians, is to give up your life. for the peace and for the the unity of God's church, whether it's here at Severn Run or across the globe, that you would make personal sacrifices to make sure that that happens. And so that's the first point that he makes. That's the first let us. Let the peace of God rule in your hearts. That's what all of that means. There's more to say, but let's move on to the second point. The second let us let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. This is in verse 16 Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. Paul has said something similar early on in the letter. When you ask the question, well, what does he mean by the Word of Christ? Does he mean the Gospels of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John? What is he talking about? Well, he may need that, but if you look back in chapter 1, verse 5, to get a clearer picture of what's going on with this church plant. It says in verse 5 that he's giving thanks to God the Father because of the hope which is laid up for them in heaven. Of what you heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel, which has come to you as it has also in all the world, and is bringing forth fruit. He's thinking of that message of Christ that was preached to this group of people, and that is preached from city to city. And you can get glimpses of what that message is. From reading through the book of Acts or reading through his letters to understand what the Word of Christ is. If you wanted to summarize, you would say that the Word of Christ is the message and the significance Concerning the person and the work of Jesus Christ, of what God the Father is accomplishing through Him and His Spirit. Much of that message can be found in chapter 1 of Colossians. There's a lot to do with Christ in chapter 1. 1 and in chapter 2. The significance of all of those things in chapter 1 of Colossians and chapter 2 end up flowing out in the latter part of chapter 2 and 3 If you remember, in the beginning of this passage, there's an unfolding of the Word of Christ. Take a look at chapter 3, verse 1. We were raised with Christ. Died with Christ. There's a future appearance of Christ, verse 4. And it leads to living for Christ now, living as a citizen before the city actually arrives. That's his whole point. When he comes back, then our glory also will be revealed when he is revealed. And for now we're going to be putting up with lying and Fornication and uncleanness and passions, but we can begin to take those things off and to put on these other things now because we have died and have risen with Christ. That's the significance. That's the word of Christ that he lays out here for the Colossians. The question that really comes up is not what is the word of Christ. I think we kind of get a sense of what that is, if you've been around your Bible, even just for a little bit. The other question that we ask that we think I think we think is more important is how in the world do we allow it to dwell in us richly? That's a question we ask almost every day, based on my conversations with you. And that's by God's grace where Paul spends the rest of this verse. He's developing how we may allow And work the word of Christ into our lives that it would be home in us, that it would find a home with us. You can see this in verse 16 first Number one, he mentions that we would let the Word of Christ dwell in us richly in all wisdom. I'll just say a word about this. Doing this in all wisdom means that it takes skill and it takes work to make Christ's word a part of us. It is not like a turtle falling off a log. It takes work. Verse 16 also teaches That we have Christ's word dwelling in us richly through teaching and through admonishing one another. To teach means that you would receive instruction. Admonishment is warning or pleading with people, urging them in a strong direction It's not getting in each other's face in anger, not usually, or putting people in their place. That's not the spirit in which we do this instruction or the admonishment. It is based in love, as the rest of the passage passage already taught, and like a father truly encouraging his children for their welfare. That's a picture that we see Paul using in another letter. Notice, however, that when it says teaching and admonishing, that this command is in the plural and it is directed to you. The whole church is to take responsibility for this. The person who is sitting to your left and to your right and in front of you and behind you, you are responsible. You have a teaching ministry and calling and a ministry of instruction and admonishment to one another That the Word of Christ would dwell in them richly. And I don't mean that you'd have some abstract conversation with them. I mean when they are down and out, you would bring the Word of Christ to them. Wisdom. When they are exalted, that you would bring the word of Christ to them in wisdom. When they've just had a child, that you would bring the word of Christ to them in wisdom. That God would be glorified. It's a whole church endeavor. And as you take up that calling, so too does the help of the church grow. Now I have a surprise for you. In verse 16, there is another way in which the Word of Christ would dwell richly within us: teaching and admonishing, and the participles continue. I love it when participles continue. It's very exciting to me. One way in which teaching and admonishing can be accomplished is through various sorts of songs. I love this. I wish Paul had written Celtic songs, but he didn't. That just works for me. Psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs are a main way in which teaching and admonishing can happen for the promotion of a healthy church. With thankfulness in our hearts, we sing and teach and admonish by song. Think of the reading that we had earlier within the bulletin. Paul and Barnabas. But at midnight, I'm sorry, Silas, Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them. What do you think that means that the prisoners were listening to them? Did they just hear some mumbling happening over in another cell? Or was there instruction happening? Was there admonishment to keep hope amongst the prisoners? And what about the jailer who was led to salvation? It's left to our imagination, but I'm sure Paul and Silas were encouraged as they sang these songs, these hymns to God. In Colossians 1, 5 through 20, take a look at that with me. I mean 15 through 20. This is traditionally referred to, or referred to by many as the Christ hymn. 1, 15 through 20 is thought by many scholars to be a song, and in some scripture translations it is set in verse. So that you can see the poetry of it. If you were to study just those verses, you would see many, many, many, many patterns that would remind you of singing. Paul excuse me. That's the Christ hymn in Colossians 1:15 through 20. And Paul, therefore, if that is the case, is practicing what he is preaching in church. Chapter 3, teaching and admonishing this congregation through a song. He does that in other places through the scriptures too, where he'll quote the poetry like that. That. Tonight, when we sang from the hymnal, the very first song, Brethren, we have come to worship, was directed to each other. Sometimes to brothers, sometimes to sisters, that we should all be praying in order for any of the means of grace to be effective tonight and for sinners to be reconciled to God. That's the whole hymn. That was the admonishment that you were meant to give to each other. This morning, the very first song of the bulletin was you singing to each other, admonishing and teaching I just watched a YouTube video of Rosaria Butterfield, who she had an interview. I don't know if you know who she is or not. She's a an author and um belongs to a RPCNA church. She's become rather popular. We just did a book study on one of her books And she has this lovely YouTube video where she talks about her changing her view on abortion. Originally, she was striving against abortion because it limited the choices of women, and her goal was for women to have as many choices as possible. But then she attended Syracuse Reformed Church, and they began, and she began. Singing Psalm 102. And this is what she writes. Here was the line from Psalm 102 of my undoing. And peoples yet uncreated shall praise and magnify the Lord. Psalm one o two verse. eighteen. I got it. Abortion is not a right or an entitlement. Abortion steals praise from God by denying image bearers the opportunity to live through and for Him. Abortion despises and attacks and destroys the image of God. In that moment, she realized that if abortion took place, it would be one less person to be born who could have the pleasure of giving glory to God, and that was wrong. Rosaria makes an excellent point. She begins to have the Word of Christ dwelling ritually in her in regards to To the sanctity of human life. Who taught her? Who instructed her? Who admonished her? Psalm 102. Being some, the word of Christ dwelled richly within her. And that's what Paul is teaching us here. If you were stuck home alone, your parents would call and they would keep you from blowing up or burning down the hall house. And Paul here is doing something similar. He writes for the church, even Severn Run, in all ages, in order to be able to stay healthy. And we have two commands. Let the peace of God rule. Let peace rule as far as it depends on you. Be at peace with everyone through servanthood. And let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. Begin with these two commands, but remember how he ends this passage. That whatever you do, in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, and as a good servant, give thanks to God the Father through him. That's Paul's teaching to us in this passage. And now