Immediately he made his disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side, to Bethsaida, while he sent the multitude away. And when he had sent them away, he departed to the mountain to pray Now when evening came, the boat was in the middle of the sea, and he was alone on the land. Then he saw them straining at rowing, for the wind was against them. Now about the fourth watch of the night he came to them, walking on the sea, and would have passed them by. And when they saw him walking on the sea They supposed it was a ghost and cried out, for they all saw him and were troubled. But immediately he talked with them and said to them, Be of good cheer. It is I. Do not be afraid. Then he went up into the boat to them, and the wind ceased. And they were greatly amazed in themselves beyond measure, and marveled. For they had not understood about the loaves, because their heart was hardened. Let us pray. Gracious God Thank you for your word. Thank you for keeping it for your church through all these ages. That not only would we Be strengthened in our faith, but that our fears and our doubts could be put aside, could be pushed away, could be burned up like the dross that they are. Oh God, would you please speak to us through your word, by your spirit, and by it, we ask that you would transform us and make us more like Jesus Christ. And I pray, O Lord, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer. It's in the name of Christ, our Redeemer, that we pray. Amen. Please be seated. I'm sure this isn't the first time that Some of you, or probably all of you, have heard the passage of Jesus walking on the water. How many of you have have heard this account or read this account before? Yeah, most. Well, did you notice that something is different in Mark's account, something is missing in Mark's account that is present in Matthew's If you were to turn to Matthew chapter 14, you don't need to do that, but you could at another time. Matthew 14, verses 22 to 33, you'd get Matthew's account of this same event. And he has some very different things included for us. And so I wonder, have you ever wondered, as I do, why Mark's account doesn't include That bit about Peter walking on the water. Did you see that that was missing here Well, if you recall from earlier in our series on Mark, most scholars, in fact the vast majority of church history and tradition believes that this gospel account written by John Mark is a recording of Peter's teaching. So why wouldn't that amazing bit, that amazing part of Peter's testimony be included here for us? Well as I was thinking about this, I I couldn't help but give in to my imagination. And I wonder if you've ever imagined what it would be like to go back in time if you had a time machine that you could listen in or watch what was happening as Mark was recording this gospel. Imagine that he's he's in a room with Peter and he's going over his notes and he says, Look, uh Peter, I know you're about to head to Rome. If you know anything about Peter, Rome was not a fun place for him. And he says, I know you're going to leave. I just want to make sure I've got everything straight. I've been writing all this down and And so he pulls out his papers, a stack of parchments, and he starts going through the the notes he's been taking in these sermons that he's been sitting under. And he says, okay, we've got Jesus. He was baptized and driven into the wilderness and tempted by Satan. And Peter says, Yeah. Mm-hmm. And oh uh we've got the calling of the disciples, and uh he shuffles some more papers. Oh yeah, the cleansing of the leper and and the healing of the paralyzed man and the forgiving of sins. And Peter says, Mm-hmm, yeah, you you got it going. All right, uh what's next? So we have the we've got the parables We've got these parables coming along. Oh good. Okay, I got them all. All the ones you want me to record, okay. Well we have um we have Jesus' rejection in Nazareth. Should I keep that one in there? Oh you better. You better keep that in there, Mark And he says, okay, we have the the sending out of the twelve and um John the Baptist's beheading. That's important that we have that there. Yes it is. It sure is, Mark. Okay, uh let's see, where did we leave off, Peter? Oh, it was at the the feeding of the five thousand. Mm-hmm. Yeah, that was the last one we worked on. And so Marx then says to Peter, now, Peter, I was the I was kind of confused a little bit. The latest one I've been working on was when you told us about Jesus walking on the sea. And I noticed that um in this morning's sermon you you didn't mention something you've told to us before You didn't mention what Matthew ha had said to us when we were all gathered in Capernaum that last time. You didn't tell us about you walking on the water. Did you want me to keep that in here? And Peter says, No, no, I I don't think you need to include that. I really I I wouldn't want it to get in the way of the true meaning of this event. And Mark says, okay. All right. Oh, oh, I I think I get it. Some people reading this who weren't there, they might get the wrong idea. And they might think that the most important part about this is you and your faith walking on the water. And Peter says, Yeah, I think you get it, Mark. And then Mark says, yeah, yeah, I get it. And and I guess I guess you'd think that some people might make a bigger deal about, you know, how how you doubt it after Jesus said that it was him and you were you were afraid and you actually put Jesus to the test and Peter goes Okay, Mark, I I I think you get it. Mark says, oh, um maybe you wouldn't want people to make too big of a deal about how you lost sight of Jesus and in the storm and you got scared and you started to sink. And Peter goes I think you get it, Mark. But something happens and Mark says Now I I get why you don't want me to put that in there. But I'm sorry, Peter, I think I have to include in there that all the disciples didn't understand what was happening because you had hardened hearts. And Peter says, I think you get it, Mark. And that's the truth for us. Brothers and sisters, let's not miss the real message, the real lesson of what is happening here and why this has been included for us in Mark's gospel exactly. as it has. Because from our passage tonight, we must learn, we must get the lesson of the loaves. And the lesson of the loaves is this. Our true need is the presence of the one true God. Brothers and sisters, your true need Is the presence of the one true God. And so we're going to look at this under two divisions tonight. We're going to look first at verses 45 and 46, in which we see our true need. And then we're going to look at verses 47 through 52, the one true God. Two divisions, our true need and the one true God. So let's look together, verses 45 to 46. And the first thing we see in verse 45 is that Jesus. Knows what his disciples need. Look there. Immediately he made his disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side to Bethssaido while he sent the multitude away. That word translated made in the Greek it's compel or force. Like I'm about to compel my son to stop moving around because the sound of that chair is starting to be distraction. Jesus compelled the disciples. They didn't want to leave. They didn't want to leave his presence. They didn't want to leave what had just happened. But he compelled them to, and he told them, go to the other side to Bethsida. If you recall from last week, they were in uh an area, a countryside, which was in the belonging to Bethsida And so, while some might want to think that this is a contradiction in the Gospels, it's no contradiction that Jesus says, cross to the other side, because We can understand that if you're on this side of a triangle and you're going to cross over to the other side of the triangle, even if it's the same, let's say, line, you you going in a water, you're might you're going to the other side But if you've read ahead, you understand they never make it there. They don't get there. So this is part of Jesus' plan for them. He knows exactly what they need. Do you see what the disciples need? What do you think from the passage the disciples really needed? They needed to be in a storm. They needed to be on the Sea of Galilee struggling in a boat to obey Jesus' commands. Well, in the first part of verse 46, we see that Jesus knows what the crowd needs. Do you see that there? And when he had sent them away. Again, like I pointed out last week, this word sent is really the word release. He releases them. Because after all, they they might have just hung around Jesus for the rest of their lives, thinking, uh I don't ever need to worry about another meal. Jesus is going to feed me. He will provide. But he knew what they needed. What is it that they needed? They needed to get back to life. They needed to get back to the life they'd been called to by God. And to share exactly what they had experienced. Now if you've read the the account of this in John, you know that after after that experience a bunch of people come and they want to make a Jesus Jesus king, they shared their experience far and wide, and it had the wrong effect on those who weren't there. And in the rest of verse 46, we see something very special. We see an example from our Savior by what it is that he needed. Do you see what Jesus needed? And what he chose to do, he needed to be in the presence of his father. And so he departs. He goes up to the mountain to pray This is what we need. By the example of Jesus, we need to spend time with our Father. I couldn't help but seeing this kind of like the disciples. After they went off and were doing the miraculous work of Jesus, they came back to say, look at what happened. And I imagine Jesus is doing very Similarly, he goes on the mountain, he says, Oh my father, look at what you're doing. Look at what has happened. And that's it. Because what it is that we truly need is God Himself. What we need is God. And so let's turn now to focus on the rest of this passage in which we will see the one true God, the one who is who we need. Look at verse 47. Verse 47. Now when evening came, the boat was in the middle of the sea, or in the midst of the sea. So again, it's not a contradiction. It doesn't mean it has to be smackdab right in the very center of the Sea of Galilee It is that the boat was in the water in the midst of the sea. And Jesus, where is Jesus? He was alone. On the land. And so we see that God, the one true God, is sovereign over all things. He is sovereign over all circumstances. And that circumstance, that situation. was by his design. They were on the sea. They were in the boat. And they were not with Jesus. This is by God's design, because, as I said before, he knows exactly what it is that they needed, and they needed to be in this situation. We also learn from verse 48, the very first part, that the one true God, what is it that he does? Does he just design these situations for us and then leave us be? No. Look at verse 48. Then he, Jesus, saw them straining at rowing, for the wind was against them. If you were to look at Matthew's and John's account, you see it's not just that it was a wind blowing against them. It was really a storm. It says that the sea rose up. Right? Does that give you an image of large waves tossing this boat? He saw them in their struggle, and he sees our struggle. Just as he saw the disciples, he knows what you're in. You know why God knows what you're struggling with? It's because it's not outside of his sovereign control. If you're in a struggle, it is something that he has designed because he knows that you need to struggle. Because just like these disciples, there is something glorious that will come out of it. Something beautiful that I hope you won't ignore. Another thing I want to point out is that he sees how hard the disciples were rowing against the wind, how hard they were struggling to obey him. And just in case you are in a period of intense struggle, that you have been rowing pretty hard for a long time, I want to encourage you. Your Savior sees you. He sees how hard you are working to obey Him. He really does. And He will not leave you just to struggle for the rest of your life nonstop in that way. He will come to you as he came to them in the midst of their struggle. Do you see that in the rest of verse 48? Now about the fourth watch of the night, he came to them, walking on the sea, and he would have passed them by Do you wonder why he tells us it's in the fourth watch of the night? Well first I should ask. Do you know which watch is the fourth watch? Think of it this way. If evening begins at six and morning begins at six, that's twelve hours, right? There's four watches. We can evenly divide them by three hours. You got 6 to 9 p. m. first watch. 9 to 12, second watch. Third, 12 to 3. What's the fourth watch then? 3 to 6 A. M. At some point during that watch. That's when Jesus came to them. Now why would that be significant? Well, if you recall, evening had come. Evening. It was 6 p. m. They they might have been on the water for a very long time. So let's say it was 6 p. m. when they started rowing, and the storm comes up, and they are working hard for nine hours. Any of you ever rowed a boat? I might get nine minutes before I want to stop. If you've ever been on a rowing machine, it's even worse than in a boat, because at least the boat is fun stuff to look at. Rowing machine is usually the posterior of somebody else in the gym. This was a hard thing they were doing. And they were struggling mightily. And yet I want you to see that your Savior's timing is perfect. He didn't come right when they started the struggle. He came when they might have been at the point of giving up. And I also want you to notice something. Uh the New King James, I don't I didn't look at a bunch of other translations. I don't know if it says it differently, but the New King James says that he wanted to pass them by. I just want to point out to you that there's a big difference between passing someone by and passing by someone, right? I don't know why they say pass them by. It's not required in the Greek. And so I took this in a in a much more friendly manner. Jesus. His intention, right? He has perfect timing, but he also knows exactly what it is that someone needs. He wanted to be seen by the disciples. He wanted them to see him He was intending to pass by them so that they could see him walking on the water. And I want you to see now what is what is so clear from the next two verses, verses 49 and the first part of verse 50. And when they saw him walking on the sea, Jesus was successful. He wanted them to see him, and they did see him. Remember what it says? They all saw him and were troubled. They supposed it was a ghost. There is something very significant there for us. Our struggle, your struggle, can greatly affect how you see God. It can hide him. It can make you afraid of him. And not the good kind of fear. But the fear like you don't want to be near him. It can make you misunderstand exactly what it is he is doing. But as Pastor Jesse said this morning, and I just want to remind you again, it's all about perspective. If you have the wrong focus, you will have the wrong understanding. What was the focus of the disciples? They were probably exhausted. That hinders how we see things. They were in this storm. Perhaps they didn't think they would have made it out. They don't know where Jesus is. All they know is they gotta get to Bethsaida, because that's what their Lord wants them to do. And when they saw their God, they thought it was a ghost. The word here is phantasma. You ever heard of a phantasm? That's where we get that word, or phantom. They thought he was a ghost. And the same thing can happen to you, brothers and sisters, if you are looking only at the struggle, If you are so focused only on your suffering, you will not see God clearly. Though he come to you in the perfect timing, though he come right near you, you may miss him. If you are looking for other solutions, right? If the disciples have been saying, forget this, let's go with the wind. God He said, Beth Sida, it's against the wind, let's go with the wind. Guess who would they who would they have miss walking on the sea? They would have missed Jesus. And so in the rest of verse 50, we see something else important about the one true God. Look there, the rest of verse 50. But immediately He spoke with them, or he talked with them, and he said to them, Be of good cheer. It is I, do not be afraid. Then he went up into the boat to them, and the wind ceased. I don't know why the New King James translates it like this. It is It is a very powerful thing that Jesus says. But first I just want to address what he commands them to do. Okay? First, notice the one true God is not silent. He doesn't just let you imagine what he is, and then there you go. He has spoken. And he speaks still through his word. And he tells you who he is. And he says, don't be afraid. Do you remember what he said to Jairus when he was on the way to restoring his daughter to life? No fearing. Only believing. This is the message of your Savior to you. Don't be afraid. He can save you. You can be saved. No matter what it is you're struggling with, no matter what sin you are trying to mortify, he can save you from it. There's something really important that we need to notice. It says in the New King James, it is I. Oh. Oh, what a disservice to us. And I will have you turn here. Let's all turn together. If you have your copies of God's Word, turn to John chapter 18. Because this is important. John chapter 18. We're going to look at look at verses 5 and 6. I'll give you just a second to turn there. John 18, verses 5 and 6. Actually, I'm going to start in verse four. I'll start in verse four, give you a chance to turn there and look at verse five. Verse four. Jesus therefore knowing all things that would come upon him. Went forward, he's going to those who have come to seize him, and he said to them, Whom are you seeking? They answered, Him, Jesus of Nazareth. And Jesus said to them, I am he. He didn't really say I am he. If you have the New King James, you can see the he is in italics. They've added that. You know what he says? I am. Well, that might just be glossed over as just a little statement. Oh, he just said that I am. Nope. Look at verse 6. Now when he said to them, I am, they drew back and fell to the ground. Why would there be such power? And the little two-word phrase, I am. Who is the great I am? The words here, ego ami, I am. This is exactly what's used in the Greek version of the Old Testament when it translates the covenant name of God, when he says to Moses, I am, that I am. Jesus is identifying himself as the one true God. And his presence there with them. What does it do? Look at verse 51. The presence of the one true God calms the storm. The winds cease. They're struggling at the oars ceases. No longer do they need to work themselves to death. Trying to fight against the wind because God is with them. His presence. Brothers and sisters, he is with you In the midst of your storm, whatever that may be, I don't know all of you that well. I wish I did, and I'm happy to hear about whatever struggle you're going through. But I'm here to tell you with absolute assurance that if you belong to the Lord Jesus Christ, whatever struggle you are going through, He has the power to calm. His presence, the presence of the one true God, can get you through any of it. And so we come now to verse 52. Well let's just let's finish out verse 51. Look at the response that they have there. Alright? It's all ceased. The presence of the one true God is there, and their struggle is over. And how do they respond? They are amazed, greatly amazed in themselves, beyond measure. Have you ever been greatly amazed beyond measure? I don't think you have. I don't think you have. Sometimes we see it Perhaps your wedding day. When you see your bride. Whew, that's greatly amazed. Beyond measure. Or maybe it's seven years later when God allows her to forgive you and you stay married, perhaps that's when you become greatly amazed beyond measure. That is the right response to marvel that the God of the universe, who created all things, loves you so much that he will come to you. In the midst of the struggle that he is fully aware of, that he has designed for you. He comes to you. To spare you and to save you. And let's look now at the last verse, verse 52. Why are they marveling? Why are they so amazed? Mark tells us, and it's real important. For they had not understood about the loaves, because their heart was hardened. Well the first thing I want to address is this heart hardened part. Okay? The way it's put there could sound like, man, these how did these guys not get it? They've been casting out demons. They've been healing in Jesus' name and preaching and teaching, and they their hearts are hardened. The word here is better translated callous. It means to cover with thick skin. And have you ever had a callus? Yeah. Sometimes you write so much you get a callus. Or if you do a lot of yard work you get get calluses on your hands. What does it do for your hands? It removes the necessity for gloves because you don't feel it. You don't feel the pain of the work. The sensitivity is not there. And I think that's a much better way of understanding this. And it's not the way it's put specifically, grammatically, it's put is so that we should understand it as they are in a state. Of having been calloused. That's the old way. It's not that God was making them calloused. It's that that's where they were. And they didn't understand what really happened. With the loaves. And so let's do it. Let's understand what was going on with the loaves. Any of you familiar with the concept of relics? You know what a relic is? People thinking they have a piece of the cross, right? Or they had a one of the thorns from Jesus' crown of thorns. Relics were used As special things. They thought they were special stuff that had a special blessing of God. And some of them would say, Oh, I'm I'm fine, I've got the relic, or they would travel a thousand miles so that they could kiss the relic. Special stuff blessed by God. Didn't these disciples have twelve baskets full of the most special stuff ever blessed by God on that boat with them? If relics worked, it should have worked for them. But it didn't. Because it wasn't the bread that was the point. If you thought it was the gift of the miraculous bread that is why Jesus did it, then just like the disciples, you're missing the whole lesson of the loaves. The disciples saw and they tasted that gift. They saw how good it was, how miraculous it was. But what did they miss? They missed the giver. They were focused so much on the gift that they missed the one who gave it. That Jesus himself is the creator. He is God. The miracle was not just for the sake of feeding everyone that was there. It was to demonstrate that that man, Jesus, from Nazareth is God. Do you understand, brothers and sisters, what your true need is? Your true need is the one true God. Are you struggling hard to obey Jesus? Well what do you need? Do you need to just work harder? Is that it? Pull yourself up by the bootstraps? Just stop it Stop looking at those websites. Stop listening to those theories? Is that what you need most? Just just punch yourself and I can do it. No. What you need is your Savior in the boat with you. And so I'd encourage you, instead of focusing so much on, I've got to stop thinking about this. I want you to think more about Jesus than you do about your sin. Be with Christ more than you are with yourself. Sometimes a lot of us struggle with sins because we're alone. If you use your alone time to be with God as Jesus did, how could that sin ever come back? This made me think of a video I saw a long time ago. You know those short videos on YouTube? I don't recommend YouTube. It's bad. YouTube's bad. Yeah, I'm talking to YouTube But sometimes they have really great stuff. And I was remembering a video that I saw not too long ago. Oh my goodness gracious. It was probably the cutest baby I've ever seen in my whole life. It's one of those Michelin babies, you know? It's got like six or seven creases down its forearm. This was a cute baby. And she was sitting. In a high chair. Because it was her birthday. It was her first birthday. You could tell there was only one candle in the cake. But you know what I kept remembering about this video as I was preparing the sermon? That baby didn't look at the cake once. The whole time. She's just looking at her daddy. The whole time She didn't give two figs about the cake. It was the one who gave her the cake, whom she adored and was precious to her. Oh, that we would be like this baby. That we would not be so enamored with grace and salvation and mercy, that we would not be so in love with being Christian that we forget the God who's made us Christian. The Lord Jesus Christ Himself. May our great God give us by His Holy Spirit the strength we need, the comfort. And I mean that in the old Latin sense, right? With strength. Let him give us the strength and courage we need to shun everything else. And to love him more and more and more. Please pray with me