I'd ask that you turn with me now to Psalm 143 for the preaching of God's Word. This is a Psalm 143, a Psalm of David. Hear my prayer, O Lord. Give ear to my supplications In your faithfulness, answer me, and in your righteousness. Do not enter into judgment with your servant, for in your sight no one living is righteous. For the enemy has persecuted my soul, he has crushed my life to the ground, he has made me dwell in darkness like those who have long been dead. Therefore, my spirit is overwhelmed within me My heart within me is distressed. I remember the days of old. I meditate on all your works. I muse on the work of your hand I spread out my hands to you. My soul longs for you like a thirsty land. Answer me speedily, O Lord. My spirit fails Do not hide your face from me, lest I be like one who goes down into the pit. Cause me to hear your loving kindness in the morning, for in you do I trust. Cause me to know the way in which I should walk, for I lift up my soul to you. Deliver me, O Lord, from my enemies. In you I take shelter. Teach me to do your will, for you are my God. Your spirit is good. Lead me in the land of uprightness. Revive me, O Lord, for your name's sake. For your righteousness' sake, bring my soul out of trouble. In your mercy, cut off my enemies and destroy all those who afflict my soul For I am your servant. Let's pray. Father, we are your servants. And we ask that you would teach us that we would serve you more and more. In the name of Christ. Amen. This morning we end our psalm series. We have considered thirteen psalms of various sorts. In the first part of the Psalm series, we had, for example, the front porch of the Psalms or the front door of the Psalms. We had royal psalms or coronation psalms. We had psalms of praise and psalms of trust And then recently we considered an additional 10, on top of that 13, 10 lament or petition psalms. We end with a lament psalm this morning. Our study of the Psalms was a mixture of careful attention to poetic structures. You heard words like chiasms and poetic alternating parallelism. And you saw how some of the Psalms were structured like ancient temples called ziggurats. That was one aspect of this study. Another aspect of the study, which I really hope you didn't miss In fact, the greater, even greater than the poetic features, that in fact, which the poetic features served, was the obvious intimate communion between God and the psalmist, who is usually David. Psalm 143 continues this pattern, and we witness, as we have witnessed before in this psalm, the poetic structure of a lament psalm, coupled with the warm communion. Between God and man. Having looked at all of these Psalms and seen this communion, I think we're now prepared to go to the foundation of this altar, which is Deuteronomy. And so that'll be our next series. But for this morning we'll end for saw with Psalm one forty three, looking at this warm communion between God and man and this poetic structure of a Lament Psalm. I just want to look under I want to look at this under four parts. The invocation, the lament, the confidence, and the prayer. And I'll announce those as we go along if you want to take notes under each part. one of those headings. Invocation, lament, confidence, and prayer. We meet the invocation in the first two verses. The invocation sounds like a fancy word. I've used this word before. We have it in our bulletin. It starts off the service. But by it, what I mean is something familiar. It is to call on God for help, that he would give you his attention. We need God's attention, especially in this life. And David begins the psalm by invoking God to hear and act in his desperate situation. Hear my prayer, O Lord, verse 1. And he repeats himself: give ear to my supplications. In your faithfulness, answer me. David's desperation is reflected in an ascending movement of invocation. Notice what he says. He says, Hear my prayer, give ear to my supplication. Answer me in your faithfulness. David appeals here. If you want someone to listen to you. You make sure that you put on the table things that will get their attention. Things that will confirm the fact that they would act. And that's exactly what David does. David appeals to God's character and not his own character. They actually come into contrast with one another in this invocation. In your faithfulness, in your righteousness, verse 2. But then in contrast, David has his character. Do not enter into judgment with your servant, for no one living is righteous before you. Don't relate to me based on me. Relate to me based on you. David doesn't want his salvation from his current situation, depending on his innocence or his moral resume, and I would recommend that you don't count on that either. In other Psalms, David has not invoked God to rise as judge, to take the bench. He has invoked God to rise as a judge, to take the bench, and to save on David's innocence. David has pleaded his innocence before the Lord, particularly in Psalm 7. But here, as Spurgeon says, not bear Spurgeon But Charles Spurgeon. I'm going to have to do that for the rest of the. No, I won't. Just it's always Charles Spurgeon. Charles Spurgeon says, David pleaded for an audience at the mercy seat. But he had no wish to appear before the judgment seat. In light of verse 2: no one living is righteous before you. Our posture and prayer likewise should be the same. We invoke God to hear, to give ear, to answer, not based on us, but based on his covenant, faithfulness, and his Let's invoke him with things that count, that do not fail, and that's God Himself. You invoke God to act by appealing to His character, especially in life and death situations. Those are verses 1 and 2 in the invocation. But in the remaining verses 3 and 4, we move into our next point, which is the lament. Very quickly moves on. In 3 and 4, we have our next point, the lamentation or the lament. Verse 3 is poetically constructed to imitate David's psychological demise. I want you to notice we had a kind of ascending in the first two verses: hear, give ear, answer me. And now there's a kind of psychological descending when he says, for the enemy has persecuted me. That's kind of an external thing afflicting him Now it's not just persecution move in the 3B. He crushed my life to the ground, and not only on the ground, but he made me to dwell in darkness, but not just darkness, but down into the grave into Sheol. You can see a descent that is happening here within his life. David is in conflict. The enemy pursues him. The enemy crushes his life to the ground, and he feels now on the edge of the grave Rolled into the dark on the edge of a grave, getting ready to be rolled into the darkness of Sheol. I was just with my grandfather on Labor Day. He's in his mid-90s. And I always say, how are you feeling, Papa? And he says, I'm still above ground. But I feel like one foot is in the grave And that's what my grandfather says because of his old age as he's sitting there listening to the Orioles on the radio. But David's not saying it for his old age. David is in conflict. He is losing his courage to fight. He feels faint, like a starving third-world child that you would see on a commercial. And this is brought home by verse 4. My spirit faints within me, my heart is distressed or appalled. The ESV uses the word appalled. Now that's an interesting word to use, and it's actually, in the etymology of it, quite perfect for the translation. Appalled, the etymology of the appalled, is uh it means to in our culture, it means to be aghast or to be horrified. But if you were to look at the history of the word, it means to grow pale. You can actually almost see the word pale in the word appalled. I played uh Little League Baseball with a boy Who was diabetic, and if he didn't receive his medicine on time, his face would lose all color. I watched him buckle at the knees, white as a ghost. And his chalky white face would start to look lost and it would look confused And this is David's situation. This is where he is in his life. This is why he's calling out, like he has in this ascent, because of the descent that has happened within his life. It makes you wonder as you're reading this, I'm filling out the details with without the specific Was he faint under Absalom, his son? Was he faint under Saul? Was he faint under a drought and the leadership turning against him? Why was he faint? Why do we have to fill in the details of this? Did he not have time to write in the specifics? Was he not a detail-oriented person? What's the cause? The reason is that if David turned the Psalter into an autobiography, then as king he would have only served himself. And so that invites us, as we consider him in his paleness, that David, and more importantly, the Holy Spirit, sought to serve all God's people through all ages as we turn pale under the pressures of life. In other words, the general nature of this psalm and all psalms actually allows you to supply your own details to the situation. What is making you pale? Where have you felt faint? I'm sure you can say yes that you have felt faint. That you feel like maybe someone knocked the wind out of you? Or at least you're pretty disappointed. I have to ask, though. This is all a setup. This lament moves immediately into a confidence portion. What do you do when you feel faint in this world? Do you know the world gives you many, many different options You can receive notifications from many, many different places of industry teaching you what to do when you feel faint. I wonder what it would be, what the notification would be that we would receive if we signed up for David's blog. In regards to this, when we feel faint, what would he tell us? When we are feeling severely dehydrated, is there an IV where we could receive nutrients back? And that is exactly what we find in our next point. David does share with us the difficulties of life. He's very honest about what life has for even the king, that temporary Messiah, David. Life is difficult. We find spiritual hydration, however, in the next portion, the confidence Portion in verses 5 and 6. David invoked God to hear him. And we can see why. Because of what he's going through. Whatever those details were, we know something about what he's experiencing. And now he will seek to regain his confidence in God. The confidence section is a hallmark of the Lament Psalms. It happens to be my favorite sections. of all of the Lament Psalms. It is the place where you are revived. The spiritual IV pumps into our blood, restoring us. In verses 5 and 6, notice in verse 5 in this confidence section that God revolves, revives the psalmists through synonyms. Do you see the synonyms in the passage? Did you ever notice that? In five? Remember, meditate, muse, or ponder. God revolves the solemnist through the grace of remembering, meditating, and musing or pondering all of the powerful works of God from the days of of old. What do you think the works were that David pondered? You just wonder, what were the specifics that he thought of? He is like a dry parched land, it says in verse 6, stretching out in prayerful contemplation, seeking to know God again. He's been blinded by the noise of the world. And I bet you he remembered Adam and Eve at some point. And God's grace to them. And I bet you he remembered Noah and his family, and I bet you he remembered God's grace. You think Noah went pale? And Abraham. And I bet you he remembered Moses in the Exodus. And I know he remembered Joshua's conquest. And what it was like to be that generation that would fade away versus being like Caleb. I know he used those things. He remembered those things. He meditated on those things. He pondered those things. C. H. Spurgeon again remarking on these verses I didn't want to quote him twice, but this was just too good. We ourselves, Christians, have a rich past to look back upon. We have sunny memories, sacred memories, satisfactory memories, and these are as flowers for the bees of faith to visit. From whence they make honey for your present use. And so that is the answer That David gives, the psalmist, when you're feeling faint, when you've been kicked in the stomach in life. There is medicine available for the spiritually faint. How do you get it? Like a bee. And that's the question for you. Do you live like a bee? Has anybody ever asked you that question before? Do you live like a bee? As God's little bees, you are meant to fly off to the flowery meadows of God's promises. Extract all his sweetness And carry it back home to our pale and depressed situations, that we might be revived. Do you believe that? That remembering and God intervening in the memory Here's the thing that must be said. If you ever fly off as God's little bee, and you do not return with the nectar of faith, hope, and love and confidence. Then you will remain spiritually famished. If you enter in, like he says here, trying to remember, trying to meditate, trying to ponder and muse, and you can extract No sweetness from his word. You are in an emergency situation. You have no lifeline. Which describes your time of Bible study, revitalizing or irrelevant? If your answer is irrelevant, then you need to speak to me immediately, or one of the leaders in this church. You need to talk to them immediately. I'm telling you, you need to talk to them immediately. If you or your children do not know how to get nectar from God's word, then you are in an immediate emergency situation. If you went into the emergency section of the hospital, you'd be seen first in front of all those people that have been waiting six to eight hours. Bees that forage for nectar, and I'm a beekeeper, so I know this, but return with nothing, they dwindle and they die. But by God's grace, David extracted the sweetness from God's word in his extreme distress, and he was revived. And the same through the ministry of Jesus Christ and his spirit Is promised to you, Christian. Allow someone to come alongside you and show you the sweetness, to teach you how to extract the sweetness from his word, how to do a Bible study. David lamented of his pale condition after he induced God to hear his prayer. He turned to remembering and meditation and pondering, and God revived David, and now David with renewed hope. Moves into a time of prayer in our last point. And this is verses 7 through 12. But I'm not going to unfold all of the details of all of the verses. I just want you to notice the overarching pattern Of 7 through 12, of what has happened within David. David began crying out to God. David shared with God the lament of his life. David renewed his confidence in 5 and 6 by remembering and meditating and musing on God's intervention in this life. Not just his word, but his living and active word. And David is changed after this point. He's not relieved totally of his conflict. He's not taken out of life, but he is changed. And I want you to see this in a major pattern. David first postures himself as a servant or a slave of God. I hope you heard that note that the psalm ends on. For I am your servant. That's the ultimate change right there for David. I am your servant. That's actually how the whole psalm is framed If you take verse 1 as an introductory prayer, and then you start with verse 2, he says, Do not enter into judgment with your servant. And then in verse 12, he ends with, For I am your servant The whole thing is enveloped between the wings of servanthood. And that's really where David arrives. It is the most advanced spiritual state a person can be in is to recognize and be pleased. and delighted in the fact that you are a servant of the living God, no matter what the pain. Now, this term implies two obligations, which reveals the overarching pattern in 7 through 12. The slave is obligated to the master, and the master is obligated to the slave. It's called a covenantal relationship. The pattern of mutual obligation bears out in all of the remaining verses. Take a note in verse 7. Answer me speedily, O Lord, my spirit fails. Do not hide your face from me. He is asking from his master for salvation And then notice what he flips into in verse eight is a servant response. In response, David looks to know the way to walk. And thus God saves servants so that servants can serve. That's the mutual relationship. That's the reciprocity. That is going on in the remainder of these verses. You can see the same thing in 9 and 10. In verse 9, David asks for deliverance from his covenant master. And then in verse 10, he immediately moves into his covenant obligations Teach me to do your will, for you are my God. Your spirit is good. Lead me in the land of uprightness. And David asks for the Spirit of God to do the will of his master. That's where he's arrived through this. He's gone through so much to arrive at this truth of servanthood. And you see again the same pattern in 11 through 12. They have the same relationship. The master must save his servant from his enemies, that the master's name would be glorified. Revive me, O Lord, for your name's sake. For your righteousness' sake, bring me out of trouble. In your mercy, cut off my enemies. And destroy all those who afflict my soul. And you can insert because of the pattern, because I want to serve you. And I want all others to be able to serve you. And as the king, if I am dead, who would serve you? The picture is of a king seeking to fulfill his end of the covenant and only able to do so if God fulfills his end of that same covenant. Covenant. The ancient church, you know, this is this observation has been around for a long time. The ancient church referred to this reciprocal relationship as communion. Communion with God. Communion with God is a relationship where there is receiving and returning of good things. That's the relationship. And this is the heart of David's prayer or song. Have you noticed it's actually the heart of all the Psalms In the midst of deep lament, with restored confidence, David prays to receive good things from God and to return good things to him. In essence, this is the psalm of a psalm is a prayer of a man whose soul thirsts, verse 6, for communion with God. That's the end of the matter. Serve God. That's what Ecclesiastes says He invokes God, he laments, he gains confidence, and then he prays for communion. Certainly, this is in contrast to he invokes, he laments, he gains confidence, and then he prays for an Amazon gift card. Or whatever other materialistic thing we think that we need. Which is what we fall back to immediately. He prays for communion with God. Communion with God, money or no money, is enough for him. Psalm 143 captures the heart of redemption, the heart of the plan of salvation, the heart of the Psalms. It captures God's heart. And the heart of his children. It captured the heart of a man after God's heart, David. It says in Proverbs that the purpose of a man's heart is like deep water. But a man of understanding will draw it out. I think David is a man of understanding by the grace of God, because he certainly has drawn out the depths of a person's heart. David has drawn out the purpose of your own heart, Christian, as we've gone through all of these psalms. Your own heart has been on display on these pages. You have been reborn for communion with your God. God the Father sent Christ to purchase all good things for you. Upon his ascension, Christ sent his Spirit to you that you might return unto God all good things to him. Take a look at Ephesians 2, verse 10. For you are his workmanship. To do what? To bring God glory. I want you, as you're waiting from this series to the next one, and you can continue You when we're going through Deuteronomy together, I want you to make a list of all of the good things that God has given to you. It would be a good exercise in and of itself. But I mean psychologically, intellectually, physically. Spiritually? What are all of the good things that God has given to you? That's one list, and you can do a spreadsheet if you're that kind of person And next, I want you to discuss with yourself or with a friend how you are and how you will return those good things to God from the good that you have received. I mean all of the grace of your salvation. I mean all of your intellectual capacity. I mean all of your physical capacity. I mean all of your possessions and all of your belongings. I want some kind of representative list of all the good things that God has given to you, even if it's just by way of association. And I want to know, how will God receive a return on his investment in you? Is his investment languishing Has he given you so many talents and you've returned with the exact same amount of talents? Will you bury your talents? This is what salvation is. Salvation is being able, first and foremost, to enter into communion with God. He, by his mercy, engages first with us through his grace to save us through Jesus Christ. It is an investment, however, and he expects Good works from us. That is why He has given us His Holy Spirit. It is not good works that give us salvation, but salvation brings about good works. It is part of his salvation. It is what it means in part to be progressively sanctified and eventually glorified, that we would be in perfect communion with our God face to face. The ultimate question for you as you consider the Psalms, there's so many more we haven't heard from this series, is how will you commune with God? The giving and receiving of good things. How will you commune with him? How will you provide opportunities for those people around you to commune with him? And that's why we're going to study the book of Deuteronomy. Because Deuteronomy teaches us how to commune with God and with each other. We all grow pale in this life Yet God revives your soul through the sweet nectar of his living word and prayer, that you might give a return on his investment in you. Yeah. That's great. Father, we are bees at various levels. But if there is a bee here, Father, that is unable to extract the nectar from your word For honey for present use. Lord, we ask that they would run to you by running for help here in this congregation. We pray that you would bring conviction and humility. That you'd be able to revive them, that you would be able to have communion with them that is sweet, and that they would not wither and die. Father, we ask that, well, first we give you thanks for the communion that you have through us purchased through Jesus Christ. Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you have done everything in order for us to be able to commune with the triune God. And we thank you for sending your Spirit showing us how to do that more and more. How to live before you and with each other, to love you and to love our neighbor. And we ask that as we develop our lists, that you would show us how to be servants. In the name of Christ, Amen.