Firen through twenty-four, it's where we are in the sermon series. Sean, could you take me down just a little bit? Thanks. Chapter 23, verses 15, and I'll read to twenty-four. You shall not give back to his master the slave who has escaped from his master to you He may dwell with you in your midsts, in the place which he chooses within one of your gates, where it seems best to him. You shall not oppress him There shall be no ritual harlot or the daughters of Israel or a perverted one of the sons of Israel. You shall not bring the wages of a harlot or the price of a dog to the house of the Lord your God for any vowed offering. For both of these are an abomination to the Lord your God. You shall not charge interest to your brother, interest on money or food, or anything that is lent out, an interest To a foreigner you may charge interest, but to your brother you shall not charge interest, that the Lord your God might bless you in all to which you set your hand in the land which you are entering to possess. When you make a vow to the Lord your God, you shall not delay to pay it. For the Lord your God will surely require it of you, then it will be sinned to you. But if you abstain from vowing, it shall not be sin to you. That which has gone from your lips you shall keep and perform. For you voluntarily vowed to the Lord your God which you have promised with your mouth. When you come into your neighbor's vineyard, you may eat your fill of grapes at your pleasure, but you shall not put any in your container. When you come into your neighbor's standing grain, you may pluck the heads with your hand, but you shall not use a sickle on your neighbor's standing grain. Please pray. with me. Father and all, this is speaking of the great work you were doing and that you were promoting neighborliness. And the Performance of the eighth command. And in all of its positive aspects, I pray that you'd help us to have a deeper understanding not just of law, but the God who stands behind the law. That we would understand who you are and what your heart stands for. In the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. You can take me up just a little bit. I I was screaming a lot at the Navy game yesterday and my voice is about to fall out. Thank you very much. I'm not on Facebook much, but I was uh yesterday. And my Facebook feed is filling up with news about a popular music artist, Kanye West. Is anyone else filling up with this? Uh anyone else seeing this all over the place on the news or on your Facebook Facebook feeds. Recently actually, I was just sent this from a friend of mine. He was on Jimmy Kimmel Live. And Jimmy Kimmel, I won't tell you everything. He was promoting his album, but Jimmy Kimmel asked Kanye, Kanye, could we consider you now with your new album titled Jesus is King? Should we consider you a Christian singer or artist? And Kanye answered, I'm a Christian everything. And then he said, God owns me. Now we need to pray for that man. It's very early on still, and I can't imagine the pressures that he's Under. We need to pray for him. But I couldn't get away from those words, and it gave me hope for Kanye. I'm a Christian, everything was the right thing to say. God owns me. actually expresses with very little study I imagine because he's relatively new expresses the heart of what we see even within the apostles Paul said, God owns me. Paul said to Timothy, God owns you. And Paul said to Titus, God owns you. Those are profound Christian truths. I wonder if you were asked a similar question, not on Jimmy Kimmel Live. I don't think any of you are gonna make it at this age, but if you were asked a similar question, maybe at a high school reunion or something. Would you give such a comprehensive answer? I'm a Christian everything. God owns me. If you've been following Deuteronomy, that's the sense that you would have gotten all along as to what it means to live under the gospel. And that you should give that kind of comprehensive answer. The main teaching of Deuteronomy Although there's many different kinds of teaching to contextualize this, the main teaching, quite honestly, has been the Ten Commandments. And we have not gone beyond that for a long time. These commandments begin with, you shall have no other gods before Now that's a that's a comprehensive command. No other powers. It's another way of saying, I am a Christian everything. God owns me. I shall have no other gods before me. I will give my total devotion to him. And he has done that in the purification of my heart through the Spirit. Total devotion, therefore, has been explored throughout. There is a whole set of chapters devoted to the first commandment. But starting in chapter 12, I'm not sure if you've noticed this structure, but starting in chapter 12, we've been unfurling command 2, and we'll go all the way to command 10. Since chapter 12, we've seen each commandment, starting with the second commandment, and it's all just a working out of our devotion to God. The last two weeks, we're well beyond chapter twelve now, and we're actually well beyond the second commandment. The last two weeks have been the seventh commandment. I hope you've noticed that. You shall not commit adultery. Chapter 22 unfurled the seventh commandment through obvious scenes of adultery, rape, and fornication. Those are words. and experiences easily connected to you shall not commit adultery. But with these scenarios given to us, the Lord through Moses and Christ through Moses In chapter 23, we moved away from adultery which affected the household to adultery in God's house for a Assembly. The assembly will not be adulterated so as to undermine devotion to Yahweh. And therefore it is cut off from those who were devoted to Yahweh That was the whole point. But the good news is that God is opening his assembly still for those who repent and believe to move in devotion to Yahweh Himself, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Now this morning there's a break in the text, and we move from the seventh commandment to the eighth commandment. The eighth commandment is you shall not I didn't pause too long so as to not call you out. The eighth commandment is you shall not steal, and we have a total of five case studies here, and it is through these case studies that you are to understand more and more the heart of God. His character and his intentions for human beings. So these five case studies are the following. There is a case study of the runaway slave. We have a case study of dirty money Loans, number three. Number four is a case study on vows, and then we'll end our case studies in uh in uh this eighth Commandment applied to traveling, to travel, and to neighbors. So let's begin with the runaway slave. We'll go through each of these. It begins in verse 15 of chapter 23. And it's the scenario of the runaway slave. It says here in verse 15, you shall not give back to his master, the slave who has escaped from his master to you. You can see why I titled it this way. A slave has escaped from his master. Now the vocabulary is really particular here, and it paints a portrait of a slave from another nation, not from within the confines of of the the Hebrews, but it is a portrait of a slave from another nation who has escaped from those who stole him. And that picture that I just painted that he's a He's kidnapped. It will be fleshed out as I continue this point here, but please keep that in mind. And in our culture, you know what we call this, right? Human trafficking. It's essentially what's going on here within this first case or scenario or scene. If you look at the scenario in light of the law of other nations, this is exceptionally unique. I mean, that's unique, unique. In verse 16, if you take a look down at your scriptures, he may dwell with you in your midst, and the place which he chooses within one of your gates where it seems best to him, you shall not oppress him. In verse 16, the runaway slave is not handed back over to the owner, but is welcome to find a place in Israelite society to make a life for him or herself. You know what we call that in our culture? Asylum. It's an ancient concept. And in verses 15 and 16, actually, if you do the research, You will find that this is the oldest known law amongst all archaeological evidence. It's the oldest known law of asylum, is right here within your scriptures. God takes such kidnapping and human trafficking very seriously. If you were to scan down just a little, and we'll get to this in future The death penalty for human trafficking shows you how God thinks about such things. Stealing humans is serious and it is hated by God. God resolves for the plight of the kidnapped. God's resolve for the plight of the kidnapped is brought out further by the final phrase within our own passage, not down in chapter 24. That final phrase, did you catch it? You shall not oppress them. Now that should ignite all kinds of things within a with a Within your mind, since you are aware of the scope of the scriptures. The language of oppression is meant to reignite memories of slavery and affliction in Egypt. Now let me just ask you this, and I think everything should come together to where you can see this first case study very clearly and where God's heart is. Do you remember how Joseph arrived? In Egypt. As a slave, thank you. As a slave. He was sold. His brothers trafficked The same kind of things were to come up within the minds of these original recipients. And furthermore, after, although there was a time of relative peace, Later, Pharaoh began afflicting all of the people, became a kind of slave master, and all the people calling out to God, God hears their voices And God, through his power, escapes to a new land. This is what they are to remember, as they are to remember their own history and what God had done to them as they were afflicted. That's the word that's used of a someone kidnapped escaped into Israel, they were to give life to them, the same kind of life that God gave to them coming out of Now that's the first situation or scenario that we have here, and and it really does bear much more meditating than what I've just done here. You really should be meditating on these things your whole life, and the Lord through prayer and through his spirit will reveal more and more to you. We come next to the case of dirty money We've looked at this verse a little bit before for other purposes, but it begins in verse 17. It says here: there shall be no harlot of the daughters of Israel, or a perverted one of the sons of Israel You shall not bring the wages of a harlot or the price of a dog to the house of the Lord your God for any vowed offering, for both of these are an abomination to the Lord your God. Here Moses names a female prostitute. And a male prostitute. Remember, the name for a male prostitute is dog, and I explained that in the last sermon. In verse 18, Moses gets right to the point And he says that the money they make will not be given as a vow to Yahweh. It's actually considered an abomination, a kind of false worship. And the emphasis is twofold. Taking money from people through illegal work is stealing. Let me say that again because we're tying this back into the Eighth Command. The first point was you don't steal human beings. It's a violation of the Eighth Command Man. Here we're seeing taking money from people through illegal work is stealing also. And secondly, paying God a vow with dirty money is stealing from what God deserves. So second implication that you may not have seen if you just read Deuteronomy chapter five, when it says the eighth command you shall not steal. Here we see this unfurling so that we can get at the heart of what's Stealing is, both negative and positive. You know, these scenarios are meant to be read as stereotypes. I think that's the best way to put it. We use the word stereotypes within our culture. You don't want to limit the description to just process That's not the point. That's not why a scenario is given. It would be too narrow. It goes against the whole application of the law here. But you have to understand that the eighth commandment in relation to all immoral employment is present. It is calling you to regard and consider your entire vocational life. That's what it's doing. That's the kind of unfurling that's happening under this command. And so you could think of insurance fraud or any other kind of fraud, embezzlement, or shining up a product to sell it for more than it's worth Being dishonest when you sell your car after use would all fall under these kinds of uh applications of the Eighth Commandment in this Case study. Chapter twenty-five will go on to make very similar applications to what I've just said, but in Israelite language. In Deuteronomy twenty-five, verses thirteen through sixteen, it says, You shall not have in your bag differing weights. a heavy and a light on just scales. You see? You shall not have in your house differing measures, a large and a small You shall have a perfect and just weight, a perfect and just measure, that your days may be lengthened in the land which the Lord your God has given you. For all who do such things, all who behave unrighteously are an abomination to the Lord your God. And the rhetoric is quite effective, is it not? Those of you who are okay with the little white lie within your business dealings, advancing yourself through immoral work In all various kinds, you know what it's likened to? You know what you have become? A harlot or a dog. You see, the rhetoric is quite effective here as we unfurl this particular There is no form, no immoral work in any form is no better than advancing yourself through prostitution. We shall not steal. By promoting vice within others, we shall not offer to God dirty money. We move to our next case study, which is loans. And now, verse 19 is the picture of a loan. There's some explaining that has to be done here. You could easily get the wrong picture. You shall not charge interest to your brother, interest on money or food, or anything that is lent out at interest. To a foreigner you may charge interest, but to your brother you shall not charge interest, that the Lord your God may bless you. Entering to possess. The scene has two parts. Did you see the two parts, the two characters that are within the scenario for you to consider? Again, as stereotypes. First, if someone from Israel asked for a loan, It was expected that you would help if you had wealth. The actual responsibility and the command is given to those who have belongings, that there's some kind of responsibility implicit for those who have wealth to look to give. And when you do give, you don't charge interest on the loan. However, if it was a foreigner, then interest could be charged. Do you understand that? You could read that the wrong way. You could see the wrong picture painted. I don't want you to understand this as a kind of ethnic discrimination. That's not what's happening here. The issue is not ethnicity, but the identity or social identity of the person The first loan is for a local Israelite. And it's not about him being an Israelite or not an Israelite. Here's the scenario. I want you to imagine this. Imagine you are a farmer, because this is an agricultural society, and let's say you took all of your funds that you had left over from the last year, or most of them, you put it into the seed You put it into the fertilizer, you put it into tilling and preparing the ground, and then there was a drought, and all of your crop failed. The question you have to ask yourself is how are how's the family going to make it to next year? And that's the scenario here. They would turn to folks. who still had wealth about them so that they would be able to make it to the next year and then pay back the loan. But there's a very different situation with a foreigner. It doesn't say f sojourner. A sojour sojourner is someone who comes to Israel to reside. There, even if for a time. The th s the foreigner is is still associated with a different country. And he's not borrowing money because they're destitute. They're in the land of Canaan because they're performing business activities He travels to Canaan to profit his business, and if he's going to make a profit, then the law here says that why not allow the lender to make profit on the one who's making profit? If you look at this through the eighth commandment, this is what it teaches us. And this is dear to my heart. To try and profit off of someone's misfortune and distress is considered considered stealing. It is a violation of the Eighth Command. Instead, a fellow countrymen Was to look for opportunity for those who did not have. Those who had were to look for those who had not, and to help them when they were desperate. Not a businessman, but a neighbor in need. I want you to look at verse 19. It's very important as we meditate on this aspect of the eighth commandment. Notice how it starts with money. And then it moves to food. And then just to cover all the bases, you can see the stereotypes here. Anything else? Look at the largeness of heart and generosity that the wealthy should have towards their neighbor. And it says here in verse 20: And as you bless in generosity, so too the Lord will bless you. You. Now that may feel like a foreign concept, but it's repeated in Matthew 6, verse 33, from Jesus, who says, Seek God in his righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you. What would be a greater righteousness than being neighborly? And rather than hoarding your wealth, which is the context of Matthew 6, because of your worry and anxiety. God and love of neighbor. That's the picture that we have here. And the kind of stealing is taking advantage of those who are in desk who are destitute. Well that brings up the idea of vows when we move into 21. When you make a vow to the Lord your God, you shall not delay to pay it, for the Lord your God will surely require it of you, and it will be sinned to you. You. But if you abstain from vowing, and it goes on to talk about the details of the vow. Now this is pretty unfamiliar with us, but I hope to see more of you vow in the future. In verse 21, we learn about the Eighth Commandment by considering vows as a practice. In our culture, what do you think of as a vow? And what is the difference between a vow and a promise? I would say that we've reduced all vows to kinds of promises, and that is not what is in store here within this particular passage. There is a distinction between the two, although I agree they're closely related. It's not the meaning of the word here. Vowels in this context are elsewhere called free will offerings. Is that any more familiar? Free will offerings. Or gifts. This is what's going on. It is a voluntary gift. Vowels are voluntary gifts to show your resolve and thankfulness to God the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. That's what a vow is. There's examples throughout the scriptures, and the fact that the eighth commandment is unfurled in examples The Holy Spirit is teaching us that we must look at all of the examples that are similar to this to understand more and more of God's heart. And what he intends by these laws. Well, we see one such example in 1 Samuel with Hannah and her vow. Hannah had no children. She went to the house of the Lord and she vowed, saying in 1 Samuel 1, verse 11, O Lord of hosts, if you will indeed look on the affliction of your maidservant and remember me, and not forget your maidservant. But will give your maid servant a male child. You hear that? So it's a request, and then if the request is granted She's now going to go ahead and vow, This is what I'll do if this is granted. And it'll be out of thankfulness. It's a showing of her resolve for this. Then I will give him to the Lord all the days of his life, and no razor shall come upon him. Hannah made a vow that if God gave her a boy, then she would dedicate the boy to his service in the temple Deuteronomy focuses on two things with these kinds of vowels that we see within Hannah. Look at verse 22. Number one, you don't have to take a vow. It says if you abstain from vowing, it's not sin to not vow. But it goes on to say, this is the second part: if you do vow, verse 23, then you must pay it in a timely manner. If you vow to God, but then don't pay it, guess what that is? Stealing. Violation of the eighth command. And this is where this can c this kind of thing can happen. If you're in a tough and distressing situation and and In your desperation and resolve to be relieved, you cry out to God and you make a vow, Lord, if you do this for me, then I'll do this. But then he fulfills the prayer and the request. And then you kind of go on with life, and the excitement dies down for what he has done for you, and the vow is never paid. That is a kind of stealing. The excitement of answered prayer phases, and you never pay. And then you have stolen from God. When you hear a point like this, you have got to wonder, and I'll just ask you, because I've been asking myself. I've been really restless. with this one in particular. What vows have you made in your life that you still have not paid And what excuses are you giving to steal from God? That which you told him he would give. Were you in a distressing situation in the past? And did you say to God, God, if you get me out of this, or if you just give me this, or if you just do this, then I will, and then you just fill in the blank. Whatever that means. vow was. And then you've forgotten. You never really thought about vows that much. And time has gone on. And I just wonder and I I pray for you now that the Holy Spirit would bring to mind any unfulfilled vows that you may have. Maybe you've never vowed. Maybe this sounds crazy and it's close to like the prayer of uh Jabez for you or something. Jabez did have a prayer, but people have used it wrong. But maybe this is considered outdated to you. And I would encourage actually that if you if you would like to enter into Valse And that you would do so taking it seriously. I think that vows are beautiful and they are a way to show our resolve and thank God. It is great to see the kingdom of God tangibly expressed in an outflow of the thankfulness of our of our of our hearts. So for example, I've actually heard of folks who have taken this vow. They got a new job, and out of appreciation for God answering their prayers because they desperately needed employment, something different, more money. They did something special with that first paycheck. They took part of the paycheck and they put it towards something as an act of thanksfulness. To God. And they did not delay, they paid the vow. You could really use your imagination with these things. I see all the time, and I'm not going to give you all these illustrations, but my favorite show is Call the Midwife. And there's all kinds of expressions. The point is to do something tangible and from a thankful heart for God. You should turn in your reading time this afternoon to the book of Hebrews, particularly the latter chapter. and look at how they set forth a free will offering outside of the city to their God. They do so with expressions of praise and singing. It's a vowel of a song. And they do so by helping their neighbor. They must have said, Lord, if you do this, then I will do this. I will give these things to my neighbor as an expression of thankfulness. Imagine all the tangible things that could be a part of your life that are symbols for you, ebenezer stones of what God has done. It could be there. And you could look at them and you could, I remember when God fulfilled that prayer. He's so good to me. Makes me want to do another vow. That's the point. But you know, the emphasis in this passage is if you are going to make a vow, you better fulfill it. Well, our last one this morning is on travel. And it begins here in two examples, starting in verse 24. When you come into your neighbor's vineyard, you may eat your fill of grapes at your pleasure, but you shouldn't put them in your container, and then it moves into the standing grain. And continues with the instruction there. Notice how it is split into two parts, a vineyard in verse 24 and the grain field in verse 25. The whole situation, just like we had two stereotypical examples of the male and the female in the prostitution for eighth command there. And we had stereotypical examples in our last example, so too we see these stereotypical examples of vineyard or grain, and it's inviting us To see this as a much bigger picture. Whatever the location is, if you're growing food, this applies to you. Vegetable gardens. If I were on the Eastern Shore, corn and tomatoes Whatever the place, there are two important things that are held up as we unfurl the eighth command in this scenario. Someone traveling in that culture should be able to eat along the way from your fields. I'll bring this home in a minute. And they should not take advantage on their part, they should not take advantage of you. by bringing a wagon or an eighteen wheeler and loading all the corn in the back. Now, here's an interesting application of the eighth command that I don't think you would have done on your own, which again shows us the value of Deuteronomy. If you restrict your property. In the wrong ways, you are actually stealing from those people. Restricting your property can be a kind of unlawfulness and disobedience and Morality. And then likewise, if you take advantage of people's generosity, if you take advantage of the responsibility that they have under God, then you are a thief. It's clear as day here within this scenario. But this is an overarching concern and principle, just like the other examples This, as uh one scholar says, this this command, this unfurling of the eighth command, under w uh under vineyard For to not love our neighbor is to steal from From them. That's the ultimate application for all of them, really. To not love our neighbor is to steal from them. This is a beautiful vision. that Christ through his spirit gives us this morning in each one of these scenarios. And invite you to continue to meditate on these scenarios I wonder what other scripture stories did you think of when we were reading through these? I gave you Joseph and I gave you Hannah. There are many other scripture stories that this connects. And it and it the Holy Spirit is inviting you to meditate on those things so you can understand the extent of the eighth command. It's very different than American law. This is a demonstration of God's wisdom that we need a concrete scenario to be able to To think through these things. I began the sermon in thinking about the whole, by God's grace and I hope, the work of the Holy Spirit in Kanye West. You can see just with these scenarios the truth of his statement. When he is asked, Are you a Christian musician? and he responds, I am a Christian every day That's the right way to put it. In Deuteronomy, we can see the unfurling of the everything. If Deuteronomy if um if Kanye West decides to join Severn Run, which I think he should, if the members approve him, if he's able to make those five vows, and I'm able to disciple him, which Be fun. I would love to take him through Deuteronomy. So that he could see what the everything means. This morning we have some scenarios concerning the eighth commandment, which is don't steal The scenarios flesh out our understanding of the law far beyond what we understood. And they help us to see God's intention and his heart for his creation. We see God's vision for the future. I'm just asking, if you were to see these kind of things done in community, and some of you have seen uh little sparks of this done in community, particularly if you're older, you've seen this happen in neighborhoods, these kinds of things, and how people treat one another. Look at how beautiful God's vision is for his people It has always been this way. This has always been his intention. This is God's vision for the future because of the fall in the past. He's now redeeming and establishing that future through his son. Now you know this vision is radically different than the vision that other that that human beings come up with I've read this to you before, but it just and it's been read for years, and it's no wonder because it captures human vision for the future perfectly. George Orwell said, if you want a human vision of the future, imagine a boot stamping on a human face. And if you want it in a particular form, like we confessed this morning, imagine it taking form and manifesting in consumerism within America. But you see, God has not left the future to sinful humans. That's the gospel. That's the good news. Is that God the Father has sent His divine Son to become human, to lead humans as their captain out of their slavery to sin and misery and into eternal neighborliness? Everything that we've always wanted is through Jesus Christ. And it's in this way, I hate to talk about him so much, but it is in this way I'm not surprised. That Kanye West has converted to Christianity. I'm surprised that people have not. Because if you have the sight to see, how could you resist this beautiful vision of Father, Son, and Holy Spirit? And this is just one of the commands in some of the passages. What a vision for community. It is a vision that oftentimes has been relayed to us in the negative. You shall not steal. There's nothing wrong with the negative, that's the way that God put it. But He intends, as we look at the scenarios, positive impacts A positive application. You've heard this from me before. Do not steal has a match with it, and that is the positive responsibility to look out for and love our neighbors in Look again at the detail of how you are to be thinking of other interests beyond your own. Through the grace of the Holy Spirit, we love our neighbors by offering asylum from trafficking, which is a kind of domestic violence. Are you offering asylum, Severn Run, to those who are experiencing domestic violence? When a woman or a man is abused, do they think, I will run to the church And what do we need to do as a church to where they would begin thinking that thought? Who do we need to become by the power of the Holy Spirit to be a place where those who are abused run for asylum? They know that it's different in our country. They could see this in the way that we work with the destitute. We don't see someone who's down and out and confused and struggling with their emotions. And think, ah, I'll take advantage of them. This will be great for my future. We help the destitute when they need a loan for money. Or they need a food or whatever. We actually go out of our way. If we have things to give, we look out in the community and we try to figure out how can I bless them We hear of people who are just married and can barely afford a couch cushion, and we figure out a way to get them a couch. Who don't have a stove and have to grill off of their camping equipment from a from their teenage hood, and we get them a stove We find apartments for them. This is just one kind of an example. We look at those who do not have, and if we are ones that have, we give And we don't make money off of folks by exploiting their vices. That's dirty money. We know what human nature is like. God has given you the gift of knowing humans better than humans know themselves. You understand the depths of your own sin and you understand the human struggle. You don't then enter into work capitalizing on a person's vices, making money off of them. We keep our word and we do so tangibly. And when we express it in the tangible form of a vow, Really, it's an overarching expression of the Christian life, which is one of thankfulness. I am so thankful for For me to complete this emotion that I have of thankfulness, I must do something. It is not completed or fulfilled until it's expressed. And that for you, although voluntarily, may be a vow, and I'd encourage you to start considering such things. Perhaps a vow of getting in here on a uh Monday, Wednesday Or Friday morning and singing a hymn. Or wherever. And then lastly, God's vision is that we promote a community of mutual trust and responsibility. It is no wonder the Holy Spirit has given Kanye West sight that he would convert to Christianity. Vision for humanity than God's vision that He is accomplishing through Jesus Christ and His Spirit. Think about what you are a part of, Christian. And if you are feeling thankful, perhaps you you should give a vow. Praise be to God that through Jesus Christ this vision will be fulfilled. I was reading through Revelation and I was reminded by this passage of our glorious future. Are you ready to hear this again? It is said that in the new heavens and the new earth we shall have no more tears. And you know one reason why that's true? Because everyone in the new heavens and the new earth will obey the eighth commandment. Let's pray.