Please turn with me to Deuteronomy twenty four. I think you were in Ephesians uh last Sunday morning. Is that correct? Looking at some blank stories. First Corinthians. And then in the evening we were in Malachi, I believe. And Micah, I got them both wrong. Very good. I've been away. Thank you. And this morning we are in Deuteronomy. I got that right. Or in Deuteronomy 24, I'd ask that you'd please stand for the reading of his word. And I'm going to read verses 6. This will continue case studies in the 8th commandment, and I'll read to verse 22. 6 to 22. No man shall take the lower or the upper millstone in pledge, for he takes one's living in pledge. If a man is found kidnapping any of his brethren of the children of Israel, and mistreats him or sells him, then that kidnapper shall die, and you shall put away the evil from among you. Take heed in an outbreak of leprosy, that you carefully observe and do according to all that the priest, the Levite, shall teach you Just as I commanded them, so you shall be careful to do. Remember what the Lord your God did to Miriam on the way when you came out of Egypt. When you lend your brother anything, you shall not go into his house to get his pledge. You shall stand outside, and the man to whom you lend shall bring the pledge out to you. And if the man is poor, you shall not keep his pledge overnight. You shall, in any case, return the pledge to him again when the sun goes down, that he may sleep in his own garment, and bless you, and it shall be righteousness to you before the Lord your God. You shall not oppress a hired servant who is poor and needy, whether one of your brethren or one of the aliens who is in your land within your gates. Each day you shall give him his wages, and not let the sun go down on it, for he is poor, and he has set his heart on it, lest he cry out against to the Lord, and it be sin to you, or curse to you. Fathers shall not be put to death for their children, nor shall the children be put to death for their fathers. A person shall be put to death for his own sin. You shall not pervert justice due to the stranger or the fatherless, nor take a widow's garment as a pledge. But you shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt, and the Lord your God redeems you from there. Therefore I command you to do this thing. When you reap your harvest in your field, and forget a sheath in the field, you shall not go back to get it. It shall be for the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow. That the Lord your God may bless you in all your all the work of your hands. When you beat your olive trees, you shall not go over the boughs again. It shall be for the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow When you gather the grapes of your vineyard, you shall not glean it afterward. It shall be for the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow. And you shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt. Therefore I command you to do this thing. pray with me. Father, it is not enough for us to hear these words. Most of these words are repeated by your servant James in the New Testament. And he reminds us, Lord, that we should not just be hearers, but doers. And that is my great prayer this morning. That we would not just be hearers of these case studies, but that we would be doers of them. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. When you visit someone's home, I wonder what your habits are. When you step inside and you finally feel welcomed enough to kind of do your own thing a bit, do you gravitate towards the pictures in the person's home? I do. I find myself wandering through a person's home without permission often just because I'm following the trail of pictures. I love to see the pictures of family on the wall. Usually you see them if they have a second story, they'll be next to the stairs coming down of all the weddings that happened in the beach trips, or they'll be in the living room hallway. Or just outside the family room. Or there'll be some stickers some stuck on the refrigerator of the the m missionaries they support or uh or friends that that sent them Christmas cards from four years ago and they still haven't taken them down The pictures always tell a story for me. It helps me to understand whose house I'm in and what's important to them. It shows the history. It shows experiences. For example, if any of you ever went to a 4th of July party at my grandfather's, he has a whole room. Dedicated to pictures of the family since the 1990s that he blew up. They're about this big each, and he's framed every single one, and there are so many that he has had to fill all the walls and layer them to where they unfold like accordions. There's a whole history. And you could just see from that, and anyone would have known this, to Ridgley Crutchley, family was important. I wonder what story the pictures in your home would tell. If I went to your house and I looked at your pictures What would we say is important to you? Most of you would end up telling me, and I've been in most of your homes, most of you would tell me, and I would confirm, say But that there are other things that could be important to a person. Let's take one step forward, away from our homes, and let's start connecting with the passage that is before us, in fact, the whole book. That is before us, Deuteronomy. If Deuteronomy were a house that you were visiting, and all the case studies that we've been going through, if they were portraits, a gallery of pictures. What would be important to God? What would you see? What story would be told by the pictures he has hung in his house, so to speak The Exodus was in the beginning, not a case study, but we see the Exodus returning over and over again. It's a picture of grace and of love that God has for his people. The Ten Commandments. Ten Commandments as a gift of general law on how to love God and neighbor. And then when you get to these case studies, these portraits of all these different episodes and scenarios, what does it tell us about the heart of God Himself? What do the pictures say? Well, it tells us overwhelmingly that God protects and nurtures the vulnerable and the deprived. Did you see the repeated threes towards the end of the passage? Trying to emphasize those, the fathers, the widow. Right? We saw it go back earlier. When we start to look at these case studies and we reflect on one case study versus the other case study, we can see that education in the home was actually Caring for the vulnerable child, making sure that they're raised in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. That's God's heart. There was care that we see in the case studies for the vulnerability of a parent against a rebellious child and what can happen. Or the vulnerability of a parent who uh with a daughter who's wrongly accused, or the vulnerability of a wife, whether it's a war captive or or a wife who's been Accused or despised because of the physical disability. This morning, our passage continues with those portraits And it's the same emphasis. Our passage deals mostly with the vulnerable and the deprived, but those specifically who are indebted to other people. Almost every example is like that, explicitly, and the ones that are not should be implicitly looked at as a kind of debt situation. And it's through these pictures that you and I are invited to consider in great detail how you are to relate to those who are in distress. Those who are disregarded, those who are vulnerable, and those who are deprived, those who owe you, and those who are dependent upon you. And don't miss what I said. I said, through these pictures, you are invited to consider in great detail how to do so. Because if there's another thing that we've learned in Deuteronomy, it's this: love is in the details. It is not a generality. It is by considering people in their uniqueness and their situation. And we'll get to that a little bit later And so that's what we're going to do this morning. We're going to look at each of these case studies where a person could be deprived by the way that you would relate to them, and we are called to reflect upon it for our own situations. within our own life under the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm not going to give you the division because there's just a series of case studies. It's all going to begin with depriving. It'll be like depriving a person of this, depriving a person of that, depriving And so you can just make a note, when you hear that word depriving, you can make another note in your sermon outline, and we're going to go through and see what the Lord teaches us about relating to those who are vulnerable and deprived, particularly those who are indebted. So it begins here right off the top with depriving a person of their means of living in verse 6. Take a look with me. This is the very first point. Depriving a person of their means of living. This is our first scenario. No man shall take the lower or the upper millstone in pledge, for he takes one's living in pledge. Do you know what a millstone is? Yeah, okay, well, if you if you lived I'm not getting any responses this morning. Okay, there we go. If if you lived in usually you all are answering my questions, yelling out loud. Okay. Amen. Great. Okay. Very good. If you lived in the culture of Deuteronomy, you would see verse six involving a common household item which is the millstone. It would have been used for grinding grain. It has a a lower and an upper part, and there are different versions of it. If you want to, you could think of the the pestle and the mortar. Uh you could think of a mojito if you want, where you're Crushing mint or whatever is that kind of thing. But it was basically two stones used to prepare grain for bread And the point here is that one should never take such a fundamental household item as a security for a loan or a pledge. A pledge is a security or collateral for a loan. Now you're familiar with that, right? A pledge. We still have this today. If you are buying a new home The the the home will send uh the the bank will send an assessment person to that home to make sure that if you default on your loan, if you're taking a loan, then they'd still be able to sell that house and be okay with their investment. Well it's the same thing here. A pledge is taken as a security payment in order to motivate. But as the last part says within the passage, you cannot take one's living for a pledge. That's the whole point here. When you're thinking about someone who is indebted to you, you don't destroy the person And re and getting the debt paid. In other words, here you know how we saw earlier that there were there's authority given to fathers? There's authority given to husbands, and yet that authority is supremely limited to make sure that unrighteousness doesn't result. The same thing is done here with predators. The limits of the authority of creditors is given a cap here, so that they cannot destroy people in seeking the money that is owed to them. You may owe them money, but they cannot take their meat, your means of living. They cannot take your very life as a motivation And so you see here in just this very simple case that we should continue meditating on, God protecting the vulnerable and the poor. Now, when we move to verse 7, this starts to flush out a little bit here. If a man is found kidnapping, any of his brethren of the children of Israel, this is a depriving of freedom. If he's found kidnapping any of the of his brethren, the children of Israel, and mistreats him or sells him, then that kidnapper shall die, and you shall put away the evil from among you. You've heard something similar to this in chapter 23, verse 15, where we were talking about human trafficking. And the idea here, notice that if you were to compare the two, The idea here is that the brother is now brought into this, and it's not a stranger. This is a fellow Israelite. And it is based upon the idea of debt servitude. If you owed someone money, you could enlist yourself as their servant for a time until your debt is paid off. If I owed you money, I could say, well, I'll mow your lawn for the next year, and then you would have me as a kind of Well what it does here is it places a limit with on within the that situation also. As limits were placed on creditors, so too on masters They were not allowed to move from taking a person who is in debt servitude to what we call chattel slavery. Chattel slavery is when you begin to treat a person like they are property for your disposal to buy and to sell. It is something which the scriptures condemn. And we've gone over that before with the story of Joseph and other instances. Other human beings were not their property, and therefore they could not be sold. But you see once again that the creditor has limits And to violate these limits is a form of stealing, a violation of the Eighth Commandment. Now let's move into the next example: depriving what I call depriving church leaders And that title might confuse you a little bit, but it would be good to look at the whole situation in verses 8 and 9. Depriving church leaders. It says here, take heed in an outbreak of leprosy that you carefully observe and do according to all that the priest, the Levites, shall teach you, just as I commanded them, so you shall be careful to do. Remember what the Lord your God did to Miriam on the way when you came out of Egypt. Now this is usually misread. I wonder if you have misread this as a ceremonial purification on what to do if you have leprosy. I don't know if you've read it that way or not, or if you've categorized it that way, but it can be categorized that way by some folks. And you may be tempted to view this as a kind of ritual to follow if you have leprosy, but it makes no sense of what the verses actually say. Yes, leprosy is listed, but that's not what this is about. Cleansing rituals can be found in Leviticus, but this is not about cleansing rituals And this may be clearly seen by thinking through what is actually said. Notice the example of Miriam. It says, it gives us an example of Miriam in verse 9, and notice that Miriam is not an illustration of cleansing from leprosy. She illustrates what happens when you subvert divinely ordained leadership. If you look at the reference, it's very helpful. Just turn with me to Numbers 12, 1 through 10. That way you can just Have this as a cross-reference to understand this passage. Numbers 12, and it's verses 1 through 10. I'll just point out a couple things from you starting in verse 1. Then Miriam and Aaron. Do you remember this story? I hope that you do. Then Miriam and Aaron spoke against Moses because of the Ethiopian woman whom he had married For he had married an Ethiopian woman. So there's where they went wrong. They're speaking against the designated and ordained leader of Israel. And so they said, has the Lord indeed spoken only through Moses? Has he not spoken through us also? You can see the haughtiness rising. And the Lord heard it. Now the man Moses was very humble, more than all men who were on the face of the earth. And I find that very and a very interesting comment as we're also in Deuteronomy in a section on the vulnerable. Humble humility and vulnerability being side by side, I think. And suddenly the Lord said to Moses, Aaron, and Miriam, Come out, you three, to the tabernacle of meeting. So the three came out, then the Lord came down in the pillar of cloud and stood in the door of the tabernacle, and called Aaron and Miriam, and they both went forward. Then he said, Hear now my words. If there is a prophet among you, I the Lord make myself known to him in a vision, I speak to him in a dream. Not so with my servant Moses, he is faithful in all my house. I speak with him face to face even plainly and not in dark sayings. And he sees the form of the Lord. Why then were you not afraid to speak against my servant Moses? So the anger of the Lord was aroused against them, and he departed. And when the cloud departed from above the tabernacle, suddenly Miriam became leprous as white as snow. So you can see the situation of what's actually going on here. Miriam does not illustrate ritual cleansing. She illustrates what happens when you subvert divinely ordained leadership. Instructively, the reasoning of Numbers 12 is applied to other kinds of leadership in Israel in our passage, as it's mentioned, the priests here in this specific context and what they would tell you in judgments And as verse 9 says, it would do us well to remember what God did to Miriam. And I would say this supremely about any kind of subversive talk about the apostles. Or the prophets, but even also of deacons and elders in the church. Our next major point after the depriving of the church leaders is depriving thou again. the pr the basics of life. It's interesting that we move back into this basics of life situation with a creditor situation after stopping on church leaders. It makes me want to say That the section on church leaders that I just discussed is a form of stealing. That if you do not give someone the authority that God has granted, then you are violating the eighth commandment and stealing from them and the authority that has been given. Well, now we move on to depriving the basics of life. And that takes us to verse number 10. Verse 10 goes back to a credit situation. When you lend your brother anything, you shall not go into his house to get his pledge. You shall stand outside, and the man to whom you lend shall bring the pledge out to you. And if the man is poor, you shall not keep his pledge overnight. You shall in any case return the pledge to him again when the sun goes down, that he may sleep in his own garment and bless you, and it shall be righteousness to you before the Lord your God. You can see again the great care that he has and the limitations that he places on creditors. You can see the limitation, and the lender cannot brashly walk in like he owns the place. Just because someone is indebted to him. Have you ever met someone like that? Feeling because that you owe them something they can take over your life? And direct you and kind of storm around as if they own your stuff. And he cannot go in searching around in the private home for whatever pledge he wants to take to secure his loan. Privacy is of importance here. There's further limitations given in verse 13 that I read. It is important that a pledge is taken in order to motivate payment. That's never uh Lowered in esteem. Often the important thing, like you see here in several instances, was the garment. Here, God demands nurture. He demands protection and sympathy from the creditor by making sure the garment is returned before nightfall. The debtor needs it to cover up for the night. You see how, even when someone owes you something, you are still thinking about the interests of that person and not just your own interests, even as a creditor. Verse 14, I like to combine 14, although it's dealing with another scenario with the one and with what we're talking about now, and I'll share that with you. So you see the garment issue, and now look at verse 14 with the day laborer. You shall not oppress the hired servant who is poor and needy, whether one of your brethren or one of the aliens who is in your land within your gates Each day you shall give him his wages, and not let the sun go down on it, for he is poor and has set his heart on it, lest he cry out against you to the Lord and it be sin to you. This example is given actually in the book of James. And I read it to you uh two weeks ago. A day laborer depending on each day's wage to feed his he depends on each day's wage to feed his or her family. If you do not give him his wage at night, he has no food for his family that night. That's the actual situation. And therefore, at the end of each day, the wages must be paid. If not, then the laborers may cry out against you, and this may be surprising to you, but God has his ear attuned to them specifically because of their location within society. Because they are the vulnerable, he hears them very, very quickly. Now remarkably, which is why I like to join the garment section and this day laborer section together, remarkably the case of the creditor with the garment. And the day laborer go together with these two matching pairs in verses 13 and 15. In the one case, when you treat the vulnerable with dignity and sympathy, By returning the garment at night that they would have something to sleep in, then you receive blessing, and it would be called righteousness to your account from the Lord. It is the Lord Himself saying, Well done, my good and faithful creditor. In the other case, if you are miserly, if you were inconsiderate, it would be sin upon you or a curse. So you can see these contrasting and comparing pairs that are present within our passage. Well now we move into verse 16 and I titled this Depriving the Innocent. We'll deal with this very quickly Fathers shall not be put to death for their children, nor shall children be put to death for their fathers. A person shall be put to death for his own sin. In cultures surrounding Israel, if a son sinned, the father could be put to death, but no such thing would happen within Israel. It moves into a court scene here Judges may try a case and they find someone guilty, but that guilt and that pencil penalty may not be applied from the father to the son or the son to the father. The principle states a person shall be put to death for his own sin And now we move into verse 17, depriving the specifics. And I want to spend a little bit longer on this one. You shall not pervert justice due the stranger or the fatherless, nor take a widow's garment as a pledge, but you shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt, and the Lord your God redeemed you from there, therefore I command you to do this. Isn't it so interesting that pledges have showed up again? Do you notice the difference? Number one, it's just a great observation to say, hey, there's a difference between the pledges and what you do with each of the pledges. Here, the debtor is a widow. And thus the further difference is that you may not even take her garment. We just had an example where you could, but you had to return it at sundown. Here you may not even take it. Verse 17 really highlights the personal nature of love and justice. I love this for this very reason. What I mean is that look at how justice takes into account the specifics of a person's situation. You could have the same credit situation, the same amount owed, the same garment. It could be made by the same garment maker in that culture. But if the situation is slightly different in the person that you're dealing with, the ethics of it changes. It really does show you, once again, that Deuteronomy, as God teaches us to love God and to love neighbor, that love is in the details. It matters to whom you are relating. It matters when you are relating and where you are relating. And it matters who you are, when you relate. What I did just there was I summarized the larger catechism. There's a whole section on how we are to care for each other. under this idea of grievous sin. I actually put it in the bulletin for you because I know you love it when I put larger catechism stuff in the bulletin. Really get you going. Sermon notes, right there. There's a question just before this in the larger catechism that says, Are all sins equal or are some sins more grievous than others? The answer: yes, some sins are more grievous than others Well, which sins are more grievous than others? Well that's what this is answering. But what it does, in addition to teaching us about sins, is it teaches us about relationships. I could give you scriptural references for every one of these accounts here in the larger catechism. And I've already summarized some of this. I just want you to notice it has some archaic language, but I want you to look beyond that. I want you to see what it reveals to us about biblical relationships. Look at the details. Number one The person who sins matters. That's what it means when it says from the person's offending. It means you, as a person, you're offending somebody, and it matters who you are. If you're of an older age, if you have more experience and grace than other people, if you are eminent in your profession, if you have a lot of gifts. A place eminencing in your place, your office. If you're a guide to others, if you're supposed to be an example, or you're likely an example that others would follow. You have a duty to relate to people in a way that other people don't have to relate. You see the specificity that's being brought out here? It's the same thing that happens with the widow and the garment. The second is from the parties offended. Who's the one that you sinned against? Is it against God? Is it against his attributes, his worship? Is it against Christ? Is it against the Holy Spirit and his working? Is it against people that are above you, your superiors? Or people who are men of eminency, and such as we stand especially related and engaged onto against any of the saints, particularly weak brethren. And that's where they're catching from Deuteronomy the vulnerability idea. And you can look at the rest yourself because you could look at the kind of sin that it was, or the circumstances of the time, or the place. Essentially, what it's saying is that you must really pay attention to the people that are around you. You must be socially healthy. To relate biblically. The circumstances of time and place, even So I could make fun of, for example, someone, and it could be no big deal. It could be they take it as a joke. It's always been a joke in our life But there could be another person I could know that they were teased about their teeth their whole life, and then I decided to tease them about their teeth knowing that it would be a more grievous sin according to Because I was not taking into account who that person was in their specificity. And that goes all across our relationships and how we are to be relating to one another. The main point here in Deuteronomy is to think about the vulnerable and those who are in certain spaces or social positions So you could sin against me in one way and it would be a certain kind of sin. If you were to do the same kind of sin against a widow, it would be a more grievous sin. Those are the kind of things that we learn from Deuteronomy. It illustrates the personal attention that everyone deserves as you relate to them, especially those who are vulnerable. Now that's a that's a a beautiful teaching for me, and it's something I've been meditating on quite a bit. We don't generalize people, we treat them who they are. Their individuality and who God has made them and what are their capacities. Now, our next and final example is depriving the vulnerable of God's providence. This one's very exciting also. And it's in verse 19. When you reap your harvest in your field and forget a sheaf in the field, you shall not go back to get it. Verse 19 gives us our final case study, and I want you to notice the characters, as I've brought up before. They are the typical vulnerable for this culture, the stranger. Is the immigrant, the fatherless, the orphan, and the widow. They're named in these three parts over and over again, and they keep showing up In fact, judgment comes on God's people rather quickly when these three are neglected. Notice again how God blesses those who look after the vulnerable. Here, blessing the vulnerable takes the form of farming practices. Look at verse 19. It says: when you reap the field, it's repetitive for a reason, so you catch on to the pattern. There's an ethical rhythm to life. When you reap the field and forget a sheaf, guess what you should do? Leave it. If you're in the grocery store and you you leave behind the milk, leave it, would be maybe an application. If you beat the trees and some olives remain, don't go back and beat those trees later. If you gather grapes, don't return for the ones you dropped or who or the ones that had not ripened yet. Verse 21 Now why? It says because God intends for that grain, for those olives And for these grapes to be for the stranger, for the orphan, and the widow. And I just think it is a beautiful picture. As much as you think you are in control, God in his providence is working in the way that your memory fails and you leave a sheaf. Or when fruit ripens, or when it doesn't ripen, all to take care of the vulnerable. Isn't that beautiful? The finger of prints of God are seen all throughout this When that person forgets something, or some olives and grapes haven't ripened, and some did, or did and did not, that God in his providence had planned it. He planned you forgetting. And he planned how much would ripen, as to keep the poor in mind. That's a beautiful picture of our God. Do you see his heart? And the kind of person he is. We, therefore, are not to work against God's caring plans for the poor. Have you had financial surprises and surpluses lately? Perhaps that is a blessing from God, but perhaps it's not a blessing for you. What if it's for someone else? So the kind of thoughts that have to cross our mind as we look at a passage like that. Really, you can see the love of our God in loving us individually in our social stations. As we pass through and we see a gallery of pictures showing what is important to God, aren't you proud that He is your God? As you see in how he looks at the vulnerable, the fatherless, and the widow, and the immigrant. The question posed to us is: are we growing in God's image and how we relate to the deprived? I was watching a show on Disney Plus. Yes, I subscribe to it. It's fantastic. They have uh Jeff Goldblum has a show on there where it's things according to Jeff Goldblum, which makes everything weird. period that he does. But his first episode is on sneakers. Adidas has a secret sneaker labor sneaker laboratory where they develop shoes for high performance athletes. The trouble is, is when the shoe is done and the athlete has had the opportunity to see how it performs, some of the athletes can't articulate how they feel about the shoe. And so Adidas has developed a pair of glasses that read a person's face to know how they actually feel about the shoe. They tried it out on Jeff Goldboom. He put on the glasses and as an actor he showed a face of contempt on the computer. All the all of the plotting for contempt went up He showed joy, all the plotting for joy went up, and the thing worked perfectly. I just wonder if those glasses were placed on you as an individual Or if those glasses were placed on us as a congregation, or think about the church larger than just us. What face would the glasses show on the computer when we look At the immigrant, when we look at the orphan, and when we look at the widow. Or what about the disabled? What would the attitude read out on the computer screen? And what are some ways that we need to begin changing? So that we can be growing in the image of who our God is and the way that He deals with the vulnerable, with those who are deprived. You know, when I ask you a question, are we growing in God's answer? You know the answer, if you're a Christian, is yes, right? I mean, if you're growing in God's image, you know the answer is yes, if you're a Christian, because you are filled with the Spirit of God. The problem really comes with us trying to keep up with the Spirit and all that he seeks to accomplish in us. The Spirit is making you into a person who cares deeply for the deprived in all of their situational specificity. He does not want you to be socially aloof. It's not an attribute. It may look great with like a philosopher cracking an egg on his wrist and frying his watch, but it's not funny and it's not cute for you as a Christian For you to be socially aloof and distracted from who real people are. It says in Ephesians 2, 8-10, For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast. And that's our foundation. But you know it continues because it says, for we are his workmanship Created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. There is a constant question that arises, particularly amongst the young people: Who am I? What is my identity? What is the meaning and significance of my life? And most often they will seek to try to find that meaning and significance within a career. Deuteronomy doesn't deny that a career would be important and that vocations of that kind are significant, but it says here in Ephesians, and it is confirmed. by Deuteronomy that God has prepared beforehand that you should walk in good works. Your identity in Christ is to be fruitful. And Deuteronomy is giving you a picture of that, a whole gallery. And it has a lot to do with how you relate and love people in their specifics. The challenge for us today is to keep in step with the Spirit and to walk in the good works which God has given us the ability to do. Everybody wants a fancy career, and no one wants to love the disabled. But over here is the heart of God, not riches. It's not where you're going to find your meaning anyway. The richest people in the world, when the stock market collapsed, jumped 20 stories and fell to their death. It is the story of those who give themselves over to such things. Find your meaning in the good works expressed through the fruition of the Holy Spirit that has been given to you from the ascended Christ. Today we are helped by Christ, because he accompanies us here in this congregation in teaching us from Deuteronomy. He helps us in that challenge by teaching us to be considerate, that we must be aware as we relate to people, especially the vulnerable and the deprived. I would encourage you, after this sermon Do not set aside Deuteronomy, but fulfill it by looking at Christ on the pages of the New Testament. Look at how He works with people, how He cares with them. Look at how he tenderly knelt and spoke with children. Do you speak and deal with children like Christ did? Or are you harsh and impatient with them? Look at how Christ took time for the broken adulteress, even. There were a group of leaders who were seeking to use the law for wrongfully against an adulteress, and Jesus threw a line in the sand. Whichever of you who has not sinned, you throw the first stone. He looked after her. What was all about that? Why was it that the Samaritan woman Was so cared for by Christ. The disciples were so surprised to see him discoursing with her. And even the weeping prostitute, when the religious authorities said, What is he doing with her? He used her as the lesson of what true righteousness is, and those who are truly loving and truly forgiving. Look at your Christ Do you not know that the Spirit is making you into His image specifically with the vulnerable and the deprived? Look at how Christ honored the disabled in our very bulletin with the paralytic. When leaders tried to get in the way, who knows what they were worried about? But look at what Christ was worried about. Look at the protection of the elderly. Look at Jesus' commendation of the widow, establishes in his own words, and then also inspires the apostle to write long sections on the widow to make sure they're taken care of and to know who true widows are. Look at how Jesus treated those like you who were indebted above your heads to him in sin. And now he just chose to forgive the debt, and in order to make forgiveness possible, to pay the debt. This is who your God is. It is clearly reflected before you. Now, when you hear a list like that, you can just drop into guilt. I'm not asking you to do that. Guilt has a place, it's supposed to lead to fruitfulness that you would turn and you would repent and remember who you are in Jesus Christ. This is what I would rather you think, though. I want you to think because you are indwelt by the Spirit, think of the possibilities. That you have in the expression of your humanity. That you are being restored in the very image of God, an image like this that cares for people and their situational specificity. These are the questions that go out to us this morning. Will which children? Not will you, but which children will you nurture and protect with compassion? Which ones? How will you encourage the disabled? You know, there's some people having some real tough time, and I noticed it's difficult sometimes for you to even give them any of your time If you're going to, here's the number one rule: if you're going to love someone who has a disability, you need to slow down. They work at a very different time than you do. You can't keep your Google Calendar and all your notifications going off on your watch. You're going to have to wipe the calendar clear because that person is important enough to you. And each of us have different callings and different ways for that. And some of us are already learning those lessons. What time will you give the widow? Who's a part of our congregation? You see the possibilities that you get to be like God. Let me ask you, how many pictures of widows does God have in his Deuteronomy? How important are they to him? And if you want to have the same heart as him, how important must they be to you? Who owes you? And how will you either forgive the debt or how will you retain that person's dignity who does owe you payment? How will you retain their dignity and how you relate to them and the kind of things you tell your friends about them with them? The ultimate question that's posed for us in this Deuteronomic passage, really throughout all the scriptures, especially with the revelation of God through Christ. Is this, what pictures will you hang in your house that show just how important the vulnerable are to you as a spirit-filled Christian? Let's pray together. Lord God, we have a lot of work here. We are distracted by what the world tells us we are supposed to be doing with our lives. They tell us you are significant if you do such and such. You are significant if you hold high degrees. You are significant if you have this job. You are significant if you have this title. And yet, Lord, over and over again in every one of your gospels and throughout your scriptures, you said the greatest title is to be servant of all, and that the last shall be first. And that we will know that we are yours by the love that we have for one another. We ask you, Lord, that you would teach us the lesson of Peter. That you would show us that we don't really know how to love people yet. But that you are teaching us. Help us to have the courage. To admit that we don't know how to love. Lord, we ask that you would then teach us, as we drop to our knees, even in our hearts, And we ask that you would show us what it means to know another person so well that we could love them for who they uniquely are. In other words, show us how to love like the Lord Jesus Christ. And may this love become May they then have ears open to hear your gospel, the news of love. We ask these things, Lord, that we would not be hearers of Deuteronomy today. Or not just that. But Doers also in the name of Christ, Amen