In those days there was no king in Israel. And in those days the tribe of the Danites was seeking an inheritance for itself to dwell in, for until that day their inheritance among the tribes of Israel had not fallen to them. So the children of Dan sent five men of their family from their territory, men of valor from Zorah and Eshsael, to spy out the land and search it. They said to them, Go search the land. So they went to the mountains of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there. While they were at the house of Micah, they recognized the voice of the young Levite. They turned aside and said to him, Who brought you here? What are you doing in this place? What do you have here? He said to them, Thus and so Micah did for me. He has hired me, and I have become his priest. So they said to him, Please inquire of God, that we may know whether the journey on which we go will be prosperous. And the priest said to him, Go in peace. The presence of the Lord be with you on your way. So the five men departed and went to Laish. They saw the people who were there, how they dwelt safely, and the manner of the Sidonians, quiet and secure. There were no rulers in the land who might put them to shame for anything. They were far from the Sidonians, and they had no ties with anyone. Then the spies came back to their brethren at Zorah, Neshkeol. And their brethren brethren said to them, What is your report? So they said, Arise, let us go up against them, for we have seen the land, and indeed it is very good. Would you do nothing? Do not hesitate to go and enter to possess the land. When you go, you will come to a secure people and a large land. For God has given it into your hands, a place where there is no lack of anything that is on the earth And six hundred men of the family of the Danites went from there, from Zorah and Eshteol, armed with weapons of war. Then they went up and encamped at Kirjath Jarim in Judah. Therefore they call that place Mahanna. Dan to this day. That is, Kirjath, Ja'rim. And they passed from there to the mountains of Ephraim and came to the house of Micah. Then the five men who had gone to spy out the country of La Ish answered and said to their brethren, Do you know that there are in these houses in Iphad household idols a carved image and a molded image? Now therefore, consider what you should do. So they turned aside there and came to the house of the young Levite man, to the house of Micah, and greeted him. The six hundred men, armed with weapons of war, who were of the children of Dan, stood by the entrance of the gate. Then the five men had gone to spy out the land, went up. Entering there, they took the carved image, the Epha, the household idols, and the molded image. The priests stood at the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men who were armed with weapons of war. When these went into Micah's house and took the carved image that Ephod at the household idols and the molded image, the priest said to them, What are you doing? And they said to him, Be quiet, put your hand over your mouth, and come with us. Be a father and a priest to us. Is it better for you to be a priest in the household of one man, or that you be a priest to a tribe and a family in Israel? So the priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod, the household idols, and the carved image, and he took his place among the people. Then they turned and departed and put the little ones, the livestock and the goods, in front of them When they were a good way from the house of Micah, the men who were in the houses near Micah's house gathered together and overtook the children of Dan, and they called out to the children of Dan. So they turned around and said to Micah, What ails you? That you have gathered such a company. So he said, You have taken away my gods, which I made, and the priests, and you have gone away. Now what more do I have? How can you say to me, What ails you? And the children of Dan said to him, Do not let your voice be heard among us, lest angry men fall upon you and you lose your life with the lives of your household. Then the children of Dan went their way, and when Micah saw that they were too strong for him, he turned and went back to his house. So they took the things Micah had made, and the priest who had belonged to him And went to Laish, to the people quiet and secure. And they struck them with the edge of the sword and burned the city with fire There was no deliverer, because it was far from Sidon, and they had no ties with anyone. It was in the valley that belongs to Beth Rechob So they built the city and dwelt there. And they called the name of that city Dan, after the name of Dan, their father, who was born in Israel. However, the name of the city formerly was Laish. Then the children of Dan set up for themselves the carved image. And Jonathan, the son of Gershem, the son of Manasseh, and his sons were priests to the tribe of Dan until the day of the captivity of the land. So they set up for themselves Micah's carved image, which he made, all the time the house of God was in Shiloh. Let us pray. O Lord God, once again we ask that we would not just be hearers of your word, but doers. We pray that you would reveal yourself what you are doing and what you require of us. May your name be glorified. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. Well, as we learned last week, another symptom of the canonization of the church is the travesty of leadership. That's right, travesty, not tragedy. Leaders who have the title of leader, but in reality are a false, absurd, and distorted representation of what God intends. Our prayer is that the joy of the hope Of the resurrected Christ would continue to take his church from falsehood and make it true, take it from distortion and make it straight. That he in fact would do that with all his creation. Well, you can see we have quite a long account this morning as we continue with that thesis, watching the canonization of God's people, that we might have a tale of caution and not be made worldly ourselves. So I have a few things to notice with you, and then two main applications today. So let's look at our scriptures together. The first thing I want you to notice this week Is that this is the third travesty in Israel? The first was the household of Micah. That was the first distortion. Last week it moved to the Levitical priesthood, and now an entire tribe is presented as deformed. As verse 1 mentions in our passage, the Danites are in view here. They were hoping for their allotment of land like the rest of the tribes. We talked a little bit about that last week. But the Amorites kept oppressing them. You can read that earlier in the book of Judges. They were unable to secure that land and dispossess the Amorites, so they got stuck So what you end up seeing in this account, especially right in the beginning, is that without God's consent, they decide to possess something just out of might and humanistic effort. They take matters into their own hands, is how we would put it. As you can see in verse 27 of our passage, they are going to dispossess the people in La Ish. And you see all the different qualifications of why they would do so. They're not near anybody to help. There's nobody present who could fight against them. They're kind of a quiet and gentle people. It would be like taking over the um habit. So that's what we end up seeing here in verse 27. But this ends up being the third travesty in Israel. We're seeing it now at the largest level, which is going to be at the tribal level. The second thing I want you to notice is that the problem, however, is that this plan and its execution, as I've already mentioned, is of humanistic design. They're not working and participating with God and His will. They're taking matters into their own hands. The Danites actually don't know anything about God's will with regard to Laish. All they know is their own will, and you see again the repetition by way of a lifestyle of the phrase that we keep seeing through judges, and they're going to do what is right in their own eyes. Even the enacting and completion of warfare. This is brought out by the preoccupation that we see here. If you wanted to, we could have made this reading this morning a lot shorter. I could have said, the Danites want to take Laish, and they took Laish. But we have this pit stop in the center where all this time is taken up when they visit the house of Micah twice. first by way of the spies, then by the six hundred men of uh valor. So there's something else on the narrator's mind here. He is preoccupied with Micah and the priest And the Danites, and it is their relation that shows us the true character of this tribe at this time. On the way to dispossess Laish, the Danites noticed that Micah has a priest. They therefore intimidate and bribe the Lev to join them and be their priest instead of staying In Micah's home, verse nineteen, and you can see that our interpretation of the priest being an opportunist comes true here because they say, would you rather be a priest for just a small church in the country or do you want to work in a mega church and he says, well, I like the idea of the megachurch. That sounds great. And that's uh that's basically the same kind of mentality. Uh we see that mentality today, and we see it in Micah long, long ago There were pastors or priests using their profession for the sake of personal gain. It doesn't just happen today. That's what we see in the second observation. Now, here's the third thing that I want you to notice The key to this whole section is in verses 30 and 31 First, I want you to notice in those verses, like I mentioned last week, the Levite, the narrator has waited till this moment to reveal who he is. It is Jonathan, the son of Gershem. Gershham is Moses' son, as recorded in Exodus 2. So, depending on how this is written, this is at the least his grandson. The point that we are to gather from this, since we know the thesis of this whole book, is how far the people have fallen since Moses and his dedication to Yahweh. You could look at this and you could say, oh, look from where we have fallen. Your grandfather was such a man after God, what has happened in just a few generations? That's the point, one of the points we're supposed to gain from the narrator mentioning his name. And then the second thing I want you to notice in verse 31 is that we see Jonathan and the Danites They end up setting up a separate center of worship, perhaps a little house for them to put their own shrines And that this is set up in opposition to what God has said and what God has actually done, because God's, you'll notice in verse 31, the house of God is in Shiloh. So what you have now here is the creation of a competition between God and his true worship. And the false worship that has been set up by Dan. If you keep reading through First Kings, you'll see that this happens on a cycle. uh with other kings. They'll set up another false worship site with uh golden calves and things like that so they don't have to travel so far. This is the beginning of that. The rest is an echo The whole point here is that even at the level of the tribe, God's people had set themselves in direct opposition to God Himself, and they have made what really amounts to a man-made religion. Micah made the image, verse 31. They set it up. It's put that concisely in verse 31. We set up the image that Micah made. There it is in a nutshell. And so what you end up having before you here is a timeless statement for each era of the church. Another symptom. I just had somebody text me the other day and say, Jesse, could you write out all the another symptoms for us? I think that would be good. I'll write it out, I'll write it out and you can look at all of the symptoms Another symptom of the canonization of the church is to live in opposition to God by the formation and establishment of man-made religion. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is to live in opposition to God by the formation and establishment of man-made religion. Well, I want to look at this, children, especially as you're taking notes. These points are a little bit longer, so make sure you write this down. But I want to look at this doctrine under two main points: a difficult and dangerous theme That's the first one. And then a new look at old commandments. A difficult and dangerous theme, and a new look at old commandments. And so let's start with our first application of this doctrine with a difficult and dangerous theme. For us, me saying these things to you shouldn't sound that unfamiliar that this is what's going on. Inauthentic, man-made religion should sound yeah, that's been going on for a couple at least a couple sermons now. So for example, when we talked about mica, we talked about the same kind of thing. This is just showing up from different angles It took the form of a veneer. We talked about the veneer of God's people, that that can happen. The form of a veneer with Micah and his mother, although they had outward similarities to God's kingdom Their hearts were far from him. Well, then we moved on to the whole priesthood and those whom God had ordained to keep truth in our midsts. And that, instead of a veneer, took the form of a travesty. But it's still the same kind of concept with the Levites, namely Jonathan. He had the title or the veneer of priest, but his mindset and life were a twisted and distorted representation of reality. Well, here we are taking the next step and seeing the thing happen at the tribal level. And I would say if you want another word that gets at the same kind of reality besides veneer and travesty, you could use the word parody. And that's what we have before us today. The tribe is but a parody of what Yahweh intends. Since they are a parody, it ends up making the whole situation far more difficult. There are cases that you will face in your life as a human being, and you will say, that is evil. There are going to be many more cases in your life where you say that is, well, I'm not sure. They kind of both have a point. And that's why this ends up being more difficult, because since it is a parody, if you don't have eyes to see, you may mistake it for the real thing A parody is an imitation that falls short of the real thing. The other day I had this experience of a parody. I went out to lunch with Holly after jury duty. I saw on the menu what looked like an excellent burger the way it was described, and then I noticed at the very end that it was completely made from vegetables. And I thought, behold Israel. Yeah, it was a parody of a burger. Those of you who Like those kind of burgers, let's just talk later. Confession will be open from one to two The same thing has happened here with the tribe of Dan. They are posing as a burger, but they're just made of vegetables. If you want to keep going with that analogy, then I recommend you drop it. Uh the narrator ends up portraying this with genius as he has done all along. If you turn back to our passage in chapter 18, verse 14, you can see it as clear as day. He shows that the tribe of Dan is sending out spies. Now this is an echo. You should see this as, oh, well they're just carrying forward what Israel has done after the Exodus, and they're going to go in and claim the promised land They're imitating that same kind of virtue and abiding within the will of God. But that's not what they're doing. It's just a veneer or a parody. In other words, Dan is acting like they are a faithful continuation of God's people. But then when you look at them, go ow, look at the mixture that ends up being mixed. They raid Micah's house. They not only take his priests and all of the false idols, but his children and everyone else in the household. They place all of those things out in front of them so Micah can't get to them with another party. This is not the picture that we had when they entered into the promised land. It is but a parody. Then they decide Like God was instruct like God instructed Israel and in other places to construct a tabernacle. Well, they're part of Israel, and they'll construct their own tabernacle. And if you don't know what to look for, you will think Oh, look at how pious they are, but it is just a parody. God never told them to set these things up in their city. God already had a plan, and they are ignoring it and doing what is right in their own eyes. Surely you can look at this and see the actions of the Danites and judge them by their fruits, though there are little interruptions. To make it look like they're just following the patterns of God's exodusing people. Now, that's what makes this difficult, but it's not only difficult, like I mentioned, this is not only a difficult theme This is a dangerous theme. What makes this not only difficult but dangerous is that this time an entire tribe is united in their lie. And again, the narrator is genius in his portrayal. They set up a single worship center and they make an idol. Silver had been burned down already, smelted. They've covered this particular thing that Micah made from his mother's money, if you remember that. And here they have before them an idol Now, I want to ask you: when you have an idol that is before not just a person or a son and his mother, but before an entire tribe, do you know how powerful that is? An idol, this is where we're going to have to really get our head around. An idol is a statue or an image or an object which represents and summarizes our common hopes. Our common aspirations, and our common loves. And Micah has taken that thing, and he has set it in the midst of them all, and they are all uniting In a tragedy, in a lie, in a deception. That's the power. That's the danger here. It is what is uniting them now as a people. If you want to put it this way, you could say it has become their heart. Instead of putting it before them, put it in the center of them and let them all orbit around it, and it has become their heart. They were meant to be one community, united by their communal love for God with all their heart, with all their soul, and with all their strength. But they became darkened in their understanding, and they are now unified in love around a lie. And so goes the story of humanity, and sometimes the church. United around a lie, but if you didn't have eyes to see, you thought they would be doing pie. things. But what you have before you is a man-made religion. Well that's the difficulty and the danger of that theme. But our next main point that I want us to do now is to have a new look at a couple old commandments that can help us clarify a way forward with this. I want you to please reconsider, therefore, based on this picture that has been given to us, for our benefit from the risen and ascended Christ. He has sent these things to you for your benefit today. We can see in light of this the importance of at least two of the commandments that are given to us in the Torah. Really, it's three, but I'm uniting the first and the second commandment together for these purposes. Now, here's the first and the second command, and I want to show you why these end up being so important for us to take note of Under the kingship of Jesus Christ. Here's the first command, and I'm not going to give you the whole thing, especially in the second one. You shall have no other gods before you. And then, second, you shall not make for yourself a carved image, any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath. Or that is in the water under the earth, you shall not bow down to them nor serve them. And that last part is really important, the serving them part. We now have the Judges passage to act as a kind of commentary so that we may see the heart of God in giving these specific commands. And that's really important. We want to know what's God's heart when he says these first two commands. And when we look at judges, we can detect his heart. And this is the heart of God, that God Himself is our common love. That's the whole point If you have a man-made religion, the problem is that your love has shifted and you have united around a lie, whereas he wants you to unite around truth himself. We are a community united by the Spirit in faith, hope, and love in God We therefore shall not primarily unite around other goods or loves. If you all get really excited about ATVs this year, And you want to create an ATV club and unint around your love of your ATVs, that's fine as long as it is not a primary good or love that you are surrounding your community. As long as it does not replace God. But the problem here in our passage is that what they have chosen, whatever that representation stood for, all the hopes and the aspirations of those people that has replaced and is now set in opposition to the love of God Himself. I want you to take money, for example. That's one where could easily become the center of what we worship. We, especially in Western society, make it too easy for us to unite in our common love of material wealth. Listen to what Jesus says from Matthew. He says, no one can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon He's personifying Mammon as like another king that you would serve, another thing that represents all of your hopes and your aspirations. He's doing the same thing that we see in the split between Dan and the rest of the Israelites. You can't have two masters. That's the whole problem, and we see that in verse 31 of chapter 18 of Judges. You cannot have two masters. And so if you want a concrete example of how then Jesus will approach this matter when he sees his people. uniting around their common love of material wealth as opposed to uniting in their common love for God. One great example is when he flips over those money changing tables in the temple. He says this. I want you to think about these statements in relationship to the first two commands and to our judge's passage, because it's going to bring out all the light in the heart of God. Jesus says this, you have turned my father's house into a den of thieves. In other words, they turned the temple's meaning upside down. They relocated it into a humanistic endeavor instead of what it was meant to be to God's people. It was meant to be the center and the representation of who God is, what he's doing with his creation, what he's going to accomplish through his people, even as a light unto the Gentiles, and they took it and they relocated it over here, and this can make us money. And that's the great tragedy. They turned or took what He had given them and they made it into a man-made religion with other goods and other loves, namely wealth. And we are very gifted at this They made it into an idol. They took the temple and they turned it into an idol or a statue, which represented their common love of financial gain. Now, this is why Jesus flips the tables. Because they flipped everything upside down, and he, in flipping the tables, is turning everything right side up in a kind of paradoxical way. That's not what the temple means. That's not what you're supposed to unite around. Jesus turns the tables back over. He sweeps the whole courtyard of materialism, seeking to reunite the people in the true representational meaning of the temple, and it is this. We have a common love of God and his plans for the creation, even for the Gentiles. We will not treat them like dogs. That was the message. But they had twisted it and turned it into a parody Now, of course, this raises the question for every age of the church, right? I mean, I hope that you can already start to see some of the connections. What are the common objects of our love really? What are the things that you unite around? Wherein must we return to our first love, like Jesus says in Revelation I want to give you a couple particulars to chew on. I keep I'm getting more and more feedback these days, and one of the feedback uh pieces of feedback I'm getting is could you give me some specific examples? I'm gonna do my best. Let me give you a couple particulars to chew on today. Here's one, and you've heard this example before, but let's keep talking about it. If you ask those, Who are not us, but who actually hate us, what we gather around in love, then you can have the answer by looking back at 9-11. And I've told you this before. They would say that as Westerners, I'm not getting down into the church particularly, though we have to be careful to not become worldly. They would say that we are a group of people gathered around the common love of money and militaristic oppression. Unnecessary militaristic oppression. And thus they sent two planes full of fuel into symbolic representations or the idols of American Americans, the World Trade Center, and the Pentagon. They look at the Pentagon and the World Trade Center not as historical facts, but those things which have representational meaning for a group of people that gather around it in a common love. And so they attacked by attacking those buildings, they attacked the heart of the people According to them. Let me give you another one. No less serious. Bruce Jenner, the famous track star, won Woman of the Year He's a man, but he won Woman of the Year. He did not win that award because he is woman of the year. He does not know what it means to be a woman. He won that award because for some He has become a symbolic representation around which they may gather in common love. And this is their love. Love for a new age, wherein humanity may form and shape themselves through technology however they choose. And his picture on that magazine represented all of their hopes and all of their aspirations. We didn't have to write diatribes or treatises to explain it. It's just there in Woman of the Year. That's the power of these symbols and representations. And we have to ask, what other idols do we see ourselves gathering around? We must be very, very careful about the symbols that we gather around because those symbols are representational of our heart. How do those idols that you do discover in your own life or in the culture around you, how do they summarize your common devotion and love? In what ways do they speak to you that you have departed from God and what he truly intends and you're indulging in man-made religion? In what ways, because Christ is so good and he has given us his spirit, on the other hand, in what ways does it show the continued allegiance of God's people to their In what ways does it testify to the goodness of Jesus Christ? Now, that's the first and the second commandment. So you can begin to understand why looking and talking about little statues and idols are so important. They mean the world. But I also want you now to consider one more command, which is the fifth commandment It is natural to apply the fifth commandment in this particular case because of the case of Jonathan, the grandson of Moses. You have a prime case study here of a grandson who is not honoring his grandfather. And we can start to look at that in a thick way to understand the heart of God once again. This particular case illuminates God's intent, at least some of his intent, in giving us the fifth command. The fifth command is, you shall honor your mother and father that it may go well with you in the land. Now, stick with me here. I want you to notice first, let's just say something obvious. Let me ask you. Let's get some audience participation here so you don't fall asleep on me. Is it going well in the land for Jonathan? You look unsure. Are we reading the same story? It's not going well. So what does that tell you? It tells you that there is a gap. Between there is there's an absence of him paying attention to his mothers and his fathers, the saints that go down through time. You can reason back to the cause. They did not honor their fathers and mothers. That's one of the points of pointing out that he's Moses' grandson. There's become a disconnect. And this frees us up to see the fixed sense of the fifth command. And it is a coin with two sides. Here are the two sides. Number one, parents and grandparents have the duty to make sure that the upcoming generations remain united in one primary common love. And that must be God Himself, as it is defined by the Scriptures. You have at least that to do. You must make sure with all of your heart that the upcoming generations remain united to the right common love of God. Each generation will be tempted to gather around something different. I want to know what are they gathering around that you already see is not love for God? You must with timeliness, parents and grandparents, and even older brothers and sisters, call them from those lies back to the real God. Now, with that goal in mind, let me ask you: what are the idols of your children? What have they gathered around in common love that does not deserve their love? What are the symbolic representations of their hopes, aspirations, and loves which they gather around? What you must do is you must first enter into prayer and you must ask God to give you eyes to see past. bare facts of your children's existence and start to understand their existence and the objects of their existence and what their meaning is. What is the significance? Not the fact that they are, but what do they mean? For example, in the side hall, if you go down here, right before the nursery is a quilt Do you, as a group of people, understand that quilt if you acknowledge the bare fact of it? No, you do not. You understand that quilt if you understand its meaning and why it is present in a public space, representational of hopes and aspirations and the work of a generation. And we must do the same thing with the quilts. Well, you know, our kids don't have quilts. But we must do things like this with all of those representational artifacts of our children. We must not just repres see and notice the fact, but we must see the meaning. What does that quilt say about the love of a former generation? Well, it says a lot, actually. And I'll tell you right now, you're reaping all the fruit of it. What are the symbols, parents and grandparents, of the new generation? They don't make quilts anymore. It's not meaningful to them. Let me ask you a couple. Here's some new generation. This might sound a little old, but this is all new generation. What does the pig roast mean? What does it mean that we have t-shirts for the pig breast? Don't just acknowledge the bare fact of it. Get to the heart. If you all are wearing the same t-shirt, it shows that you're uniting in a community around a particular love. What is it? It's being represented by the fact you're all wearing the same clothes. After a child is admitted to the Lord's Supper, we have cupcakes and the Marthax. What is the meaning of the cupcakes, and not just the bare fact of them? What do the Bibles mean that we hand out now? Why did we start that practice? You'll notice anyone my age and and younger, they tend to have a lot of tattoos. What do the tattoos mean? Each of the pieces that they have artfully constructed on their bodies are representational of what? Are they past devotions? Are they present devotions? Are they future aspirations and hopes? Parents and grandparents, here is the reality for you. If you do not know the symbols of a generation and their meaning and not just their facts, you don't know them You don't know what makes their heart really beat. So I would encourage you, on that first side of the coin of the fifth commandment To know what their symbols are and their meaning, and use that while being prayerful, that God would keep them devoted to their true love, who is God Himself Now, the other side of the coin is towards the children. Second, the children must honor the prior faithful generations in keeping God as the center of their devotion. You are tempted, if you are a younger generation, you are tempted to pull down the statues of former generations without first hearing what those statues were meant to say. You may hear what those statues have to say and then think that they need to be pulled down, and maybe they do sometimes, but a lot of the time you have not heard what the community was rallying around and their love But you just pulled down the statue anyway, because you are arrogant and you think you know everything You are dismissing the traditions without knowing why the traditions are there and what will happen when you remove them. You are careless. I mean, it's a mark of your youth. Just get over it. Some of those things are in a place that have remained consistent within the culture because those things matter. Thank you so much. They do matter. They can push back evil and suffer. Now, what's happening right now, since you decided in your younger generation you wanted to remove the statues and all the other things, is that you are now destined to suffer and to learn the hard way. History will repeat itself. So let me ask you, those of you who consider yourself a part of a younger generation, I would put myself in that group. What are the symbols of the former generations? What value are they supposed to have for us today? I remembered one symbol I can't get out of my mind of an older generation. It was a a painting that Arch kept on his wall in his office. Well he had a lot of things on his wall in his office. Does anybody remember Arch's office walls? You know, one of the things he had on there was a picture of all the children of the church. What did that mean? Another painting across from his desk was a painting of a man at a bare wooden table. With his head bowed and arms or hands folded, eyes closed, praying over a tin dish with a single piece of bread on it What did that mean to that generation? Why was that important enough to be placed publicly on his wall? What have you lost by not understanding the heartbeat of that picture? Why did Arch, as a member of that generation, think he should hang that painting I'd encourage you to ask him, or you can ask me. If you're younger, we're going to talk about your entitlement. Why? Let me ask you this about my own family. Why was it so important for my family to save my grandfather's hammer and his handsaw? It was not, I'm not a sentimental person. I'll never use his handsaw and hammer. Why is it dear to us? What does it represent? What is its meaning to us as a family? Why is it that we gather around it as a representational artifact of our common hopes and aspirations, of what it means to be human? I hope that you haven't lost the point that I'm making. The point I am seeking to make is the same from the beginning, that another symptom of the canonization of the church is to live in opposition to God by the formation and establishment of man-made religion. We discover and avoid this kind of worldliness by paying attention to the common symbols of our love. If you want to know a person, know their symbols. We take seriously the heart and the thick reality of at least the first, the second, and the fifth command. Amen. May God be with us as we endeavor on this. Let us pray