Only let your conduct be worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear of your affairs. That you stand fast in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel, and not in any way terrified by your adversaries, which is to them a proof of perdition, but to you of salvation, and that from God. For to you it has been granted on behalf of Christ, not only to believe in Him, but also to suffer for His sake. Having the same conflict which you saw in me, and now here is in me. Amen. Let us pray. O Christ, we ask that through this preached word you would move us forward in how we conduct ourselves worthy of our calling. as your body. Use your word to those ends and others that you have in mind. May your word go out and may it be effective. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. When you first heard that we were going to enter into a series on Philippians, I wonder what your first thoughts were. I wonder if you Realized the richness that Paul has to offer us within this letter. Richness such as things like love. And really getting down to the particulars of it, that uh a real Christian love has to do with being governed by God's word That a real Christian love is uh it's particular. It takes into account the circumstances and the specifics of particular situations, and that a real Christian love is the kind of love that is seeking God's glory, seeking the kind of world that God wants. Well, just when you thought that was enough, that the that the meal laid before us was uh gonna It would totally fill us, and of course it would. There came another course. And it was on joy. And we were really raising the question, has somebody or something stolen your joy? as a Christian. Paul here laying himself before us as an example, a a real extraordinary example, that we might take our ordinary circumstances and compare his imprisoned life, even house arrest Seeing that he still has joy, we have a lot to learn from him in terms of people not stealing our joy. That our joy should not be stolen in circumstances because God is the great chemist. And he can take base situations, the the lead of our lives, and he can turn it into gold. That's who he is. He's the great alchemist. And nor should we have our joys stolen from criticism. Because it's not really us that we're advancing. It's Jesus Christ and his message. And so, even when people are doing things from impure motives, if they're still advancing Christ, then we really don't have a dog in the fight. That was an example that Paul gave. And so we are able, as Christians, to even withstand great criticism and maintain our joy. And then lastly, the final lesson, even from last week Was that our hope is fueled by the hope that we have, the inheritance in Jesus Christ? That there is so much that Christ has for you that you may enjoy, choose. With great rejoicing to serve a little bit more again today. You're not missing out on anything. Those of you who fall prey to FOMO or fear of missing out, you're not missing out on anything. So give. It is better to give than to receive. Well, the lessons, the meal, the third course is coming in here from the Apostle Paul this morning. And it has to do with that phrase that we saw right there in the beginning in verse 27: that we are to conduct ourselves in a manner that is worthy of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's switching themes. We moved from love to joy, and now we have a more general theme about how we are to conduct ourselves, and that's going to play out for a few paragraphs here, and that's what we're going to consider this morning But I first, as we think about how do we conduct ourselves worthy of the gospel, I want to lay down a foundation. The foundation of what Paul is saying here in this passage, so that you then can practically build your life upon it. So let's go ahead and enter into that. Let's lay down a foundation and just try to understand what he's getting at here with the question: how should we conduct ourselves worthy of the gospel? of Jesus Christ. Well here's the first thing. The very first thing that you need to note about this passage that is in front of you is that once again in verse 27, Paul is continuing his thought from the previous passage. If you take a look at verse 27, he says, only, he's really giving an emphasis here, let your conduct be worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or I'm absent And then he continues. And he's referring back up to 25 and 26, where he says, I know I shall remain and continue with you for all your progress and joy of faith. that your rejoicing may be more abundant in Christ Jesus by my coming to you again. But only whether I come to you or I don't come to you, whether we see each other or we don't, there's something that you need to have on your mind the whole time. There's that continuation of his thoughts. Now, what is that thing? What is that thing that he wants you to do? Well, we've mentioned it's that you would conduct yourself worthy of the gospel. And now we've got to get into some of the words here That word conduct is a very special word. It really is going to lead us down the right path so that we can understand what's going on here. The word conduct here, if you were to take a look at that in the original language, it is constructed of a couple different words, and one of the words is polis. Is anyone familiar with that? If you've done classical education, Greek studies If you're a Johnny, you should know that word. If you like Aristotle, you should especially like it. Polis. Polis. It's built up with this one word polis, and it is a word from which we derive the word political But with us, it's not so narrow. With us, it's conservative or liberal. Here, it just means to be a member or citizen of a particular city or nation. Polis. That's what it would mean is this idea of citizenship. And this is quite brilliant of Paul to use this word of conduct your you could play it out like this. Whether I'm with you or whether I'm absent, conduct yourself as a citizen that is worthy of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Conduct yourself as a citizen. Now that's quite brilliant of Paul to say it that way, because when you start to look at the history of Philippi, you can see that this was set aside by the Roman Republic As a specific place for veterans to retire. So just let me tell you this. If it's a place, just imagine a giant village in Florida. And the president says, I'm setting aside these houses for veterans that have fought in war. Do you know how many flags would be flying and the level of patriotism in that village? Well, it's that same kind of thing here. This is a group of people that are very proud to be citizens of the Roman Republic. And Paul is tapping into that, saying, Well, wait a second. You have been translated from the kingdom of this world into Christ's kingdom, which means you have become citizens of heaven, and as citizens of heaven, you are to walk worthy of your citizenship. Now, if you think I'm full of hot air this morning and I'm just making these things up, if you want to, you could turn, just flip a page, and you could look at Philippians chapter 3 verse 20 And you can see that he picks up this language a little bit later, quite explicitly, for our citizenship is in heaven. Our citizenship is in heaven. And that's that word conduct. He's really drawing on the citizenship idea. So whether he's present or he's absent, he wants you to hear That you are to take your citizenship in the kingdom of Christ seriously. You need to show a true kind of patriotism when it comes to your king. Now that's the first thing that I wanted you to notice is that continuation and that then that conduct, that word, so that you can understand the footing that he's placing us on here of us being good citizens and uh and he's speaking to veterans. Now here's the second thing. Let's ask this question What does citizenship look like? Well, continuing his appeal to patriotic soldiers Paul clothes his instructions in the language of a battle. You can see this here in our passage. Only let your conduct be worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or am absent, I hear of your affairs, that you stand fast. That's military language of maintaining your post And that you would be in one spirit with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel. So there's a way in which you are militarily to be exercising this, that's the metaphor, to where you're united and you're working together in a particular striving or battle To be able to accomplish this. That's the first remark that we have about this. That it means, what does citizenship look like? It looks like for you to be the soldiers of Christ who are who stand fast keeping their military position and with unity striving like gladiators for the faith of the gospel. But there's actually more. Because again, Paul is he's he he's such a great rhetorician He's such a great rhetorician that he knows his audience. And so he's using this language that it would really connect with them quite well. He uses all kinds of different language depending on the letter. Sometimes he talks about our unity as a body and But here he's got this picture of a military unity. Now what's interesting is again if you were to turn to that Bible dictionary and look up Philippi, you would Find that fighting in unity was the hallmark of Roman soldiers, particularly at Philippi They would stand shoulder to shoulder and shield to shield. Does anyone remember the name of that? The phalanx of the Roman army. And it was effectively used by the founder of Philippi, Philip of Macedon, and especially of his son, Alexander the Great. Now, what was that battle about? Well, if you were to ask Alexander the Great, it would be one thing. If you were to ask Philip of Macedon, it would be one thing. They formed a phalanx for particular purposes. But why is Paul calling the church as a group of soldiers to form a phalanx? Well, you see it very clearly there in our in our passage. He says there, when I hear of your affair affairs that you would stand first Stand fast that you be of one mind, and that you would be doing so for the faith of the gospel. There it is. for the faith of the gospel. And this again would resonate with these Roman soldiers. This is not, when you open up this scripture, And you see the word gospel, that is not the first time that the word gospel has entered into a culture and been used We have artifacts that you could look at on the internet if you want to of Caesar declaring a gospel. I think in Sunday school once I printed out the artifacts or pictures of them and I showed them to you in Sunday school. But it would say the Gospel of Caesar And he would claim himself to be divine. He would call himself the Son of God. And then he would promise that he is bringing peace, or the Pax Romana, to all of the world. And that was his good news, that he had been raised up, and that all the world is going to be benefit from him as the great beneficiary. But here Paul is adopting this, and sometimes we don't realize how subversive Paul is, but if you read Acts you'll see he doesn't go to prison for nothing. But Paul is picking up this language that the soldiers would recognize, and he would say, Listen, I know, just filling in the words here, I know you know that Caesar declares himself to be Lord. But even the guards around me here in my house arrest are learning that Jesus Christ is not just the Lord, but he is the Lord of all lords. So there is this gospel that is being declared, that has become a reality in the resurrection of Jesus Christ, that he has been sent to bring peace to the world. And healing to the nations. And Paul is saying that we, united as a military unit in the phalanx, are to strive. It says here in our passage, to maintain that faith, that gospel of Jesus Christ. We are to strive together for the faith of the gospel. Now that's the second thing I wanted you to note. is just what is citizenship looks like. It looks like it's metaphorically he wants us to understand it as a military phalanx. And the reason why we're forming together like that militarily is for the faith of the gospel, as opposed to the gospel of Caesar specifically. Now, here's the third thing that I want you to make sure you don't leave here this morning without This ends up making sense of the rest of the passage. This ends up making sense of the rest of the passage because when you look, he says That you would strive together for the faith of the gospel, not in any way terrified by your adversaries or enemies. He's still maintaining soldier battle war language. And you could imagine yourself there, shield to shield, and soldier to soldier, saying, hold it tight, we're almost there. Don't let them see any weakness in your face. And you're holding that tight so that there is no remnant or weakness or reservation seen within us to where the enemy could see, no, we're totally committed to this And we know that Jesus Christ is the vicar victor. And then he goes on and he says here in this passage not only that our That we would not be terrified by our en our adversaries in battle, but instead we'd be approved, hey, we're going to win this war. We have a conviction you know nothing about. But also in verse number 29, as soldiers You need to consider it a great privilege to suffer for your King, Jesus Christ That's what he says there, for to you it has been granted on behalf of Christ not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake. It's like Braveheart riding back and forth on his horse trying to get the troops ready. Listen, you're gonna suffer. You look to your right, you look to your left, you're gonna lose a couple of these guys, but I'll tell you right now, they'll die in honor. And we'll win the war. It's that kind of rousing troop language that the Apostle Paul gives us. Paul's gospel The gospel that Jesus is Lord of Lord is the great privilege that we have as Christians to serve Him and His kingdom And if we take that calling seriously, if we're serious soldiers, we will in fact suffer, but our suffering from Christ is a badge and it's a medal of honor. It is a purple heart of Christendom. Now, those are some things that we've got to note. I was just taking uh cinder block by cinder block in order to form a foundation here. So that you can understand what the scriptures are saying and why Paul chooses the language that he does. And if you were to gather all that up You'd see what he's really getting at when he says that you are to conduct yourself worthy of the gospel. This is another way of him saying to you, really the Holy Spirit saying to you That you have a role as a citizen and a soldier within the kingdom of Jesus Christ. As soldiers, you could put it this way, as soldiers, we stand united in battle for the faith of the gospel. We could even make it personal with a command from our King. Christ expects you to stand shoulder to shoulder battling for the faith of the gospel. That's Christ's expectation. That's his call. That you would stand shoulder to shoulder as a Christian congregation battling for the faith of the gospel. Okay. Well, that's the summary. What does that end up looking like? Let's take that foundation and let's go ahead and lay down the first floor. Let's put on a second floor and let's put on a third floor of practical application on how this needs to work out and us being motivated, the kind of things that we need to do, the kind of things we need to have conviction about and realize And I'm going to divide that not into levels of the house, but into steps. So Christ expects you to stand shoulder to shoulder, battling for the faith of the gospel. That's what our passage teaches. And then I want to work this out in three main steps. Here's step number one. Step number one. The first step that we must take when we hear the reality like this is that you must take the battle that Jesus Christ has given to us seriously. You must take the battle that Jesus Christ has given to you. You must take it seriously. Let me give you an example of a battle that we do take seriously. There's a book out, uh was the New York Times bestseller, I don't remember what year. But it was titled Genius Foods. Has anyone read that? No one here is representative of the New York Times Survey or whatever. Okay, very good. Maybe you answered me in your heart. Okay, well it's called Genius Foods and is uh written by a journalist. And if if if you were to talk to the journalist, he he gives this account. as to where that book came from. It's a book that is showing the causation of ultra-processed foods and mental degeneration. Alright, so it's extremely important for a industrialized uh food economy like we have in America. I think that's why it ended up being a bestseller. He says, about six years into the role of journalist, my mother got sick. And he said, my mom developed a rare form of dementia. I've always been passionate about nutrition science and health to the point That when I started college, I was actually on a pre-med track. I ended up pivoting out of that. But when my mom got sick, I became obsessed. with trying to understand everything I possibly could about the risk factors that we are all vul uh that we all are vulnerable to with regard to chronic disease. And one of the findings he claims, I I haven't studied any of these reports, but that with every 10% increase of ultra-processed food, there is a 25% increase of your likelihood of dementia. Now you could get behind a battle like that, just like him. If you see that your mom is sick and you think there might be something you could do about it by not letting her eat the Ritos but instead have some oranges Then you would get into that battle, you take it seriously, you devote yourself, you change your major, you sink your money into it, and that is the kind of battle that human beings usually get behind. We take it seriously. But part of my argument here is that we oftentimes don't take the battle that Jesus Christ has given to us as seriously as battles like that What are all of the different battles that you have that are a part of your life? Think of them. What are all of the things that you're fighting for? And is it possible that when we hear we come here Sunday after Sunday after Sunday, and I tell you, hey, guess what? This is what Jesus Christ uh expects from you, and he's given you the grace to perform it Do you take those things as seriously as those other battles that you maintain for yourself? I'm not trying to create a false dichotomy. If this were your situation, fighting for your mom would be a battle for Jesus Christ. But what I'm getting at is that oftentimes, because Christianity is categorized as spiritual, we do not take the spiritual battles as seriously as we would the physical battles that are around us. And that is the very first step that we've got to take the battle seriously. And here's why. In every single generation There will be those who rise to corrupt the faith and practice that Jesus Christ has given to his church I just saw the funniest meme. People, I told Holly the other day, this also is a mark of me being 47 and sounding like an old person. Because I look at these reels that people make and I look at these memes and I remember sitting in the car with Holly and I was saying, you know, there's some really talented people out there. They're just so good with media, but there's a nerdy thing to say If you have nobody that was twenty would say, Wow, there's a lot of talented people making memes. Okay, you don't get the joke. But that but it was but I felt old when I said it. But there was a meme out there and it's this picture of a corpse down in the grave and the the grave has been undug and there's the corpse down in there and there's uh uh t like a young hip person a hip person Giving the corpse CPR. And then it and then there's an arrow to the young person doing this and it says 23-year-old megachurch pastor. And then the corpse has an arrow and it says old heresies that died. And it's pointing out that, well, twenty-three year old megachurch pastors are resurrecting all the old heresies. That's what it's trying to say But it's just a small and specific example of uh I mean switch out the 23-year-old wearing the Jordans. And put anybody in there that you want because there's there seems to be this continual thrust in each era That the old heresies will be brought back to life, that a corruption would occur, and therefore the church and every generation must take their duty seriously Of fighting shoulder to shoulder for the faith and the practices of the kingdom of Jesus Christ. Now, that was a picture of a 23-year-old megachurch pastor. I just heard an interview with a respected preacher named Paul Washer. Has anybody ever Yeah, Paul Washer. I think a lot of people are touched by uh the Lord has really worked through him He's asked, he's on a panel, and uh someone uh came to him and he they said, Pastor Washer, what is the greatest threat to the church today? Have you heard this? Pastor Washer, somebody said uh-huh. Yeah. Pastor Washer, what is the don't say anything, this is my sermon. Okay. Good Pastor Washer, what is the greatest threat to the church today? And he sits forward on his chair and he says, Pastors. The greatest threat to the church today is pastors. And the reason why he's saying that is because they have a direct line and path to bring heresy into the church more effectively than any other person. And when he said that, you cringe, but then you register, you're like, yep. That's definitely true. But you could expand it beyond that. You could go from the twenty-three year old, you could go to the pastor, and you could keep going, and you could see that there is ways in which we can exert influence as school administrators and our policies or if we're teachers or if we're parents and that in each generation from one little it's going to pop up in one little place or domain or calling or another and it's going to introduce or reintroduce something that strikes at the integrity of the faith of Jesus Christ. And what Jesus Christ is telling us here is that you have to take this battle seriously because his plan, his way, his strategy, and how he's going to address these Plants coming back up every year, no matter how much weed killer you put on the soil, his plan is that you would take it seriously. You are his battle plan. For each and every generation. The bottom line is that every generation is called to fight for the faith from era to era And that begins by you taking the battle as serious and even more serious than other battles in your life. So the question before you is, do you? I don't survey your life. You have to survey your life. Do you take the battle seriously? We have to make judgment calls. But is the continual pattern within your life is that Christians around you are dishonoring the name of Jesus Christ. with their faith and their practices, and you remain continually silent. Did you know That silence is one tool in the toolbox. We have to know when it's the right time to say something. But did you know there's other tools? That there is a sword, and it is the sword of the Spirit, and Jesus Christ is expecting you to wield his scriptures And to bring confrontation and conviction to his children who have wandered away. He will use you. So please do not consign one another to sin. Are you willing to battle for Christ and his gospel, even in that small way, of the people that are around you? You can see their life, you know what they're doing, as directly against the kingdom of Jesus Christ. Perhaps now is the time to take the battle seriously. Now that's the first step, step number two, and these steps aren't of equal length, so don't worry. Step number two is that You need to take the battle seriously. That's step number one. Step number two is that, now that you're taking it seriously, you must maintain the integrity of Christ's gospel in the church. Maintain the integrity of Christ's gospel in the church. Inside the church, you need to watch out for all the old heresies. Of course, and there really are old ones, they just keep coming back. Many theologians have said they haven't seen anything new, that they all were all addressed in the first couple of uh first couple hundred years of the church So they do come back, but there are other things that can take different forms and different emphases, and I would say that we could call these the latest ideologies. The latest ideologies. Now there are many different kinds of ideologies. You could basically take anything that has an ism on the end of it, and that really does end up becoming a kind of ideology. So for example You may be conservative, but that would be different than you serving conservatism or something along those lines. And those names change around anyway. a hundred years ago you would be more in line with many of the positions of those who are a part of the Liberal Party, for example. But some of the ideologies besides conservatism or liberalism would be things like feminism, anti-racism, or socialism. All things which we deal with in this particular culture, really they're global now. They're all different things that rise up out of the soil of our culture. And they all operate the same way. This is pretty interesting. They're starting to do studies on these things now. Has anybody noticed that ideology is a really popular topic these days? They're starting to do studies on these things now, so we've got scientists in their laboratory trying to say, well what is an ideology? And they've kind of got it down to these a couple different patterns that That an ideology perceives the way that the world currently is. They do a kind of sociological study or an observation. Then they have an idea of how this world is supposed to be. Now I'm going to give you a big word here because I think it's important for you to see this. They are eschatological in their thinking. Christians are not the only ones who are striving for the end times. They have an idea of the they they see the way the world is, they have an idea of how the world is meant to be, and then they use political actions of revolution or reformation in order to accomplish that eschatological vision. And that makes them different than just political theorists. Political theorists don't do anything. They go out to lunch. They buy new ties. But here with ideologies, they use political actions of revolution and revelation in order to accomplish that eschatological vision. Now what ends up happening is that the church sometimes out of a heart that's too big That doesn't pump correctly because it's the wrong size. Sometimes what happens inside the church is that certain members become excited about those visions and they try to get the church on board fighting for those particular ends And that can happen in a lot of different ways. And then you have this little surge coming in to where an ideology and its particular ends is now captured all of the energy of the church, and the church is now moving towards that particular end. You could see this on a continuum. It happens either a little or it happens all the way And all the way looks like the ideological movements and their flags are now taking up the front of the churches. Now it's not hard to find that. And it has, as you know, because of that, caused great church splits in our midst. Because there are some members that are saying, well, wait a second, that's not our end. That's not where we're headed. That's not the Christian eschatological vision. And so entire denominations are shedding people They're c they're uh it's just bleeding across the world from one denomination after another. I know that you've seen all of that, but that's just that's just the point that like a splinter, an ideology can lodge itself into the flesh of the church. Now here's the tricky part when that happens. It's the tricky part as your goal is to maintain the integrity of Christ's gospel, and now we have an infiltration. One of the tricky things is that they start off by just getting their foot in the door. The camel's nose is under the tent. And it usually happens something along like this. Let's just take the ideology of feminism. Feminists would say, we are meant to treat women with respect. Duh. I agree. But after that What would end up happening if it were truly a feminist movement is that the question would start to arise of, well, what is the ultimate goal of the particular movement? And if we saw that goal accomplished, would it be the same end that we see that Christ paints for us? So here's a little example that you could do for yourself. What if feminism could rewrite Revelation chapter 21? What would it look like? Would it look the same as what Jesus Christ teaches? Would a woman be the Messiah? If not, why not? Would the bride be extended the grace of the husband? Or would she not deserve any of she doesn't she doesn't she's not in that role. There's an egalitarian there's no hierarchy This is the way that we need to talk about these things. Would the bride take the last name of Christ? No, she'd keep her maiden name. Or they'd both change it to something strange. But it's a good way for you to think about what can happen inside of the church and the kind of integrity that you're supposed to maintain. Is it the same vision as Christ? And if not, then we are called shoulder to shoulder, shield to shield, not showing any weakness on our face in the face of the adversary to strive together for the faith of the gospel, and you've got this duty till you die, and then it's going to pass to your children. So a major question ends up rising for you. If you are meant, according to the calling of Christ, to maintain the integrity of the gospel. in this particular era. Maybe you have the faith, but let me ask you, do you have the courage? Courage. Is the consummation of faith. It is that moment when your faith actually matters and is at stake And actually costs you something, and yet you exercise faith anyway. That's real faith. Before that, it could be largely an illusion. So there we have it. The first step is that we would take this calling seriously. This battle. The second step is that this battle will happen in fact inside the church, and you must be shoulder to shoulder and shield to shield And then the third step is that the battle for the faith of the gospel also happens outside of the church. The battle you must fight the battle for the faith of the gospel outside the church. And this is where the battle language can get a little weird. Because truthfully, if we compare this passage r um responsibly to all of the other passages, we're not trying to kill anybody. Except the old man. And that's the Holy Spirit's job. You are a you're soldiers of healing. Christ is the desire of the nations. Not the the oppressor. And that's what you're doing. You're maintaining the integrity so you actually have something to share, and now you're going to step out and you're going to share it. So you have to drop back a minute and let's go ahead and rely on the historical circumstances in which Paul is writing. That Roman gospel that I talked to you about was about bringing peace through the whole earth. And I forget all the Latin terminology. You have to remember, I did not grow up classically trained like most of you. I don't remember the Latin terminology. But there was a doctrine amongst the Roman people that they believed they were the civilized nation, and they were going to take the peace of Rome and they were going to extend it into barbaric nations or the barbarians. civilizing the world as they go, bringing all things good, like indoor plumbing, or whatever it is. They would bring peace to the whole earth. And that is, in fact, analogous. It is a good analogy for the message of Christ and his kingdom. Christ is bringing shalom, the full-bodied peace. Of us within ourselves, us with each other, us toward God. He is bringing that to this earth Right now, Christ is not conquering any lands, not physically, but there will come a time when he will Christ is bringing shalom to this earth. The world is by nature barbaric, and Christ seeks to civilize every tribe and tongue and nation. That is very easy to see within the scriptures. You were dead in your transgressions and your sins, but now you have been translated into the kingdom of light and righteousness. Therefore, put these things on which are not barbaric. But they're the the wisest set of clothing you could ever have, the most refined, the most pure. That's what Christ is doing through you as his church. And therefore it is very important For you to hear as Christians that you must constantly take up a positive view of Christianity You are not, I don't think it's the right way to talk about it, you should not primarily be talking about this third step of your responsibilities of taking the battle of faith of the gospel outside the church should not primarily be talked about in terms of destruction. That's beside the point. If you bought a piece of land and it had a house on it, the point was not the tearing down of the old house, but it was a means to a further end of the new house. And so, therefore, as Christians, we must have a positive view of what we are seeking to accomplish. We are not primarily a stick in the mud, afraid that somebody somewhere on the face of the earth might do something wrong Our main belief is that Christ and his kingdom and his ways are good, they are true, they are beautiful, and we want to see everyone enjoying them. That is what it would mean To be in the midst of a civilization, to be civilized. If you were to apply it to the fun the the point last time with ideologies Let me just put it this way, and this might sound stark to you. There is no one and nothing better for women than Jesus Christ and his kingdom. Now Christians can mess that up. But I'm talking about Christ and his ultimate goals for his kingdom. There's nothing better for women. And if you really believe that, then you would seek to bring Christ's kingdom to all women and men and children. Now, I mentioned just very briefly that though that be Christ's goal, we oftentimes can get in the way as individuals. And that really brings up another part of this battling for the faith of the gospel outside of the church. One of the prerequisites for that is that you've got to battle. You've got to fight the battle of your own heart. If you're going to enter into class 101, you have to take prerequisites to get there or the 111. And that prerequisite is really the battle that's going on in your own heart. Do you really believe the truth and the ways of Jesus Christ and his kingdom are good? They are a delight. They really are beautiful. Or do you find them distasteful? Would you like a picture of someone finding something distasteful? Of course you would. I remember having one of my children try a raw oyster because I'm from Maryland. She grabbed I shuffled that thing, I handed her the shell and she slurped that thing right off of there. And you could see on her face that she could not believe that she voluntarily just drank snot And that is how in our hearts, because of the old man still being present and telling us lies, we sometimes think about Christ and his kingdom like that. That it is not. And so if we ask the question, well do we always find Christ tasteful? Do we taste the Lord and see that he is good? Or do we find sometimes he's distasteful? Sometimes we find he's distasteful But we've got to acknowledge that so that we understand the kind of work that we've got to do, why we go to church on Sundays, why we read our scriptures, why we're part of a community, why we pray, is because we've got to work on that because these other things are downstream. We work on them concurrently. You don't get your heart straight and then do something. So concurrently with the rest of the Christian life through prayer, community, meditation of the Word, we must be working on the taste buds of our hearts. Learning what is truly good. Do you see what I'm really saying? I'm saying that before you could civilize others, you yourself would have to become civilized. It is hypocritical for a barbarian to bring civilization to the earth. When these are changed, when these things inside of us change. you can begin to see the kind of effects that it will have within ourselves and within the world. Were you surprised by that reading on the petition? From the Lord's Prayer in our bulletin. All the way at the end. I've been puzzling about this for a couple years. But there's something about recognizing, really believing in your heart that you have been forgiven that allows you to extend the grace of forgiveness to other people. Do you see how the the forgiveness and the good relationships among our friends and colleagues and co-workers is dependent upon what has happened within our hearts? He who has been forgiven a lot forgives forgives a lot. Or he who has been loved a lot loves a lot Jesus Christ taught us those lessons, and so that's a very important part of this third step, is that we're always working on our own hearts. When these are changed, when we can change by the power of the Holy Spirit our own makeups and become civilized interiorly, Then we can begin really to care enough to keep the integrity of the gospel. Because it's so good. And we don't want to lose that goodness, We can seek the integrity of the gospel in the church. And we would become very concerned because of our love for others and longing for them to have forgiveness. That we would seek very diligently for those outside the church to know about Christ and his kingdom also. And we would fight the battle there. Not according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. Are you ready, having heard all this, having fleshed out? What Paul is getting at here within this letter, are you ready to conduct yourselves worthy of the gospel of Jesus Christ? Do you see what it means to be a citizen here of this nation called heaven? Christ expects you to stand shoulder to shoulder, battling for the faith of his gospel in your hearts, battling for the faith of the gospel inside the church, particularly against ideologies. And battling for the faith of the gospel among every tribe and tongue and nation. Amen. Please pray with me.