Turn, if you will, to St. Matthew. We are up to chapter 21, verses 28 through 46. We're continuing through our study of the Gospel of Matthew. Uh I haven't counted them up. I think we got four Sundays in January, four Sundays in February and today. So we got about nine more sermons. And uh and then we will be we will uh We'll get through the other seven chapters. I'm looking forward to it. It's been a wonderful study for me. It's uh uh as far as that, I hope it has been for you too. Chapter twenty one, the Gospel of Matthew, picking up verse uh twenty-eight, Jesus is speaking to the Pharisees, having just uh talked with them and having just done the And this is the words as recorded by Matthew. Well what do you think? A man had two sons, and he came to the first and said, Son, go work today in my vineyard. He answered and said, I will not. But afterward he regretted it and went. Then he came to the second and said likewise, and he answered and said, I go, sir. But he did not go Which of the two did the will of his father? They said to him, the first. Jesus said to them, Assuredly, I say to you that tax collectors and harlots enter the kingdom Kingdom of God before you. For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him. But tax collectors and harlots believed him, and when you saw it, you did not afterward relent and believe him. I hear another parable. There was a certain landowner who planted a vineyard and set a hedge around it, dug a wine press in it, and built a tower. And he leased it to the vine dressers and went away into a far country. When the vintage time drew near, he sent his servants to the vine dressers that they may receive that they might receive its fruit. And the vine dressers took his servants, beat one, killed one, and stoned another. Again he said And other servants, more than the first, they did likewise to them. Then last of all he sent his son to them, saying, They will respect my son. But when the vine dressers saw the son, they said, Among them So they took him and cast him out of the vineyard and killed him. They said to him, He will destroy those wicked men miserably, and lease his vineyard to other vine dressers who will render to him the fruits of in their season. Jesus said to them, Have you never read in the scriptures, the stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone? This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes Eyes. Therefore I say to you, the kingdom of God will be taken from you and given to a nation bearing the fruits of it. Him to powder. Now, when the chief priests and the Pharisees heard his parables, they perceived that he was speaking of them. But when they sought to lay hands on him, they feared the multitudes, because they took him. We're a prophet. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. This particular parable, the first one, has always uh made me think of raising kids. There's something Just so so pr uh immediately understandable in it. In a large family, often you will find one of them like this second son Okay, you ask the child to do something. We start him with the second son first here, and you ask him to do something, and the child says, okay. And then nagging season opens. Have you done it yet? When are you gonna get around to it? Alright. You know, after you said you were gonna do it, when are you gonna do it? Over and over again. I think it's one of the more frustrating aspects of child rearing and I see several sheepish faces staring back at me from among the families here. The second son in this parable uh is familiar to us in that way. The first sun not quite so much. Is not as immediately uh recognizable to us. It's not that the sun was was Again, often in a large family there will be one child who is more or less compliant with his parents' wishes or her parents' wishes. And this is the sibling that the other Siblings hate. The one that's always getting all of the uh good stuff. But they like to please their parents, and it shows up in the way that the relations are Maybe it's just because they simply know that life is better when you obey. Ask Bob over here. When when traffic stops when you're stopped by a police officer on the road, it's a lot. So anyway, there's those children who are compla Quiet, but I don't think that describes this first son. That's not the key to understanding him. At first he says, I will not go. It comes across to me more as a direct and deliberate refusal of his father's request. He doesn't say, sorry, Dad, I I'd like to, but but I've got a conflict and I can't make it No, I'm not going to work in your vineyard. His contents then gets the better of him, and he goes. Now that type of responsibility Is not quite so often encountered. But even with that, there's something very real in this description of children and their relation to their parents. Both it and the parable of the vine dressers that we see here built on that foundation. The parable with the vine dressers This was very familiar to the people of Jesus' day, if it's not so much with us. But Jesus is here not talking about the perils of parenting and the challenges we may face with Jesus is building here on very familiar themes in these parables in order to drive home a point about the Pharisees to his listeners. Jesus is in Jerusalem. He's bringing his earthly ministry to a close. In just a few short days, he's going to be Nailed to a cross. The pace of events around him are already beginning to pick up. There is a tension in the air of Jerusalem. People are are kind of excited. They they know something's going to happen. And they know that Jesus is at the center of whatever it is that's going to happen. Jesus here is not playing any political games. There he is not reaching out to his opponents. He's not he's not trying to find some way. Can't we all just get along here? That's not His idea. He is indicating to us there is no compromise with the devil. You don't make middle ground with those who are seeking to detract from God. When he speaks to the hippo hypocrites who are the religious leaders of his day, he is not trying to curry their favor, and there is no hedging of his bets in talking to them. world to bring salvation to it. But just as importantly he came to bring judgment on Israel in particular. And his teachings are directed toward those who are leading the people into that judgment. Now, brothers and sisters, as we start Meditation on this passage today, I would like to start there and ask you to just consider for a little bit the enormity of their sin. The Pharisees, the Sadducees, the chief priests, consider the sheer perversity that was dominating their souls. These are educated men. These are men who knew the scriptures left, right, and center. These were men whom God had set over his precious flock, the nation of Israel. And they were the ones who set the tone. They are the ones that that caused the people to think in certain ways About the pathways of righteousness. And yet, as Jesus has already said, they were blind guides. They were controlled more by their own pride, and therefore, instead of leading the people into those paths of righteousness, They were leading them to the very brink of hell. Now think about that. Think of the terror. These men are all dead. Think of the terror that must have filled their heart when after death they awoke to see God God and Jesus sitting at his right hand. Just Jesus whom they had persecuted. And whom they have despised. Think of how the enormity of their sin must have sunk home at that moment. Because of them, millions of Israelites were deprived of the truth, and though every one of them had to pay for his own sin, yet they bore responsibility for these millions of Israelites. Who found themselves facing an eternity of hell? What kind of despair must have filled their soul as they stood there before God God the Father and God the Son and realized oh no. And Jesus knows all that. And Jesus is actually here doing what is best for the Pharisees and the other religious leaders. Even though they are not having it, he is making them aware. And if he is who they say he is, then there's no doubt in their mind who they are how they're standing in relation to God. So here, even though we see Jesus speaking there very directly, don't think of it as harshly. Think of it as being He is speaking to them in such a way as to give them an opportunity to repent. These Pharisees, if you will, are like the second son in this They put on a show of being righteous, telling God, Yes, I will obey, as they stand out on the street corner with their flowing robes making a big deal of their repentance But in their hearts they are living only for themselves. They do not obey. They take the credit for being righteous, for being good sons. But in their hearts they despise the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And in their hearts they serve a God who is of their own choosing. Jesus is pointing that out to them so that they are without excuse. These Pharisees are also like the witness Wicked vine dressers in the second parable. They are the keepers of the vineyard. They are the ones who have been put in charge. Their purpose is to bring forth fruit. The religious teachers Who throughout Israel's history had been the ones who had taken all of the prophets that God had sent to them, all of the messengers that God had sent to them, and in some way or another they They had discounted them, oftentimes even killing them. They have despised God's teachings as He has throughout history, called them to repentance. And now Now here is the sun standing before them, and they are going to take and kill him. They wish to claim God's vineyard, his people, his church. themselves. Out of their very own mouths they condemn themselves because they agree with Jesus that when that landowner comes back, they, these wicked vine dressers, ought to be Subjected to terrible wrath, and I imagine they choked when they said that, because they knew that Jesus was pointing this toward them It should not be overlooked that Jesus says he's going to give the vineyard to others, to another nation who will bring fruit from it. So as we look at that As we see the depravity of their hearts, even when Jesus made it clear, they do not repent. They cling to Ending patience that he has the power of God working in him, and yet they refuse to believe the evidence that their own eyes were telling him. How could they take this teaching of Jesus other than saying, I am the son of the landowner? Jesus here looks them right in the eye and says that lastly the landowner sends his son. And these pair of these Pharisees, these religious teachers, said, he's talking You would think they would be cautious at that point. You would think some sense of hesitation would come into them. Maybe they say, maybe we ought to back off. a little bit. What if he's right? You don't see that. Satan has them tight in his grip And brothers and sisters, too often like we are, they refuse to believe the word of God as it comes to them because it doesn't fit in how they want their life to be lived. or what they want to believe. And so as a result, they keep the people in darkness. And therefore the prophecy that God would take from them the vineyard and give it to another people will come true. Now this is the major teaching of this parable, and I recounted It because I am obligated to do so. These are those things that are rooted and grounded in the events that were happening in Jesus' day. And Jesus is making sure that these people have no excuse. He's making it very clear just how much danger they're in. But for the remaining time that I have with you today, what I want us to think through is not so much the details of what is What I want us to look through those things that Jesus taught about here, and I want us to look at the backdrop. against which this is being presented to us. I want us to look at the person of God Himself as He is presented to us in these teachings. Like the parable of the prodigal son, it is the Father who is at the center of these parables, not the It is not ultimately the two sons, nor is it the wicked vine dressers who are the Major intent of this teaching. It is the Father who deserves obedience from his two sons, and deserves obedience and honor and respect from That is the key here. Let's look at God at the center of these parables and consider these things. First, I want us to just take the heart This is the beginning of a new year. Let's let's let's just grab a hold of this. Try to hang on for it, hang on to it for the next year. In both parables, God is the owner of of a vineyard. Both parables. Ties them together. In the first parable he tells his two kids, Go out into my vineyard. Explicitly. In the second parable, it is the landowner's vineyard that is at stake here. Now what do we see here? God in both these passages stands over all things as the one who has the rights and privileges of a land Ownership. And those underneath him, both the sons and the vine dressers, stand in relation to him as ones who should honor, respect And obey him, who should respond to his righteous desires for his property. Now, what I want us to take away is this. This is the one We stand in relation to God today. This is how God stands in relation to us. This is how He wants us to think about Him. Does the father have the right to ask his two sons to work in his vineyard? Yes? Anybody? Okay, I heard one. Of course he does. Why? Because they're his sons and it's his vineyard. Does the owner of the vineyard have the right to ask these vine dressers to give him the fruit of the their uh labor. Of course he does. He has a just claim to it. So what I think we should first take away from those both of these parables is this Brothers and sisters, this world we have been placed in is God's vineyard. It is not ours to do with as we will. It is not ours to shape any way we want to shape it. The whole wide world out there is not ours sandbox into which we can get and make sand castles like we want to put them together. To make it more immediate, what applies for the whole world applies for our individual lives also. This little piece of the world that you could that that constitutes your environment, your life as you see it, as it has been given to you by God. That piece of the world does not belong to you. It doesn't belong to me. It's God's vineyard. And God Has placed it under our supervision for him. What the Pharisees should have known is what we should know also, that our lives Our families, our secular vocations, our church here at Severn Run has not been given to us today God has plans for our lives, He has intentions, He has He has purpose for it, He intends to bring fruit from it. We're part of that vineyard. But we are workers in it, as loyal sons and daughters, or tenants, if you will, who have been Given the right to work in it. Now notice how God teaches us about His control and His careful planning with regard to this vineyard that we are a part of. Notice how the landowner is portrayed here as being very carefully setting this land to use. He built a hedge around it to protect it. He dug a wine press in order to do all of the things that needed to be done. He built a tower. I'm not going to go into all of that stuff. It's just too long. But notice this. These are all capital investments. These are planning. This is not something in which God just says, you know what? I think I want a vineyard. That one over there, you go take care of that vineyard. Very carefully prepared. These are significant efforts. The landowner went to great expense and meticulous planning and the details of building his vineyard. Now what does that teach us? It teaches us that God is very careful in crafting the event Of our lives. Of shaping the vineyard, he has given us the task of working here. Brothers and sisters, our lives are not the product of chaos, no matter what it looked like on Sunday morning after the kids got through with the boxes. You know It's not. The events of our lives are not the results of random collisions of individual atoms. We stand each day In God's vineyard. And we stand each day facing a world that God has meticulously planned and shaped for our interaction. Now that'll get you that'll get you a long way if you really come to grips with that. It's pretty hard to comprehend, but it is true. Now that's the picture God is giving us here. It's the picture of our lives that we're to understand it. As it was for the Pharisees when Jesus first said that these things so it is for us now. Our first obligation before God is to acknowledge that He owns the vineyard. And that we have been given the privilege of working in it. That this vineyard is carefully crafted, and it is that from which we are to bring fruit. In due season. The next thing I think we are clearly taught in this passage is that being righteous in God's kingdom means living out a yes to God's Call to work in that vineyard. Living out a yes to work in this vineyard. The first son did not say yes at first He did say yes by his actions, and so it is to be with us. We are to live out our yes because it is more important. Than merely mouthing the words. God is gracious and kind. That's the backdrop for both of these. As the father was to the first son Okay. My kids all knew the basic rule. When I don't give many commands, but when I do, the answer is yes, sir. And it's no No smart allochy responses. Otherwise you wind up being doubly guilty, disobedient and smart allochy. And that we don't do. So I tended to bring about the display of the rod a little bit sooner in those cases than perhaps always was necessary. But notice that you don't see that with God the Father here. The son says, No, I'm not going. And the father says, okay, I'll go to the second son. And he did not slap him immediately for his disobedience. He gave the son time to repent. Because why? He knew his son's heart He knew that young man, and he knew how to deal with him. He governed him in that manner that was for his sons Best interest. The Father wanted his son's obedience to be a glad obedience from the heart, and so he gave him time to repent Time for the Holy Spirit to convict him and to bring him to a sense of his duty. We see the same principle in work. At place are in place in the second parable. There's a different outcome there, but the same principle. The landowner does not immediately bring vengeance upon his tenants. He gives them time He sends messenger after messenger to them. Why are you not giving me my fruit? He says. Do as I ask and And all will be well, he says. Turn away from your wicked ways and recognize that I am the owner of the vineyard. I'm only asking what is just and right. Yes Over and over, God sends his prophets to Israel, and at last he even sends his son. And God, during this age, is still treating his people the same way. He is still giving his people time to repent. If I asked all of you who are serious Christians out there, how many times have you said no to God, it would be embarrassing how many of you would show up raise your hands. Okay, both sides of the pulpit. Why? Because they we've done it. Every time we've sinned, we're saying no to God. And we've sinned consciously more than we'd like to admit. And so we are standing in position there that if God immediately s invoked his wrath and whacked us upside the head with With a two by four, then most of us would walk around bloody. But God doesn't do that. He is still giving us time to repent. Even when we say no at first He gives us opportunity to remember. He furnishes the Holy Spirit to work, particularly within his covenant people, his visible church. And he furnishes them the Holy Spirit to comment, to plead with our hearts in order to get us to be moved to where we, like the first Son. Grieve over what we've done and go and respond and become obedient. That is not true for everyone in God's visible church. Not everyone responds to the Holy Spirit's pleading. And Hebrews 6 tells us clearly about that. So it's not always, and everyone that it does so, but for those who are God's who are in the position of God's first son, uh in the position of of this uh first son. It works. And the Holy Spirit's pleading leads them to where they desire to do the Father's will. So let's let this sink in. What we see here is a picture of the graciousness, the mercy that God is dealing with us. God does not immediately take out his belt and beat us. He gives us grace. He gives us opportunity. He gives us time to repent. And he doesn't have to. He doesn't have to. He is not bound to give us time to repent. It is But his desire is for grace to come to our hearts, and he He is desiring for us to then be moved by something other than fear and terror. And that is what he desires a willing part. It is not, it is the broken and contrite heart that he does not despise. And this approach to us is always in this way. How many of us can identify with us also? We're in the midst of our rebellion, or we're in the midst of looking at our lives and feeling like we're in chaos. He doesn't come to us. Us in the earthquake. He doesn't come to us in the raging storm. He comes to us in a still small voice. A voice of reason, a voice of warm desire. Brothers and sisters, how can we despise a God like that? How can we turn our backs on such a warm display of compassion and tenderness? How can we not see that Jesus, who is God coming to us in the flesh, presents just this face of God to us? He comes at first. He comes at first. Not with fire and brimstone. But he comes to us as a suffering servant, as a man of tenderness. It would not break a bruised reed. He comes to us with compassion and long suffering presence. And what kind of heart must we have if we Refuse him. If we refuse him, are we any better than the Pharisees? Are we any better than those who despised him and put him to the cross? Brothers and sisters, this application is straightforward. It's the dawn of a new year. But in many ways, the same challenges are in front of us. As we look at our lives and at the world in which we are to inhabit, how are we going to look at them? Are we listening to that still small voice that is speaking to us? Are we going to look at the world about us in humble reliance upon his grace for all of the times that we see And knowing that as long as we turn back to Him, and as long as His Spirit works with us, that the hope of salvation, the hope of grace is ours. Have we really truly come to grips with that fact that God is the owner of the vineyard and our lives are not our own? Have we stepped back From that and seeing that everything God has given us is there in which He intends to bring fruit from it. And isn't our desire not to shape that life He has given us according to our own selfish wishes, but to shape it as He desires to have it shaped, and to seek after His wisdom as to how that is to show Now is the time customarily for reflection. Before the hurly burley of the world swamps us again, now is the season when God is calling us. to think about this stuff. And remember the Son of God that He has sent. He sent him first to Israel and now He has sent him to us. We are to be the fulfillment of the prophecy that is here spoken by the Lord Himself, that it was to the kingdom was to be given to a nation that would bear fruit from it Now is the time for us to take that to heart. It's not enough for us to sit and shake our heads at the folly of these Pharisees, for if we do not see ourselves Numbered among them, except for the grace of God, that we've lost the whole point. We must not follow their lead. We must not be like the second And say, yes, I will, and not do it. We must embrace our calling to be dutiful vine dressers And dutiful sons. Let's pray.