Turn with me to Psalm sixteen. We continue our study of the Psalms this morning, Psalm 16. Please allow me to read that to you, and then I'll ask for prayer for illumination. A mitam of David Preserve me, O God, for in you I put my trust. Oh my soul, you have said to the Lord, You are my Lord. My goodness is nothing apart from you, or I have no good apart from you. As for the saints who are on the earth, they are the excellent one in whom is all my delight. Their sorrows shall be multiplied, who hasten after another God, their drink offerings of blood I will not offer, nor take up their names on my lips. O Lord, you are the portion of my inheritance and my cup. You maintain my lots. The lines have fallen to me in pleasant places. Yes, I have a good inheritance. I will bless the Lord who has given me counsel. My heart also instructs me in the night seasons. I have set the Lord always before me because he is at my right hand. I shall not be moved. Therefore, my heart is glad, and my glory rejoices. My flesh also will rest in hope. For you will not leave my soul in Sheol, nor will you allow your holy one to see corruption You shall show me the path of life. In your presence is fullness of joy. At your right hand are pleasures forevermore. Please pray with me. Lord God, these words are inexhaustible. But we do pray that you would give us our portion this morning and that you would count Counsel us from these words, that you would open our minds and our hearts. I pray especially for those who are stuck in darkness this morning, that you'd open their eyes and that they would see the light Light of your glory. I don't care how old they are, Lord, speak to them through your word this morning. In the name of Christ. Amen. I honestly do not feel worthy to preach on this song. That is how I feel this morning. I don't feel worthy to preach on any of these Psalms, but especially this one. Psalms 1 and 2, if you don't mind taking a look, let's do a quick review. Psalms 1 and 2, we see here are the front porch and the front door to the Psalms. I pray that you have had time to study those and that you've learned what it means to enter into the life of the Psalms. When we turn the page to Psalm 3 and to Psalm 4, it moves very quickly from the The felicitous life of the Psalms and the submission to our king into trouble and lament. And that's Psalm 3 and 4, isn't it? But when we turn to Psalm 8, we get a break amidst all the enemies of our Messiah. And we have a hymn of praise. We'll see that the Lord will work through the mouth of babes and nursing infants. Everyone will know how excellent his name is throughout all of the earth. Last week, as we now move to Psalm 15 We discovered our first Torah Psalm or Catechism Psalm. This was shocking to see in the midst of devotional literature inspired, of course Law. Most of the time we don't think of the law as a time of devotion, but we should. Shouldn't we? Studying the Psalms, this Psalm 15 revealed several important points. To enter into the new heaven and the new earth, you must be morally blameless. Who shall abide in your tabernacle? Who may dwell in your holy hill? The morally blameless, those who walk upright and work righteousness. That's what we heard. Very surprising to us. You must read the Psalms, is the second thing we learned in the context of the whole sacrificial context. Otherwise, you'll read this one legalistically. But nevertheless, it's not as if we set the law aside. Because Christ has been obedient to the law for us. Yes, it is true, thirdly, that Jesus is our blameless and moral life substitute, but lastly, Jesus also progressively sanctifies his To actually be the words that we see here on this page, that we wouldn't be backbiters, that we'd keep our vows even when it hurts. That's the work that Christ is doing in us, that we would be blameless. And when we see him, we shall be like him, morally blameless. And I look forward to that day for myself and for you the day of glory psalm fifteen had several points and the last was uh taking the the moral context seriously but taking it In context. And I gave you so much information to orient you to the Levitical system that I stopped. There was about two more hours or more of information that I needed to give you on Psalm 15. But it wouldn't have been a good day for any of us if I had done that. There's much more to give. So in the introduction here, I do want to point out a couple things as we move into Psalm 16. So that you can really orient yourself to this section of Psalms. And that's why it's not just a sermon series, it's a study in the book of Psalms. I want you to hear the word preached and to be changed on the spot, but I want you to be able to go home and read this book owing Your own. It's part of what it means to be Protestant. And so I told you before, when we were looking at the whole book of the Psalms or the Psalter, that it is divided into five different collections. And some of you came to me afterwards and said, Yeah, that's exactly what I never noticed it, but my Bible says it. It says book one, book two, book three. And that's exactly right. Well, there's something else. Within that five-fold collection, there are smaller collections And we're actually in the middle of one right now. It starts at Psalm 15 and goes to Psalm 24. That's a mini collection within the books. I've included in your bulletin, take a look, the relationships. Or the relationship between the Psalms in that collection in your bulletin. Do you notice the structure? Isn't that great? Isn't that beautiful? That not only with individual sentences and with individual psalms do we see this chiastic structure, but we also see it from psalm to psalm. Notice the structure here and how we've characterized it. It was like when we dropped a rock in a pond and the ripples started going out from the center. Psalm 19 is the center. And the ripples go out to Psalm 15 and to Psalm 24. And you need to know that. Usually when you're studying Psalms, you're studying them in isolation, as if one psalm has nothing to do with the name of the Psalms. Next. And therefore your study is limited. But here there's a lesson. Compare these psalms. Let them slide and transition. into each other and compare the ones in the chiastic structure, which we're going to do this morning to be able to understand what the psalmist is saying. The group of Psalms is connected, and we can progress, for example, from Psalm 15 to Psalm 16, knowing that this collection is like this. They're not isolated. So this is what I would say if we wanted to just give you an example of moving from Psalm 15. Who may dwell in your tabernacle to Psalm 16, preserve me, which is a psalm of trust. God graciously through Jesus has made a place for us on his holy hill. Psalm 15. Now, Psalm 16, you can live confidently that God is for you and never against you. That's how how the Psalms progress. And it would go into 17 and 18 and 19, and then it's going to go back up the other side with 20 and 21 and following. Now, in addition to that, not only could we transition from fifteen to sixteen, but if you look at the structure again on the bulletin, you should be comparing sixteen and twenty-three, just as we could have compared. And I did in my own mind, I just didn't share it with you. I comp And this past week in in Sunday school, uh Kate was comparing those two as we were discussing the psalm. She immediately saw the connection. Small group, in small group. Take a look, for example, in Psalm 24 and hold your finger on 15 and look at the repetition of the phrase. And verse three of twenty-four. Fifteen starts off with Lord who may abide in your tabernacle, who may dwell on your holy hill. We may stand in his holy place. There's all kinds of connections like that that you're going to want to work out for yourself. And we'll begin working some of those out this morning as we consider 16 and 23 Now holding where 16 is, I want you to flip in your Bibles to Psalm 23, although I imagine most of you have this one memorized. Psalm 23 is clearly divided into scenes or pictures. You should be familiar with those scenes, the scene of the shepherd and the scene of the Table. And I want you to imagine a play with Psalm 23. The curtain goes up, and the first scene that we see is a shepherd and his sheep walking them through the valley of the shadow of death. Then the curtain goes down and there's an intermission. The curtain rises again, and the scene is of a banquet with a royal host inviting you to the table. Verse 5. And in the end, the psalmist expresses his supreme and resolute confidence based on the knowledge of God as the shepherd and as the host. Now you can go back to Psalm 16. In the same way there are scenes in Psalm 16. In the same way, God will reveal Himself in different ways. In the same way, that revelation is to inspire confidence within you, both in your life and in your death. In other words, Psalm 16 and Psalm 23 are both considered Psalms of confidence. Or Psalms of Trust. Psalm 16 is all about confidence. Based on the knowledge of God as master Based on the knowledge of God as your portion, based on the knowledge of God as your counselor, you may have confidence in life and death. That's the main message of Psalm 16. If you wanted to put it more concisely, we may have confidence as Christians in the Lord with our lives and with our deaths. What a glorious truth. Now I want to look at this under those three scenes There's going to be the Lord as Master, the Lord as portion, the Lord as counselor, and then we'll have confidence for death. So let's begin to look at this truth. We may have confidence in the Lord with our lives and with our The first thing we see, there's a scene one in verses one through four. Here is: the Lord is my master. Preserve me, O God, for in you I put my trust. O my soul, you have said to the Lord, You are my Lord. My goodness is nothing apart from you. The curtain rises on this first scene, and we see David as a servant and Yahweh as the master. You can think of a lot of different scenes that are like that throughout the scriptures of a servant and a master, Abraham and his servants. Well, it's a play that's going on like that, a real-life drama. This is brought out clearly from verse 2. Did you notice how unusual this is? In verse 2, O my soul, you have said to the Lord, You are my Lord. Doesn't that sound like a repetition or strange? He's really emphasizing that quote, You are my Lord. It's actually two different words, and maybe you're you're translation picks up on that. In verse 2, O my soul, you have said to the Lord is capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D, and then 2B is capital L, lowercase O, lowercase R Lowercase D. And your translators are trying to show you there's a different Hebrew word behind that. So it says this: O my soul, you have said to Yahweh, you are my Adonai. You see that? You are my he said to Yahweh, you are my Adonai. Yahweh, and Adonai is Lord or Master. Yahweh, you are my master. You are my Lord. The word Lord means master. In Genesis 42, 10, and they said to him, No, my Lord, Adonai, but your servants have come to buy food. Speaking about Joseph's brothers there as he comes Before Joseph. They placed themselves before him in total subservience, knowing their place. And that's why they call themselves servants. And thus the portrayal. In verse 1, David is desperate. He paints the picture of deep distress. Preserve me, be careful with me, be tender with me, as if I were a child near ravenous wolves. I need you to care for me that deeply. And I put my trust in you. That's the deep distress. And then he turns to Yahweh as a protective owner or master to give refuge to him. As a master should give refuge to his servants. There's a sense, then, that the scene implies, as we look at the drama on the stage, and a sense of obligation that Yahweh has to his servants. The master or owner must protect his property. You can hear that in the background being leveled. And likewise, we see the same kind of thing in the book of Ruth. Ruth persuasively positions herself before Boaz, inciting his sense of honor and obligation. That's not the scene that we have on the stage right now, but it could have been That could be the drama, Ruth before Boaz. Listen to what she says. Then she said, let me find favor in your sight, my Adonai. For you have comforted me and have spoken kindly to your maidservant, though I am not like one of your maidservants. Even though you have no obligation to me, oblige yourself to me to protect me. You know she was starving. She wasn't able to provide for herself or for her family. And similarly, David situates himself before Yahweh In kindling Yahweh's sense of obligation. Now, if you look at the rest of this passage, this whole scene is verses 1 through 4. Apparently David had other options. My goodness is nothing apart from you. As for the saints who are on the earth, they are the excellent ones in whom is all my delight. Now look at verse four. Their sorrows shall be multiplied, who hastened after another. God. Their drink offerings of blood I will not offer, nor take up their names on my lips. Why is he saying these things? He's saying it because these are the ups other options that he's confronted with. He could have turned to other refuge. Just as we do. Verse 4 provides some real life drama on the stage. Will David offer sacrifices of blood and call upon the name of other gods for refuge? End of episode. End of season, you've got to wait until the fall to find out. That's what it would have been like if it were on Netflix. We know that this is a problem. David's leadership and cabinet had given up on Yahweh to provide food. Do you remember that? In the other psalm, the drought had lasted so long, despite constant prayer from the nation and the king, that they decided to turn to Baal for refuge, for provisions. But it wasn't so with David and the He and the faithful kept calling out to Yahweh, Show us some good. Fill our barns with grapes and grapes. We shall not turn to any other God for our provisions. And likewise, David does not turn to other masters in verses 1 through 4. It's where he finds his confidence. He knows that only sorrow waits for those who are servants to other masters besides Yahweh. Their sorrow shall be multiplied, who hasten after another God. It's futile, it's vain. Instead, verse 3: David will remain with the faithful saints. the congregation that continues to worship Yahweh. His God is Yahweh and His people are Yahweh's people. Since David asks for preservation in verse 1, and I'm not going to skip ahead too much in this, but in 10 he asks for preservation in death. The stakes are high. The stakes are high for David. Yet David wants no other master to protect him. Is that how you feel about Yahweh, your Adonai? When things get really difficult, is he the one that you want to do a trust fall with? And lean on. If we were playing poker, which we shouldn't, David would have pushed in all the chips. It's just the image for you. David holds nothing back. He expresses this most deeply by saying, I have no good apart from you. When you are in the midst of suffering and distress, are those the words that come out of your mouth? Or is it, you never do anything good for me? I know that we fluctuate, we say both, don't we? But we can learn from David that these are the true words that should come from out of our mouths. I have no good apart from you. I put everything in. You are my master. I want you to take ownership of me and take responsibility for me, because in you I can trust. In the words of Psalm 23, he would have said this: The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. But because we're in Psalm 16, which is the mirror image, he says, the Lord is my master. I shall not want any good thing. That's his point. When we see the devotion of David and we compare our own devotion, the scene isn't easy to view. We fall short. But don't be tricked. Remember, David had sins. David had devotions and he had sins. Remember that David's heightened sense of devotion here is in the context of real danger and anguish. Verse 1: Preserve me. Verse 10, Sheol and Death. This is serious stuff here. When times are really tough Don't you throw yourself at the feet of Yahweh like a servant to their master inciting obligation. I mean when they're really tough. I don't mean that they're tough and in 15 minutes it dries up. I don't mean it's tough and then two years it dries up. I mean it's relentless on you You realize you have no other means to accomplish the end like being faced with death. It's there. I know, Christian, that you do throw yourself before You do incite his sense of obligation, and you seek to persuade him to protect you and to provide for you And those moments of extreme distress, because this psalm is corporate, and being spoken to those who are not under the exact same distress, are meant to be a lesson to us even out of our distress. No matter where you are in your life, let this be a lesson. Yahweh in every circumstance is reliable, and you want Him as your Adonai. The Lord is your master. In him take confidence. The Lord, as master, supplies us with confidence in this life. Confidence grows as we rehearse furthermore that the Lord is our portion. It picks up immediately in verse 5. It says it in the NKJV, the word portion, which is Our church Bibles, and so I've chosen that word, but you probably have some other translations. Could be inheritance. There's a number of words here. O Lord, you are my portion of my inheritance and my cup. And I want you to pay attention to the list of words that are going on here. Let me just read them to you. You maintain my lot. The lines have fallen to me in pleasant places. I have a good inheritance. You see, all that language is circling around in the same domain. Portion is in verse 5, but 5 and 6 are filled with words denoting portion, inheritance, portion, lots, lines in pleasant places. Does this remind you of any other biblical stories, all this language? The curtain rises, and what's the drama that you see if you had to choose another biblical story? The curtain rises, and the second scene is of Yahweh handing out portions of land, just as Joshua apportioned the land to the Israelites. Same language. Joshua 13, 6 through 7. Notice the same terms. All the inhabitants of the mountains, them I will drive out from before the children of Israel. Only divide it by lot to Israel as an inheritance, as I have commanded you. Now therefore, divide or apportion or portion this land as an inheritance That's the drama that we see. The curtain rises on the second scene, and it's as if Joshua is apportioning land, or God is through Joshua apportioning. But did you notice the difference between the language that I said from Joshua and the language of Psalm 16? It's just an analogy. The reality is this. It doesn't say you have provided me with an inheritance by lot. David says, you are my portion. You are my inheritance. You are the one that maintains my lot. This is what he said to the tribe of the Levites. The priest of the Levites and all the tribe of Levi shall have no part nor inheritance with Israel. Therefore they shall have no inheritance among their brethren. The Lord is their inheritance, as he said to them The Levites then depended for all things from the hands of Yahweh, and Yahweh would move through the people through tithes and offerings to provide for them. But nevertheless it was always Yahweh that provided. The Levites were not able to go out and depend upon the resources of just their own land It would have been provided by Yahweh. It is very difficult, I think, when you hear that the Lord is my portion or my Inheritance. What does that really mean in real life? Well, when you comp when you know that it should be compared to Psalm 23, there's a helpful image that is given to us. In Psalm 16, it shows that the Lord is our portion and our inheritance. The equivalent In Psalm 23 is the banquet and the host. Actually, notice when you get a chance in Psalm 23 that the word cup is used in both scenes. And so too, when we talk about the Lord being our inheritance, our portion, So too, here Yahweh is the host who owns all land, he owns all inheritance, he owns all produce, he owns all wealth, and as a generous host, he takes care of his people, whether you own it or not. That's the point. You don't own much. In fact, those of us who live in the suburbs might not even own a quarter of an acre. And if you had to become self-sustaining, you probably wouldn't do very well. And that's why it's so comforting to us to turn to the Lord as our portion, who owns all of Montana, and all of the eastern shore and shore, and all the corn, and all the crabs in the Chesapeake Bay. And so we who are poor end up with crabs from the Chesapeake Bay and fish. This isn't really David's concern, though, crabs from the bay and fish. Reading in context, David was not concerned about land or food. He was using that, then how faithful God has been in his provisions In all of those things to help to build up his confidence in many things. In verse 1, he asks for preservation and refuge. Those are two words that denote an extreme situation, the kind of situation that makes you realize that nothing can save you but God. A time of deep dependence, being on a sailboat out in the middle of the ocean when a squall hits. When you are young, quite honestly, times of deep dependence on God and realizing that He truly is your only portion When you are young, those moments are rare. Honestly. When you are young, you have ambitions. You're gonna be, I was gonna be an archaeologist. And then I was going to next year be an astronaut. You choose certain means to accomplish those goals. I'm going to do this and I'm going to do that. I'm going to the Naval Academy And I'm going to have a certain career, and I'm going to do this training, and I'm going to go to this school, and I'm going to rise up in the ranks in this way. Life is all about knowing what I want and having the drive and forethought to get it, and nothing can stop me. That's what it's like to be young. But as you grow older, by God's grace you realize that the best laid plans will only be successful if God is your portion. Isn't that true? True, brothers and sisters. Perhaps you're even learning that this moment. But perhaps maybe you're just still too young. But you'll learn it. We are entirely dependent on God. In the end, our optimism in educational institutions and medical industries will be too optimistic We won't realize that they'll all fail us. All of our lives are dependent on the lot that God apportions us, the boundaries that God fixes for our lives. And the older you get as God draws closer and closer to you, the more you realize that. That's scary. Everything Is dependent, like the Levites, on God giving your portion. But tell me that it's not also true as that happens to you, as your ambitions fall off and you realize that it's totally up to God how your life will be shaped. Tell me that you don't also say with the psalmist, lines have fallen for me in pleasant places. That's a true life. And so paradoxical for us. This is a psalm of trust. David has confessed his undying confidence in God as his master, and his utter dependence on God as his portion. And now we raise for the final scene here: the Lord is my counselor. Scene three. Curtain went down in intermission or a new season starts in Netflix. Season three. The curtain rises once more is the title of the season. Several characters could be on stage, starting in verse seven. I will bless the Lord who has given me counsel. My heart also instructs me at night. I have set the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved. Moved. What should the picture be in the drama as the curtain rises? What biblical stories can you see? Is it Jethro giving counsel to Moses amongst all of those people that needed to resolve their disputes? Should it be Hushai giving counsel to David, or of Ahithophel giving counsel to Absalom? Those are scenes that are analogous, but the real scene is of God giving counsel to David. How does it play out? How does God give counsel to him? I believe David is drawing attention that he receives counsel from his word based on 7B. My heart also instructs me in the night seasons. Those of you who memorized Proverbs 4 should remind you of this verse. David must be referring to God's counsel through his word, because David has stored the words of God in his heart, and his heart is instructing him while he is on his bed at night. In his meditations. And thus the Lord's thoughts and plans and decrees are always before him, and they secure him that he would not be moved, which is profound. Because I've given a lot of counsel, and people are not necessarily secured in it. But insofar as I've given the same counsel as the Lord gives, they are secure in it because his decrees never fail. That's the point. The Lord's Counsel is used in a profound way. Take, for example, the story of Ahiphophel David knew that Ahithophel was a strategic counselor, and so he prayed to Yahweh to frustrate Ahithophel's counsel or plans. Lord, frustrate the counsel of Ahithophel. And through Hushai, Ahithophel's plans failed, and Absalom was killed. Thus, this is what it shows. God determines all counsel, and that the counsels of God are his unstoppable plans. No wonder he cannot be moved. Can you see why the supreme confidence? Can you imagine, as a human being, have the audacity to just say, I will not be moved in the midst of a life like this? That's why David had so much confidence. If David follows God's plans, here's the syllogism: if David follows God's plans, and God's plans are invincible, then David's confidence is irrefutable. So when God desired to show more convincingly to the heirs of the promise the unchangeable character of his purpose and plans. He guaranteed it with an oath, so that by two unchangeable things in which it is impossible for God to lie, we who have fled for refuge and preservation might have strong encouragement to hold fast to the hopes that For us. That's how the author of Hebrews puts it. Relying on the same thing as the Lord as his counselor. Jesus as the Christ was the counsel. No matter what persecution I undergo, I will not give him up. And don't you give him up either. Is the message of Hebrews. That's the point. When the Lord is your counselor, then his plans never fail, and you shall not be moved. You will have ultimate confidence within your life. Shall not be moved is an ultimate expression of confidence in God for this life. It is meant to be taken as a finale In the Psalm, as we reach that verse. Verse 8, he's been building and building and building. I shall not be moved. The curtain raised to reveal three main scenes. The Lord is my master. The Lord is my portion. The Lord is my counselor. And then with a cumulative effect. We see this increased confidence. All three scenes have prepared us for the now, the finale. Your confidence in God for life leads you to confidence in God. For your death. That's the main point of this message. And we've arrived at where we can now tip over and take everything that we've learned in life And realize that it's also true in death. This is so comforting to us. This is so liberating to us. Do you fear death? No more. Where is its sting after this psalm? Look at let me prove to you that this is the finale. We immediately move into verse 9 with this last points of confidence and death. Therefore, you see it? His chest is broad with the might of the Lord. Therefore Verse 9 is our proof that all the scenes have been building up confidence for the sake of this one moment. It began in verse 1. David's heart is glad and he rejoices. He started in verse 1. Preserve. And he didn't know until he got to nine. And now he says, Oh yes, you're my refuge. My heart is glad and it rejoices because I've realized this He begins with his plea for preservation. He ends with confidence that Yahweh will give it to him. And this refuge is not from a drought like in Psalm 4, or from rebellious leadership, not having enough grapes or wine or wheat. This refuge and preservation is giving during death itself. For you will not leave my soul in Sheol, nor will you allow your Holy One to see corruption The refuge and preservation given is during death itself. Confidence in life leads to confidence of preservation and death. Do you know how special this is? It's more special than me helping you to have confidence not only in life but in death. This is special because this is a special messianic psalm. Did you know that we've already read these words in the service in the beginning? From Peter's sermon? A messianic psalm is a psalm that instructs us and relates us to Jesus the Messiah. And so far you've seen this in every single psalm. But it's happened by Jesus being a Messiah, just like the other Messiahs. And since they're a part of that office. The truth is true for all of them, but most true for Jesus. They were just shadows. Jesus is the reality. But this is different. Then it's what is said of one Messiah or an unnointed one in some sense because This one is very different. We can't say, because of the Sermon of Peter, that David experienced this exactly. Psalm 16, at least verse 10, is not the exact experience of David. David is somehow seeing the future and prophesying of what will happen to Jesus. Yahweh will not leave Jesus' corpse in a grave, but will raise Jesus before decay sets in. And I say all of this because Psalm 16 is from Acts 2. 29. And you can review that on your own time. But Peter quotes this and in detail, and he says these basic truths. David was acting as a prophet, foreseeing that Yahweh would raise the Christ from the dead and not allow his flesh to see corruption. This Jesus God has raised, and therefore Jesus is both Lord and Christ. What you have been witnessing, therefore, Christian, churched or unchurched are the inner thoughts of Jesus the Christ Himself. Jesus the Christ building up confidence in God. the Father. Confidence for his life, but ultimately confidence for his death that he know he needed to face. Jesus saw his father as a protective master, a portion, and a counselor. And he followed his decrees to the end because he knew he would never be shaken if he just followed the plan of the Father. And this confident relationship in life convinced Jesus that his father would take care of him even in death. And even in after death, where Jesus ascends to the right hand of God to have pleasures forevermore. That's how the Psalm ends. Jesus must have meditated on these things, and they were his very thoughts. Isn't that beautiful? To share the thoughts of Christ, to enter in corporately with him. Do you have confidence in God with your life? That's the question that the psalm raises for you. Go to this psalm as Christ did, and deepen your sense of God as your master protecting you, as your portion providing for you, as your counselor guiding you. Lift the curtain of your life. Let us see scenes of confidence that you have in your God. Endeavor through the power of Christ's Spirit to have scenes of confidence As God becomes your confidence in this life, you will realize that He is your confidence even in death. And not only your own death. Jesus entrusted his body to Yahweh. Yahweh raised him on the third day. And because this psalm is corporate Jesus tells you to entrust your death to God and entrust your resurrection. It means that you can say all the same words Just as God the Father did not leave Jesus' body in the grave, neither will our bodies be left in the grave. This is of utmost comfort. To us. Let me say something that is so profound and deep. Have you ever had to bury a child? You know what the Psalm tells us? God knows that child. God knows the body of that child. God knows that He will raise that child. He cares for the child. Just as God the Father did not leave Jesus' body in the grave, our children will not be left in the grave. Have you ever had to bury any loved one? It could be a spouse or whoever Have confidence in God the Father, who shall give life to their bodies. Who has a God like us? No one. Those who are in Christ. Christian, do you see that lines have fallen for you in pleasant places? Could be life or it could be death. But what we learn here is that it is also in resurrection. At your right hand, even after death, are pleasures forevermore. Amen. Amen. Please pray with me. Oh Lord, who are you? To where death is not a hurdle. It is not an obstacle Lord, we've been living in our lives as if you've been small. But look how big you are. I pray that you would grow in our eyes and that as you grow, we would grow in our confidence, not only in the life but also in death and in resurrection. In Christ's name, Amen.