Disciples went out to the towns of Caesarea Philippi, and on the road he asked his disciples, saying to them, Who do men say that I am? So they answered, John the Baptist But some say Elijah, and others one of the prophets. He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Peter answered and said to him, You are the Christ. Then he strictly warned them that they should tell no one about him. Please pray with me. Lord, thank you for your word. You know that your people we will not be able to figure it out on our own. Our weakness, our frailty. the disastrous effects of sin on our mind. We cannot do this by ourselves. And so not only have you given us your own self-revelation here in your word, but you have preserved it for us. And you have given us your spirit To lead us into all truth through your word. Oh God, would you please use your word tonight to lead us into the truth? And I pray, God, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O God, my servant Strength and my Redeemer. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. When I was little I I didn't necessarily understand things very well, as happens to us when we're small. I distinctly remember at around age six or seven that I really truly thought that Jesus' last name was Christ. I thought it was his name. And I thought that's why we are called Christian, right? We're we're brought into his family. And so like when a a wife takes the name of her husband, we take that name. on ourselves. Have any of you ever thought that? Kids, did you did you ever give any thought to why Jesus is called Christ? Did you think it was his last name? There's no one faulting you for that. But do you realize that Christ is not a name? It's a title. It means anointed one. Christ is actually the Greek version of a Hebrew word. You probably know that Hebrew word if you've ever listened to Handel's Messiah. Christos is the Greek word that translates the Hebrew word Mashiach or Messiah. If you were to turn back to the very beginning of Mark's gospel, you would see something that I've been trying to remind us every Sunday night that we have a sermon from Mark. Mark has a purpose that he's trying to fulfill. It's the purpose that the Spirit has given him for writing this gospel. He is proving to us, proving to you, that Jesus is the Christ. He's the Son of God. Everything he's done so far has been to take us up a mountain That as we ascend, we would see all of these pillars of truth of what Jesus has done And I'm really excited to tell you all that we have finally reached the apex. We've reached the top of the mountain of Mark. This is quite literally in the very center of this gospel. And the very center of the Mountain of Mark, you will see a confession of who Jesus is. He is the Christ. He is the Messiah. But as we saw last week, it's not enough just to see those pillars and those signs, those signposts, those guideposts on the journey, we must understand What they mean, we it's not enough to just see it. We have to understand and have our sight clearly restored, perfectly restored. So that we would understand exactly who he is. It is that understanding which only God can give. Remember last week's passage, we had the double healing of the blind man. His eyes were restored, and he saw things. But it's not enough just to see. Jesus then laid his hands on him again, restored his understanding. And he could see clearly all things. Well, tonight's passage, it being the apex of the gospel, it is vitally important for us. It's vitally important for you. Because it's very important that none of us are mistaken about this one truth. The truth that's here in this passage is crucial that you don't misunderstand. Knowing about Jesus is not the same as believing in Jesus. Knowing about Jesus Is not the same thing as believing in Jesus. And we're going to look at this passage, this very short passage in two ways. We're going to look first at verses 27 to 28, in which we see That there are those who know about Jesus. And then we'll look at the confession, verses 29 through 30, of those who believe in Jesus. So let's get right to it. Verse 27. We start to examine what it is to know about Jesus. Now Jesus and his disciples went out to the towns of Caesarea Philippi. And on the road he asked his disciples, saying to them, Who do men say that I am? Here's another journey. Last week they were on a boat. They were moving across the Sea of Galilee, and Jesus gave them a test. And here on the road, he gives them another test, another examination. What if you've asked yourself, why is Jesus testing his disciples so much? Why is he asking them these questions? And it's because Jesus loves his disciples He loves them so much that he will never stop testing their faith. He will never stop examining them. And asking them important questions to judge where they are, to gauge their understanding of Him. After this point, at the pinnacle of the mountain, we're going to be descending the mountain, and it's even more of a test for the disciples. We'll see it next week when we get into the very next pericope, the very next paragraph, the very next point. That now that he will test their understanding, he'll be testing their love for him. I wonder if you realize, brothers and sisters, that the same is true for you. Jesus loves you so much, He will never stop testing your faith. There will never come a point in your life where you can just sit back and rest easy. I believe. Even if you have an assurance of your salvation, God will continue to examine you, to send you situations and trials, to test where you are and who you're trusting in. That should make us praise him. That should make us rejoice that he loves us so much. He'll never let us stray from the path. We might get really close to the woods. We might get really close to the ditch on either side of that path towards the celestial city. But if he has called you to himself, he will never let you stray so far from that path that you will be lost. And so when things happen in your life, when things come about and you wonder to yourself, what are you doing, God? What are you doing to me? What am I doing? Why is this all falling apart? Stop, take a deep breath, and remind yourself. God loves you. It's part of his plan for you. And it's very possible, perhaps even likely, he's taking Testing the strength of your faith. Really, this test that he gives to the disciples is the whole passage. The whole passage is one test. And it's simply this: Who am I? Who is Jesus? He may be moving you in your life in such a way that every single day he's getting you to think, who do you believe Jesus is? He's putting you around individuals and people and putting you in situations to drive you in your heart and in your mind to ask yourself, who is this Jesus? And so we must first look at this test. It's the whole passage, but let's look at this first part. The first part of the test we find at the very end of verse 27. Right? Who do men say that I am? And the disciples answer very accurately. They get it right. Look at what they say. They answered, John the Baptist, but some say Elijah, and others one of the prophets. They get it right. Not necessarily that those answers are right, but they understand what men are saying about Jesus and what men believe about Jesus. Let's look at each one of these. John the Baptist. We had already seen earlier in Mark that John the Baptist had a very, let's call it, unglorious end. He was imprisoned by Herod. Eventually, he was sacrificed, quite literally, executed, as part of a party trick. His head brought out on a platter. But everyone knew who John the Baptist was. Even Herod, remember? The whole reason that Mark told us what happened in Herod's beheading was because he had heard all the things that Jesus was doing, heard the things that the disciples were doing. They had been sent out to minister in his name. And do you remember what Herod said? Herod quaked with fear. And he said, This must be John the Baptist, reborn. John the Baptist is back from the dead. And so those who thought that Jesus was John the Baptist, they realized something about him. They realized that Jesus was special. They realized that he was unique. Just like John the Baptist, they knew that he was holy, a man set apart by God. John the Baptist preached powerfully. And so did Jesus. John the Baptist, the baptizer. The cleanser. They saw what Jesus had done and they said, Yes, Jesus is cleansing. He cleanses lepers. He's healing those of these unclean spirits. And like John, he's revealing something about us as Jews and something about God as our God. But John was dead. John had died. Well, the next person that they said that Jesus was is very much like John the Baptist, isn't he? In fact, if you know your gospels well, you know that Jesus says, if you can accept it, John was Elijah. But the people, they think Jesus is Elijah. Well, what's What's very similar about this is that Elijah is a very special prophet. He was very special in the Old Testament. He was very holy, a holy man. God used him to do many mighty miracles and wonders. God himself validated Elijah as a special servant of him. Do you remember Mount Carmel? Do you remember what happened there? When Elijah called down fire? When for an entire day. The servants of Baal were cutting themselves and jumping around like lunatics calling out for Baal, and Elijah in his inimicable way said, well maybe maybe he's in the bathroom. Maybe he's on vacation. Or maybe he just doesn't like you and he's not answering you. God validated him and sent fire down. And through Elijah, what did he do? He turns the hearts of the people back to God. After that moment, he slays the priests of Baal. I can't remember the exact number. I wish I'd have looked it up. But it's it's more than just a few. They were all killed there, right after that, with the blessing of the people, the people of Israel who had turned after Baal and followed those priests. He's a very special, special man. If you feel like turning to Malachi chapter 4, we can go there and we can see just how special Elijah is. At the very end of the Old Testament, or I should say, the very end of the Older Testament, before there was a period of silence from God, Malachi says this, chapter 4, verses 5 and 6: Behold! I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord Jehovah. And he will turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers, lest I come and strike the earth with a curse. The Jews had known about this, so much so that they had added to the celebration of Passover something very special. Even today, Jews do this when they celebrate the Seder meal, the Passover. They leave a place for Elijah. Did you know that? They don't just leave a place for him, though. At the end of the whole celebration, they pour a cup of wine for him. And then do you know what the youngest child in the household does He goes to the door and he opens the door holding the cup of wine. And they invite Elijah. They want Elijah to return. The faithful Jews want that messenger to come that God had promised, who would turn the hearts of the children back to the hearts of their fathers. What does that mean? That means that they would Turn and believe as their fathers had believed, that they would love what their fathers had loved, love the Lord their God, and trust him. The Jews thought that Jesus was a law. Elijah. And so they recognized something very special about Jesus, a little bit more special than if you had just been John the Baptist. They recognized that he was a very historically significant person. Someone whom they had long awaited. But they didn't quite get it right. They missed the Elijah, and so they missed what came after Elijah. Well still the men say that Jesus is one of the prophets. Again, special, again a very holy man. Someone blessed to do miracles and wonders and great teaching. This is what the prophets had always done. And yet It's insulting, isn't it, to think that Jesus was just another prophet, just one among many. Obviously, he was more than that. And I wonder if you guys realize modern-day Muslims, this is what they believe about Jesus. Just another prophet, just another man who was able to do and say and teach things that were remarkable, but it's not more special than any other prophet. Yes, he's a prophet. Yes, he's a sign of God's love and God's care. But they don't get it right. They don't understand who Jesus really is. And I want to point out to you that all of these are very, very positive, aren't they? Notice that they didn't answer what had happened also earlier in Mark, when the the Pharisees come and they say, Oh, he's he's using the power of Satan to drive out Satan. He's a servant of Baalzebol or Baer Baelzebul, whichever version you want to. One's either Lord of the Flies or Lud or Lord of the Dung Heat. I sort of ask you, brothers and sisters, do you give this any thought? Do you ever think about who people say that Jesus is? Gone are the days where the world will come at Jesus directly and claiming that he's something wicked. Did you know that in the early church they used to claim that Christians were cannibals? They thought that Christians ate babies. Did you know that? And the reason for that is because in that time it was not uncommon, in fact, it was very typical. For a child to be born and then to be thrown onto the trash heap because it was a girl and couldn't inherit property. Or because it maybe had some deformity or was smaller or had some challenges. And so in the Roman Empire they would throw the babies out as garbage. And the Christians wouldn't abide that The Christians were always taking babies off of the garbage heap and bringing them into their own households, and they were raising them as their own children. But they couldn't understand that. Why would a Roman understand that? They would simply think, oh, well, they must be doing something very bizarre. with these babies. And then they heard about the love feasts and they heard about the Lord's table and the supper and they felt like, oh, they must be eating these children. God proved them wrong, of course, as the Roman Empire gradually became more and more enlightened. And Christians were seen for who they are. But it hasn't been recently that the world says. Jesus is evil. Jesus is wicked. In fact, most often, the world is saying, yeah, Jesus is great. He's a good moral teacher. He's got a lot of good things to say. Have you ever heard the quote by Gandhi? You you would probably recognize it. He says, I like your Christ, but I don't like your Christians. If he knew who the Christ was, he wouldn't say something so flippant. He would fall on his knees and on his face before the Almighty. God and beg him for mercy. Beg him for that understanding that we saw last week. Is it enough not to think bad things about Jesus? To think that he's a a good example, a historical figure like many other historical figures who simply has been exaggerated by later scholars or religious followers. Is it enough to simply think that he was a good teacher and he had some good lessons for us? Christians, I ask you specifically, is it enough to think that Jesus is just a good example for you as a Christian? As to how you should live and how you should think. It's not enough. We must not be content to simply think good things about Jesus, to know about Him And praise our great God. He will never leave you as his people there to be content with that. He will call his own to himself, like we saw in John chapter 6. Our great God knows that it is not good enough that we simply know about His Son. He orders our lives that we would get What is most needed? He gives us faith so that we would believe in Jesus Not just know about him, but truly believe in him. And so let's look at the rest of this passage together Which we examine believing in Jesus. We see the rest of this test in verse 29. He said to them, But who do you say that I am? That you there, we lose in the New King James. If you have a King James, it probably says, who do ye say? It's the plural. Who do y'all say that I am? He's not just asking Peter, he was asking all of his disciples. And yet it's Peter who answers. Now we could think that this is because Peter was had more boldness, maybe he was more courageous. Was it that Peter had a superior education? Nope, they were fishermen. In fact, it it's likely that the tax collector had more of an education than Peter did, but Peter's the one who comes out and answers. And we have to look at Matthew chapter 16, the parallel passage, to have an understanding. You don't need to turn there unless you want to. I'm going to read Matthew 16. Verses 15 through 17. Jesus said to them, But who do you say that I am? And Simon Peter answered and said, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. Jesus answered and said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjonah, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father My father who is in heaven. It's significant that he calls him Simon Bar Jonah. Bar Jonah means son of Jonah. Simon son of Jonah. He's not talking about his father. It wasn't that that Peter learned from Jonah who Jesus actually is. is he was given that from Jesus his father to know that he was the Christ. Now there's a whole lot more in that passage and we just don't have time. Maybe another day, or maybe over dinner we can talk about what's happening when he says, I give you the keys of the kingdom, or on this rock I will build my church. Peter's answer is not from himself. It's from God. And he confesses that Jesus is the Christ, the title. The Christ has a lot of implications for the Jews. He's the Son of Man. He's that one from Daniel chapter 7, who would be given dominion over all the universe. He is the one who would be born of a virgin, as Isaiah tells us in chapter 7, verse 14. He is God with us. He is the Emmanuel. Do you remember what we're told he is in Isaiah chapter nine? Isaiah 9, verses 6 to 7: For unto us the child is born, unto us the Son is given, and the government will be upon his shoulder, and his name. His blessed name will be called Wonderful, Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father. Prince of peace, of the increase of his government and peace, there will be no end, upon the throne of David, and over his kingdom, to order it and establish it with judgment and justice from that time forward, even forever The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. That's who the Christ is. The Son of David That's Peter's answer. That's Peter's confession. And he gets it right. But we'll see next time in the next passage that even though he gets the answer right, even though God had given him the understanding to see that Jesus isn't just the prophet, he's not John the Baptist reborn. He's not Elijah come again. He is the one they've been waiting for. He's the Messiah. He's the Christ. Even though he has that answer He still doesn't quite get it. And that's the rest, that's the descent down the mountain, in which God will be showing us exactly who Jesus of Nazareth really is, as the Christ, what it is that he would come. and to do. And so now let's just look at this last verse, verse 30, and we see that there's There's a requirement. When God has given you this confession to know that Jesus of Nazareth is the Christ, there's something that He requires of you. He says in verse 30: Then He strictly warned them that they should tell no one about Him. If you flip to the end and you want some spoil spoilers, you can look at the very end of Mark and he says, Spread the gospel, preach it to every creature. It's all men and all manner of living things. So is this a contradiction in Scripture that Jesus is saying, tell no one, but at the end of the gospel he says, tell everything and everyone? It's not a contradiction. It makes so much sense. Jesus strictly warns them, or uh the verb here could also be translated severely commanded them. This is a very serious charge he gives them. Tell no one. Can you imagine why he would do that? We know why he's told the demons not to say it. But now for the first time in the Gospels, human beings are confessing that He is the Christ Well, when when the demons would shout out, He's the Christ, the Son of the Living God, people might hear that and go, Oh, that's just that crazy guy saying some crazy things. But if these twelve disciples, the ones who had been sent out two by two, performing miracles in Jesus' name, started teaching, This one, Jesus, is the Messiah that you've long awaited, could you imagine the repercussions of that? The rest of the gospel is going to be Jesus being led by the Spirit into the Passion, into his suffering, to the cross. But if the people all believed, if what men said about Jesus was that he was the Christ, they would never have allowed that to happen. There were already times where they wanted to make Jesus king, but if they thought he was the Jewish Messiah, and they only understood that through a worldly perspective, with earthly eyes, They would have said, oh, he's the one who's going to restore Israel to national glory. He'll free us, liberate us from the Romans. Let's make him king now. Some people even tried to do that The Pharisees, the religious leaders, the elites, they wanted to capture him and to keep him from teaching and to keep him from making them all look so bad with their lack of faith. But the people The populace, they would have risen up in revolt. Do you know what happened whenever there was a revolt in the Roman Empire? A lot of people died. And not because of the result of the riots. We may say that some of those riots were mostly peaceful. It was the response Of the Roman emperors to keep the peace would be to wipe out the people. In 70 AD, that's exactly what happens to Jerusalem. It takes four years. But they eventually wipe out every single bit of that city. If the disciples were teaching them who only had worldly eyes, fleshly eyes, earthly perspectives that this is the Christ, they would have tried to give him an earthly and worldly throne. They would have made him their worldly and earthly king, but that's not what they need. They need the king, the Messiah, the anointed, the Christ. And so I'd ask you, brothers and sisters, who do you say Jesus is? Perhaps you have the understanding, like the disciples, Jesus has given you an understanding about himself, that you know that he is the Christ, he is the Messiah. Hallelujah, praise Jehovah, that you believe that. But do you believe it with a worldly bent? Is he only the king of heaven when things are going well for you? Is he only the king of the universe when the universe is dropping in your laugh? Wonderful blessings And lots of money, and happiness, and contentment. Or is he your heavenly Savior? Is He the true Messiah to you? Do you understand who the Christ is? Do you go to Jesus truly believing in him, or do you go to Jesus asking him to give you comfort? Asking him to give you a worldly peace. To bring it back to the first century in the early church, they were going to their deaths with greater peace than most of us have on a wonderful Friday night with warm houses and full bellies. That's not what Jesus came to do. He didn't come to give you a worldly peace. He didn't come to give you worldly comfort. He didn't come that you would only understand him as the Christ in an earthly manner. But that you would know he is your only hope. Are you only looking to him to conquer the one sin that still remains that you hate? Or are you rejoicing in him that he is the conqueror of all sin, all your sin, all the sin of the world? If what you hope and what you long for is a worldly and an earthly thing, I promise you Jesus will disappoint you. But may we beg God, as we saw last week and as we see here now. That He would give us a heavenly perspective, that would see the Christ for who he is and what he has come to do, and that we would believe in him and not just know a bunch of things about him. May God grant each and every one of us what we need most, to surrender our lives to Him, to surrender our minds to Him. And to let him have absolute control over whatever happens to us. Because he loves us. Don't run away from the test. Who do you say Jesus is? As this week comes upon us, let's take this with us and be looking for the Christ with heavenly eyes and heavenly understanding. Please pray with me.