Folks turn to, and that is the book of Jude. It's right after 3rd John and right before the book of Revelation. I'm getting closer and closer to preaching that book. But we're one book away, which is Jude, and I'm going to it's only one chapter, and so it only should take us about a year. So we'll um I'm going to read uh verses one through four for us tonight, and I encourage you to follow along Jude, a bondservant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, to those who are called sanctified by God the Father and preserved in Jesus Christ. Mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you. Beloved, while I was very diligent to write to you concerning our common salvation I found it necessary to write to you exhorting you to contend earnestly for the faith, which was once for all delivered to the saints. For certain men have crept in unnoticed, who long ago were marked out for this condemnation, ungodly men Who turn the grace of our God into lewdness and deny the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. Let us pray. Lord Christ, we know that you sent Jude as a servant to you to then send this letter not just for that time, but for our time also. Lord, we have the same men infiltrating the church today. It's the same human beings. We pray, therefore, Lord, that you would help us by way of this letter. To fight for the faith. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. I want to begin. We're just going to jump right in and make a few observations. I have a limited amount of time, and so I want to make the most of it. So please follow along with me. Just a few observations. First thing I want to point out is just a little bit of an introduction to this letter, and I mean a little bit. This letter is written by Jude Actually, if you were to look at the Greek, it's Judas, but I guess they don't want you to get confused. It is written by Jude. It's not Judas Iscariot. And this is definitely the brother of James, he mentions it there, and probably the brother of Jesus himself And of course, as any brother who understands what's going on with Jesus Christ, Jude does not consider himself worthy, perhaps, to say, I am his brother but instead refers to himself as the servant of Jesus Christ. And that's what matters here. It doesn't matter if Jude is his brother. What matters is is he the servant of Jesus Christ? And he says that he is right there the bondservant of Jesus Christ and a brother of James. And that really helps us to make sense of this letter. That Jude is serving Christ's bride, just as all of the other prophets and apostles are serving the bride of Christ. Now, in what way is he serving? And that really gets us into the purpose of the letter here, and that will be the majority of my observations. although they're not lengthy. You heard it in the reading. You could say, in one sense, that the purpose of this letter is because of what has happened. Ungodly men have crept in or infiltrated the congregations to whom he is writing. There are indications that it's several congregations, not just one. These men, as you can see there again, I'm just really rereading back to you or paraphrasing back to you what Jude himself has said, these men have deformed God's grace By supporting what it says in the NKJV, which is lewdness, which is seems to really be focused specifically on a deformed sexuality. Or sexual immorality. And you can see that this has gone so far even to deny the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. There are very serious things taking place within this church. And so what Judah is doing in light of that particular situation, it seems like he wanted to write something that was more akin to like 1st and 2 Peter. unfolding their common salvation. But then in hearing about these things that were going on among the church, he really needed to turn to exhorting them. Jude exhorts Christians, therefore, in verse 4, to contend earnestly for the faith against those who are ungodly. And this is a positive task. It's not a defensive maneuver. It's standing up for that which is righteous and that which is true, not defensively always, but offensively And you can see that that being the purpose of the letter is the reason why we have right on the front of the bulletin, so you don't forget the main focus of the whole series is fight for the faith. Fight for the faith. What he's going to do here in this letter is help us to do that. So what I want to do so that we can better understand this infiltration. Contending for the faith, what's going on amongst this group of people? I want to give you an extended illustration that the church has used throughout really every generation. To better understand what can happen in churches and what in fact is happening in churches right now. It's the same problems that Judah's facing are still going on. So dating from the second century, the church has used the illustration of a mosaic portrait. To understand what Jude is concerned about and what happens in every age until Christ returns. Now let me ask you: do you know what a mosaic is? I'm seeing some nods. Yes. We know what mosaics are. Okay, thank you. So you are more educated than I first was. Excellent. If you don't know, a mosaic is a picture or pattern produced by arranging together small colored pieces of hard material such as stone or tile or glass. I want you to imagine something with me. Imagine that someone makes a mosaic, and somehow they figure it out to make a mosaic showing and portraying who God is What God is doing and what he requires of humanity. Now that's an elaborate and beautiful mosaic. It is a beautiful and expansive piece of art with a loving king, ordering all things toward goodness and beauty. The rivers run clear, nature lives in harmony. You get the picture from the scriptures. Now, I want you to imagine that someone creeps in or infiltrates where the mosaic is being kept. And what they do is they take all of the exact same stones and they rearrange them to form a very different picture of who God is. What God is doing, and what God requires of humanity. And when they are done, they say, Behold the gospel. With their new mosaical rearrangement. This is what is going on with Jude. This is what went on after the generation of Jude. And it continues on even to this day. We have people infiltrating in and shuffling around all the stone tiles and the mosaic and saying, No, this is the truth, this is the king, this is what he requires of you It is happening right before your faces right now among the churches. It is actually the concern of all of the other pastoral letters, too. They use the same kind of language of rearrangement. They call it fables or myths. That's the rearrangement. You can look in 1st and 2 Timothy for that kind of language. What has happened is the infiltrators have spun a narrative about God What God is doing, what God requires of us, that is not really the real mosaic, but here's the tricky thing. All of their evidence is scripture. And that's the most difficult part. All of their evidence is scripture. And Jude consequently wants these Christians and us to contend for the real faith. He wants us to contend for the real mosaic that reveals the real God, what he is really doing with his creation, and what he really requires of us in obedience. That's what the whole the whole letter is set out for that. And so is 1 and 2 Timothy. They use a lot of the same language. So what I would like to do is I want to focus on two points in light of what Jude is doing here with this letter. Let me repeat to you what he's doing. Jude wants us to contend for the real faith He wants us to know the real mosaic that reveals the real God and what the real God is really doing with his creation and what he really requires of us. You hear the keyword real there, as opposed to fake or counterfeit. So there's two things I want to say to draw out a little bit with this, and that is I want to focus on creeds And why the church has always had creeds and confessions, it's because of this. A lot of times folks are confused. Why are we doing this? Why do we have a larger, shorter catechism, creeds? It's archaic language, this is killing me. But this this is why, right here, and you'll finally be able to make sense of that if you didn't know it already. And then I want to not only focus on creeds, but I want to focus on deeds. We have a misunderstanding there also. So let's start with creeds. What this does, as we see this illustration that I've given to you, to see the problem that's always confronting the church with the mosaic. is that this gives us the opportunity to understand why historically the church has adopted creeds, confessions, and catechisms. For example, in our denomination, we have assigned ourselves to the Westminster Confession of Faith with the shorter and the larger catechisms. This confession is modeled from earlier creeds, the ecumenical creeds, for example, like the Nicene Creed and the Apostles' Creed. You'll see that we're holding the same structure. We've just unfolded it more. in our confession. You know, it ends up being healthy to ask when you're this far down the line from when it used to be normal to create creeds and confessions in the church. It's healthy to ask, what made the church do this? Why did they think this would be the thing to do? What impulse for pressure moved the church from the beginning to create these kinds of things. And what we end up seeing is that Jude provides the answer. Now I do want to I want to point out to you something very specific that Jude says So that you can see from the scriptures why the church considered creeds so important. Take a look at verse 3 for me, or uh with me, sorry, not for me, but with me. Beloved, while I was very diligent to write to you concerning our common salvation, I found it necessary to write to you exhorting you to contend earnestly for the faith And then we're going to have a clause that explains something about the faith, which was once for all delivered to the saints. Do you see that? The faith which was once for all delivered to the saints. So, I want you to make a distinction here. A lot of the times when we use the word faith, we don't know exactly what we mean. Sometimes we mean a subjective religious experience. Sometimes we mean the feelings that we have. Sometimes we mean a God-given capacity to believe what God says. Those are all different uses of the word faith, but that is not how faith is being used here. The faith here is something that could be delivered to the saints. Now I want to point you to 1 Corinthians 15. Verses 3 through 11, because this is one other place where this kind of language is used, the language of handing down or delivering. It's literally traditioning That's the idea. And you can also find it in Romans chapter 1, but we're not going to look at that tonight. So Romans chapter 1 Corinthians 15, verses 3 through 11 is worth our time. Listen to this. For I delivered to you first of all which I first of all that which I also received. Now you hear that every week with the Lord's Supper. Okay? But here's another one. That Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. And that means according to the Old Testament. Okay? That Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. All again, him referencing the authoritative Old Testament. And that he was seen by Cephas, then by the twelfth. After that he was seen by over five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remained to be present, but some have fallen asleep or died. But after that he was seen by James, then by all the apostles, then last of all he was seen by me also as one born out of due time. For I am the least of the apostles, who am not worthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace toward me was not in vain But I labored more abundantly than they all, yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me. Therefore, whether it was I Paul or they, so we preached, and so you believed And you hear the content, the objective content that's handed down in the preaching according to the scriptures. What you're seeing here, even in 1 Corinthians 15, are early creed statements of the basics of the message of all of the scriptures. And Paul is summarizing here what he really ends up doing here, and in Romans chapter 1, is he is summarizing the whole economy or plan of God into summary statements that we could always remember. The mosaic of the story. And the church has learned from Paul in 1 and 2 Timothy and Romans 1 and 1 Corinthians 15. We learned from the apostles to do the same, especially when other ungodly men infiltrate in order to have a different mosaic picture There would be heresies, in other words, that would arise after the apostles, where the creedal statements would have to be restated in light of them so that the mosaic doesn't get confused. That's what a creed is. We therefore, for the strength of God's people, have adopted the Westminster Confession and the shorter and larger catechism as a means To make sure that you can maintain the real story even in wartime. That is the purpose of the Creed and the Confession. Creeds are important to us because we have all agreed that these creeds and confessions represent the right arrangement of the mosaic of who God is. What he is doing and what he expects of us. In fact, these ecumenical creeds that we see within the church are so-called because both the Eastern Church And the Western Church have agreed upon them. The question before us, when we're considering uh the letter or the epistle of Jude, and we know that on the front of our bulletin it says Fight for the real faith. Make sure that you're not one that has the wrong mosaic and is misleading everyone, or that you're not being misled. The question that comes before you is how can you start to utilize what the church has always used? How can you start to utilize creeds and confessions to make sure that you hold on to the real faith in a time like this? That's the question. Now that's creeds. And I think that puts it in context for why they're still important today. But there are also deeds. Now, when we say contending for the faith, I wonder what you think about. Do you think about Martin Luther in the debate saying, here I stand? Is that what it is? Is it a verbal sword fight? Is that what is included in the category of contending for the faith? Just intellectual back and forth? Knowing what you believe? That's not what we see in the passage. It's not actually what we see in any of the passages that talk about doctrine. I have to make clear that contending for the faith is not just a matter of having the truth, but of living in true righteousness. It is both truth and justice. Truth and righteousness. I want you to notice that Jude characterizes the men as ungodly. And that they are using the grace of God, think of the mosaic, they're using it and rearranging it to support them in their ungodliness. And the ungodliness comes out in language that is not about just belief. He uses the word lewdness, which is a kind of sexual immorality. These folks are on a path that is the path of unrighteousness, and they have reshaped theology to support them so that they can have permission from God to be ungodly. It's not just about belief, it's about behavior. This means that the faith once for all passed down was not just who God is and what he is doing, but it is also what does he require of us in our conduct As his people. We often forget that God's concern with doctrine largely includes the way we live our lives. Did you see that in the Timothy reading? In the bulletin, chapter 2, verses 1 through 3. But as for you, speak the things which are proper for sound doctrine. And then he goes right into conduct. That the older men be sober, reverent, temperate, sound in faith, in love, and patience, and then he goes on. Here we see conduct and not just belief, although belief is a kind of conduct. You can think of it that way. Now I mentioned to you the helpfulness of creeds and catechisms. Can our catechism help us here? And the answer is yes. Our catechism in question three asks this. What do the scriptures principally teach? Answer. Anyone want to answer it from memory? Soon. Soon. Okay, very good. Answer is the scriptures principally teach what man is to believe concerning God and what duties God requires of man Are some of you having flashbacks to childhood? Two things, what man is to believe concerning God, and what duty God requires of man. The shorter catechism has a total of 107 questions. 38 of those questions are what we are to believe concerning God. And the other 69, to your surprise, are are how you are to live before him. The catechism ends up making the same point that we see within the scriptures. The doctrine is not just about belief, if we want to categorize it this way, it is about how we conduct ourselves before God in this world. The bottom line is that this letter is meant to exhort the church in every age before the return of Christ to fight for the faith. But what does it mean to do that? The faith includes what we are to believe concerning God. We must have the mosaic right. But it also includes a mosaic of conduct and what he requires of us in our walk. There are many in our world today who seek to pervert the faith. And I encourage you to begin using our catechism to make sure all the precious stones of the gospel are arranged in the true mosaic which was once for all delivered to the saints. Now, next week we have a missionary coming in, so I'll give a brief exhortation and then give him the opportunity for his own presentation and for some prayer. But then after that, I would like to get into the details of a particular question in verses 1 through 4. Here's the question that I want to consider for a little while together in light of Jude. Who has infiltrated the church today? I want to come face to face with them. I want to hold their teaching and their conduct up to the word that we might be more ready to fight for the faith. Let us pray.