Beginning in verse one of chapter twelve of Judges. Then the men of Ephraim gathered together and crossed over toward Zephon and said to Jephthah Why did you cross over to fight against the people of Ammon and did not call us to go with you? We will burn your house down on you with fire. And Jephthah said to them, My people and I were in a great struggle with the people of Amman. And when I called you, you did not deliver me out of their hands. So when I saw that you would not deliver me, I took my life in my hands and crossed over against the people of Amman, and the Lord delivered them into my hand. Why then have you come up to me this day to fight against me? Now Jeff gathered together all the men of Gilead and fought against Ephraim, and the men of Gilead defeated Ephraim, because they said, You Gileadites are fugitives of Ephraim, among the Ephraimites and among the Manassites. The Gileadites seized the fords of the Jordan before the Ephraimites arrived, and when any Ephraimite who escaped said, Let me cross over. The men of Gilead would say, Are you an Ephraimite? If he said, No, then they would say to him, Then say, Shibaleth. And he would say Sibyllef, for he could not pronounce it right. Then they would take him and kill him at the forge of the Jordan. There fell at that time forty-two thousand Ephraimites. And Jephthah judged Israel six years. Then Jephthah the Gileadite died and was buried among the cities of Gilead. Let us pray. Christ said you as you have taught us through your servant Paul The scriptures are not just for those in the past, but have been written for all of us, their children, the saints. I pray therefore, Lord, that you would help us to see the eternal truths of your word and its use. I ask these things in the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Last week, we acknowledged that another symptom of the canonization or worldliness of the church is the poor treatment and even abuse of children, especially by men. A man under Christ, instead of being canonized, cherishes his wife and daughters Nurtures his children and looks out for the good of his employees. In other words, he does not follow the feminist code, but the household code This week I have a few observations on it's nice to have a bit of a shorter passage this time and have a few observations on it and then two applications. So let's get to work. First thing I'd like you to notice is our old friends, the Ephraimites, are back in the picture in verse 1. Do you remember these folks? This is the same tribe who confronted Gideon in chapter 8, and they said just about the same thing They were concerned that Gideon did not call them to battle. They were concerned about the loss of status. This goes way back. to uh the sons of Joseph of why they have this rivalry. Uh that but ultimately they want war glory. And here we see the same thing rising up within this tribe But instead of just threatening Gideon with a lawsuit and then doing the same with Jephthah, they tell Jephthah that they are going to burn down his house on him. Now those aren't nice things to say. That's an observation. Captain obvious. But that's the first thing I want you to notice is that we're having another confrontation with the Ephraimites, and they've really escalated the situation quite. quickly. Now here's the second thing I want you to notice is that Ephraim has officially met their match We know that Jephthah is most at home with the kind of men who are known as being brambles and fire that comes out from the thorn bushes to devour everyone. He is likened to Abimelech, who himself burned down a person's house on their head. So they have officially met their match. Ephraim wanted to be a part of the battle for the sake of status and let that get the better of them, and they speak foolishly. to the one who is fiery and sharp like a thorn, and his name is Jephthah. We should expect Jephthah by this time to be fiery This should not be an argument that I have to prove to you because the evidence has already been given. He burned his own daughter But in verse two, we see a kind of summary being brought out, and so we have another example that we are meant to see Jephthah as a contentious person. It is delivered to us in an awkward Hebrew phrase. But it starts off clear enough, and what I would like to do is to give you a literal translation so you can get at the heart of it instead of, for example, what I have in the NKJV. It misses it just slightly. It starts the capture that Jephthah is contentious, but it doesn't go all the way. A literal translation would be something like this And Jephthah said to them, A man of contention I am. I, and this is where I think the whole point is and makes sense of the whole story. The rest of the sentence is basically: I with my people, and with the people of Amman. Do you see what he's doing there? Is he enumerating his life of contention. And now this makes sense of why as soon as he's done speaking, there's no negotiation or peace. He's just going to kill all of them. Do you see that? He's warning them that you've really poked the wrong person. This is an important observation. The first word that's used, for example, is contention. And it is, the word that's used for Jepha is the same word that is used for the Ephraimites in chapter 8. The author is trying to make sure that you are clear in your mind that Ephraimites and Jephthah are cut from the same cloth. But Jephthah is going to rise and be more fiery than them. And that is demonstrated in the escalation of contention throughout his entire life, like he just said in that one awkward Hebrew phrase. We could go back through the story and see the evidence. He contended with his brothers, did he not? He contended with his own tribe, did he not? He contended then with the Ammonites. And now guess what Jephthah will do? He will act according to his natures. They should have never poked this man He will act according to his nature and contend with a fellow tribe of Israel. And that is what we see in verse 4. Sure enough. Jephthah defeats Ephraim. He continues. There's not enough for him. Even if you are incapacitated and unconscious on the ground, he's going to keep going. And so he continues by seizing the fords of the Jordan. When the Ephraimites tried to get home, he has put together a little test that is the difference between a Hebrew letter shin and sin. And he's going to have them try to say shibeleth, but they're going to say sibeleth And then they're going to know that they're Ephraimites, and then he's going to slaughter them. And then you can see the kind of damage that he does and the kind of fire that he is in verse number six when it says that there's 42,000 that were killed. This is a massive, this is massive. All at his hands of uh fellow tribe members of Israel. When we observed Gideon, we connected his reply to Ephraim with a well-known proverb. Does anybody remember that proverb? A gentle answer turns away wrath. We looked at Gideon and how these Ephraimites fought with him, brought a lawsuit forth, and then uh Gideon's soft reply saying, but look, even though you didn't fight the whole battle, you fought the most important battle. It appealed to their pride, and off they went with no fight. Jepha likewise embodies a proverb, but it's not the same one that embodied Gideon, or that Gideon embodied. It's here's a proverb for you, just uh as I put in the bulletin, Proverbs fifteen, verse eighteen. A hot-tempered person stirs up conflict, but the one who is patient calms a quarrel. Now it's clear who Jephthah is, and it wouldn't surprise me if Solomon reflecting on these things, looking back in his kingship at the failed deliverers. and the canonization of society if he looked back and then penned the proverb with Jephthah in his mind. That's Proverbs 1518. Now if you think back again to Gideon, our doctrine with Gideon. covered the bitter contentions which may arise between different branches of the church and that we're to speak with a soothing tongue. Do you remember that? We've had multiple doctrines that have to do with us getting along with each other. One was with Gideon and having a soothing tongue. Another doctrine was with relic was relative to Abimelech, and it addressed strife which happens. when we give ambitious and self-interested people power. And the message was basically, don't do that. And this morning it is very similar, but it combines both. It combines this idea of pe being a peacemaker and then also power. And it's this. This is our Our doctrine from the Holy Spirit this morning. Woe to the church who places hot-tempered people in positions of influence. I'll say that again. I think we can all acknowledge it from our own experiences. Woe to the church who places hot-tempered people into positions of influence. What you're learning from Abimelech and now from Jephthah is what happens when you put a fiery thornbush in a position of power. And so woe to the church who places hot-tempered people into positions of influence. What I'd like to do is first, by way of application, is just understand this a little bit more from the scriptures. And then I want us to use it. So it's two children. Our doctrine this morning is woe to the church who places hot-tempered people into positions of influence. And then the outline are two U's, understanding and use. And now you're ready to have your conversation over lunchtime. You can confer with one another. So let's understand this a little bit better by way of Proverbs chapter 15. And I've included it in your bulletin, or you can just flip to it in your scriptures, but I want to point out a few things from this passage to get at the heart of what the eternal Christ wants us to see, whether in Proverbs or in Judges. When we look closely at the Proverbs, at Proverbs chapter fifteen, verse eighteen, which is the one I read to you about the hot tempered person. We can look at the larger context, and we can see that it is a part of a larger unit of wisdom, and it begins at verse 13. And then runs until 19. And you can think about this throughout the day also for a nice restful Sabbath. The whole point of the section is this. The whole point of this section in Proverbs is to show that the state of a person's heart or their character can overcome or be a means that God uses to overcome difficult circumstances. Your heart and your character and your temperament is a means that God uses to overcome difficult situations. That's the point of this wisdom here. So, for example, look with me at verse 13. You'll notice this repetition, even when it leaves off in one of the stanzas, there's a repetition of the merry-hearted person. A merry heart makes a cheerful countenance. It's showing you the fruit of the merry heart is seen by the face, but by sorrow the heart of the Spirit is broken. Now, that's Proverbs 15, verse 13. Compared with the overarching theme, the point of the Proverb, if you were to take some time to study this. The point of the proverb is to show how valuable a merry heart is when times are tough. Have you ever been in a situation where it's already bad enough and then depressio shows up and makes it worse? It's already difficult. Stop breaking my spirit with your attitude. That's what's going on here within this proverb. When finances are tight, when misery and pain are in the air, a helpful remedy is actually to have someone around who keeps a positive Upbeat, realistic but glass half full attitude, rooted in the nature of God Himself Because we have Christian hope. It's another way of saying it is a Christian full of hope because they know who their God is. So they show up with a merry heart, even in difficult circumstances, and you go, this is painful, but you're right, we're gonna make it. I'm so glad you showed up. More generally, Christ is teaching us to manage the ups and downs of our lives by being sure to keep our hearts smiling. Now, let's look at another example. That's the merry-hearted person and how they would help us to overcome difficult circumstances. I wonder if you have some experiences like that. If you do, make sure you thank that merry-hearted person. Tell them you're thankful that God uses them. Another example is in verse 19. Here's another example of how character, temperament, and heart overcome circumstances by God's means Verse 19 compares the lazy person and the prudent person. The diligent heart knows the will of the Lord. They plan so as to be able to achieve it. They have the fortitude to see the plan through. They avoid distractions. I had a recent um I have a recent illustration of this, actually, and it mostly relies on the prudence of my father and the hard work of my son Jack. We just finished a project on my dad's little farmette. And I thought of this. I thought of the difficulty of the circumstance. The difficulty of the circumstance was that a recent storm brought a lot of rain. I don't know if you remember, it was a few weeks ago And it it just felt like the heavens themselves were falling on us, full of rain. Well the rain on this little farm fell on the soybean field and then went into its natural uh drainage points and it and it's working its way to grade or lower, which is the creek. And what separates the soybean field from the creek is the main driveway that winds and wends its back to the house. And guess what happened to the driveway? Well, the pipe going underneath the driveway, it was clogged, so the water just came up and started eroding and washing out the whole thing and made it treacherous. And so, how were the ov the circumstances overcome? Well, number one, my father with a kind of merry heart said, awesome a project for us to do together. Let's do this. This is great. And I'm thinking, I'm not as excited as you. And then he said, and let's do it without really spending any money, which meant I'm gonna dig in the dirt. And we're not gonna ha we're not gonna have a backhoe. And uh and and that's what happened. So we didn't become morose because of the upbeat nature of my father and the willingness of Jack to rise early and and gather all the shovels for us We remained upbeat and developed a positive, prudent plan. It was my dad who developed the plan, developing a culvert system. And we made it affordable, which is also a part of prudence, by digging the trenches ourselves. Storms washing out the driveway were the circumstances. They were overcome by heart and character. And the point of the proverb, if you wanted to bring it home, would be, if we were lazy about it, then the circumstances would have overcome us. That's a natural observation that Christ gives to us about how the world functions. Now those are two examples just to get you warmed up. Because our main emphasis this morning is not on merry-heartedness or on laziness versus prudence, it is on those who are contentious versus those who can settle things down and get it quiet. And that's where we get to the context and we find the further example of verse 18 in this section of wisdom. When pressure cooker situations hit a community, patient, calm, and quiet hearts will be part of the solution of overcoming those situations. They end up being extremely valuable to a community. Those who become flustered bitter, angry, stormy, and impatient become a part of the problem, and now we have more that we have to solve. They can actually make it worse and they can ala they can tip the scales and the circumstance will overcome you And that's the point of the wisdom that Solomon gives to us, really, the Holy Spirit gives to us. And we're supposed to be thinking about Jephthah to be able to flesh out what this looks like from Proverbs. In our lives, is it not true that difficult circumstances are a guarantee? But by grace, by the grace of Christ and through his spirit, he is making us into people of a certain character or heart. Hopefully people that will be helpful instead of hindering. Those with characters such as hope Hard work and being a peacemaker will help overcome. The defeatist, the lazy, and the hothead, and that's our emphasis. They will make it worse. There will be a lot more to clean up if the hothead is involved. Jeff's response to foolish Ephraim, they're definitely not off the hook there. As foolish as it gets. Foolish Ephraim is a prime example of this wisdom. And so I hope with that first point of understanding that you understand better the heart of Christ. He wants our community called the church to thrive. And so he's shown you what it would mean to live in a good society and to stay away from being a hothead. Now, here is a second point, which is the use. So now we have a better understanding. What is the use of this doctrine that Christ has given us by His Spirit? And here it is We have plenty of opportunities to not only hear this word specifically this morning, but to put it into use. And I want to give you a few ways that we can do so. Here's the first one. First way to use this is that perhaps some of you When you hear the words coming from my mouth and you read the scriptures, you stop and you observe who you are And you see that all that is really present is a bad temperament and a bad character, and that you're not really helpful to anyone. That you are a kind of plague to any community. Perhaps Christ is letting you see into yourself this morning and to see that. In fact, you would describe yourself if you had time to think through it as completely mastered by the sins that have been listed today. And you are dominated by hopelessness. Laziness rules over you. Anger holds you perfectly in his grip. Now, this is what I have to say to you if that characterizes you. When someone is mastered and dominated by sin, this can be an indication that you are not a Christian. Perhaps Christ is using this sermon for you to be convicted of your sin and to turn to Him for salvation from your sin and from the power of sin. Without Jesus Christ, you cannot escape the power of sin. Perhaps today you should confess to Christ, asking forgiveness. And to ask him for his spirit so that you can be born again from above and no longer love sin as much as you presently do, and to start under his leadership to make some progress. And before you know it, in perhaps 10 years, you will probably be known as the one who's the merry-hearted and the diligent because of Christ's work in you But it all begins with confession and then turning to Him with salvation. Please talk to a Christian that you trust. That's the first person. If you're sitting here and that applies to you, I've given you something to do. How to use this. Now, number two, perhaps Christ is stirring some of you back up to good works and to holiness. It is the calling of the Christian to continually take off the old person and to put on the new person created in Christ Jesus. A significant part of that calling is this. Make sure you write this down. A significant part of your calling to be holy is this. Never make peace with your sin. Do not make peace with your sin It is meant to be a continual warfare until your death to go to be with Christ or Christ's return. And so this is number two. Perhaps some of you need to get back in the battle. Always grow in hatred and increased warfare with the evil that remains. Remember, sin, you hate it. Perhaps you are not a hot head with everyone. This is a way that we can become grow at peace with our sin. I say from the pulpit, hey hotheads, we need to repent. And you say, Well, I'm not a hothead with everybody. So Guy, we got to sing some songs this morning, but this doesn't really apply. And this is for you to become at peace with your sin because you're saying just because you've made progress in one area or with some people You no longer need to pay attention to the other areas and the other people. And here's the thing that Joe pointed out is most of our hot-headedness is in fact with those that are close to us and that we love. In the privacy of our homes, we're letting we're ready to let it rip. And we can say very cruel things. And I encourage you that even if you have by Christ made progress in being a hothead with some people and some topics. That you would not be at peace with your sin. Who are the other people and what are the other topics where you're still a hothead? And saying things out of anger and the various degrees, all the way down to annoyance. Resolved to kill. Maybe, here's another way that we can placate and be at peace with our sin of anger. Maybe you have gotten better I mean, those of you who are older now, think about when you were younger and think of how much of a hothead you were. And just if you had to live with yourself then as you are now, how miserable you would be And look at all of the progress that Jesus Christ has done. And we can affirm that without making peace with our sin, noting that there are still areas in which we need to grow relative to our anger. So I commend Christ's work in you, and I commend you also to continue in the work and not grow at peace with your sin. Is there still work to do? Are you going to finish the race or are you going to stop in the middle and join the potheads on the bleachers? That's a image from my high school, sorry. That's what you did. You either finished the race or joined them on the bleachers. Finish the race, that's the point. So that's the second person. Christ is stirring some of you back up to good works and holiness because you've let off the war. Get the armor back on and get back in there. Number three, and this one is particularly important relative to a handout that you've all received this morning. And it is nominations for the office of elder and deacon. Here you stand before the Word of God and the opportunity to nominate and elect men to power. You see it? And that has got to be our third application because of so many examples and judges of this. We all have a responsibility in this upcoming officer election. to make sure that the best, to the best of our ability, men of mature hearts, men of mature characters are elected And that those who have questionable and immature temperaments, characters, and hearts are dismissed, but hopefully mentored with hopes for the future. Now let me speak under this main heading to the elders first, which includes myself. I know I I just I'm so thankful for you. I don't know how you do it. You I work full-time at this, and then you work full-time, and then you work full-time again at this. And I'm just so thankful for you. Brothers and sisters, you don't know how much time your elders and your deacons put in to making sure that you love God and that you honor Him And I'm so thankful. And I know that you'll receive what I have to say quite well because I know you already want to do this, but I want to use this as an opportunity Just as a reminder, that the congregation entrusts you with the examination of the candidates. That is going to be the major way in which we make sure, to the best of our ability, that those who have the right temperament and the right character are in office. There's a lot that the congregation member cannot do. They could have people over for dinner or whatever, but they can't do what you are going to do in a formal examination. And so I just want to raise the question for you, elders, this year: how will we do this carefully? How are we going to do this carefully? And how are we going to do it with the right ends in mind? And we all know this now, brothers, because the Lord has made us more mature, but I'll I'll remind you that There are people in this world that are excited about the Westminster Confession of Faith, and they could tell us with their mouth that they subscribe the entire thing, and they are absolutely the wrong person to put into power Because they don't really understand the articles of faith that are in there, and you know what I mean. And when something becomes difficult and lands on our laps, Do we want for a person of that kind of temperament in the room to make it even more difficult? So what are we going to do in our examinations? Now I bring that up this morning in front of all of you. Thank you for being a part of my conversation with the elders this morning. So that you could pray for them for wisdom. Pray for them for wisdom, stamina, time, everything that you would need. Encourage them. Go to them and say, I'm counting on you. I elected you for this reason. You're my representative. Encourage them. How will we carefully and with the right ends in mind To the best of our ability, as much as we can see, have the right people in power. And now the congregate. You two are busy. But here is the reality that is getting ready to face you. In February, you are all going to take a break to go to the bathroom. And then you're going to come back into this room, and I'm going to pass out ballots to you, and before God, you are going to elect certain men into power. And I want to know, what are you going to do to make sure that you elect deacons and elders and can have a clear conscience before God? in the name that you checked? Will you have them over for dinner? Will you talk to them more regularly? What will you do? Those are two things that I think that we need to take under serious consideration with this final third application under nominations. We need to really think here, if we're the non-Christian being confronted with our sin, we need to go to Christ and ask him for his spirit and salvation. And at least some of us have given up the war, and we need to get back to war with our sin and stop putting up with the anger. Did you know that when you say something angry, when you start and you realize, have you ever had this happen to you? When you start to say something angry, right in the middle of saying it, you say to yourself, Oh, I'm saying something angry. I really shouldn't be saying something angry. I shouldn't be doing this. Did you know that you could just stop right there? Did you know that? I'm learning this. You could just stop there. There's something else inside of you that says, it's too late. Just go for it. But no, you could just stop right there and you could say, you know what, I started off on the wrong foot Uh, please forgive me. Let's back up here. You know you could do that. And then thirdly Uh we all have a responsibility in this upcoming officer election not only to be focused on the idea of the hothead this morning, but also the merry-hearted and the diligent and the prudent, all these characteristics that need to be a part of those who are in power. And the image I want you to have is how are you going to have a clear conscience with that ballot this year? This morning, by way of Jeffah, we have acknowledged, generally speaking, that heart and character matter. In particular, woe to the church who places hot-tempered people into positions of influence. May God be with us in our election of new officers. Amen. Let us pray.