It was the Passover and the feast of unleavened bread. And the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might take him by trickery and put him to death. But they said, Not during the feast, lest there be an uproar of the people. And being in Bethany at the house of Simon the leper, as he sat at the table, A woman came having an alabaster flask of very costly oil of Spike nard. Then she broke the flask and poured it on his head. But there were some who were indignant among themselves and said, Why was this fragrant oil wasted? For it might have been sold for more than 300 denarii and given to the poor. And they criticized her sharply. But Jesus said, Let her alone. Why do you trouble her? She has done a good work for me. For you have the poor with you always, and whenever you wish, you may do them good. But me, you do not have always. She has done what she could. She has come beforehand to anoint my body for burial. Assuredly, I say to you, wherever this gospel is preached in the whole world, what this woman has done will also be told as a memorial to her. Then Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went to the chief priests to betray him to them. And when they heard it, they were glad, and promised to give him money. So he sought how he might conveniently betray him. Please pray with me. O gracious God, Lord of light and life, you have given us your word, and we are gladdened by it. We pray that you will guide us tonight to see ourselves aright, to see you, to see your Son. And Lord, I pray that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock, my strength, and my redeemer. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. I'm sure many, if not most of you, are familiar with Ananias and Sapphira, told to us in Acts chapter 5. I'll just remind you briefly. After the Spirit of God was moving mightily amongst the crowds of people that were there after Christ's resurrection, thousands were being added to the church. What a glorious thing to imagine. And as they were being moved into faithfulness and into joyful belief in Jesus Christ as the Son of God, do you remember what the Christians were doing? They were living a whole new life, a new kind of life. They were selling their possessions. They were having all things in common. They were gathering together, breaking bread, worshiping, serving him. And many were led by the spirits to make extravagant sacrifices. But we know that Ananias and Sapphira were not of that crowd. Though they were among those people, they were not of those people. They saw what was being done around them, and they had a possession that they sold, but they didn't give it to God in the way that others had. If you recall, they held a bit of it back for themselves. And when they were confronted, they lied. Were they like those unrighteous that we read about in Malachi chapter three? Where they lied and pretended and yet no one could tell? I remind you, no, they were not. If you recall, the Spirit of God had something, I'll call it miraculous, happen. The truth was made known by what happened to them. They died. They died because they lied. On the surface, they looked like true believers, doing what the believers were doing. But scratch that surface even just a little bit, and we notice that their actions reveal that they were not of those who truly believe. No, just by way of reminder, we're in the Gospel of Mark and we've been here for a long time. We have been studying Mark together because from the very beginning of Mark we are told exactly why he's written this gospel. is to show us that Jesus, Jesus of Nazareth, is not just a man. He is the Messiah. He is the Christ the Son of the Living God. And we've been seeing this as Mark has been revealing him to us in these photographs, these snapshots of Jesus' life and ministry, we see that Jesus is indeed more than man. He does what no man can do. He forgives sins. He heals all manner of infirmity, even those infirmities that could never be healed by anyone except God, like leprosy. Did you notice in our passage that they're at the house of Simon the leper? There's a lot of scholars who surmise that this could be one of those lepers that Christ had healed. The last time we were together in the book of Mark, we were in chapter 12, and we looked at a very large section of Mark chapter 12, and we learned that those who are genuinely devoted to God give him their all. Now I know there's a whole lot left in Mark, but I had to pick one passage for the last one. And I could just not avoid just how providential and beautiful it is To go from the widow's mites, that widow who gave everything she had to God, that though on the surface it looked like something completely different. Yet Christ reveals to us and revealed to us through his word that she had really given everything. Because this kind of devotion and love for Christ, it can't be faked, brothers and sisters. And our passage tonight shows us this. For in it I hope and have been praying that we will learn together that the works we do reveal the reality of our love for Jesus Christ. Severan Ron, the works you do reveal the reality of your love. For Jesus Christ. We're going to look at this in three ways tonight, under three headings. First, we'll examine the love of the leaders. We'll see this in verses one and two. We'll look at the love of the lady in verses 3 through 9. And then we'll look at the love of the liar in verses 10 and 11. So we see here at the very beginning. The love, quote unquote, of the leaders. We're told here that after two days it was the Passover and the feast of unleavened bread. And the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might take him by trickery and put him to death. What's the first thing we notice about the love of this leadership of Israel? The leadership of the Jews? What we see is that there is no love. There is no love for Jesus. In fact, there is quite the opposite. There's a deep hatred. of him. They cease to seek to seize him, to arrest him. Mark tells us it's by trickery. The word there is by deceit, by cunning The leadership don't love Jesus. They hate him. They hate what he's been doing. And it's not it's not a new thing he's been doing. He's been on the scene for quite a while. They've heard of his miracles. They've sent people to question him and to test him. The last passage we looked at was a whole lot of people testing Jesus. Trying to prove that he's not who he claimed to be. Another thing that we see here in this verse is that they are determined. It's not that like they want to seize him and and put him in jail, keep him from spreading all these false lies Now we see what it is that they really want to do. They want to kill him. They want to put him to death. Like those wicked servants in the vineyard They're not content for Jesus to be exiled or to be sent somewhere else. They want him gone. In the parallel passage in Matthew chapter 26, we're told that there's a it's a little bit more than just they want to. They actually hold a secret meeting at the palace of the high priest. They're trying to do all this in secret. And why? It's not just because they hate Jesus or have no love for Jesus. What they're doing reveals that they really have no love for God at all. Notice there in verse 2. But they said, Not during the feast, lest there be an uproar of the people. I could almost have some respect for them if the reason was we don't want there to be such a distraction during this vital and important ceremony. During this festival where we remember the salvation of our God, how he redeemed us out of Egypt, we don't want anyone distracted by this. So let's wait. That's not what they say, though. What are they really afraid of? A riot. They're afraid of the uproar. They don't fear the people being distracted. They fear how the people would react to what would happen to Jesus at their hands The leadership has no love for Jesus, and they show it. It's revealed by their actions and by what they do So we move on now and we see the rest of this event. And it's interesting that Mark puts this section, verses 3 through verse 9, right here, and he sandwiches it in these bookends between the leadership and what they seek to do with Jesus and then Judas and what he seeks to do with Jesus. Because we're told in the other passages we find out this is actually not happening exactly in this timeline. This is an event that happened before Jesus even enters Jerusalem. But we're told it here because of what it shows. And so let's look together at the love of the lady. We know who the lady is. I just wanted to have that alliteration in there, because you know, preachers gotta preach. Alliteration is what they do. But we'll find out in John chapter 12 that this is Mary, the brother of uh the, whose brother was Lazarus. Mary of the Mary and Martha fame. And we see here that what she is going to do, what her love leads her to do, is to give a very extravagant sacrifice. It shows a very costly love. Look here at verse 3. And being in Bethany at the house of Simon the leper, as he sat at the table, a woman came having an alabaster flask. a very costly oil of Spike Nard. Then she broke the flask and poured it on his head. The translation doesn't help us here, but the Greek is very clear. It is costly, that's for sure. But the Greek is very clear because it says it's pure nard. And if you know anything about nard, which you might not, because I didn't before I was preparing this sermon, there's different kinds of nard. But there's only one that's real. There's other fake nards out there that you can get a little easier, that have impurities, that are not as aromatic. Not as fragrant as this marvelous material. This material is so rare and so precious. It only grows in one place. The plant from which we get this essential oil of Nard only grows in the Himalayas. If you know your geography, the Himalayas are very far away from Israel. And not just are they far away. Did you know that the plant from which we get gnarred only grows three kilometers to five kilometers altitude That's pretty impressive that somebody would have gone to those great heights on those great mountains so far away to cultivate, to grab, to harvest this. And to turn it into nard. And when we're talking about the quantity here, we're told it's a pound in other passages. A pound. It might have been a Roman pound. That's twelve ounces, not sixteen ounces, but that's okay. It's a lot. It's not a very little bit. And even the jar itself, an alabaster jar, would have been A tremendous gift. And they were designed in such a way that you could just break the top of the jar and pour out a little bit at a time. Just a little bit. But what we're told here is she doesn't just pour out some of it. She literally destroys the alabaster flask, the file. And she pours all of it on Jesus. In verse 5, we're told exactly how extravagant this sacrifice is. 300 denarii. That's more than a year's wages. More than a year of life and labor for a person. And that gives us a little bit of a an insight into how special this was to Mary to give this to Jesus. The likelihood that she would have just had an alabaster jar of Nard hanging around, or that she decided, you know what, I'd like to buy myself this extravagant and expensive perfume. That doesn't gel. It's most likely this was her dowry. It's very likely this is what was left to her as an inheritance from her parents for her security, for her future. I couldn't help but thinking if it went through her mind as Lazarus is in the tomb. Thank you, Lord, for our parents leaving us this nard, because we can sell it and survive now that Lazarus has died. It was literally life for her. But she gives it. She gives it to Jesus. And so we see in verse three it's in a very extravagant sacrifice. But in verses four to five we see That it's a criticized sacrifice. Look there at verse 4. But there were some who were indignant among themselves and said, Why was this fragrant oil wasted? For it might have been sold for more than 300 denarii and given to the poor. And they criticized her sharply. These critics criticizing the sacrifice, the sum of them If we look at Matthew's passage, Matthew 26, verse 8, we see it's not just some people. It's the disciples. It's Jesus' disciples, those who have been with him since the beginning of his ministry, those who have seen all that he has done, those who were in that boat when he commanded the sea and the storm, and it obeyed him. They're the ones who are going to criticize her for what she's done. In John chapter 12, in his version of this event, we are told that it's Judas who's basically the ringleader of this criticism, of this fault finding. And John in verse 6 of chapter 12 tells us why. He tells us that Judas was the one who kept the money bag. He tells us that Judas was a thief. Judas has an ulterior motive for criticizing this sacrifice. But it saddens me that the disciples went along with it. It says that they criticize her sharply. Literally, they rebuke her. They look down on her. They glower at her. Now what is the r reason that they give for this kind of criticism, for this critique of her sacrifice? Unfortunately, it's a common criticism that we may hear even these days. Ultimately it boils down to they're claiming this is really poor stewardship of God's resources. This is a fortune. This is more money than most ministries would receive It could be used for all these other good things. So the criticism is poor stewardship. We can't do this. We shouldn't do this. And they use the stewardship of the poor to give them a little bit of uh confidence in this. Right? We've got lots of poor people to take care of. We need to be taking care of them, and this is a the way that God is providing for us to take care of them. How could you waste this It's a very worldly way of thinking, isn't it? And yet Jesus Jesus doesn't criticize her, does he? Instead, Jesus validates her and shows that this criticized sacrifice is really a validated sacrifice. Look at verse 6. But Jesus said, let her alone. Why do you trouble her? She's done a good work for me. Jesus validates her first by defending her. He literally rebukes them. Leave her alone. Release her. Let her be. Beautiful rhetorical question. Why are you so troublesome to her? Why are you so troubled by her? He defends her and then he declares the way her actions should truly be understood. It's a good work It's a good thing she's done. You could also translate it, it's a beautiful work. Now of course it's a good work to take care of the poor, isn't it? It's a good work to give to those who need. But Jesus is calling this extravagant sacrifice, which has been criticized, a beautiful, good thing that she had done for him. And he demolishes their reasoning. He tears it down completely. It's not about the poor. He shows that their bringing up the poor is really just an excuse. For you have the poor with you always, and whenever you wish you may do them good, but me, you do not have always. Was this news to them? It wasn't. Jesus has been teaching that he was going to be betrayed, that he was going to his death. They knew what was going to happen to him. They knew that he was entering Jerusalem at that time, because the time had been fulfilled, and he was going to die. Jesus doesn't invalidate helping others or helping the poor. Rather, he points out That there's always going to be work for the church to do. It's the church that is going to last. It's the only institution. Not of man, but for man, which will last forever. The church is never going away. The gates of hell and Hades cannot prevail against the Church of Jesus Christ. Jesus points out that it's not just the work of the church that needs attention. Yes, it will be. It's good to serve the poor, to help the poor. But what does he show is more important even than that? It's his worship. Worshiping the Lord Jesus Christ surpasses all other aims and missions of the church. His worship, his adoration. His exaltation, him being lifted up before all mankind, like the serpent in the wilderness. And it should point out something to us, brothers and sisters. There are a lot of people out there who think that the The mission of the church and the reason that God has saved us is to fix what's wrong in the world. This can go by a bunch of different names. Maybe you've heard it called the social gospel. Have you ever heard that? I think in modern times some people might be using the term Christian nationalism. As though that's what we're here for. That God has made a church so that we can take over the world politically and fix everything. That's what would fix it. As though if you could simply bar all other religions from being legal religions, you could make the world Christian. That doesn't make sense. And that's not why we are saved. That's not why the church exists. It doesn't exist to fix the world's brokenness. The church exists to exalt and glorify the only one who can fix the world's brokenness. Who is that? It's the Lord Jesus Christ. If the church forgets this, it will be blinded to the beautiful love that God puts in his people, to these extravagant sacrifices that are made for his glory. Well Jesus not only defends her and not only declares how we should understand what she's done, and he not only demolishes all the arguments of the critics. But he clarifies the true nature of her sacrifice. Do you see that there in verse 8? She has done what she could That's a question of ability. She's done what she could. Why did Mary have this nard? Why did God Provide Mary with this fortune. She did what she could. He gave it to her for this very purpose. Because he knew that the love he had given her for his son would not waste such a precious gift that he had given her. It's not a waste. It's its actual purpose. And what is the purpose of her sacrifice? We see this in the rest of verse 8. It was preparation for Jesus. Preparation for his magnificent task, for a tremendous undertaking that even Jesus himself suffered anxiety about. Even Jesus himself was trembling and quaking. Remember, he sweat blood. Thinking about what was before him. But remember what he says in the Garden of Gethsemane? Not my will, but your will. He asked if the cup could be taken from him. And the Lord said no. His father said no. And we praise him for it. As none of us would have any hope of salvation if that cup had not been drunk to the dregs by Jesus Christ. He had been teaching them that this is what was going to happen. And we don't hear anything about the disciples coming alongside him and saying, How can we help you prepare for this, Lord? Instead we have some of the disciples saying, No, this isn't gonna happen. That can't be. This is why God gave her that Pyrnard. So that she could pour all of it out on Jesus Christ. Now this nard is so fragrant. In the other passages that we're told that the whole house is filled with it. It's not just that the whole house would have been filled with it. Activate your imaginations, brothers and sisters. Jesus. Being whipped and beaten. Jesus being flogged. Having his body ripped open, his skin ripped off by the Roman experts at pain. And though there would be the smell of metal from the blood. Can you imagine? Could you imagine that smell? But over top of it all would be a fragrance that most of the people, even possibly Pontius Pilate himself, had never smelled before because it was so costly and because it was so extravagant. This man being beaten and mocked and scourged, being spat upon smells like the most. well-appointed prince in the entire world. It wouldn't have faded from him, the amount of oil that had been poured over him. And then Jesus in verse nine decrees the result of her sacrifice Assuredly, I say to you, wherever this gospel is preached in the whole world, what this woman has done will also be told as a memorial to her. What's the result? What she's done will be remembered. Her sacrifice for Jesus Christ will be remembered. She will be remembered in all the world. Wherever the gospel is preached, she is remembered. In every language of humanity, as the Bible is being translated, this passage is being translated into their language. That they would understand and know that this woman loved Jesus so much, she was willing to sacrifice her security, her future, her life, her fortune. For this one who had no beauty in his appearance, who didn't look like someone who was worthy of such a sacrifice. Her love for Jesus is revealed. It's real It's true. It wasn't a pretend love. And everyone who hears the good news of Jesus Christ will know it. Can you imagine her reaction to Jesus? If there was any part of her who as she Trembled, bringing her future in her hands, this precious alabaster jar, as she brought it to him To all these men sitting at the table, reclining, laying about. If there was any part of her who said, Is this a mistake? Should I not be doing this? Should I be saving this? If she had known what would happen to the church after Christ's resurrection, perhaps she would have said, I should save this until until there's a church that really needs this. But imagine after Jesus says what he says, how she would light up. How her heart, whatever burden on it, whatever doubts had been there, would be completely gone and erased. Joy Joy at the opportunity to sacrifice for Christ. Peace. Though it was at great risk to her. Peace knowing that he is pleased with what she does. Jesus didn't tell her beforehand. Or at least we're not told. No matter what a television show might do in trying to make aspects of the gospels in Christ's life more relatable, we're not allowed to just assume That he in a human way orchestrated all of these miracles. Like he somehow took her aside and said, Hey, you know that nard that you have? I know this may sound weird, but I want you to break it and pour it all over me. Shh. It's going to be fine. People are going to have a problem, but shh, do it. Sometimes I think that's what we want, isn't it? We want Jesus to take us aside and say, it's okay. You'll be fine. But this is not what he does. He has promised us that what we give for his glory will be honored. But every moment that we have when he moves in us to s make an extravagant sacrifice for him, it has to be done on faith. It's a leap of faith And it shows the reality of our faith, the reality of our love for Jesus, that we would be willing to go to such a length. without a written guarantee from him that it will be remembered and honored and everyone will hear about it. You cannot know what your sacrifices will accomplish for his glory, but you must trust That if he has put in you a desire for that sacrifice, and that desire is pure because it's for him, because it's for Jesus himself, not for accolades from a crowd. Not for tax benefits, but for him. I encourage you, brothers and sisters, live out your love for Jesus Christ. He will honor your sacrifice. The Jewish leaders showed their love for Jesus, or rather their hatred by their actions, by their works. And Mary shows her love for Jesus by her actions and her works, her extravagant sacrifice. It costs her so much But Jesus shows that real and genuine and true love for him is more valuable than any fortune. That you could have for yourself, even more than any fortune you could give to the poor. And so we look now at this last part. I found it very fascinating as I'm going through this just to think. Jesus says that what she has done will be remembered wherever the gospel is preached. Do you realize that what he will do will also be remembered by anyone wherever the gospel is preached? Even people who don't believe the Bible true know who Judah Saskariot is. It was really funny when we named Judah Judah, my Former college roommate who had been my best friend for a long time, not a believer, not even close to a believer, although I pray for him every day When we said we were naming him Judah, even he was like, hey, whoa, whoa, isn't that the bad one? And it was great because I got to explain to him, no, it doesn't it's not the bad one. That's Judas. This is Judah. Now they're both related to the Hebrew word for rejoice. But even the world who hates Jesus knows that Judas Iscariot is not someone to emulate. And so let's look together at the love, quote unquote, of the liar. Then Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went to the chief priests to betray him to them. And when they heard it, they were glad and promised to give him money, so he sought how he might conveniently betray him. We see that Judas's love is no real love at all. It's pretend. He's just putting on a show. And we see that pretend love, love that is just a show, is the same as hatred of Jesus. He goes to betray him. He goes to the ones who hate him. He goes to the ones who want to kill him, and he casts his lot in with them In the Matthew passage we see that it's uh Judas goes and he he doesn't go meekly, he goes with an agenda and he negotiates. Huh? What what will you give me if I betray him? I know you're looking for this. What I'm your guy. What what's this worth? In the back of his mind was he thinking, three hundred and area? Is this worth a year's wages? Is this worth worth a small fortune? What Judas does shows his real love. It's the love of money. In 1 Timothy 6 10, what does it tell us? The love of money is the it's the root of all kinds of evil. Is there something significant about thirty pieces of silver? In Zechariah chapter eleven. Zechariah has given a prophecy to give to the people that Jesus that Jesus that God tells him is not going to be well received. And he goes to them and he says, If you've heard my word, what are my wages? Paraphrasing. And they say 30 pieces of silver. And you remember what Zechariah does? He takes the thirty pieces of silver and he throws it into the temple. Do you know why? In that passage it says, this princely sum of thirty pieces of silver. Do you know what thirty pieces of silver is worth? It's the price of a slave. In Exodus 21, 32, if somebody's ox gores a slave, they need to pay the compensatory price, which is 30 pieces of silver. Judas loved money, but he also loved his station. He loved his ministry. Oh, his ministry was so important to him. He was the keeper of the money. He was the treasurer of Jesus' ministry. And as the treasurer, he could do with it what he wanted. And what did he want? He wanted the two for Jesus, one for me. Two for Jesus, one for me. He wanted to do with it what he pleased. Now let's give him the benefit of the doubt. Maybe he wasn't trying to accumulate himself his own wealth, but Perhaps he loved being the one who got to take from the money bag and give to the poor because everybody just thought Judas was the best. Thank you. Oh, Judas comes around and everybody's excited. He loved being one of the twelve. He did not love the one who called the twelve. And he shows it by his actions. He wants to conveniently betray Jesus. How do you conveniently betray someone you love? There's nothing convenient about betrayal Brothers and sisters, the works you do reveal the reality of your love for Jesus Christ. And so I leave you with this. What do your actions reveal about your love? What do you hold back for yourself? Are you willing to go wherever he'll send you? Are you willing to give up whatever he calls you to give up? Are you willing to separate yourself from anyone who would get in the way of your loving and serving him? Do you see every part of your life as something he's provided? Not for your security, not just for your benefit, though we all know that what God gives us is such a blessing. But it's not given just for you. Are you more concerned with your ministry? Than with sacrifice? Are you more concerned with how your ministry is perceived? Then how Jesus Christ is actually honored and glorified and exalted before others through it All of us have a ministry. I'm not just talking about elders or pastors. I'm talking about all of you. You have been given good works, which he has planned beforehand for you to do. You're his masterpiece He's made you to serve him, or those works, so that you would be seen as great I have to tell myself this on a daily basis. It's almost something that I wake up with. It is Christ Christ Ianity. It is not church ianity. Christ can never fail. Men can fail. We can make mistakes. And if your love is just for churchiness and being churchy and doing churchy things, Then when churches disappoint you, where will you be? Christ will never disappoint you. If your love is for Christ, then every sacrifice you make will be worth it. Do you love Christ? Do you love him for who he is? Do you love him for what he does? Or do you simply love being associated with him and what he does Like Judas, who loved being one of the twelve, but did not love the one. The very final thing I leave you with is this. Are you ever worried that you can't do enough? Are you ever worried that you don't have enough for God? I'm here to tell you. You don't. Of course you don't have enough. Of course you can't do enough. Of course you can't g But that's not what he called. Look at what he says about Mary's sacrifice. She did what she could And so I implore you and exhort you, do what you can. You little ones, you have less fortune than the older ones, isn't that right? Some of the older ones have less fortune than the younger ones. But you have what you have, so you can do what you can for Jesus. Do what you can. Take the leap of faith. Be willing to make an extravagant sacrifice. Don't be worried that others might criticize you for your foolishness. Worry only what Christ thinks. And care only about how He is exalted. Through the way you serve him and serve his people. Live for his glory. Love him with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. It is never, ever a waste. May God grow your love for his son. That you, like Mary, would do good and extravagant things. marvelous and beautiful works for him. That you would do whatever he has put before you to do with whatever he has given you, that his glory would fill the world. And all people would know him and the gospel of his life, his death, and his resurrection. Please pray with me.