Together to the Book of Titus. And our reading this morning is Titus chapter one, verses five through ten. For this reason I left you in Crete that you should set in order the things that are lacking, and appoint elders in every city as I commanded you. If a man is blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children not accused of dissipation or insubordination, for a bishop must be blameless, as a steward of God, not self-willed, not quick-tempered. not given to wine, not violent, not greedy for money, but hospitable, a lover of what is good, sober-minded, just holy, self-controlled holding fast the faithful word as has been taught, that he may be able, by sound doctrine, both to exhort and convict those who contradict. For there are many insubordinate, both idle talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision. Amen. Let us pray. O Christ, we ask that you would work through the preached word this morning. We pray, Lord, that we would not just be hearers, but doers, and that you would be glorified. And that our neighbors would be loved. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Do you remember some of the questions that we asked last week as we began Titus? Questions like: What lies are destroying your faith and your love? What lies are shipwrecking the faith and love of those who are around you? And how will you respond in Christian wisdom to those specific cases? What is the measured, just, and fitting response? The only thing we acknowledged last week, the only thing necessary for evil to triumph is for the church to do nothing In a world of liars, however, the church is called to preach the Word of God for the furtherance of faith and love. That's how we summarize the whole thing: faith and love. Now we continue with Titus this morning, as we've read in 5 through 10. So let's make a few observations and then see how they work out in our daily lives. The first thing I want you to notice is that Paul places the main purpose for which he has dispatched Titus. to Crete. Did you notice what Titus's main job is? There's a general category that's given to all of the work, which is helpful. Titus is to set in order the things which are lacking. Set in order. If you had the opportunity to take a look at that Greek word, you would actually notice a part of the word. It's a complex word. But part of the word in there has the word that we're used to ortho. It's where we get orthodox or orthopedic. If you were to look up orthopedic, that is basically the practice of medicine, which relates to dealing with the correction of deformities of bones and muscles. That provides a nice analogy for us to see what Paul is instructing Titus to do. Paul tells Titus to set the church in order, and he has in mind that there are things that are twisted. There are things that have become deformed there on the island of Crete within the church society. Actually, it's broken up into many cities, and in each of those cities there's some disorder that's going on. And Titus is to set it in order. That's the main category. We should be thinking about the whole letter. That's the first thing I want you to notice. Here's the second thing. Notice, second, the means which Paul instructs Timothy to use in order to straighten out what is crooked. Now, there's a bunch of means that he is to use, and that all of us are to use. But the one that is emphasized right here are the elders. It says that Titus is to appoint elders in every city. For the appointment to be successful, therefore, there needs to be some qualifications. This list that you see here, you can find these in 1 and 2 Timothy also. these kinds of lists, the or in 2 Timothy, these kinds of lists. These qualifications I wonder how you have made sense of them in your past when you come up when you come upon a list like this. A lot of the times I see folks go to a Greek lexicon Or a dictionary and they look up all the individual words and they try to piece the thing together. That can be helpful Other times I see people do historical studies where there are lists like this throughout their culture. Actually there were. This is a pretty normal thing, these lists. They're called virtue lists And that can be helpful also. But for our purposes, it's helpful to remember that this list, though written in Greek, is a part of a Hebrew culture. We want to look at the total canon to be able to understand what's going on with these qualifications And when we do, we will notice that these qualifications are the basic things that are necessary in order for someone to order a society injustice. Now we'll get to that a little bit later within the within the sermon. Another way to say this same kind of thing, if you were to go through these lists and try to figure out what's he s why is he saying these specific I think Paul, if you wanted to paraphrase him, is in a sense saying Make sure the elders are good leaders like we see in the scriptures, and they are not like the Cretans that are all around them. Let them not be like the ones who are deformed and crooked that were need to straighten out. That's part of it. I mean if you look, for example, at the list, take a look in the in the word there. Look at the deformities listed. Those are the deformities of the Cretan citizens. If you were to keep reading through the letter, you'll see they're right there. They have broken marriages, they have destructive children. They are self-willed. Now that it that means they're bullies. They they coerce and push you with their strength to get their own way. They are drunks. They are thugs. They are dismissive of the way of life delivered to us by the apostles. That's a pretty good description of the Cretans. You could go down a little bit in the passage and see where Paul quotes one of their own poets saying, Cretans are liars and lazy gluttons and So that she's actually cleaning it up a little bit here. It'll get worse as we go on. So on the contrary, the elders should look like citizens of the kingdom of God. Ensuring the ability to detect and confront those who stand against God. Did you catch that last little phrase that I read in verse 10? For there are many insubordinate, both idle talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision. And in verse 9, it says that the elder therefore We can see why they would need to have this qualification. They need to be able, by sound doctrine, to exhort, that's encourage, and to convict those who contradict. So you see the kind of people that they're dealing with, and therefore the kind of person they must be. And that's helpful for us to be able to get a picture of what Paul is setting up here by way of Titus. And it also leads us into our doctrine this morning, just these two observations. As part of our witness to the world, remember that's the main focus still. Christ left the church with a mission. And as a part of our mission to the world, God appoints elders to keep church society ordered As part of our witness to the world, God appoints elders to keep church society ordered And of course, they are meant to be exemplary to where you would keep the same kind of order in the leadership of your own homes or your companies or what have you. What I'd like to do is I want to start off by looking at some past instruction to unfold this, and then the present order. Past instruction and present order. As part of our witness to the world, God appoints elders to keep church society ordered. And I want to look at past instruction and present order. Let's start with some past instruction to try to understand more of what's going on here for our own benefit. Do you remember a few weeks ago During the Holy Week services, that we noticed that Jesus taught the disciples, and when he did, he would teach them from all of the scriptures, and their hearts burned within them. Do you remember that? That is as an example. He helped them to see very important realities about what who God is and what he's doing with the world. It was a special observation that we made that Jesus focused on the Old Testament in those teachings. He taught from the five books of Moses, the prophets, and the wisdom literature. Those are the books that are listed in Luke. as the teaching material of Jesus. And so we made the further observation during Holy Week, especially on Easter. or on Resurrection Sunday, we said to ourselves, we cannot confine ourselves, therefore, to the New Testament. Otherwise, we're not handling the scriptures as Jesus Himself handled them. I want you to think of yourself as having a mission from Christ, and He has given you two hands to do the work The one hand is the New Testament and the other hand is the Old Testament. If you are ignorant of the Old Testament or you dismiss it, You are seeking to try to accomplish his mission with one hand tied behind your back. And in a sense, it will be two hands because you can't really understand the New Testament if you don't have the Old. So now you get to do the mission like this. And I'm telling you right now, if you haven't noticed, you're gonna need not just your two hands, but everybody else's two. So we can't afford to do that. We do not want to tie one hand behind our back by ignoring what God has said in all of those Old Testament books. And that is true for our passage this morning, also Placing elders in every city of Crete was not a Pauline innovation. This is a part of the faithful way and path of the church from the beginning. God has always organized his people this way. I want you to listen to just some excerpts from Deuteronomy, which is a kind of summation and a consummate moment for the church. Listen to this in terms of God always ordering things this way. The first thing I want you to notice is going to be in Deuteronomy 4, verse 6. And here we see God creating the church as a great light in the world, who will be known for their wisdom and their justice. Listen to this. Therefore, be careful to observe them, speaking of his words. For this is your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the peoples who will hear all these statutes and say, Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people. That's primarily a statement with regards to justice. How they have ordered things to where everybody gets to live freely in accordance with their natures. Okay, now So there it is. That's who they are. That's just like us. That's what we've been made into. We've been grafted in as Gentiles. We see, second, God in the same book establishing leadership right away to make sure that this stays ordered. Listen to this from Deuteronomy 1:13 Choose wise, understanding, and knowledgeable men from among your tribes, and I will make them heads over you. And then we go on, if you were to keep uh reading Deuteronomy all the way into chapter 16, you're going to see that there are going to need to be men who are qualified. with good character. You shall appoint judges and officers in all your gates, which the Lord your God gives you, according to your tribes, and they shall judge the people with just judgment. Judgment here is not condemning the people. This is ordering them. It's keeping things as they're meant to be It goes on to say, you shall not pervert justice, you shall not show partiality, you will not take a bribe, for a bribe blinds the eyes of the wise and twists the words of the righteous. And you can't be twisted and straighten things out. So you can see the qualifications here. And he continues saying, you shall follow what is altogether just. that you may live and inherit the land which the Lord your God is giving you. There it is, already in Deuteronomy. The same kind of thing that we're seeing within Titus. To understand the path that Paul is placing us on, we have to first understand that this is not a Pauline innovation that he's come up with. He's tapping in to the well-worn path of the faithful. I hope that this demonstrates for you that Paul is looking to the paths and practices of the Old Testament saints. Because the pre-incarnate, or really, the eternal son, was there ordering his church even before his incarnation. Now that's the past. Those are some lessons that we can take from it, and we can begin to see how that sets us up to understand the present order, which is the second main application point. And here's the question. This is the main question that we've got to ask when we're looking at this. Are there sections in Deuteronomy? Or elsewhere that fill out and give us a better understanding of how the church should be ordered. So, for example, Paul says to Titus, put everything in order. What does that look like? Titus must have known, because he didn't go on to uh I mean he gives some details as we'll see in a minute, but Titus is able to see, based on his understanding of what God's order has been all along, what the order should be. Appoint elders and set the church in order. What does that look like? Well, as we continue in Titus, you're going to see more and more. You'll start to see how the older women are supposed to work with the younger women and the older men with the younger men, and you're going to see a whole society that's being ordered But before we get there, we can still go back and benefit from Deuteronomy. And it should not surprise us that we can do so. Because in Deuteronomy chapter 5, again, as a kind of consummate publication for how God wants our society ordered, he gives us ten words Or we call them the commandments. It doesn't say ten commandments, it says ten words. It's very important. Because Moses is not a legislator. He's a pastor. And he's telling them principles by which they should order things according to God's will. Well that's in Deuteronomy chapter five. And now if we can look at Deuteronomy chapter five, we can begin to see What is behind Paul's instruction to Titus as he sets up the order of this church, and we therefore can benefit knowing what our order should look like? Now I'm going to tell you a really cool thing about Deuteronomy chapter 5 and the ten words or the commandments. Are you ready for this? I've already t said this to some of you and you were not excited like I wanted you to be. But I'm going to try this again. In Deuteronomy 5, with those ten commandments, they are in the second person masculine. Boom. That's pretty good. They're in the second person masculine. Now what is the implication of that? Some of them are in the singular, some of them are in the plural. The implication of that is directly connected to what's going on with Titus. That means that first and foremost, though applicable to every man, woman, and child, first and foremost, these words are written to the male leadership. You In the masculine. You men. The same ones that we read about in Deuteronomy 1 and the same ones we read about in Deuteronomy 16. And you can see Titus appointing leaders who are elders, and it is the same thing that we would do within our church. It is based on the ten words. The same is true for elders appointed everywhere. The same is true for any head of the household. They are all appointed to set And keep order according to God's just will, and this is just one argument. There are many arguments, and one major argument to prove that is that it is in the second person masculine. Now, I want you to think about that in relationship to us going through the book of Judges. That male leadership forgot that the Ten Commands were in the second-person masculine. Because they went ahead and violated all of them for their own benefit. And that's not what's supposed to happen. This is what's supposed to happen. Listen to what this means. It means that the elders are responsible to make sure That we get what we deserve and that God gets what he deserves. That's a very basic definition of justice. Getting our due. So here, let's go through a couple of the commands so you can begin to see what the order is supposed to look like. Number one, let's start with what God is due. God has the right to exclusive allegiance and adoration. That's the first and the second command. And it's written in the second person masculine, which means you have a responsibility to make sure that the society of the church gives exclusive allegiance and adoration to Yahweh, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit Now that's the first two commands. Here's the third command. God has the right to proper representation. Does anybody remember the third command? Could you quote it? You shall not take the Lord's name in vain. We usually think I need to make sure that I'm very careful how I talk about Him. And that's true, but this third commandment refers primarily to you taking on his name as one of his devotees. That you are consecrated to him. If you say you are his, the point of the third command is that he has the right to expect that you will represent him and his ways accurately. That you're not going to misrepresent him, that you will not take on his name in vain, actually misleading people as to what it means to be a part of him in his covenant. So that's the third. God has the right to proper representation. And it is in the second person, masculine, which means you have the responsibility heads to make sure that that is taking place within the society of God's people. Now we could go on to the fourth command. The fourth command has lots of features. One of the most prominent features Is that the point is made that leaders would treat everyone and everything humanely? That's one of the major points of the fourth command. It's in opposition to what had happened to them in Egypt. They are not allowed, even if they're stronger and more muscular than the children and the women, they are not allowed to become like Pharaoh, exploiting everyone, and they're not allowed to even exploit their animals. Everything must be treated humanely. And we have a responsibility to make sure that that is the case. Here's one, this becomes more familiar now. One's parents have the right to respect. And honor and dignity. And that plays out in really practical ways that when they get older, you would take care of them and not push them off on somebody else. You would be patient with them when it takes them a little bit longer to get into the restaurant or whatever it is. It works out in very practical ways. They have a right to your respect. And that's written, guess what, in the second person masculine, which means if you are a leader, you have the responsibility of making sure that they are getting respect and dignity. Here's another one. One's neighbor has the right to life. That's a good one. I'm glad for that. Here's another one. One's neighbor has the right to purity and fidelity in marriage. One's neighbor has the right to have their own property and for you not to take it away unjustly. One's neighbor has the right to honest and truthful testimony when you're dealing with them and their reputation, especially in a court of law. One's neighbor has the right to security in marriage. in his own household property without you constantly coveting and trying to take it away Now those are just ten words. They're a summary or principles that are meant to then be worked out, and there's like 600 other laws after this, okay? They're all just working out. in case laws, some of the ways in which this society would start to be formed. And these are in a summary so that even our children could just go ahead and remember each one on our digits. And now they know on both their hands what it looks like for us to have a just society, as God has intended. Wisely understood, they unfold to reveal God's order, which He is establishing through His Son, just like we read in Psalm 8 and the Son's Spirit for all of his creation, for all of time. And that is what we are on planet Earth to do as the church. And you can see that here in Titus, as Paul tells Titus to appoint elders that they would put things in order, and we know what order is by drawing upon the the long and well-worn tradition of the faithful, especially expressed in the consummate publication of the Ten Words It is about a good and free society. So here are a couple of questions then. Elders and other heads of household, did you realize that the commandments are especially written to you? Did you realize that? They are recorded, I've said this a thousand times, in the second person masculine. What are you doing to make sure that God and those around you have their rights? That is literally your job from God. It is your vocation. To make sure that the people around you have their rights, especially those who are easily overcome by those who are stronger, which is why we have categories like orphan and widow. What deformities do you see that need to be set in order as summarized by the ten principles of justice and freedom? Do you see parts of yourself that look like the Cretants? Do you need to do some self-ordering so that you can more purely bring order to the world around you? Now, that was largely given to elders and heads of household because that's the focus on Titus. But it branches out, and it and if you're human, man, woman, child. What works of justice has Jesus Christ given you to do? You do not need to be the next most popular civil rights leader But I bet you there's a bunch of little things that Christ gives you every day to maintain in order for the love of your neighbor and the correct representation of his image. And both God and your neighbor are due those things. What is crooked around you? How is Christ empowering you to make it straight? With this rich and full understanding, the call this morning is for us to remember. It is to remember this. As a part of our witness to the world, God appoints elders to keep church society ordered. Amen. Please pray with me. Father, we thank you that we have both hands this morning, that we were able to see both hands actually interlocking. And seeing Paul tell Titus to set things in order, and for us to be able to look at the whole canon as to what that order should be. We pray, Lord, that you would deepen this as we continue in the letter to Titus. Lord, Christ, you are the King and Head of the Church. You therefore keep us all in order. That is what it means for you to be our judge. And you do so through means. We ask, Lord, that you would give us good leaders here. We pray, Lord, that anyone who is head would be looking out for the right and the dues of those around them as you have defined. I pray, Lord, that you would give us that kind of wisdom. Ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen