Take out your Bibles, if you will, and turn to Matthew 16. We're working our way through the Gospel of Matthew, and we're in an important passage today, as we have been for the last few weeks. weeks, Matthew 16. And today we'll be pay taking up verses 21 through 28. There's definitely eschatological overtones to this passage, and as a result of that We're considering it from an eschatological point of view. As you're turning to it, as you're looking at these verses and turning to them, please do so in an attitude of prayer, begging God That he will indeed open up your heart and your mind to what he would have you understand from his word today. Turn, if you will, to Matthew 16, verses 21 through 28. From that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised on the third day. And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him, saying, Far be it from you, Lord, this shall not happen to you. He turned and he said to Peter, Get behind me, Satan. You are an offense to me, for you are not mindful of the things of God. But the things of men. And Jesus said to his disciples, If anyone desires to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whoever desires to save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. For what profit is it to Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul? For the Son of Man will come in glory of his fathers with his angels and then he will reward each according to his works. Assuredly I say to you, there are some standing here who shall not taste death till they see the Son of Man coming. in his kingdom. May the Lord add his blessings and his uh power to the thoughts and the uh meditation That last verse we'll be picking up with next week, and so I'm not going to touch on that one today, but I want you to consider the things that we can see in this passage. And particularly, what I would like for us to do is recognize how easy it is for us to identify with Peter in this passage. We have all been there, done that, got the t-shirt to some extent with what he is doing. Peter's reacting to these crazy, crazy sounding statements that Jesus just made. Surely you can't mean this, Jesus. No way. God wants you to go to Jerusalem to be beat up and to suffer and to die? Come on, Jesus. That can't be the way God wants us to do things. Suffering at the hands of religious leaders? Now this just This just sounds crazy. It's too far removed from what is in the ordinary course of the way things are done. Now maybe we haven't faced anything quite that extreme in our lives, but we've all come up with situations as we have gone through our lives where things can be pretty stressful Where they can be challenging, where maybe even life and death is at stake. And then something from the Bible is brought to our attention, either through a friend or or Perhaps through our daily meditations or something. And this these words from the Bible reach out and as it were just grab us by the the collar and they say, Look at what I'm saying here And we look at that, and quite frankly, we're not real sure we like what we read. Surely God doesn't want me to do that Certainly, God is not expecting me to respond that way to all this stuff. Sometimes God's way is just so far removed from us from what we usually think about the way we should conduct our life that it just seems crazy to follow it. And that's I think something we all have In common. As an illustration of this, my mother comes to mind. I've talked about her many times in the past. I love her to death. Loved her to death. She has since gone away many years ago But she lived through some really tough times. She lived through the Great Depression. She lived through World War Two with all the social pressures that that came about in this country during that time. She She lived with an alcoholic husband who who was just not there when she really needed him. She had four kids to raise, she had to provide for them. She had to educate them and she had to make sure to the length length limits of her ability that they didn't turn out to be bums. She knew what was hard Hard work. She knew that you are to take whatever life throws at you and you never give up in the face of it. That was her life. So when it came to religious stuff. She was very practical in what she would accept. She readily admitted that she was a Christian, but it was a pretty severe kind of Christianity. Throughout my entire life, I'd never heard her pray. Never heard her once pray. She just had no use for that real showy religious stuff The idea of turning the other cheek is simply not inherent in the Van Devenender DNA. And it certainly wasn't with her. The idea of sacrificially loving other people who are not her relatives or her immediate family, these things, nyh, yeah, you know No, she would say that she was a Christian. But I've heard her say it many times. I'm not a religious fanatic Now think about that for just a minute. I am a Christian, but I'm not a religious fanatic. Isn't that what Peter Peter's thinking here. He's saying, Jesus, let's be practical. Let's not go off the deep end in all of this religious stuff. I know you're the Christ, the Son of the Living God, I just said that, but let's be sensible. Let's not lose touch with reality. Let's not get fanatical about it. Jesus says Get thee behind me, Satan. You're not being mindful of the things of God, you are thinking of the things of men And I think right here that Jesus is speaking not just to Peter, but I think he's speaking to all of us also. We notice this very quickly when we look at the very next statement that Jesus makes. He moves right from that direct confrontation to Jesus to Peter, and he turns right around and he says, If anyone Desires to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross. If anyone desires to save his life, let him lose it Now Jesus is not talking just to Peter here. He shifts to the general case. He's no longer talking about just Peter if you wanted to, if you want to He's saying anyone. And what we must notice in these two major sections about taking up his cross and then losing losing his life, desiring to save his life, we must recognize that both of those are the same thing. Those are not two separate things. To desire to come after Jesus is the same thing as desiring to save our life. Now why do I I say that. Because Jesus is speaking of Himself as Savior. That's what the Christ came to be. That's what the Messiah was always understood to be for God's people. He was to be come and save them from their sins. Peter and the other disciples knew that. They knew that that if Christ was the Messiah, if he was the Christ, then he came to save people. He came to save Israel. Now God was angry at Israel. God was angry at Israel's sin. God was bringing judgment on Israel. He understood that was clearly taught by John the Baptist It was clearly taught by Jesus himself that judgment was imminent. And when God is angry and he brings judgment, things get pretty bad. Pretty quick. The threat of fire raining down from heaven on Israel as it did Sodom and Gomorrah was not out of the question here. And the people who were listening to Jesus understood that. It was a big thing. It's hard for us to relate to that because we're really not in this catalog. Minded people these days. But back then, during this period of time, it was hot. People were looking for a Messiah, and they were hoping that Jesus was the one. To save their lives, to save their lives in the face of God's judgment. To save their families. When God began Jesus was and is the Christ. And brothers and sisters, judgment is still coming Coming to this world of the sin, the fle of sin, the flesh, and the devil. And in that day of wrath, we have to get it in our mind that there will be people who cry out to the master Mountains and say fall on us, hide us from the wrath of the Lamb. Verses 15 through 17, you ought to take a look at it sometime. For anyone to desire to follow Jesus, it must be following First, with the knowledge of their own sin and of God's wrath at that sin. They recognize that they have to be saved from the consequences. It means that that person is aware that their sins ought to be punished because God is just and He is too holy. Holy to abide sin in his presence. And it is to know that in the face of that sin that is so permeating their person Their only hope is that God will have mercy. Because they know that they don't deserve anything else. And here we see Jesus. And like Peter, we say, you are the Christ, the Son of the living God, and therefore I desire to follow you, because the scriptures say that Christ will save people from their sin. I desire to live. I don't desire to die under the awful hand of God's wrath. I don't want to fall in judgment. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of an angry God. You are the Christ. And those who follow you will save their lives. That's that's That's the way it has always been understood. Now it's in that situation that Jesus is addressing Peter. And he says, if anyone wants to follow me, or if anyone desires to save their life, then this is what they must understand. That it's not just physical death and physical life that he has in view. Everything in the context of this passage points toward that great day of the Lord coming in judgment. When the Son of Man comes in his glory, Jesus says, to the glory of his Father, with all of the angels about him. Then and on that day it will count. If a man gives his life in this world to gain if a man gains his life in this world on that day he will lose his own soul What will it gain a man, brothers and sisters, to make a decision today or tomorrow based on what this world thinks is normal? What people are around us say is normal. Even if we follow the ways of the world, even if we profit from the ways of the world, even if money comes pouring into our bank account through some false gospel that says that if If you pray this prayer in the next six weeks, you're going to get twenty-five thousand dollars in the mail. Or what if in following the ways of the world you wind up with ten thousand friends friends on Facebook and millions following you on Twitter. What is that going to gain you, brothers and sisters? What will it gain us when we find ourselves standing before this man, Jesus Christ? This man, the Son of the living God. Who is there with all of that company of flashing angels with him? And we know that at that time point, what is at risk is our very own soul. There's an old gospel song that goes, it actually uh came out first as an old um spiritual song, but Peter, Paul, and Mary made it famous. Oh sinner man, where are you gonna run to? Where are you gonna run to on that day? On that day, do you desire to save your life? On that day, when the heavens are open and And you see the world kneeling before Christ as every knee will do, do you want to be among the few, the very few, who at that That moment will find life and mercy and hope. Those that want that, those who desire Those who see that day and it means something is not just an old tale written two thousand years ago that science has proved is not going to work into the earth and The universe is going to hang around for a billion more years. It's not for people who don't think that this is going to ever happen. But for those who do. Do you desire to have your life saved? They are the ones to whom Jesus is speaking in this general way. case. And it is to those that he says what must happen next. Jesus tells Peter what is expected of those who It sounds just as crazy, just as radical, and just as hard to accept as what he had told Peter before when he said that he had to go to Jerusalem and to be suffer and to die. He says that what any follower of Jesus must understand is that their life is to be one As he had to go to Jerusalem to lose his life so that he by raising from the dead could find it, so also those who followed the Follow him must take up their cross and follow him also. Jesus' life on earth was one of total submission to the will. It was a total giving up of himself, so that nothing was ever allowed to stand in the way of his obedience. Whatever God called him to face, he faced because God called him to face it. His love of God was what made him move in this direction and embrace this calling his love of God and his love of uh that God for those that God had given him. It was a total, complete, self-sacrificial love Love that put others first, and love that moved him to embrace the way of the cross that was before him. It was this total giving over of himself to loving God and his people that is called denying oneself. As Jesus denied himself in his earthly flesh and took up his cross and went his way to Gogatha. So it is that he says that those who follow him are to deny themselves by becoming totally immersed in the love of God And trusting God to bring good out of whatever it might be that He calls on us to face. This is what Jesus calls losing our lives. It means giving up self-love as the central motivating force in our life. It means putting other people first And to replace this self-love with loving God and His people and putting them first. That is how we lose Our lives. And we lose it because we trust God. Just as He raised Jesus from the dead, so we trust that He will raise us. in this total giving of ourselves over to him and his ways, that he is going to raise us up to a new life. He will raise us up not just in eternity, he will raise us up He will give us a life here that has the dawning sun of meaning and purpose as part of it. human and what it means to be alive. We die to self so that we may live to Christ, and then we discover what we See, brothers and sisters, this is what it means to be a life of crossbearing. It's what the writer of Hebrews described when speaking of Jesus he said, For the joy that was set before him, he endured the cross, despising its shame, and sat down at the right hand of God the Father. For the joy of what was before him He endured the cross. Cross-bearing is just that. For the joy that is sent before you, we undertake to live. Self-sacrificial, dying to self, to serve God. That is cross-bearing, that is following Jesus, and that is saving our souls And the last point I want to make from this passage is this: that life of crossbearing, of total submission, of denying oneself in order to follow Christ. That and that life alone is the life that will be preserved in judgment. Look at this text with me. Open up your text again. Open up your text. Up your Bible, please. I want you to focus for just a moment. Look at verse 27 in this text. Matthew 16, verse 27. I want you figuratively Not literally, but I want you figuratively to take off your shoes and look at this passage. I want you to essentially humble yourself in front of it. Just look at it. Let these words sink in. For the Son of Man will come in the glory of his Father with his angels, and then he will He will reward each one according to his works. Do you believe what Jesus says? Brothers and sisters, this is God speaking to us as he spoke to Moses. From the burning bush. This is God telling Abraham to leave his family and to go into a hand to a land that he does not know. This is God speaking to Isaiah from the midst of the cherubim and saying, Whom will I send? And Isaiah finding himself saying, Here am I, send me. This is Jesus Himself speaking to us and saying, I'm coming back. And what I do, I will reward each one according to his works. If you want to stand in judgment. If you desire to be rewarded for good works, then you must follow me. You must take up your cross and come after me. You must deny your Yourself that put me and my kingdom before all else in this world. Such a life, such a life cannot Be devoid of fruit. Such a life that is given over to me and my service will necessarily bring about good works in its train And these works will be deserving of reward. I will give each one that reward which I have promised to all who bear fruit in my name. When that fruit comes from a life that has been given over lock, stock, and barrel, to following Christ. Never doubt it, brothers and sisters. We are saved by By grace through faith. Yea and amen. Justification is by grace through faith alone. Period. We are saved by faith, but we are judged by works And only that faith which is productive of good works is a faith that saves. Jesus makes it Clear here. Paul teaches it in Romans 2, and James wraps it up in his letter. Following Jesus is the only way that any person can be saved from the The wrath of God, but following Jesus must necessarily always be a radical departure from the ways of the world. Religious fanatic, because it truly means to not dying to self every day and living to Christ and for His kingdom. That means being given over to loving God and His people and acting out that love in our day-to-day activities. It means here's where I start meddling. It means treating people with grace when we really just want to slap them silly. It means giving of ourselves and our resources when the world says that we're wasting our time in doing so. It means speaking the words of Christ with the wisdom. It means speaking the words of Christ when the wisdom of this world is shouted It means facing physical death itself at times, if necessary, when the witness of Christ Must spring from our lips. As Christ served God and served his people in a thousand ways, it means that we have to be alert throughout our every day for how we may serve God and put Him first and His people first in everything we do. And that means we have to adjust our lives and discipline our lives. to think that way. The way the world traps us into worldly thinking is that when we walk out the door of the church, all that good stuff we thought about there stays there, and we go out in the world and we live like the world lives throughout the week. And we if we don't take conscious steps to discipline ourselves not to do that, we will get caught up in it. I've got almost 70 years of proving that. It means giving of ourselves in such a way as to order ourselves to do what What we must do in order to remind ourselves of who we are and who we are following. It means that pray without ceasing becomes the fabric of our life. that a constant attitude of prayer is opening up the door so that we will be wise enough to recognize the situations in our life where we're supposed to show the love of God in them. And when we do this, we should look for the fruit that God will bring from such a life. When we Find that we do good in return for evil when we turn the other cheek, when we have been humiliated by how someone has taught us or treated us. And we look for the fruit that God will bring from that in his way and in his time. Trusting in his promise that in Any good work we do will certainly not fail to bring its reward because Christ will come with all of his angels and all of those who have given up their life on this earth for him and his kingdom will certainly find it to the salvation of their very own soul. To rejoice with him forever. If anyone desires to follow me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow. Let's pray.