Good. We thank you for all of the benefits that He has earned for us. We pray these things in His name. Amen. Please be seated. A lock it, a lock it It's not unusual, uh, and this was not an unusual case where before this young gentleman went off into the armed services. He had his picture printed out into and then cut into a small oval and placed in a locket for his wife and his three small children right when he left And in this way, while he was gone, they could look at his picture, open the locket, and be reminded of him, especially, imagine how important that would be, especially in difficult times. When all of the kids are screaming, when she feels like a single parent in that moment, the locket would come to be exceptionally handy and encouraging for her. You wonder why God hasn't given us a locket in some sense, or has he? Wouldn't it be nice when we are uh discouraged that we would have something to remember Jesus Christ and that He will return and that we can be comforted by, knowing that it's difficult now, but all that difficulty will be wrapped up in the end. Things will be better. again. You know, in Mark we've seen a lot of pictures of Jesus Christ. Uh in the in chapters 1 through 8, we're seeing so many different ways that the Father in his providence is revealing who Jesus Christ is. You know, something of interest that you may want to look into is that the Gospel of Mark consists of eight of sixteen chapters. And at chapter eight is Peter's confession. And we say that this is the center of the book where the first half of Mark is revealing who Jesus is. And it consummates in chapter 8 with Peter saying who he is, that he's Christ, the Son of God. And then the last set of chapters in the Gospel of Mark is revealing the great work that Jesus Christ must do for the salvation of his people. And we've seen who Jesus is in those first eight chapters. And I hope as you have read, Mark, on your own, that you've seen the great work that he is to be doing. Just uh recently, prior to this chapter in 14, we've seen him anointed by the woman in preparation for his burial. And we see just before the verses that we're looking at this evening, him celebrating the Passover that he longed to celebrate with his disciples. And now we move in to the Lord's Supper. And isn't the Lord's Supper exactly what we were asking for? Isn't it it is not uh Um it is more than remembering Jesus. It is much more. But it's not less than that. It is something that he's given to us as his church, the Lord's Supper. Jesus has given the church the Lord's Supper until he returns. as a kind of way that that man gave that woman a locket. The truth that we learn here about the Lord's Supper is that Jesus Christ gave the church the Lord's Supper as a more full sign and confirmation of his covenant with us. Jesus Christ gave the church the Lord's Supper as a more full sign and confirmation of his covenant with us. Now that's a mouthful. And so I want to look at this under two parts. I want to look at the situation and sensible signs. So Jesus Christ gave the church the Lord's Supper as a more full sign and confirmation of his covenant love, and we'll see this in the situation. and in the sensible signs. So let's begin with the situation that we see here in this passage. It begins right in verse 22. Take a look at that with me. Right in the beginning, that first clause, and as they were eating, it points immediately back up into the paragraphs before in the celebration of the Passover that Jesus was celebrating with his disciples. The Passover is a sacrament from the Old Testament. There are many elements that were involved. There were four cups, and if you ever have the opportunity to read on all of the different parts of the Passover and it could be beneficial to you. But one of the most important things that we read within the scriptures about the Passover and the celebration of the Passover, particularly after the first one that we read about in Exodus is in Exodus 12, 24 through 27, God anticipates that the uh Israelites will struggle, succeeding generations will struggle with the meaning of the Passover. And so he says, when your children come to you and they ask, what are we doing? Why are we celebrating this? That they would that the parents would then take the opportunity to explain what this means and about the redemption that God has brought to his people and the the painting of the lintels with blood and the hastening to r leave Egypt and so the unleavened bread All of this would be explained in terms of redemption and in terms of salvation. And Jesus is celebrating this with them. He's celebrating the Old Testament sacrament that had been given to the people. for so long now, in celebrating God as their Redeemer from bondage, as as temporally related under the Egyptians, but spiritually under the Prince of the Power of the air, and of sin and of misery. But what's interesting is this is not only a situation of the Passover that's framing the whole occurrence of the Lord's Supper, this is also a situation of betrayal. When we turn, when we now that we uh as they were eating and we go to the Passover, you can see towards the end of it, in other accounts it says, the hand of my betrayer is on the same table from which I am eating. That's a rough paraphrase. Or you can see here in the passage just before, the Son of Man indeed goes just as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been good for that man if he had never been born. And we know that, of course, that he's speaking of Judas, the betrayer This immediately should bring to mind for us that there's something fascinating happening in this moment that Jesus alludes to from our chapter in verse 22. That yes, there is a Passover of an Old Testament sacrament, but now what is being revealed here and unfolding is the uh the Being able to see Revelation 13, 8 come to light. And that Jesus is the Lamb slain before the foundation of the earth. This is what I mean. You have in the Passover a Passover lamb, which is sacrificed for the redemption of the people. And here, when betrayal enters into this supper. Through Judas. We are seeing that there will be a shift from looking at a lamb as an external real animal lamb to seeing who the true lamb is who will truly be betrayed. and truly be sacrificed for the redemption of humanity, and that is Jesus Christ himself. What Jesus is doing is he has created in his providence a situation where he eats the Passovers The Passover with the disciples. He brings up the betrayal to show that he is going to be the new Lamb. And all of this is to bring about the situation of creating the new sacrament that will be offered to the New Testament church. The old sacrament will fall away of Passover and what will be established will be something with more with more fullness. More fullness showing what God is truly doing more clearly. You know, a great image for this, and I hope that um Uh I've used this image before and I I hope that it is not lost. I I don't think it is because I believe it's still used on iPhones where you can take pictures with different filters on your iPhone, whether it's CVA tone or if it looks like a negative where the where it's reversed. For those of us who grew up with real cameras, we remember getting the negatives in the back of the camera photo uh pouch when we went to Kodak to have them uh uh um developed for us, sorry. Yes, developed. Ooh, a long time ago. When we had them developed. You can think of the the Old Testament sacrament of the Passover as the negative It is present and you can see the picture. But how much more clear is the developed picture? And that is what we're seeing here. We're not seeing uh Jesus degrade the Old Testament sacrament. It was given to the church for their benefit, that they would learn and and foresee what must take place for the redemption of his people. But he's bringing in with more fullness this new sacrament. And we see this in the situation. The situation of the Passover that he had planned, the situation of betrayal which was foreordained before the foundations of the earth. And the bringing these of those two things together to prepare his New Testament church in embryonic form in the disciples for this new sacrament that he would give to them so that they could remember at least God redeeming them through Jesus Christ. You know, this is a just by way of a digressive application for a moment, this is an excellent example for us. in looking at both the Old Testament and the New Testament side by side. The modern-day American church tends to state things to where we would see this incorrectly. They basically say that the Old Testament is of no use to us. It's been abrogated. Just put it in the trash can. The only thing that we need is the New Testament. And here we don't see Jesus degrading the old, but we do see him showing that things move on with the new. But even in the old they always point to Jesus, just as they do in the new. So there's some things that change and there's some things that don't change. There's continuity and there's discontinuity. It's not as simple as just saying the Old Testament is to be thrown in the trash and we're only to keep our new. And I would encourage you, as the people of God, to begin looking at what stays and what leaves. The disciples, the apostles, explicitly declare to us what we are to keep and what we are to set aside because of the new administration. under Jesus Christ. And I would encourage you to learn what the scriptures mean from Jesus and his apostles, not from American Christians who are getting it wrong. That would be my encouragement to you. And that will result in the pages of the Old Testament not still sticking together in most of our Bibles. And so we see the situation of the Passover and the betrayal and the new sacrament that is being brought in for his New Testament church. But we also see in this passage, which is the rest of the passage, are the sensible signs. If Jesus is creating a new sacrament that is the fuller or more full picture of what is going on for the redemption of his church, what is the substance of that? What is the actual sacrament? And of course we know this. as the Lord's Supper. And you can see it as the sensible signs. They're sensible in the sense that we can use our senses. It's not just words. The sacrament is not just words that are spoken to us. It's something that you can touch. It's something that you can put in your mouth. It's something that you can smell. You know, in fact, in in um Greenville, they give us a recipe for communion bread that includes honey, so that when it's broken and it's before you you can smell the sweetness and remember the sweetness. of Jesus Christ and that we've tasted him and that he is good. You see two sensible signs broken out here in this passage. The very first one that we see is the bread, and we see this in verse 22. And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, blessed, and broke it, and gave it to them, and said, Take, eat, this is my body. It's not only sensible in that it's the bread, but it's also a sensible sign and that it is signifying something greater than just bread. This, he says, is signifying his body. But it's not just signifying his body. There's also a further significance of what he is doing with his body, and this is twofold. One, it really begins with his body as conceived in the Virgin Mary as both God and man. It is from that moment as he decides to take on flesh in obedience to the Father that he will be obedient in his body for the sake of mankind, for the glory of the Father, for his entire life. This is exceptionally important. It says within the scriptures that Jesus Christ in his body, Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ. One who is God and man is obedient to the Father even onto death. I want you to think about that and what's going on there. What that means is that he's obedient even in his death. Let me put it this way, just so you can grasp it. You can actually tangibly and palpably feel the difference between you and Jesus Christ with this. If you had all of the power to remove yourself from the cross, would you still remain upon it if the Father has asked you to? And you have a body, so you feel all of the pangs, both inner and outer, of the death that is happening amongst you in your body. Would you voluntarily remain on the cross? Some of us may arrogantly say that we would, but in when the pain became uh great enough, we would use our power and we would step down. That's just a a a simple example. Of course, Jesus is far more obedient to where we cannot even be compared to him But he in his body is offering his perfect obedience that he agreed to with his father. And you know why that's important? It's because of the second part of how we normally think of his body. Not only his obedience, but think of what he needed to be in breaking his body. Could he have offered himself up as a filthy broken body that was blemished with sin, or must he be the perfect sacrifice for his father? He is the spotless lamb, slain before the foundation of the world. And so Jesus Christ in his perfect obedience in the body that he has taken on. sacrifices himself as a pleasing aroma to his father, but the sacrifice is not for his own sins, it is for the disobedience of his people. And that is something that we should feel when we see, when we have the opportunity to take the Lord's Supper and we see the body broken, we should think of his obedience to the Father, His purity as the spotless Lamb of God, and that He died for us. You know, there was uh uh a while back I I read of uh an illustration from a pastor that really touched me and helped me to feel this truth of him dying for our sins. There was a forest fire in Yellowstone National Park and the Rangers after the uh fires were over and there was nothing but desolation and ash. The Rangers went up to just see and to make sure that there was nothing still smoldering and to see what has happened to the animal life. And they u are walking along and they notice at the base of a tree a petrified, ashy, dead Bird. And so it's an eerie sight as you can imagine with all of the desolation around them and seeing this bird. And a park ranger just goes over with his walking stick and he knocks the the ashy petrified bird out of the way and when she is removed two little chicks come running out from underneath of her. I want you to think of that. students and covenant children and adults. Look at look at that picture of how the mother had received the wrath of the fire. In order to save her children. And I want you to think of the statement of Jesus Christ and how he longs to bring us in underneath of his wings to protect us and to pay the penalty for our sin. What a picture of love for what Jesus Christ has done for his church. This is bread. This is a sensible sign which signifies my perfectly obedient soul and body broken. for you. Of course, that's not the only sensible sign that we see within the passage as he continues. Then he he took the cup in verse 23. And so we have the sensible sign of bread, and we see both his perfect obedience and him dying for our disobedience, but then we also see that he takes the cup and the wine. Then he took the cup in verse twenty-three, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, and they all drank from it. And he said to them, This is my blood of the new covenant which is shed for many. And so again you see another sensible sign of the wine Which is a sign for his blood. And again, his blood, of course, cannot be detached from his death, and so again, is still talking about his perfect obedience and then his offering up himself for our disobedience. But there's something more when we get to this because he says that he doesn't just say, This is my blood spilled for you. He doesn't just say that He adds the prepositional phrase of the new covenant. Of the new covenant. And so there's another dimension that's added in here. Which can also be said of the bread, but is most clearly spoken of here with the wine, and that is that this wine that we take is not only for our obedience and our disobedience and recognizing his sacrifice for us, but it is also a seal confirming the new covenant. And this is why he's referring to the covenant here. Let me give an explanation of this. What he's doing is he's seeing that humanity in their great need needs They need, we need, words that are spoken to be confirmed by seals Now we are exceptionally familiar with this, come to find out. For instance, when you are a child and you really want your friend to really know that you really mean what you're really saying, you say, I swear to you on my grandmother's grave. Or you say, and that is a seal. You're choosing something that is most important to you to confirm that you're serious about this. Or you can think of the engagement ring. We used that in Sunday school this morning as we were talking about the Lord's Supper. The engagement ring is a seal confirming. That we are serious about the vows that we will make in the future, about the marriage that will take place in the future. Nowadays we we think of um that we can kind of lose the engagement ring as a seal because Some romantics have said, uh despite my poverty, I still will show I still show you my love, and so here's a string to put around your finger. or something along those lines. And that's okay in certain situations. But what if the person's just lazy and not serious and they said, sure, yeah, we can get married. There's no confirmation, there's no authentication, there's no genuineness, there's no assurance. All of those things are not present, and and all of those things not being present is represented by there being no confirmatory seal. If they were given a ring and they actually had to work to get the ring and the plan to get the ring and everyone would see the ring, it becomes public. All of that is a kind of seal, or you can think of one more, and that is, Across my heart and I hope to die, stick a needle in my eye. Now I say that one because it brings us the closest to blood. And essentially what we see Jesus here and connecting this with the new covenant, and I don't mean to be trite with this, is he saying, I do cross my heart and I will die. And they will pierce my hands and they will pierce my side. That is how serious I am that the things that I am declaring to you are real and they will happen. They are confirmed. They are authentic. There is nothing that can keep this from taking place. I seal this with my own blood. I cross my heart and I will die, is what Jesus is saying here with this seal and this confirmation. But it is not just an ethereal or abstract confirmation as if he were just a crooked businessman. This is a seal that is intimate It is not only explained, but it is intimate. Look at the passage and what he does. The disciples are not sitting at some other table watching him eat by himself. He is saying, eat, drink. You are participating with me. This is for you. You see, the problem that we could have, if you go back to the Yellowstone bird incident, is that as the fire, as the fire is raging in the Yellowstone National Park, you could see other little chicks looking over And you can see, oh, well that's nice, they're being protected by their mother, but we're over here and we're going to be burnt. But the picture that Jesus gives us here with this passage is that he looks over and he sees his people and he opens his wing for more to be gathered and he includes them. And it is not just confirmed in the abstract sense as any old seal. It is confirmed to you. And it is the Holy Spirit that will confirm it upon your hearts, to where you will cry, Abba, Father, I am your child, and these things are true of me. And so we see the seal explained. We see the intimacy of the seal and Jesus giving these things to his disciples, take, eat, take, drink. But we also see the results. of this seal and of this sign, and that is joy. As we have uh heard Over and over again here, because of how much the Lord has blessed Arch. Arch points that when we break the bread, we have a feast of death. But that when we drink the cup, we have the feast of joy. And it is the cup of joy. And those are the results that we see here. within this passage. Look at verse 25. Assuredly I say to you, I will no longer drink of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God. What does that mean for these folks in this situation? When they see that he will be betrayed, if you move on, we see the betrayal and the arrest in the Gethsemane Jesus faces the Sanhedrin. Peter denies and weeps. Jesus faces Pilate. They take and they put Barabbas in his place. The soldiers mock Jesus. And Jesus dies on the cross. This is all within the next following chapter in the rest of 14 and in 15. And so here they contemplate the death of Jesus And then they hear these words, and maybe they didn't get it in the moment, but afterwards they would say, look at what he did here. He promised that although it looked like Everyone else had one when he died. He promised here that he would drink again with us after his resurrection This would not end in him not being victorious, but it would end in victory. And so we have a great joy and hope Despite the difficulty that Jesus must face in the next coming hours, it will result in the victory of resurrection. And that is to say, although we feast on death and we remember the Passover meal, we remember Monday, Thursday, and we remember Good Friday. Easter is yet to come. is what we always proclaim here, and that is what we see here within this passage. And in addition That is what wine has stood for throughout all of the scriptures. It is associated with being merry and being glad and being joy, which is why we encourage the wine in its alcoholic form as opposed to the grape juice, unless you have conscientious objection. Because it is a time of joy, it's a cup of joy because of the promise that He has confirmed for us. And then lastly, we see in verse 26 that they sung a hymn. A hymn knowing the betrayal that's coming forward and the death on the cross, but nonetheless given to joy and to hope for the future, just as the first Passover was always difficult but hopeful and full of joy because of the end of what God was accomplishing amongst his people. There's a lot in this passage. There's a lot in this passage, but we have seen the situation, it being the Passover, the betrayal, and how Jesus is using this from the Father's general providence or special providence. And showing that a new sacrament is being formed that is more clear and simple and spiritual to fit the New Testament and the New Testament church. But we also see the sensible signs that are the substance of this new sacrament. We see the bread and what it means about the body broken, this perfect lamb offering his body for our sins. We also see the other sensible sign, which is the wine, and that it confirms for us that he means business. Cross his heart he will die. He was pierced in his hands, and he was pierced in his side. And that it's intimate, he offers it to his people, and that the results are joy. That is what this passage teaches, and in a word, that Jesus Christ gave the church the Lord's Supper as a more full sign and confirmation of his covenant with us. I want to focus on three things as a final application, and that is first, I'd ask that you would ponder and confer with your family upon this passage and consider the love and wisdom of God the Father. Look at what He has done. Look at what He has done. And I'd ask you to consider and meditate upon the love and wisdom and perfect obedience of the Son to the Father. How precious is our Jesus to us? And then lastly, I want to address those who maybe have been like me in the last couple weeks. You know, earlier in in the book of Mark, uh Jesus goes out onto the the lake with his disciples and a storm arises and He's asleep in the boat, and his disciples say to him, as they begin to consider that we really are going to die, he says, Teacher, do you not care that we are perishing? And I'll I have a question for you. Have you been saying that lately? I want you to think about your life All of the different winds and the different waves that come into your life, maybe it has to do with your marriage. Maybe it has to do with your family. Maybe it has to do with yourself But it becomes so difficult and so distracting, and it's lasting for so long that you have begun to say, maybe not out loud, but at least within your heart, or at least the words are close to coming to your mind, do you not care that I am perishing here? And think of other people that would have said the same this week that you know. Do you not care? Do you not see that my family is struggling? Do you not see that I'm barely holding on as a father? Do you not see that I'm barely holding on as a husband or as a mother or as a student or as a worker? Do you not care that I am perishing? And there are so many more years ahead of us, Lord willing, where this will continue when we will watch our families be hit with waves and winds. Does he care about us? Will he be here for us? It's just like the woman in the beginning, isn't it? When the husband went off to war and he left the locket and and she would open the picture and she'd look when things really got difficult and she was lonely and she was tired of sleeping in the bed at night alone. And dealing with the kids, she would look and she would just wonder, does he really care about me? Why would he leave me? And those are the thoughts that can come to our mind about Jesus Christ. And I want you to think about the bread and I want you to think about the wine. I want you to read about it. When we have the Lord's Supper, I want you to taste it. And I want you to see what it means and the confirmation of what it means. And when you ask the question, or the question arises in your mind because Satan is planting seeds in your mind and your heart and it's and you ask the question, Do you not care that we are perishing? You hold up the bread and you hold up the wine and you say, Of course he cares Look at the confirmation of his care and of his love for me and for his people. He bled and he broke for me. And he promises to return and resurrect me from all of these difficulties and to calm the waves and the wind in all of my lives and my families and to subdue my enemies and his enemies. That is the Lord's Supper, and is the way that it is meant to be used amongst us as his people. It is a sign, and it is a seal of his love for us and his obedience to his Father. And of our resurrection and our future. Please pray with me