Amen. This morning we're going to be looking at First Thessalonians chapter two, so if you'll turn there, And I'm going to be reading verses one through twelve, but let's stand in honor of our God and of his word. Let's stand for the reading of his word. This is 1 Thessalonians, the first epistle of Paul to the Thessalonians, and we're reading chapter 2, verses 1 through 12. For you yourselves know, brethren, that our coming to you was not in vain, but even after we had suffered before and were spitefully treated at Philippi, as you know, we were bold in our God to speak to you the gospel of God in much conflict. For our exhortation did not come from error or uncleanness, nor was it in deceit. But as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, even so we speak, not as pleasing men, but God who tests our hearts. For neither at any time did we use flattering words, as you know, nor a cloak for covetousness, God is witness. Nor did we seek glory for men, either from you or from others, when we might have made demands as apostles of Christ But we were gentle among you. Just as a nursing mother cherishes her own children, so affectionately longing for you we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel. of God, but also our own lives, because you had become dear to us. For you remember, brethren, our labor and toil, for laboring night and day, that we might not be a burden to any of you, we preached to you the gospel of God. You are witnesses, and God also how devoutly and justly and blamelessly we behaved ourselves among you who believed, as you know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you as a father does his own children. That you would walk worthy of God, who calls you into his own kingdom and glory. Let's pray Heavenly Father, as our great forefathers have prayed, just as King David and others have prayed for the illumination of their minds, we pray that your Spirit would illuminate our minds. That we would not just see your words, but that we would feel them, that they would become a part of our lives unto your glory. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Please be seated. I don't want to bore you with my testimony again, so I'm not going to. There's little highlights though that I want you to recall. Hopefully you you do I think you you don't remember the specifics. You just remember he was a mess. Something along those lines. I remember specifically being introduced to the gospel in a rehabilitation center. And it was through the story of Noah's Ark. I found out that God saved him and the Spirit had worked upon my heart very quickly. Within that week I read all of the scriptures, devoted myself to the Lord's day. I was released from that institution and immediately went back to my friends and uh into that way of life that was consumed with drugs and alcohol and the way of the world. I then again moved back into another place and and uh and in this place you did an altar call. I walked to recommit myself. And things went well while I was there, and then when I was released I went back to my friends You know, it wasn't until someone grabbed a hold of me and said, why don't we sit down together and try to walk through this thing called Christianity? Together as opposed to you going off to these places and returning home with no kind of support group or community. This person, he doesn't like it when I mention his name. I think I've mentioned his name to some of you before. He met with me every night at uh a coffee house in downtown Annapolis. He worked through the Book of Romans with me. He made he he gave me a book by Francis Schaefer because I was very philosophical in working through Francis Schaefer's trilogy. He made a cassette tape. For those of you who are young, it's kind of like a C D The different. He made a cassette tape of Francis Schaefer defining all of his terms for me We were spending so much time together that he said, Since we're doing this and you keep having to cross back over onto the eastern shore, I have an extra room in my apartment. Why don't you just pay me some rent, get a good good job, and we'll and you can move into the apartment. And I moved into the apartment and he said, Well what do you want to do now? And I said, Oh, I would love to study theology. And he said, Well, we're going to start a systematic theology study And we invited people from Saverna Park EP there to study that. And I wanted to learn about existentialism, so he took me to No Exit, a play in D. C. from John Paul Star. And he walked alongside of me each step of the way. And it never has resulted in me leaving the faith for those old friends again. It's because someone came alongside of me, and I bet you somebody came alongside of you to disciple you as you began to learn and enjoy the mysteries of Jesus Christ. Isn't that something that you enjoyed? Being discipled, learning the mysteries of Christ, having someone walk with you and hold your hand through those difficult times and show you grace and mercy. and sometimes frankness that you needed to hear. And and not only did d did you enjoy receiving it yourself, but wouldn't you enjoy giving that to others? I mean my assumption here is that all of us know the necessity, the sufficiency, the enjoyability, is not a word. Of discipleship, but you know what I mean. And that we want to offer that here to each other. It is in fact one of the major reasons why Jesus did not share his gospel with you and then leave you up on a mountain all by yourself. He wants you to grow within community. In fact, I'm going to say something bold to you. You need me, and I need you. And you need each other. If you don't think that you need each other, then you really need us. It is only possible to grow in Jesus Christ and in his image in community. We all value this. The difficulty comes down to what in the world is that supposed to look like? We hear of all different kinds of programs that we could be a part of. Certain programs have been very beneficial to us. Navigators is one that comes to mind immediately that has helped tons of people. And you can think of other instructions that you have been given. But you know, here in this part of 1 Thessalonians, he gives us something that you may have never heard about before. In terms of discipleship, he's going to talk to you not about a program and not so much about, first and foremost, external things that you would do, but a lot about what's going on within our hearts. as we seek to offer discipleship and camaraderie and community to those who are around us. That's really what this whole thing is about. Discipleship, but how? Discipleship but how and he and we're going to answer the question how this morning. He says that if you want to disciple, if you really want to be a community here at Severn Run, there's three basic things that you need to focus on. There's many more things than that. This is not discipleship for dummies. There are many things, but in this passage there's three. And it's enough to focus on and for you to meditate on for quite some time. He's going to show us that we must be living martyrs. It's not an oxymoron. That we must be living martyrs, that we must be stewards, and that we must be parents of one another. And so when you leave today, when you're getting ready to go down to the meet and greet, you should be saying inside of your head, I want to the person to my left and to my right I want to be their living martyr. I want to be their steward. I want to be their parent. That is my privilege that Jesus Christ has given to me as I seek to be a good citizen here within this community. So let's take a look at each one of those parts here in the scriptures. First, the living martyr. This comes out in verses 1 and 2, if you want to take a look at that with me. In this 1 Thessalonians. For you yourselves know, brethren, that our coming to you was not in vain, but even after we had suffered before and were spitefully treated at Philippi, as you know, we were bold in our God to speak the gospel of God. in much conflict. The word martyr has uh taken different uh turns and shapes over the years, and now we think of it primarily as someone who has died for the faith. In fact we think of uh as someone exclusively who has died for the faith. But in the original language is just a witness, Martereo, someone who witnesses. But oftentimes, because the witness was under a Roman Empire, which became more and more intolerant, actually started off intolerant, same with the Jews. Oftentimes this witness, this declaration, this confession would be accompanied by persecution, even on to death And so that's how martyr ends up uh gaining its meaning. And so I don't mean that you're supposed to die, although you are in in some sense, we see in the scriptures, that I'm asking you to be burned today on the stake for each other. That's not realistic in our situation. But here he's saying that he is a living martyr. Now I want to back up just for a second because I think the very first question that you can raise in your mind when I begin to say that he is a living martyr, is you can say, well, here, this is an apostle that's talking. I'm not an apostle. There are so many dissimilarities, Jesse, between me and this passage. How in the world are you just going to go plodding along, teaching me this and applying this to me? You know, they say that a lot of preaching is doctrinally accurate and applicationally poor. It is taught correctly but applied poorly. And this is what I'm saying here. The primary purpose of this passage is for Paul to defend himself against accusations amongst those who were trying to destroy his ministry amongst the Thessalonian church. And so he writes here that he's not any of those things that people say that he is. He first relates his visit with them. Then he talks about his departure from them in the next chapter, and then he talks about how much he wants to return. And it's all a giant apology. Or an apologetic for him to not have his ministry ruined by those scoundrels who are a part of that city. But this is what he does when he reveals these things, in this apology, he reveals how he ministered to these people He reveals his heart and soul for them, and we may learn from that. And so we are taking a kind of inference, if you will, from the passage and seeing that although we are not apostles, we are people that have been commanded to disciple all nations. What does discipleship look like? It looks just like this. And so we may imitate him as he imitates Christ. And the very first thing in which we must imitate him is being living martyrs. That is to say, those who are bold enough to witness in much conflict, as you saw within the passage. We not only gave the gospel of God, but we gave it in much conflict. If you would turn to Acts 17 on your own time and and look at the what is recorded about him moving from Philippi, as he mentions here in this passage, To Thessalonica, you would see that in Philippi they uh raised up a huge mob in order to unjustly convict Paul. And those who were with him. They would strip him naked and they would beat him. And then they would be kicked out of the city. And then, in order to make sure that his teaching did not flourish in the area, They would follow him from city to city, encouraging the next city to do the very same thing to him. And yet he remained bold and he disclosed the gospel of God. And we are to imitate him as he imitates Christ. That we too are meant to be living martyrs for each other. Bold disclosure amongst the community. You know, we hear this, and it's difficult because our society for so long has not been ashamed of the gospel. We have so many different things that are still a part of a Christian framework within America. I understand that we're moving into a post-Christian mentality, but there's still many there's hospitals. Hospitals were our idea. Our culture still exists upon our capital of the things that we invested in, the things that we built So it can be difficult for us to get our minds around this, but if you think about this concept a bit more broadly as the rest of the scriptures communicate, and in terms of not being ashamed of the gospel. which is the opposite of bold disclosure. I think we can get somewhere this morning. We are to boldly disclose to one another the gospel of God. That is to say, we're not to be ashamed of the gospel. That's what Paul says. I'm not ashamed of the gospel. He says that in Romans 1. And it's interesting if you pick up that word ashamed and you go over to our reading that we read this morning, the Gospels also use their relative to being ashamed. And Jesus says, if you are ashamed of me or my words, then I will be ashamed of you when I return. And so I think it's Appropriate for us to summarize and say to be ashamed of the gospel is to be ashamed of the person, if you are ashamed of me, and of his words. If you are ashamed of me or my words. That's the gospel. If you are ashamed of me or my words, that's what it means to not be ashamed of the gospel or to have bold disclosure, is for you to be able to stand up in the midst of the community or to work with those that you're discipling, whether it's your children or your friends. and to be able to declare without shame Jesus' person and his words. Now if you look throughout all of history, it is a chronology of people being ashamed of his person. That is the essence of every heresy. He's not God. I'm ashamed of that. He's not man. I'm ashamed of that. He did not exist before time as the Sun. He did not incarnate or incarnate. Those are all to be ashamed of his person, and then you can be ashamed of his words as well. And you can see how there have been different heresies which are subsumed under that category. What are some of the ways in which you would be tempted as you seek to disciple and to be a good community member where you would be ashamed of either his person or his words? That's the question that is before you. And this ends up with these two categories, ends up including so many different things. The gospel is not this trite little message. It is complicated. It's the revelation of the mystery of God throughout ages, of what he plans to do for his own glories through the redemption of mankind, through the work of the Son and the Spirit. And all of that has subplots that roll off of it that you need to be able to know. And those are his person and his words, and those are the things that we're not supposed to be ashamed of. Now this may surprise you, but let me try this. Just as a shot. One of the things that we see that was uh Jesus where people were primarily ashamed of Jesus first and foremost was worship. Did you know that? They were ashamed that he was going to change how God's people worshiped. We're no longer going to go to the temple. The Jews were so insistent that Jesus was wrong and so ashamed of what he was saying, they kept trying to establish temple worship And eventually God said, enough is enough, I'm going to tear the whole thing down, and the only thing that you will have remaining is a whaling wall. Jesus changes worship and they were ashamed. And we have to ask our question, ask a question of ourselves: are we ashamed of New Testament worship? You know there's some churches out there that celebrate the sacrament. They think it would be okay to celebrate the sacrament with beer and potato chips. Now that's not us, of course. Are you ashamed of hymns? Are you ashamed of our hymns? It's easy to be discipling young folks in this community with all of the other churches around us and to tell them that we sing hymns and to feel shame about that. And yet in Colossians we are specifically commanded to admonish one another in the singing of hymns and psalms and spiritual songs. Those are the apostles' words and Jesus' entrust the gospel to the apostles and therefore those are Jesus' words. And we must not be ashamed of those things. The other side of the story though is that some people say, well, great, you're going to defend hymns. And what about the vitality in our worship service? I would just love it if someone reformed would raise their hands. During the doxology, more than two people. Are you ashamed to raise your hands? Because it's commanded throughout all of Scripture that we would raise our hands in prayer and in worship. Are you ashamed of New Testament worship? Are you ashamed of those things? Are you ashamed that we regulate our worship and only do what Christ has commanded us to do? Those are serious questions that we have to ask ourselves as we're surrounded by those who choose to be ashamed and yet have people multiplying in their churches by the thousands. We must never be ashamed, but boldly disclose the kingdom of God is not about hymns. The kingdom of God is not about raising hands. This is just an example This really is not a hobby horse of mine either. This is just an example for you to begin to think of what it means to boldly disclose in our day and age for the gospel of God as you seek to disciple others. Now there's a question that arises in our mind, I think, as soon as we say these kind of things. Did anybody feel any little bit of fear in trying to be the person who defends hymns? And psalms and spiritual songs. I felt a little tinge of fear in being able to do that. And so you have to ask yourself the question, or or did anybody feel fear in trying to defend raising your hands in worship? You know, Calvin raised his hands in worship. That's the heart symbol. Hearts and hands to Jesus Christ. How do we become bold? In the midst of discipleship, when we're being asked to put our life on the line, our reputation on the line, our feelings on the line, how is it that we're supposed to do that? And that's answered. How are we supposed to be a living martyr? Now, and that's answered in this next section that he gives us. And it is, it means that you're supposed to be a steward. You can be motivated to be a living martyr by considering your stewardship to God. And we see this in verses 3 through 4 For our exhortation did not come from error or uncleanness, nor was it in deceit. But as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, even so we speak, not as pleasing men, but God who tests our hearts. entrusted with the gospel, right away should clue you in that this is a stewardship issue. You are not entrusted with the gospel in the same way that the Apostle Paul was entrusted with the gospel. But you are entrusted with the gospel. You are the pillar as the church, you are the pillar and the ground of the truth. You, as elders, are to be seeking to protect the flock. from misteachings, from unorthodoxy. And that same kind of responsibility at a different level is amongst all of you as a congregation. You are entrusted with this gift, the revelation of the mystery of God. to our culture that surrounds us into one another. In other words, you are a steward. Paul points out in verse 3, you'll notice, that he says, starts first with a negative. He says, for our exhortation did not come from error or on cleanness, and nor was it in deceit. Now he doesn't spend any time defining those words, so I'm not going to either, but basically he's saying, my message was true, my motives were good, and I didn't use any snake oil salesman methods with you I'm a completely above board. But then he moves into the positive and he talks about how he was approved by God. And in a way that you in a way you are also approved by God and him giving you the Holy Spirit. And then he entrusted the gospel to Paul in a unique way, but he also entrusted the gospel to us as the pillar and ground of the truth. And then look at what is revealed next in here. The very first thing on Paul's mind when he begins to think about himself being a steward is what? That my work is to please God and not men. No fear of man, only fear of God. Interestingly, that's exactly what Jesus is talking about in the passage we read earlier from Mark when he's talking about not being ashamed of the gospel. You must lose your life to save it. He's also talking there about fear of man versus fear of God. And it ends up being the remedy to the first problem and that we must be we must boldly disclose and yet it's men and women that peer at us. And if you read body language like me, they say a lot of things to you. where they sneer, just like they were sneering at Paul here. And yet Paul was able to continue because He thought of himself in relationship to God as his steward. A steward is is someone who has someone else's property and they're supposed to be using that other person's property for the sake of that person. There's many different parables within the scriptures about that. You know, a wonderful picture that I like to use of stewardship is Jesus feeding the 5,000. I've told you this before. Jesus could have filled all of their stomachs, no problem. But instead he chooses to bring up stewards, give them the bread, which is his property. He made it right there on the spot, ex nihilo And then he sends them out to take care of his property and to feed the rest. What would you do if there was a text that we discovered that we determined was really in the canon and over on the side that said And Peter took the bread over on the right side of the mountain and down the hill and ate it all himself. That wouldn't be a good example. of stewardship because the bread is Jesus's and he's supposed to do everything that Jesus wanted him to do with the bread. And that's the same thing here with us in our bold disclosure You become the person through the Holy Spirit where all you want to do is the light and the pleas in God's look at you, God's opinion of you, God's thoughts about you. And I know that you have experiences of this, and I pray that you would begin today praying that the Spirit would give you a spirit of boldness, and that he would do so by making you fear God more than man. It is the only remedy for bold to be able to give full disclosure. Consider this instance. Really what we're asking for here is the expulsive power of a new affection, to quote Thomas Chalmers, someone that you don't need to read. The expulsive power of a new affection. Here's the situation. You have a spider on your arm. That freaks me out. And just when you're getting ready to deal with the spider, you know you're getting ready to get hit by a pickup truck. Which do you pay attention to? The pickup truck. Because the fear of the truck is greater than the spider. And it's the same thing as you're seeking to boldly disclose if you want to look at me in a discouraging way. If God is more on my mind and I fear him more, I don't consider your look at all. Or very little Now that's fear in a limited sense. Let's expand it out a uh let's expand it out a little bit. You could also say um if you were to to um being a a game. If any of you have played sports in high school. I remember playing sports in high school. I remember uh being on a on a uh a uh a goal run and I was on like my seventh goal in lacrosse. And there were kids in the stands that were going crazy because we were playing against our rival. But you know I didn't ever hear their voice. Because my father was up above them and he was saying, keep going, Jesse. It's the only voice I could hear. And in the same way, we ask the Spirit that we would allow the volume to go down on the voices of people around us and that we would turn up the volume with the voice of God. And that what he thinks about us is the thing that matters. You can see how you would want to boldly disclose. He finds that pleasing for you to disciple one another in that way. And this is really the key. If you don't have this one down, you really can't do the living martyrdom. You can't do the parentage. You can't do either one if you don't have your your your focus and your vision set appropriately upon the only one that matters The only one that can really save your soul, as Jesus was talking about in the gos in the part of Mark. If you want to let me leave you with an image. Imagine a nest with baby birds in it. It is the mother bird bringing food to the baby birds that allows all the baby birds to continue to exist and fly off harmoniously on their own. If you don't have this truth, if you don't begin to work this into your very soul, that you would be most delighted when the Father is delighted in you. Then it's as if everything else in the nest would die. Because this truth, you being a steward and working before your father, is like a mother bird bringing in food so that all of the other Christian virtues or chicks Could survive and grow up and be healthy. But if this isn't present, you will be malnourished. You will do everything for the wrong reasons. You, whether you know it or not, will be under the yoke of someone You will be under the yoke of someone. And this is so liberating. Because his burden is easy and his yoke is light. Jesus our Christ. And so that's how you would be a bold martyr, one who boldly discloses is becoming and recognizing yourself in your very core identity as a steward of God. That he's the one that gave you his property and you were to be using it as how he sees fit for his delight and his pleasure. I pray that you would meditate on that and that you would ask the Spirit to help you. We also, in this passage, are to be parents. Here is the question that arises. You know, the first question is: how can I boldly disclose? Care more about what God thinks of you than what men think of you. Okay, I'm doing that. I'm actually doing pretty well at delighting in the Father's opinion of me. I feel like someone sent by God to people And then someone contradicts you, and you say, by the power of Jesus Christ, and you assert your authority. Of course, that's an extreme instance, an hyperbole, but that's what can happen within us. I am God's servant, and you're going to contradict me. And we see the exact same motion of this in this same passage where Paul brings up next as he thinks about parenting them. in verses five through twelve. For neither at any time did we use flattering words, as you know, nor a cloak for covetousness, God is witness, nor did we seek glory from men, either from you or for others. Listen to this. When we might have made demands as apostles of Christ. Paul could have asserted his right as an apostle, and yet, in contrast, look at the next sentence of what he chooses to do, which is what we see mothers do every day. He says, but we were gentle among you, just as a nursing mother cherishes her own children. How many times a day Do you mothers or have you seen a mother give up their rights for the benefit of their children? It would be easier for me to ask how many times have you not seen it? And that is why amongst us we always say the women are going to have far better and bigger houses in heaven than the men are. Because they're always giving up their rights. They're always being the servant. And never asserting what rightfully could be theirs. And here Paul is saying that he does the exact same thing, even though he could have asserted his rights as the apostle. And so even as you become secure in your identity as one who is sent from God You need not assert that right, but rather can use it for the edification and benefit for another person by being gentle, just as the mother is gentle. And we all have many examples of that. He goes on to say that he did not come with flattery. He did not put on a mask, a cloak for covetousness. He wasn't trying to just gain their money. And he was not hungering for a good reputation from them, and he was not demanding his rights. But instead he came as one who is gentle, one who is affectionate, and one who is sacrificial. You know, I watched once an interchange between a young woman who was being uh discipled by an older woman. The older woman let the younger woman live in the house with her. The younger woman had problems with drinking. The age gap, let's say twenty-one to thirty. Okay. Twenty-one is the younger, thirty is the older. The younger woman had problems with drinking. The older woman wanted to have people over and have a nice time on the back porch, have a glass of wine together, some cheese, whatever they did. Enjoy one another's company. The younger woman disappears. And then the older woman goes to get a glass of wine for a friend that's just arrived, and all the wine is gone. Because the younger woman drank it. So the older woman goes to the younger woman and she says, Where's all the wine? And the younger woman says, You're not my mother. Who are you? And the older woman grabbed the younger woman by the hand. And they sat down together and she looked at her and she said, I know I'm not your mother. I'm just trying to look out for you. I want us to have a good time together tonight. I want you to enjoy yourself with me, and I wanted to introduce you to all my friends. Although she said she wasn't her mother, she was wrong, wasn't she? Because it's the perfect example of what Paul is talking about here. And when she could have asserted her rights, that was my wine That was my money. This is my party. This is my house. These are my friends. I'm older than you. I'm the one helping you. Those rights, I'm sure, went through her mind, and she chose not to assert them, but instead, like a mother does daily, she was gentle. As a nursing mother cherishes her own children, she so affectionately longed for her that she was well she was pleased not to only impart the gospel of God, but also her own life because she was so dear to her. And that, isn't that beautiful? That's what we would do if we imitate Paul. That's how we would be with one another, cherishing one another, giving up our own rights in order to be able to be a parent. And he gives another metaphere metaphor here too, besides the the woman, and I'll move through this one quickly. There's also the father there towards the end. Do you see that? As you know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you as a father does his own children That you may walk worthy of God who calls you into his own kingdom and his glory. Again, he starts with the negative and what he did not do and then moves immediately into the positive. And I just want you very quickly to notice what he does say. He says That we were basically an example before you. You are witnesses and God also how devoutly And justly and blamelessly, we behaved ourselves among you who believe. And if you jump down to verse 12, you can see the purpose for why he did so. That for the purpose of you walking worthy of God who calls you into his own kingdom and his own glory. And this is the final thought on discipleship that he gives us as we begin to think ourselves as parents. And that is that the Christian life is less like a college and more like a trade. When you hire someone, For a carpentry job, you do not ask them, do you know what a roof is? You ask, do you know how to frame a roof? And then they say yes, you put them on the job, they start to cut rafters, and they start looking at you funny, and you realize they have no idea what they're doing. And so now the training begins on how they would really learn how to cut rafters or be able to set trusses. But that's what it's like. It's like fathers setting a good example for their children. Now, isn't that amazing? Because essentially, what this is asking us to do is it's asking us to turn our conception of the Christian life on a 180. Because a lot of the times if somebody said to you, what is prayer? You would say, well, let me tell you what prayer is. Prayer is catechism question do-do-do. But here, not that that's wrong, but here in addition it says, let's pray together. Let me show you what prayer looks like. Providing a wonderful example as a father would for his children. And so to be good disciples and to be good citizens within this community, we are to be martyrs. We are to be stewards, and we are to be parents, both mother and father. When I go to Chinkatique during the summer, actually it's it's in May, one of the things that I'm impressed by is the ecosystem. You know what an ecosystem is? It's that somebody dropped a rock in the sound near Chingate and oysters clung to it And then other things like to sit on oysters, and then the fish like to eat those things, and then bigger fish like to eat those fish. And then you end up with an entire ecosystem of grasses. and oysters and clams and fish. And everything ends up being healthy. And that's really the picture of what Jesus Christ Christ is communicating to us about what it means to be a community. He uses images like being a body or being a temple of stones built together with Jesus Christ as our head. We are an ecosystem that is dependent upon one another. And one my final question to you is when you hear these things. When I say to you that Paul is asking you to imitate him in being a living martyr, a steward, and a parent, Do you begin to think that you may have been more arrogant than you realize and you have not arrived at what it means to be a good discipleship community? It's not to say that we're not doing things wrong here, but is there room to grow Is there room to grow in our ecosystem here at Severn Run? Let me ask you a question. Is there a difference between a crowd and a community? And mustn't we move away on the spectrum from being a crowd, those who stand near each other, to a community, those who build up each other? That is what we're looking for here. This is what he presents to us in order for us to not be a crowd, but a community. I know that you long for this in being a martyr, a steward, and a parent. Please pray with me