The title of the sermon looks like something from a physicist, Time is Relative. That was just a part of a chat I was having with Marcy and Brad. It's not the term sermon title. The sermon title is Crushing the Serpent. If you'd like to write that down, you're welcome to We'll leave time as relative for a sermon for Jeremiah Horner. This morning we have Judges 20, and I'll read that uh entirety of that chapter with the war against the Benjamites. So all the children of Israel came out from Dan to Beathsheba, as well as from the land of Gilead, and the congregation gathered together as one man before the Lord at Mizpah. And the leaders of all the people, all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God. 400,000 foot soldiers who drew the sword. Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel had gone up to Mizpah. Then the children of Israel said, Tell us, how did this wicked deed happen? So the Levite, he's a Levite from chapter 19. The husband of the woman who was murdered answered and said, My concubine and I went into Gibeah, which belonged to Benjamin, to spend the night. And the men of Gibeah rose against me and surrounded the house at night because of me. They intended to kill me, but instead they ravaged uh ravaged my concubine so that she died. So I took hold of my concubine, cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the territory of the inheritance of Israel, because they committed lewdness and outrage in Israel. Look All of you are children of Israel. Give your advice and counsel here and now. So all the people arose as one man, saying, None of us will go to his tent, nor will any turn back to his house. But now this is the thing which we will do to Gideah. We will go up against it by lot. We will take ten men out of every hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, a hundred out of every thousand, and a thousand out of every ten thousand to make provisions for the people. That when they come to Gibeah and Benjamin they may repay all the vileness that they have done in Israel. So all the men of Israel were gathered against the city, united together as one man. Then the tribes of Israel sent men through all the tribes of Benjamin, saying, What is this wickedness that has occurred among you? Now therefore, deliver up the men, the perverted men who are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death and remove the evil from Israel. But the children of Benjamin would not listen to the voice of their brethren, the children of Israel Instead the children of Benjamin gathered together from their cities to Gibeah to go to battle against the children of Israel. And from their cities at that time the children of Benjamin numbered twenty-six thousand men who drew the sword Besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, who numbered seven hundred select men. Among all these people were seven hundred select men who were left handed. Every one could sling a stone at a hair's breadth and not miss Now, besides Benjamin, the men of Israel numbered 400,000 men who drew the sword. All of these were men of war. Then the children of Israel arose and went up to the house of God to inquire of God. They said, Which of us shall go up first to battle against the children of Benjamin? The Lord said, Judah first. So the children of Israel rose in the morning and encamped against Gibeah. And the men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin, and the men of Israel put themselves in battle array to fight against them at Gibeah. Then the children of Benjamin came out of Gibeah, and on that day cut down to the ground twenty-two thousand men of the Israelites And the people, that is, the men of Israel, encouraged themselves and again formed the battle line at the place where they had put themselves in array on the first day. Then the children of Israel went up and wept before the Lord until evening, and asked counsel of the Lord, saying, Shall I again draw near for battle against the children of my brother Benjamin? And the Lord said, Go up against him. So the children of Israel approached the children of Benjamin on the second day. And Benjamin went out against them from Gibeah on the second day and cut down to the ground 18,000 more of the children of Israel. All these drew the sword. Then all the children of Israel, that is, all the people, went up and came to the house of God and wept. They sat there before the Lord and fasted and fasted that day until evening, and they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the Lord. So the children of Israel inquired of the Lord. The ark of the covenant of God was there in those days And Phineas, the son of Eliezer, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days, saying, Shall I yet go out to battle against the children of my brother Benjamin, or shall I cease? And the Lord said, Go up, for tomorrow I will deliver them into your hand. Then Israel sent men in ambush all around Gibeah. And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day and put themselves in battle array against Gibeah as at other times. So the children of Benjamin went out against the people and were drawn away from the city. They began to strike down and kill some of them, as at other times, in the highways, one of which goes up to Bethel, and the other to Gibeah. And in the field about thirty men of Israel. And the children of Benjamin said, They are defeated before us as at first. But the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and draw them away from the city to the highways So all the men of Israel rose from their place and put themselves in battle array at Baal Tamar. Then Israel's men in ambush burst forth from their position in the plain of Geba And ten thousand select men from all Israel came against Gidea, and the battle was fierce, but the Benjamites did not know that the disaster was upon them. The Lord defeated Benjamin before Israel, and the children of Israel destroyed that day 25,100 Benjamites. All these drew the sword. So the children of Benjamin saw that they were defeated. The men of Israel had given ground to the Benjamites because they relied on the men in ambush whom they had set against Gibeah. And the men in ambush quickly rushed upon Gibeah. The men in ambush spread out and struck the whole city with the edge of the sword. Now the appointed signal between the men of Israel and the men in ambush was that they would make a great cloud of smoke rise up from the city. Whereupon the men of Israel would turn in battle. Now Benjamin had begun to strike and kill about thirty of the men of Israel, for they said, Surely they are defeated before us, as in the first battle But when the cloud began to rise from the city in a column of smoke, the Benjamites looked behind them, and there was the whole city going up in smoke to heaven And when the men of Israel turned back, the men of Benjamin panicked, for they saw that disaster had come upon them. Therefore they turned their backs before the men of Israel in the direction of the wilderness But the battle overtook them, and whoever came out of the cities they destroyed in their midst. They surrounded the Benjamites, chased them, and easily trampled them down as far as the front of Gibeah toward the east, and eighteen thousand men of Benjamin fell. All these were men of valor. Then they turned and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Riman, and they cut down five thousand of them on the highways. Then they pursued them relentlessly up to Gidam, and killed two thousand of them. So all who fell of Benjamin that that day were twenty five thousand men who drew the sword, and these were men of valor. But six hundred men turned and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Ramon, and stayed at the rock of Raman for four months. And the men of Israel turned back against the children of Benjamin. And struck them down with the edge of the sword. From every city, men and beasts, all who were found. They also set fire to all the cities they came to. Let us pray. Oh Lord God, we pray that we would take our lessons from this today We pray, Lord, that you would help us to see that we have a presumption against injustice. But, oh Lord, in the midst of this story, please also give us grief when brother strikes brother. Ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Well last week was a memorial. It was a kind of memorial day. We acknowledge that in every age the church should remember what happened in Israel that day. In every age, we should remember that woman. In every age, we must look to Christ and we must look to his hospitality. And so it was that all who saw it said, No such deed has been done or seen from the day that the children of Israel came up from the land of Egypt until this day. Consider her. Talk about her. And speak up. Well, you can see that the Levite did speak up, and that the armies of Israel had an answer. And that brings us from chapter 19 into chapter 20, and I just want to make a few observations before we make some use of this passage. We left the passage last week with the Levite calling for the nation to respond to the grievous act that happened. Israel does respond. You can see in chapter 20, verse 7, that the Levite restates the question and the situation in their company. The fact that they are a company, Israel that is, the fact that Israel is a company, that they have gathered, is actually quite significant. You will notice when you have time that in verse 1, in verse 8, and in verse 11, it is a repetitive statement of how they have gathered together as one body. We've been waiting for them to do this. Israel is gathered together as one spiritual nation under God. And this has not happened since the beginning. It happened in Joshua, but then it fizzled out in Judges. If you remember, each deliverer, for example, would summon the tribes against the Philistines Or whoever, and only some of them would respond. Some of them would say to have a day at the beach and keep sailing instead of taking on national concerns. Here, however, the whole nation has gathered. They have heard the case in verses 8 through 11, and they decide that they will repay those who committed such vile acts in Israel. Now, that's the first observation. The second observation is that what I said is only partially true. I said all of Israel. That's not exactly right. It was eleven tribes that gathered and one decided not to show up. And that is the tribe that owns the property where the grievous act happened. It is the tribe of Benjamin. The other eleven tribes called for Benjamin to deliver up the evil men in verse 13. But the children of Benjamin would not listen to the voice of their brethren, as you saw within the passage. Benjamin instead goes down a different road, which leads to civil war. They choose to protect the men, rallying as a tribe To fight against their brother tribes. If you look at verse sixteen The Spirit makes sure that we don't miss that this is not going to be an easy fight We won't get into this now, but when they later reflect on this civil war, it will not be even their victory will not be a happy memory. Much like our Civil War here in the States. Verse 16 alerts us that this is going to be a difficult fight. Among all this people, it says, were seven hundred select men who were left-handed. Everyone could sling a stone at a hair's breadth and not miss. Now, besides Benjamin, the men of Israel numbered 400,000 men who drew the sword, and all of these were men of war. They were trained combat soldiers. And that leads to our third observation this morning about the passage. The narrator presents a suspenseful three-cycle battle I hope you notice the repetition of them continually having to go back to the Lord. In verse 18, they inquire of the Lord for the first time. They go to battle and they lose. In verse 23, they weep before the Lord, seeking his counsel and power. They go to battle for a second time, and they lose again. They go to the Lord a third time, and this time the narrator reveals very important details. They inquired of the Lord. They had the presence of God or the Ark of the Covenant as well as His Word and His promises, and they had the High Priest. Same things that we have today. The Lord responds by assuring them that he will deliver, verse 29, them into their hands. And this deliverance will involve two aspects. As you noticed, the Israelites first enact a new strategy. Did you notice the new strategy? It was an ambush They will draw the Benjamite warriors away from the city, and then those who were in hiding will ambush the city The strategy is based, secondly, not on just ambush, ambushing them, but on the pride of the Benjamin The strategy relies upon the Benjamites thinking, oh, we're just going to beat them again. Let's keep chasing them far away from the city. And before pride comes a fall. It's exactly what we see here. As you can see in verse 32, if you were to glance down at your own scriptures, The Benjamites had been growing in confidence in each victory. Oh, it's going to be just like the first one. We've got this. But they don't. They therefore become prideful, and it leads to their own demise as the rest of the story unfolds. What you have here then is a narrative account that may be gathered up into A few lessons for us to take as a church, really a church in any age. We could this morning, for example, talk about the lessons that we learned from the Benjamite tribe itself. It would be something like this to go along with our old formula. Another symptom of the worldliness of the church is that the church will not stand up against evil, but will actually come to its defense. That's what the Benjamite tribe does. They choose not to hand over the evil men, but instead to rise and to protect them. That's a lesson the church needs to take. But there's another lesson here that I would like to focus on, and that's the positive aspect of watching all of the other eleven tribes, by way of the power of God, destroy the evil in their own midsts. And so you could draw a lesson that sounds something like this: the Lord overcomes evil through his church. And this should remind you of Romans chapter 16, verse 20. And that's where we get the title of the sermon. And the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly. It's got all of the pieces. That are present within our passage. And the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly. Now that is a message to the church. It is a message to us as a church. That is our doctrine this morning. What I'd like to do now is just unfold that in two main ways. So if you're taking notes, especially the children, the two main points of application will be a clarifying point and then two major questions. A clarifying point and two major questions. So let's start with just a clarifying point. We have a lot going on here And a lot to do with war and force and violence. So I do want to address that for a moment moment, and then we'll move on to two major questions that flow out of it for the church particularly. In our passage, there's no doubt and really no argument. Against the idea that they overcome evil through the use of physical force. And under specific criteria I'm here to make sure that you know, in part, in this point, that it is still lawful for Christians to use force to overcome evil in some situations. I've been reading a new collection of sermons that's edited by a fellow Presbyterian minister. I try to support my Presbyterian ministers. And I've been reading a new collection of sermons, and he has gathered and edited a new set of sermons by Jonathan Edwards, actually. That are not just revivalistic or evangelistic, but they are sermons that Jonathan Edwards gave to his congregation when they were at war. There were people sitting in the pew that who would leave the next day to go fight in war. Edwards, also a Presbyterian minister. Ended up giving these statements to his congregation in one of his sermons. He says, It is lawful and a duty in some cases for one nation to wage war with another. And then he did this kind of reasoning from common sense. If it be lawful for a particular person when assaulted, To stand his own defense and to wound and kill another to preserve his own life? The very same principles that prove the lawfulness of the one prove the lawfulness of the other. In other words, he's saying, take your clues from your everyday life. Do you have a right to defend yourself? Well, so too do a group of people called a nation. Now, I only mention that to you to clarify a couple different points. First, this passage to me seems like a good place to remind you that pacifism. is only one Christian school of thought with regard to war. The church does have another school, and many, including myself, believe that in certain situations it is lawful to defend yourself with force. And I expect that all of you who are here from Fort Meade find that to be good news or a police officer. You do have the right to defend. So I use this as an opportunity to give that as an example. And I'll let you know in a very practical way. This is a lesson I try to teach, especially especially my daughters, every day. About boundaries and what happens when they get crossed. But that's only the first thing. I just wanted to make this an opportunity to say that real quick about just But seconds, this is the real point that I want to drive home as we consider ourselves not as a civic body And not just as American citizens, but as a church body. Because things are quite different when we look at that angle. Here's the second thing Overcoming evil with physical force or coercion is not how the structural church operates. Overcoming evil with physical force or coercion is not how the structural church operates. When I say that, I am reminded, as I am in a lot of occasions of my life, of a scene in the movie, The Patriots. There is a scene in the Patriot where the Presbyterian minister is up in his pulpit and he steps out of his pulpit something along those lines or comes forth from the crowd and he grabs the musket and he heads off to join the militia And if you're getting my point here, at that moment he may have in fact been doing a lawful work of just war or just defense. But I'm telling you right now, he was not doing so as a member of a structural church or a standing for the structural church He stepped out from the pulpit into his role as a citizen. Two different domains, two different spheres, two different ways to undo evil. Both lawful. And what this ends up doing is it ends up, this brings us into our second main application point, is it ends up Bringing up two major questions that we must consider as Christians, especially with a passage like this. And here is the first question. Why doesn't the church, as the church, stomp out evil with physical force? Why don't we? Why don't we just take the day And here's the reason. The reason is that you cannot fix an evil heart through coercion. I want you to think about this for a moment because it really just makes common sense. We get this. Think about the end goal that we would want to attain or that we want to see happen in this world as the church We don't want dead humans. We want good humans who worship God with a clear conscience of redemption in Jesus Christ. And here is the main truth. You cannot make human beings good through compulsory force. There was an old proverb that my grandmother said about me much of my youth to my mother She would say, Ruth Ann, about me, you can lead a horse to water, but you can't make him drink. That is still true I want you to imagine if we tried to accomplish evangelism through physical compulsion. We stationed military with every family in Millersville. At gunpoint, they were all forced to arrive each morning and read their Bibles. They needed to do their devotions and pray. At the point of a gun. Under threat, we made them attend church. With force, we forced them to look like Christians in the home and Christians at work. But here is the problem. What will you have once the force is removed? You will have non-Christians. In fact, they were non-Christians all along, because the thing that needed to change never changed Because it can't change through guns or rods. Do you want to know why? Because there is something stronger in human beings than any weapon, and it is the conscience and the inclination of the heart. There is one force that is never overcome by military force in human beings. It is the force of the heart and it is the force of the conscience. We cannot, as a church, accomplish our ends as a church through physical compulsion. in this context that I'm talking about here. So that's the answer to that first question. Why doesn't the church, does the church stomp out evil with physical force? Because it doesn't work. Here's the second question. How does God, by the church, therefore, overcome evil? And that's where we get Romans 16:20, and we can turn that into a question. The God of peace will, in fact, crush Satan under our feet, but how is he going to do that if it's not by physical militaristic? force, speaking of the church. What I'd like you to do is I'd like you to flip to Acts chapter 4 very quickly. Because Acts chapter 4 gives us not just a history lesson, but a model or example or a paradigm by which the rest of the church is meant to proceed and to conquer evil. The church as structure or a structural church. We're just going to flit around and then I'll point out a couple of the verses to you. But in Acts chapter 4, I want you to notice, I don't know about your Bible, but I have uh these titles above my paragraphs. And one of the first things you should notice. Is that in chapter 4, Peter and John are imprisoned? There is a physical compulsion happening on the other end. The priests, the captain of the temple, the Sadducees, with physical force, took Peter and John and they made them stop preaching. And then in their court of law, they pronounced, you're no longer to speak in this man, Christ Jesus, his name. They put them in prison, but then they are released. And this is really telling because now you're going to see what do they do when they are compelled to stop preaching in the name of Christ? Are they going to go back to their community and do what? Are they going to open their gun safes in the name of Jesus Christ? And the answer is no. If you followed the passage yourself through, Peter and John went back to where the saints were gathered. They did not pull guns out of the closets. Look at verse 24. Instead, they all entered into prayer. In verse 24, this is a, by the way, they're evoking Psalm 2, the nations are raging, even with military force, against the Christ, and Christ does not have them militarily respond back. Instead, they move into prayer and they say this. I'm going to read to you verses 29 through 31 if you want to follow along. Here's the example. Now, Lord, look on their threats and grant to your servants that with all boldness they may speak your word. By stretching out your hand to heal, and that signs and wonders may be done through the name of your holy servant Jesus. And when they had prayed, the place where they were assembled together was shaken And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and they spoke the word of God with boldness. There it is. And honestly, the rest is history. Without the structural church picking up a single weapon, look at what has happened across the face of the earth. From that day forward, without the use of force, one evil person, one evil family, one evil city One evil nation was overcome and turned to good, worshipping the Lord in sincerity of heart and loving their neighbors as themselves. It is Jesus Christ working through the prayers and the preaching of the saints Wherein he overcomes even the greatest power that resides among men, and that is their conscience and their hearts. And it is as if it is the snap of a finger for him. To open their eyes and let them see the truth. The most difficult fellows will follow in the account of Acts. and they do not stand a chance against the persuasive power of Jesus Christ. And they are conquered. Even Saul himself becomes Paul. Saul the one who wanted to use compulsory force against this new rising up, stoning Stephen to death. becomes a man who has a different weapon. And he says, my weapon is the Word of God. He says, I will plead with you all day long. Be reconciled to God through Christ. And when he would preach those things, despite those who wanted to put him to death, people would be changed. They would become good. That is the story of the church as the church And it changes how we would apply this passage today versus how they would apply it then. This is the general equity of the case. Did you notice that there were those perhaps odd to you specifications on that third battle right before they won? There's a parenthetical remark in there that points out that they had the Ark of the Covenant, and they had these sacrifices, and they had a high priest. Don't we have those same things? And just as it was the root of their victory on the third day, is it not the root of our victory? That we have a great high priest who answers our prayers to make us bold, to preach the word, and for consciences and hearts to be changed. I understand that our weapons look like foolishness to the world, but I'm telling you, they have changed the world And God is still working to this day through these same means. Brothers and sisters, do you believe that Jesus Christ works through his means? Do you believe that he works through your prayers for your children, for those conversations that you have? when they're sitting on your lap or later after they bought their first car. This is what I believe you should do. I believe that as we go forward as a church with reference to this passage and the true role of the church, you should have a single presumption. That God is still at work. And I would encourage you to have that presumption until it is proved otherwise. And I promise You it will not be. There are nations yet to be converted. And you know how they will be converted? It will be through the preaching of the word and the prayer of the saints, just as we see within this passage. Brothers, sometimes it is necessary to use lawful force to defend against evil. I tell my girls that all the time. Several of you are stationed at Fort Meade. You know this, and we should expect God to work through that force for the defense, even if you're a third party. But that is not how God crushes the head of Satan through the church. God instead will empower our use of especially teaching and preaching to capture the consciences of our children and our neighbors. May the Lord give us boldness to use the sword of the church, which is the Word of God. Amen. Let us pray