And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed, and he shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise your head To the woman he said, I will greatly multiply your sorrow and your conception. In pain you shall bring forth children, your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you And then to Adam he said, Because you have heeded the voice of your wife and have eaten from the tree of which I commanded you, saying you shall not eat of it, cursed is the ground for your sake. And toil you shall eat of it all the days of your life, both thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the herb of the field. In the sweat of your face you shall eat Bread, till you return to the ground. For out of it you were taken, for dust you are, and to dust you shall return. And Adam called his wife's name Eve, because she was the mother of all living. Also for Adam and his wife, the Lord God, made tunics of skin, and he clothed them. I think more than anyone that I know, uh my Uncle Dale knows that death and misery, as we see in this passage, is the The flight of humanity. And we just saw a bunch of men stand up who know the same thing. As any pastor speaks Speaking in the face of death makes you feel very small. It makes you feel like you have nothing to say. And yet when we turn to the Christian scriptures We see that God has a great deal to say about death, and so it's wrong to remain silent. Particularly when we as human beings need so much guidance in order to be able to understand For instance, why our uncle or a father who at 57 has passed away. Or why any misery is in the world whatsoever. And so strangely, perhaps, to you, we turn to Genesis 3, which is an iteration over and over again of a curse, a curse on humanity. But it's only within this passage and taking the reality of it from these Christian scriptures that we would ever be able to survive. Living this life. You can already begin to see what Uncle Dale has chosen in order to be able to survive his profession. And so it is my prayer, just as it has been settled within Dale's heart so it would settle in yours, that as you seek to be able to live in the midst of devastation and loss, particularly of Dale, that you'd be able to turn to the curse strangely. for comfort. In the passage, there is the reality of the curse, the extent of the curse, or the scope of it, and then there is, in fact, a hope from the curse. Which we heard in this song that he wrote. The reality of the curse is perhaps the most unpopular notion today, and maybe that's why people can't handle death. Not well. The curse is no longer appreciated as illuminating our human lives and being able to understand and to explain the reality that we live. With the dawn of naturalistic explanations with science, or because of the history of the church, perhaps beating people over the head with sin. Or whatever it is, scandal, the curse, as explained within the Christian scriptures, is no longer looked to for solid. To be able to understand life, and yet it is the only place where we could find true truth. The authors speak about the curse here not to hurt you. or to come up with some fairy tale to make fun of you and to make uh trivial explanations of your life, but to eliminate and to help you in a world of devastation. And I want you to just think for a moment of what your alternatives are if you don't like Dale also turn to the curse to be able to deal with the miseries of life. If you turn away from the explanation that Dale himself had accepted, then Uncle Dale's death becomes no more significant than the withering of a tomato plant. Biologically, he has given way to entropy, and there is no other explanation It's not a good idea to deny the alternative of the curse. If we accept a purely modern-day scientific explanation, then Dale's death is not sad, it's not significant, it just happened just like it happens to all other human beings. And yet we are not willing to say that. And I'm looking at your faces and you if you were to believe that in your mind, your body is betraying you The feelings are far too profound in order for anything else but a curse to explain what's going on. It did not just happen. There is significance behind it. it. In the farthest reaches of the north, I was just watching this on Netflix the other day. In the farthest reaches of the north there are these areas where the tide can go out in about an hour of 20 feet of water, just leaving sea floor. And it can rush back in within an hour or two and have 20 feet of water again. And when I was at Uncle Dale's viewing the other day, what I saw within the family were profound feelings that came roaring in like a moving tide across your hearts of grief and of loss and of pain. That profound feeling does not is not explained from anything better than what we have here within the scriptures, that this is a curse. My Uncle Dale's death is a curse. I refuse to accept a romantic illusion. I refuse to accept that death is natural. I believe that it's unnatural, as it mentions here, and that it is in fact a curse. It actually goes further than what we see here with Uncle Dale, and he knew that also. The extent of the curse that my Uncle Dale knew, uh, it boggles me. how he would have to deal with that every day. Seeing the gore or the misery or people dying or children dying, I thought of uh the pervasiveness of the curse in terms of a moldy loaf of bread. Mold covering every single slice, but not the whole slice. Of course, there were good things in life that he saw, but every part of it he could see. Mold on it. Uncle Dale understood this being in the medical profession, and he saw perhaps more than we would see. In fact, I imagine that he saw all of the curses that are present within the passage. at this later. Just look read through the passage again from the bulletin and list out all of the ways in which humanity is cursed. You have relationships pro relationship problems. You have the man right away saying it was her fault fault. You have psychological problems. He once had no shame and now he felt naked and ashamed. Now he's confused. He once had perfect religious harmony with God, and now he's hiding from God. He once was able to have creativity and to work. And everything that he would put his hands to, anything that Adam in the garden would put his hands to, it would do that. And now he will work by the sweat of his brow and with thorns and thistles. And then as he seeks to not be annihilated and to hold on to life itself, even that will be snuffed out from him Him. This is the picture of your life. This is the true, this is the only way in which we could explain our daily occurrences. And Dale knew this more than any other. As a fireman or paramedic, was he not called in some way to experience more misery in Anarundal County than others in Anarundal County? He would be called to the misery. And he experienced personal misery. I have seen my Uncle Dale cry very deep tears of pain and speak to me about it. The question becomes when you see the reality of the curse and then you see the extent and the scope and how it it can cover the the waters as uh or cover the the the world as as wide as perhaps an ocean, you have to you have to ask the question, how in the world did my Uncle Dale have any hope whatsoever? Seeing all that? How did any fireman here or paramedic here or anyone in the medical field here deal with all the death and the misery that you see? Did he in fact keep hope is a question, and how in the world would he do so? How did he keep hope in the midst of the reality and the pervasiveness of the And what's interesting now is that strangely my Uncle Dale and Adam in the Garden have a lot of similarities. that we see in the passage. I don't know if you ever noticed this before, but I just listed a whole bunch of curses, and then when we get to verse 20, it says that Adam called his wife's name Eve. Eve because she was the mother of all the living. That is the most confusing thing if you understand what's going on. Why was she not the mother of death and confusion? Because that was what is w in Adam's face. Why was she not Eve, the mother of death and confusion? Somehow Adam held on to hope in the midst of all of the curse. And we see the exact same thing within my Uncle Dale keeping up hope If he did not keep up hope, why, when I look at the corkboard from his house that was sent to me from Stephanie, did he have so much on there about being a good man, about being virtuous and helping other people? The prayer that my Aunt Donna just read was on that corkboard. The song that you hear that he wrote for a person taken from cancer. It is a man who in fact has hope. A man who has hope. He certainly did. If my Uncle Dale only saw biological creatures who eventually give way to circumstance and entropy, then why was he attracted to beauty and to music and to virtue? It does not make any sense. But he did have hope. The question really is, how in the world could it ever stay alive? And you see the exact same thing here with Adam also Adam and also God for Adam and his wife, the Lord God, made tunics of skin and he clothed them. And if you missed it earlier in the verse, He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. Now, if you went to Christian school, you know what these mean. If you didn't go to Christian school, just give me one second. This is referring to Jesus Christ. If you attended perhaps St. Mary's when you were younger, it would have been known as the Proto-Evangelium Bureau. Remember your Latin. The proto-evangelium here is referring to Jesus Christ, and it it gives us the hint which the rest of the Bible will spell out and unfold when Jesus finally arrives. Through Mary. It gives us the hint that what Adam saw was that there was a promise. That although Satan would bruise the heel, that there would be one that finally comes that crushes the head. And this is referring to Christ. He will redeem the earth from the curse, and he will do so, quite surprisingly, by undergoing the curse himself. Through death, in order to clothe us with life. And this is exactly where Adam in the garden and my Uncle Dale met. They found the answer for devastation and loss and dealing with his job or with just life in general. They both found it in this explanation. That although there is a curse, there is a God who is willing to die in order to remove the curse. It's the most phenomenal thing There's one pastor that I look up to, his name is John Stott. He's actually from London. And he says, I could never myself believe in God if it were Not for the cross. In the real world of pain, how could one worship a God who was immune to it? If God just remained in the heavens and yet saw us suffering, how could we ever worship a God like that But he chooses to come down from heaven and to take on suffering himself. The Father knowing the loss of a child, his only son, and the son himself, Jesus, knowing what it means to die. And not even for himself. Dale's God, our God, is not immune or clinically detached, but dies so that the curse may be broken. That is what we need to be able to bring home in order to be able to explain to our children or our grandchildren. The phenomenon of death. And death of those who are very close to us. And so here are the takeaways. Here's the question that you have to ask Ask yourself, can you, like Dale, embrace the power of believing in the curse? Can you see the the power, even if you don't want to accept it, of having this as a resource to be able to make it through this life? My Uncle Dale saw it as a resource. This curse is a powerful illumination for you because, number one, it explains your emotions and your grief. It's not an illusion. He's not just a biological animal that ceased to exist. He was my uncle. He was your father. He was your son. He was your brother. There is significance and meaning Do not deny reality as a cheap way to deal with the pain. Don't deny the pain. Instead, grieve because this is a curse that is before us. But at the exact same time that we grieve, the curse is powerful because it can show us that life can be fixed. If there's no curse, if things just happen, there's nothing to fix. But if there's a curse, then someone can break the magic. Someone can break the curse. Listen to how Doskievsky puts this in Brothers Karamasov as he realizes the vision in this Grand philosophical novel, I believe, like a child that suffering will be healed and made up for, that all the humiliating absurdity of human contradictions will vanish like a pitiful mirage. That is the end to which we reach when we embrace Jesus Christ, just as my Uncle Dale did. Therefore, you may have hope for Dale. You may have hope for Dale. Because God died so that Dale would live forever. In fact, it's wrong to speak about him as if he's dead because he's alive now. He is with Christ and in his presence. And you may have hope for yourselves because the death of God shows you that he cares for you. I know he seems Absent a lot to you. But the death does not support that hypothesis. He died and therefore he cares. He who dwells in heaven. has a heart for you here on earth. I pray that that would be sealed upon your heart. Let me close by just reading this one verse from a hymn. That I enjoy. And I pray that this would set upon my family's heart and my Uncle Dell's friends. And I pray that it would sit upon my family Upon my heart also. Be still, my soul. The Lord is on thy side. Bear patiently the cross of grief or pain Pain, leave to thy God to order and provide. In every change he faithful will remain. I pray that we can believe that. Please pray with me. Heavenly Father, we will feel the curse that you are speaking of. We feel the prick of it. Even now. And Lord, we know that the prick will continue when I attend Fourth of July. My Uncle Dale will not be a little bit more than a Lord, we ask that you would work powerfully through your word, that in being real about the curse, and delving deep into the profundity of this reality, That you would begin to break the curse in our lives. You were willing to die for us. And so we place our hopes in you that you will commune with us in our life. We ask that you'd be with us as we miss our Uncle Dale, and we thank you for receiving him and being with him face to face in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.