And escaped to the cave of Adullum. So when his brothers and all his father's house heard it, they went down there to him. And everyone who was in distress, everyone who was in debt, and everyone who was discontented gathered to him. So he became captain over them. And there were about 400 men with him. Pray with me. Father, what a treasure your word is, but we know that it cannot accomplish its purpose apart from your Holy Spirit stirring within us with the Word. And so we pray that you would direct our thoughts and our hearts toward you for the glory of our Savior. Amen. Please be seated. Back in the nineteen sixties My parents and I would gather around our black and white TV every week to watch what was then the most popular show of the day. It was called The Fugitive. It was a TV series about an ordinary citizen who, through no fault of his own, came to be marked as an outlaw and an enemy of the state. His face was on posters everywhere. Government agencies claimed that he was so dangerous they wanted him dead. And they were given orders to shoot to kill. And so every episode for four years Raise the same question, how will this fellow survive? He couldn't turn to his friends or relatives, they were all being watched. He couldn't trust any law-abiding citizen. It was their duty to turn him in. And wherever he went, seems somebody soon recognized him. So he was always on the run. He could never stay in any one place for long He was a fugitive. I'm reminded of that series every time I read through these chapters in 1 Samuel. Because here we read a true story of a fugitive named David. In fact, will you please turn with me while you have your Bibles open to the pages just before our text, and we'll see some of the background. to why David had to flee to a cave. If you look at chapter 19, verse 1 Now Saul spoke to Jonathan his son and to all his servants that they should kill David. That was shoot to kill. Order to all of Saul's servants. And then in verse 10 of that same chapter, we see Saul sought to pin David to the wall with a spear. But he slipped away from Saul's presence, and the spear went into the wall. Then verse 18 of chapter 19, so David fled and escaped And went to Samuel at Ramah and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and stayed in Nihoth. No, that hope to find deliverance or safety with the The prophet Samuel was short-lived. We find that in verse Hmm. David fled and escaped to Samuel. But in chapter twenty Verse 3, we read, David says, truly, as the Lord lives, and as your soul lives, There is but a step between me and death. David first looked to the prophet Samuel, and then to the prince Jonathan. And finally he went to the priest Ahimelech. Notice chapter 21, verse 1. Then David came to Nob to Ahimelech the priest. But even that hope for safety was short-lived. Verse 7 says, Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, detained for the Lord. His name was Doag the Edomite. And we find later in chapter 22 that when Saul learned that the priest of Ahimelech had given David bread to eat, he considered that treason. And he had Doeg put to death all 70 members of the priest's family. Next look at chapter 21, verse 10. We read, Then David arose and fled that day. from before Saul. And the rest of that chapter records David's hope to find safety in another land, in Gath. But he found even there he was not safe. And that brings us to our text today in chapter 22, verse 1. So David departed from there and escaped to the cave of Adullah. Did you notice all through these references the words fled and escaped? That was David's new lifestyle. And for the next many years, in fact, he was forced to live away from society as a criminal, hiding in a cave. marked for death, in constant danger. And yet at God's providence, he managed to escape with his life Time and time again. Now, when the Holy Spirit recorded these words for us, these details of David living as a fugitive. He was doing more than just giving us an interesting, fascinating story. He was giving us, really, a picture of the kingdom of God on earth. There are many parallels between the followers of David living in a cave and the followers of Jesus Christ living in this world And those parallels will hold our attention today. And at the heart of these parallels is David himself as a type of the Lord Jesus Christ. This was a difficult time in David's life, even though God had promised that he would one day be king, even though he was already anointed king by Samuel. It seemed to David and almost everyone else that he was a failure. He was an outlaw. He had a price on his head. The king wanted him dead. And so he was forced to leave his home and family and friends and live in a cave. Everything David tried ended in frustration. You ever have days like that? Weeks like that? Months? Sometimes it is the will of God that everything we try end in failure. He frustrates our plans, our efforts, so that we're forced to look to him and lean on him alone. All of David's plans were thwarted, and he ended up living as a fugitive in the cave of Adolman. And to all the world, it looked like David was a loser. His whole life seemed to be unraveling. No respectable person would have anything to do with it. And those who saw it really must have wondered, is God truly with David? There's a valuable lesson here. The growth of God's kingdom is a lot like the growth of a tree. There are seasons of springtime and summer when the tree is green and fruitful. And then there are seasons of autumn and winter when, to all appearances, the tree seems dead. There were times in David's life when God was clearly with him, prospering him, like when he fought Goliath and defeated him, and then won great victories over the Philistines. But then there came times when it seemed like God had rejected David, and David felt himself forsaken by the Lord. And yet, strange as it may seem, those dry times that David went through were by far the best hours for his soul. And the same is true for you and me. Our times of struggle and defeat are better for us than our times of success and victory because it is in times of struggle that we are most stirred to pray. When David was forced to hide out in a cave, that cave became his prayer closet. We see that in the Psalms that he wrote while he was in the cave, Psalm 57 and Psalm 142 And fact, please turn with me for a moment to Psalm 142 and notice David's prayer there. Psalm 142. The heading of the psalm says a contemplation of David of Prayer when he was in the cave. I cry out to the Lord with my voice. With my voice to the Lord, I make supplication. I pour out my complaint before him. I declare before him my trouble When my spirit was overwhelmed within me, then you knew my path. And the way in which I walk, they have secretly set a snare for me. Look on my right hand and see, there is no one who acknowledges me Refuge has failed me. No one cares for my soul. I cried out to you, O Lord. I said, You are my refuge, my portion in the land of the living. Attend to my cry. For I am brought very low. Deliver me from my persecutors, for they are stronger than I. Bring my soul out of prison, that I may praise your name The righteous shall surround me, for you will deal bountifully with me. Most of David's prayers were written as this was in times of trouble. For like all of us, David prayed much more in times when he was down than when Things were looking up. And so those times of downness were better for his soul. We're all better off spiritually when our souls are burdened. Because our souls by nature are cold and sluggish. And unless we feel weighed down or hemmed in We won't cry to God with all our hearts. David learned how to turn his troubles into prayer. He cried out No one cares for my soul, the cry of loneliness. Bring my soul out of prison, the cry of despair. My persecutors are too strong for me. The cry of weakness. David learned to bring all his troubles to the Lord. Now some people ask, what good does it do to pray? Prayer doesn't change anything. But notice David's prayer did change something. It changed his own outlook. Notice how the prayer ends in verse 7. The righteous shall surround me, for you shall deal bountifully with me. By pouring out his troubles to the Lord, David's soul began to brighten. And here is encouragement for us, Christian, when you feel like everything is falling apart for you. Don't hold that in. Don't just go around moping. Pour out your troubles to the Lord as well. David did. For as he stood there, pouring out his soul to God, the clouds began to lift, and by the end of his prayer, David was expressing praise and hope that one day he would be surrounded by the righteous and that God would be gracious to him. And in fact, his prayer proved prophetic. Very soon he was surrounded by righteous men, and God did deal bountifully with him. We see it in our text. A group of men began to gather around David, people willing to serve him. And in that gathering of people in the cave, we see a picture of the kingdom of God. Think for a minute. How would you describe the kingdom of God on earth? It's not easy to put into words, is it But actually what we see here of David and his followers in the cave is a remarkably authentic picture of God's king. in this world. And what stands out foremost in this picture is the glory of the captain. Even though David was hiding out in a cave as an outlaw, he was, in fact, the Lord's anointed, chosen by God to be king over God's people. Destined to sit on the throne over all Israel. He was a champion of God's people. He had already done great things for them. He was a great warrior in Israel with many victories under Israel. He was a wise leader who had proven over and over that God was with him. And yet, even though he was anointed by God as king and had done many great things in the Lord, Lord's name. For the time being, he was despised and rejected of men, considered a criminal by his countrymen. Well, I trust you see the parallels between David and our Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus was born of the seed of David, to sit on the throne of David. Remember the angel's announcement to Mary about his birth in Luke 1. He will sit on the throne of his father David Jesus was born to be king. And like David, Jesus did have spectacular accomplishments. The gospels tell us that he's healed the sick, he restored sight to the blind, he fed the He raised the dead. He did amazing things in the Lord's name. And he's still doing amazing things today in the Lord's name among his people. He's changing lives, turning men and women and children from being lovers of self. into lovers of God and lovers of righteousness, conforming them to his image. And yet in spite of all the wonderful things that Jesus did and was He was yet despised and rejected of men, considered to be a criminal in his own land. He was God's anointed. He had his own people condemned him to death, and he was forced to leave this world by being crucified. But God brought him back from the dead. And seated him as a king at his own right hand in heaven, so that right now Jesus Christ is seated on the throne of David. Problem is, the people who live in this world don't see him there. The people you and I rub shoulders with every day do not realize that Jesus is king. Seated on David's throne in heaven, the truth of Jesus Christ is forced out into caves and hidden from men's eyes The truth of Jesus is not welcomed in the halls of government. This kingship is not acknowledged in the great universities of our land. We won't find the Lord Jesus received by the rich people of our society, the wise, the powerful, the influential for the most part. Don't want to have anything to do with Jesus Though he deserves the most honored place on earth, we seldom find him there. Nevertheless, our captain is glorious wherever he's found. The second thing we see here about God's kingdom is that even though the captain is glorious, his followers are pretty much a bunch of misfits. It was the rabble of society, the outcasts who gathered around David. Notice that in verse 2. And everyone who was in distress, everyone who was in debt. And everyone who was discontented gathered to him, and he became captain over them. The captain is glorious, but his followers are a rather sorry lot. David's whole army was made up of society's rejects. And such are the followers of the glorious Lord Jesus today. They're the type of people for the most part that the in-crowd tends to look down on, the misfits, those out of step They're from humble backgrounds, insignificant families. And yet the Lord Jesus is so gracious that he never shows the least embarrassment at the odd balls you gather around him. He welcomes them and makes them feel at home. The first group mentioned here are those in distress, those with deep inward struggles. No doubt many of them were politically oppressed. Because King Saul was a tyrant, even towards those he suspected of being disloyal. Some were socially distraught. But whatever the cause of their distress, they sought refuge with David. The second group mentioned is everyone who was in debt. Of course, today living in debt is a way of life. Today if someone's debts become too much for him, he can just file for bankruptcy. But back then, people who couldn't pay their debts were forced to become slaves, had to surrender all of their freedoms. That's the kind of people that went out and joined themselves to David. hopelessly in debt, who couldn't pay their bills. And you can imagine what the respectable people of society thought about that. And then the third group mentioned here is everyone who was discontented, those who were discouraged about how things were going in their nation. who were disappointed with the direction their society was headed, who were fed up with King Saul's way of doing things. They went out and joined with David, 400 of them. The distress, the debtors, the discontent, the rejects of Israel. And that number kept growing. In chapter 23, we find it was up to 600. Zeros of society, these nobodies, became followers of David. Now, it's worth noting that David was not an opportunist. He didn't take advantage of those who gathered around him and use them as stepping stones to become king and then abandoned them once he was in office. Politicians will often do that. I'll use the rabble of society if that's all they can get to follow them at the moment. But once they're in power they forget the rift raft that got them elected and appoint respectable pieces people to places of authority. Not David When he became king, he chose his advisors and officials from among those who had joined up with him years earlier in the cave. From this group came those who ruled the kingdom with him. And the same is true of the Lord Jesus Christ in his kingdom. Jesus never abandons the misfits who come to him. He sticks with them. He receives them the same way David received those who came to him. And that's one of the reasons why the Pharisees were so upset with Jesus. He hung out with outcasts, the nobodies of society. And he still does. Remember how the Apostle Paul describes the makeup of God's kingdom in 1 Corinthians 1. 26. Consider your calling, brethren. There were not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, not many popular. The followers of Jesus are really a rather sorry lot. Not many have a reputation for being intelligent. There are some, but not many. Not many are mighty. The great success stories of the world are not in the church. Not many are noble. Those whose names you recognize among the famous families of the world, not many of them are called. Paul says, but God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. And God has chosen the weak things of the world, to shame the strong, and the base things of the world, and the despised God has chosen even things that are not, that he might nullify things that are That no man should boast before God. The five ranks in Christ's army are the base, the weak, the foolish, the despised, and the nobodies. They're the kind of people that the Lord chooses And it chooses people like that to show us the the th folly of the way we normally think. If we were to pick the people we would like to have on our side We probably choose, start by choosing the wealthy people, the PhDs, the best athletes, the best dress, those with the best reputation. God does just the opposite. To show us how wrong we are to look at things man's way. The people who gather to the Lord Jesus today are a lot like the people who came to David Cave of the Dollam, the debtors that despised the malcontents You see, the people who were satisfied with Saul's way of doing things, content with their place in Saul's kingdom, had no reason to go out to David. Those who were doing well for themselves were not about to leave their homes and their jobs and their lifestyle and go out and live in a cave. They had no reason to do so They would have been offended just to be around the people that joined up with David. So let me ask, what about you? Do you see yourself as among the poor, the despised, or the discontent? But do you really hope you'll be part of the in-crowd and be approved with this world's leaders? Jesus says, woe to you who are rich now. Woe to you who laugh now. Woe to you who are content now. Because if you're content, you'll never feel your need for Jesus. You'll never come to Him. If you don't have an urgent debt to pay, why should you flee to Christ If you're content, you have no need to go to Jesus. Only those who feel their need of him come to him. Joseph Hart, the hymn writer, expressed these words that picture Jesus beautifully Come, ye sinners, poor and wretched, weak and wounded, sick and sore, Jesus ready stands to save you, full of pity, joined with power He is able. He is able. He is willing. Doubt no more. Come, ye needy. Come and welcome. God's free, bounty, glorified. True belief and true repentance, every grace that brings you nigh. Without money, without money, come to Jesus Christ and buy Come, ye weary, heavy laden, bruised and broken by the fall. You can carry till you're better. You'll never come at all. Not the righteous, not the righteous, sinners, Jesus came to call. Let not conscience make you linger, nor a fitness fondly dream. All the fitness he requires is to feel your need of him. This he gives you. This he gives you the Spirit's rising beam. If you feel your need of Jesus, that comes from him. It's the Spirit's rising being, the stirrings of his working in your heart Nobodies of society came to David and he became their captain. And today when the nobodies of society come to Jesus, he becomes their captain. They may come bruised and broken. They find him to be a glorious king. Again I ask, what about you? Are you needy? Is your life not what it should be? Are you in such deep debt that you could never pay back all you owe? Are you so much in debt to God that you could never get out? Come to Jesus. He will welcome you. His ranks are filled with people like that. The destitute. discontent, the distress, those morally and spiritually bankrupt. They come to Jesus and they find a place in his kingdom. All you need to do is come to him. Just as David gladly welcomed all who came to him in the cave, so the Lord Jesus gladly receives all who come to him. Him. The captain is glorious. The ranks are filled with rabble. And pretty much that's the testimony of every Christian. Before I came to Christ. I was nothing. My life was a mess. I was in debt. Nothing I could do until I came to Jesus. and began to serve under him. You see, those who came to David were nobody's when they first came to him. But if you turn to 1 Chronicles 11 and read about the men who had first come to David in the cave, you'll see that over the years they began to develop amazing gifts and graces by the help of their glorious captain. The three chiefs in David's army were men who had joined up with him back at the cave. And in fact, all through the forty years of David's reign, the counselors that he surrounded himself with were those who had first come to him. at the cave. Men who once had been malcontents and debtors. But this king made them great. And so it is in the kingdom of God. Those who come to Jesus as nobodies, after the captain feigns them and works with them for a while. They begin to develop amazing gifts and graces that are useful in this kingdom. Then let me point out those who came to David. had to walk by faith, not by sight. It's true David was anointed king, but those who came to him and a did not come to a pal a cave, but to a palace. a palace but to a cave. And they had to live with all the discomforts of cave dwellers. They lived with the king before he was recognized as king. One day David would live in palace, but that day was still a long way off. And when you come to Jesus, the King of Kings. You too must come by faith. Though he has palaces, you won't see them in this world. The days of glory for Christ's kingdom are still future. Some preachers would tell you that if you have faith, you'll be successful and prosperous on this earth. No. God's kingdom is like the cave of Adolf. Those who come to Christ Jesus do not live like royalty here. Here we have no earthly dwelling. Earthly success is not among the benefits Jesus promises. And you can imagine what most folks thought of David out there in the cave, surrounded by debtors and misfits. Just the kind of people he deserves. And they said the same thing about Jesus. He ate with publicans of sinners. They spoke disparagingly. Look at the rabble gathered around Jesus. Our society laughs at the ragtag army of Jesus Christ. If you would go out to Jesus, you must forget trying to win the respect of man. Hebrews 13, 13 says, let us go out to him outside the camp, bearing his reproach. Those who would come to Christ must bear The reproach of rejection. Living in God's kingdom today is like living out in a cave with with David But the alternative is to live in a kingdom that will soon fall. You must walk by faith to be part of God's kingdom And you must also live as a fugitive to be part of God's kingdom. When those men came to David They had to live on the run year after year. They had no place in this world that they could call home. They didn't even have a country they could call their own But that was good for them because they never got comfortable in this world. They were always on the alert, always watching out for the enemy The kingdom of God on earth. It's a lot like Abraham's family living in Canaan. Abraham did not own even one square foot of land. Even though it God had promised that one day it would all be his. And that's true of us today. Jesus said the meek will inherit the earth. But not yet. Here we have no lasting city. But that's good for us. It makes us watch and be sober. In that cave with David, those men had some great times with their captain. Before the world saw his glory, David's men came to appreciate him And the precious times they spent in fellowship with David before he came to the throne were times they would remember forever. And so it is with those who come to the Lord Jesus. We hope to see him exalted on the earth one day, but we don't see it yet. We hope to live in his palace one day, but we don't live there yet. We hope to possess the king the kingdom over which he reigns, but we don't possess it yet. But in the meantime, the hours we spend with him before the world recognizes him as king. Our memories we will treasure forever. Today, you and I have come here to spend time with Jesus. Just a handful of nobodies in this cave. But if you look around you might begin to wonder, do I really belong here? But if you will focus on the captain, then you'll remember that apart from him, none of us can do anything. Each of us is nothing. And if we stick with him, he will start to develop in us gifts and graces that will be beautiful and useful to one another Christian, here's the real reason why we must be in church often. Spending time here with our captain gives us encouragement and hope. It gives us encouragement to press on, to hang on, and not lose heart. And it gives us hope that the way things are now are not the way they will always be, because our Captain is working in us, changing us into what he wants us to be Just imagine what it must have been like to live in that cave with David. Those men had left everything to follow him. And now he was their only hope. Their whole future rested on David. If he didn't succeed, They had nothing to fall back on. If David failed, their whole fortune was lost. Their lot was joined to his. Because once it became known that they had gone out and joined up with the outlaw in the cave, there was no turning back to Saul. Those who went back to Saul got their heads chopped off Those who came to David followed him wherever he went and obeyed his commands and waited for the day when he would be manifested as king And in the same way, we come to our captain, and we follow him, and we obey his commands. And wait for the day when he will be revealed as King. We've left this world and have joined ourselves to Jesus. And in doing that, we have joined our fortunes to his, so that if Christ fails our hopes, all our hopes will perish. His fortune is our fortune. His future is our future. His kingdom is our kingdom. And meanwhile, Sunday by Sunday, we fellowship here with him. That's the kingdom of God. Just like the followers of David in the cave. May God give us grace to trust in Jesus, even as those men trusted in David. Let's pray.