David said to the Him like the priest, The King has ordered me on the business. He said to me, Do not let anyone know anything about the bishop which I said. But I commanded it. And I have directed my young man to such and such. Now therefore, what having one hand? Give me five loaves of bread in my hand, or whatever can be found Dumped down to those things. Now, a certain man, a servant stroll was there that day He came before the Lord. His name was Stoic, the Edomites, the chief of those spursmen who belonged to Saul. And David said to Ahimelech, Is there not your hand a spear or a sword? For I have brought under my sword and my weapons because the king's business require haste. So the priest said, sort of apply to the deal with the valley of Eela, there it is. I've been flocked, see how to give you. If you will take it, take it. For there is no other except that one here. And David said, There is none like it, give it to me. Then David arose and fled that day, and he was strong. And look down to first Samuel twenty two verse six When Saul heard that David and his men who were with him had been discovered, Saul was staying in Gibeel herma. With a spear in his hand and all his servants standing about him. Then Saul said to his servants who stood about him, Hear now, oh venture not bending the lights. Well the son of Jessica to give everyone a good fields and vineyards and make you all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds. All of you conspire against him. There is no one who reveals to me that my son has made a covenant with the son of Jess. There's not one of you who is sorry for me, but reveals to me that my son I stirred up my servant against a lion way, because it isn't the set. Then answered, no way, you know, my doors say I'm just serving just going. I said, I saw the son of Jess going to Naab, to Ahimelech, the son of a hacker, inquired of the Lord for them, gave him provisions, and gave him the sort of Goliath, the Philistine. But the king said to call everyone priests, the son of Hajj. All his fathers asked, the priests who were in Armed, and they all came to the king. Saul said, Hear now, son of a high. Again, said, Here I am with the words. Then Saul said to him, Why have you conspired against me, you and the son of Jesus? That you have given him dread and the sword, and have been required of God for him, that he should rise against me the lion rabbits in this dead. So him like when he said the king said, who was my long your servants, faithful as David, who was the king's son-in-law Who goes at your bidding and is honorable in your house? That I then begin to inquire of God for him, far be it from. Let not king impute anything to his servant. Put an enemy in my house, the house of my father. But your servant knew nothing of all this, little for much. And the king said, you shall die him like you went all your father's house. And the king said the guards stood around him, Turn and kill the priests of the Lord. Because their hand also was with David. Because they knew when he fled and did not follow up to me. The servants of the king would not lift their hands to strike the priests of the Lord. And the king said, go ahead. You turn, kill the priest. So if David go ahead and Peter might turn and stop the priest. Killed on a day, 85 men in war and an easy. Also, non city of the priests, destructive extra sword, both men and women, children and nursing initials, oxen. And God is the key with the angel sword. Now, one of us done that's a fight. Escape and tried after David. Rabiahar told David that Saul had killed the Lord's priest. So David said to Rabiathar, I knew that day would go right through the night spirit, that you would surely tell Saul. I have caused the death of all the persons of your father's house. Stay with me. Do not fear. You can see it's my way, see if you should like. But with me, you shall see. That's great. More here, words. It's fascinating. It's true And as instructor, we pray that you would give us your instruction from your word, and that you would lead us and act of righteousness as we look at your truth. Your word is truth. God is by Spirit and pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. We're looking today at the events of one day in history and at the reaction of one man to those events. That one man's almost. And the events were becoming ripped. Murders have been fired, priestly, family, new. David is certainly worthy of cause of the gospel our Savior is all of David. That was the meaning time, but in biblical thinking, oh versus the sun, I could say that that person's nature is life. That of the one who's son of. For example, when Jesus called the Pharisees sons of the devil, he was saying they were by nature like the devil. So when the research called he and son of David, let's say there's a close license between David's nature. Saviour's nature. Observing how David worked in crazy and thought how we reacted look like bones. Instead of this evening, they were taking another book at David and put Sam. Do you remember chapter 17? David put the slide from the line to try to be quiet. The great enemy of God's people. Just as Jesus later put his light on the line, the defeat, the try to defeat our enemy, our great enemy, Satan. In 1 Samuel 18, you read about David's close friendship with Donovan, whose soul was told. Minute to the soul of David, and they made a covenant together. And that's a beautiful picture of what those covenantal relationships were going to show you. The end of chapter 8 means that the old king Saul was afraid of David and became David's Henry continued. Walk through efforts 19, 20, and 21, read of stalls constant efforts to crack down and chill data So that David was forced to live out of the wilderness. Similarly, we read in the Gospels, there were many times when our Savior they also leave the population of areas. And stay out in the wilderness because the Jewish leaders go out to the end. Chapter 21 We see David visiting the priest, the Himalachan mob. And even there, it's obviously David and he's not saved, but there is one of King Saul III saying. But they didn't have to play well, hiding matter in the chain, that too. Pay the consultants were destroyed by the outcasts of society, those who were in debt, those who were distressed, those who were discontented. We're all going back to the day in Cave. The church also is largely made up. of those who are considered outside of society, they are spiritually distraught, spiritually in deck. Spiritually has content. They're willing to leave the comforts of this world and choose going up instead. Those who joined out of thing in Cave, God brought to be the heart of Cave is fan of Mary Man. And I use that term deliberately because there are interesting parallels between David and the legendary Robin Hood. You'll remember Robert lives a bit in the parts, curly parts, then three here in chapter 225. David lived in the parts of Paris. David's men were fiercely loyal to him. David's men likewise. Fiercely loyal to him. Robin Hood was an excellent Marson. David was an excellent barson for Swingstone. Robin Hood was considered an apple, constantly honest by the king of it. And David was considered an apple, constantly hunted by the king of the show. That's the main heart of this. Well, a pack picks up with David and his man in the forest, where they receive an unexpected visitor by far. The priests newly appointed. Just as Robin Hood acquired the service of the fire talks, the David here was joined by the priest of. But this is not a pleasant occasion for a fly throughout silvery news of recent events that have taken place in Falls Fourth. Just two days earlier, Saul called his men together in a hill near Judah, which tells us Saul was seated under a canvas tree with a spear in his hand. No doubt those who knew Saul's best were looking carefully at that spear because Saul had a habit of suddenly hurling it at anyone you got upset with that. Notice, please, if you have your textbook in front of me, how Saul addresses these men in chapter 22. Percep all his service. So that now you spend them like testing here, everyone has new fields and layers. What's Saul talking about? He's imagining a plot against him by David Determined these men and his most trusted soldiers against them. He's asking, what has David offered you to go over to his side? Fields, vineyards, a position in his arm. Yeah, that's an old short of some spirit going on behind his trap. And it's interesting. Everybody about him Well reference just like Saul. Saul anyone with another cross machine. They would take it. They decide against him. And so he carefully surrounded us around genuines that he thought would be loyal to him. But now we suspect we're an enemy. And he thinks that David is offering to his soldiers bribes to go over and join David and turn against Saul. Saul is sure there's a conspiracy going on that kind of stuff. But it's man. It's the acting of the king saying, I know. David has been making promises to you to get you to join his conspiracy against me. Men have no idea what he was talking about. His wild accusations of the way off base. They didn't know and plot why David to overlook the game. And they had no idea what to expect next from this madman who wants to lead. He says, I know all of you have conspired against, and I have proof you're all against. Moses proof Verse 8. Not one of you ever told me that my son of Natha made a covenant, the son of Jeff with an ambush. See what's going on in Saul's mind? Summer had learned that his own son made a covenant, which was true. But Saul figured that it must have been a political government to overthrow his kingdom. And he figured that there really was such a law. Some of us men surely have heard about it. If any of them was loyal to him, they would have commented him and told him about it. But since none of the scriptures have said anything to her, if soon they must all be traders. Not one of you said a thing about it. You all and John for me to covenant with David to ambush me. Yeah, not one of you fell sorry to remain and folding your back. Proof of their treason. Wow. How could they answer such wild imaginance? What could they say? David was not setting an ambush for Saul. Donovan was not fought in Judah's father. And none of Saul's men had ever heard of such things. Saul in Saul's mind. What have they said to this madman who believed they were all traitors who at any moment might decide to have them all hand? Well, there was one crafty fellow who had a solution. Doe. Notice first one. Doe either might remember something he had seen. three weeks earlier. And he jumped into this information, hoping that it gets all off his back. And the back of the other men Who were with him and turned the suspicion deliver. He said, I saw the son of Jesse going to Nob Notice he referred to David. The same way Saul did not use his name, David Sain, the calling just fighting along with Saul. playing this game, beating his conspiracy mentality. He was telling Slaw what he figured Sall wanted to be I thought some just going to him like some of the highlight. He inquired the Lord for him and gave him provisions and gave him the sword of the life with a lipstick. Ah, Peter was meeting. Explorer Peter was a conspiracy theory. And he reacted the way that we told it. He immediately sent not only for Himalach, but for all the priests and families. All eighty five eighty-five of them came and dutifully stood before the king. Now, remember, Himalach holds the second highest office in the land, high priests of Israel. He was second only the king. Saul here speaks to him brutally. He says, listen now, you son of a hypo. But the lad responds like, here I am, my Lord, at your service, my Lord. Paul says, why are you the subjective inspired again? You're a dolphin and treating its flock to overthrow my kingdom. You gave him bread and scope and inquired of God for him that he should box up against me by flying an ambush if he was doing his death. Well, the Vimelech replies, wait a minute, David is your son. He's one of your most loyal servants. He's captain of your guard. He's one of the most honored men in your house. You won't even send David to the cabinet and inquired, well, I didn't just start being behind the data the next month when we showed up. I've never heard anything about conspiracy. We know none of this one Well that was the absolute truth. Saul was not interested in the truth. All he wanted was for people to see things the way to imagine them. So he said, you shall die in the land, you and all your other lessons. And the king promptly commanded the guards standing there, turn around and put the priests of the Lord to death, because their hand also was with David, and because they knew that he was fleeing and did not do guilt. Well, the bars just sit there jumping, nothing okay. See, there is time, time for righteousness disobedience. Time when we should not eliminate those in the party. Adam. And we could carry out Sadly, there was one man, Deleg, who was willing to carry out Saul's orders. No idea, he might turn and attack the priests and kill all 85 of them. He had no fear of the Lord. So he quickly obeyed the chain. This king who only a few chapters earlier couldn't bring himself to kill a few sheep and cattle in the mouth. Now tell me on to destroy all the priests of the Most High God, along with their wives, children, and sheep, and Catal. He murdered the whole priestly family. Except for a white arm we manage to escape and find this way. It is fine. Well, for the rest of our study, this data, and also next week as well, will be looking at David's response to the strategy. The river he had just tamous crime committed by his own government. What did they do? What did he say? How did he react to the news? Don't have managed and murdered 85 innocent men along with their wives and children, and Anne McKay. First let me ask how you respond, how do you respond when your government supports the murder of innocent people like babies in the woman? How do you respond when you're appointed meters from another positive section of when I publish things you know I'm reading about stuff in the Just sit right and just be moan and stop with some horrible news. But strong, strong and saying, I guess there's nothing we can do That these until the next connection after the believers in Christ respond to ungodless and doing. At first we see that David wrote down his reaction in words. Please turn with me now to Psalm 52. And notice The song that David wrote. We heard what David has done. Song written too. They wrote just at the first four words and seeing. And please notice the heading of this song is part of a God-inspired text. The chief musician, contemplation of David, from go with the Edomite land and told Saul, and then David is drawn to the house of Immolet. Why do you vote the needle and white demand? It couldn't describe the words continuing. Your tongue divides its destruction like a sharp radium, working deceively. You love evil words with lying rather than speaking righteously. You love all devouring words in despite deceivable tongue. But God shall likewise destroy you forever. This was David's heartfelt response. to the new fellow and it addressed this on two Because why do you go Cineball? We love evil when you're good. I eat the speaking what is right. You love all the bowering birds. David focuses on the nation's building. It said Noe was a thief, a liar, the lover of the lost. Because Doe told a lie, David says God will destroy me for earth. Okay. What was Fellows Line? Look at it and go to the thing. First time. So he says I saw the son of the letter coming to Nar to a Himalayas son of God. That's true. And she inquired of the Lord of this. That was over to deny it from Solidities because of employers and part of it. And he gave him provisions That's true. That's the game of the slaughter of the liar, the lipstick. That's true. It's all we do. But where was the eggs? Why? Don't miss this. No way it's love. It's telling the truth. Such a way to be a false impression. Goed knew exactly what Saul was in spiritism and power, simply by telling the truth about him and hospitality David. Zoe was leaving Saul on. My hand speaking too, so he knew he would go. Giving Saul the impression. Himline was a conspiracy. Don't worry in talking to the perspective. See you in telling the truth would be a sin. Tell them in such a way that it is. It's not enough just as we were as it happened to be true. The whole aim of the Ninth Commandment is to bring us to communicate a true picture. To give the food infection, we got us to draw food and inclusions. But when we got the food, we've got someone in such a way that it suggests the false conclusions were bearing false things Children, especially, seem to have an act of being themselves. Well, my children watch children's acting pigeon and just loved it. They went around and found it and all that. How this lag broken. That same child said, you know, John hurried me out of the kitchen a little while ago. Now that may have been true. But people false pressure. How many times have we spoken true information on so on? Gave a false impression of God. That's what Billy did. He gave a false impression of God with me. There is not plenty of God now. God will wait to meet you down to everything Well next week to see the rest of the story. David is low with it. Joel's about how can we often explore on the given suspect? What does that mean take just a couple of minutes with black phone areas of application? And you ever have your map when you realize someone was saying something that was true? Not your fault. If they don't have all the information and you can draw on after we should For example, you uh work hard all day, breaking the leaves, poverty for your employer comes and hands you two hundred dollars to figure out 200 Eight hours of work, twenty-five an hour. We know you know the only work two hours, seven hours to two hours. What do you say? Say anything? Or if we're going to pack him out of the grocery store and seven layers of oil on the counter and says, hmm, looks like half a dozen. And he brings up the closet. What do you do? You didn't fly. Remember, brother. He said this will change so that we all stumble in many ways. If any man does not stumble in worry, the perfect man is both alive and stuff. The tongue is a little memory of both strangers. Consider how good it was a little fire. The tongue is a fire. Very well limited. The palm is still set up on our members and files the whole body. It sets on fire the force of nature. I think it's set on fire. Oh my god. Well, you need to set up I hope the abundance of a spark. Speaks. So I say you every care of us words, then they speak they will account in the day. the old machines in there. Not the nearest. Well I perhaps we say brother's interesting that's what maybe let's say here. One who has never to evil here about we can fall for this purpose. Since Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example of following the spirit, who committed no sin, nor was any deceit down in Israel. While being reviled, he didn't revile the reason. While suffering he made a disrupt, the effect of trusting himself in himself. And free himself for our sins from his own body of the free, that we might die of sin. There is a right supply of his wounds. But I'm not page those three things. Yes. Oh Lord, thank God over my name. I brought words to speak in my mouth and look at it. Go and be long. Because the name of every tongue dance for Lord. Glory of God. all of your friends and prayers, that you delivering us grace to be honest in all of his settings, keeping in mind. Your word and your promise. You will not allow us. Happy to be all the way to all providing away to see. Make us all the children. That's what all. Yes, each following.