Then it happened when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day that the Amalekites had made a raid on the Negev and on Ziklag, and had overthrown Ziklag and burned it with fire. And they took captive the women and all who were in it, both small and great, without killing anyone, and carried them off and went their way. When David and his men came to the city, behold, it was burned with fire, and their wives and their sons and their daughters had been taken captive. Then David and the people who were with him lifted their voices and wept until there was no strength in them to weep. Now David's two wives had been taken captive, Ahinoam, the Jezreelitis, and Abigail, the widow of Nabal, the Carmelite. Moreover, David was greatly distressed because the people spoke of stoning him, for all the people were embittered, each one because of his sons and his daughters But David strengthened himself in the Lord his God. Let's pray. Lord, your word abides. The grass withers, the flower fades. But the word of our God stands forever. And so, Lord, we pray that your word would abide in us this evening. Give us understanding that we may live to your glory. Open our hearts, we pray, by your Holy Spirit, in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. What is the first thing that comes to mind at the mention of David, son of Jesse? Think of the boy who slew Goliath with a slingshot, the teenager whose soul was knit to his close friend Jonathan, the king's son. The outlaw who lived in the desert or in a cave fleeing from King Saul. The poet musician who wrote over a hundred psalms. All these snapsh snapshots of David have one thing in common. They all give an Old Testament glimpse of the Savior who was to come, the Lord Jesus. Jesus is often called Son of David in the Gospels. Remember the Canaanite woman persistently crying out to him, Have mercy on me, Lord Son of David. Or the two blind men in Matthew 9 crying out to Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on us. Or The children in Matthew 21 crying out in the temple, Hosanna to the Son of David. In Hebrew thinking, calling a person son of is saying that that person is by nature like. The one he's the son of. Remember, Jesus said to the hostile Jews, You are sons of your father the devil. And so the gospels are really telling us that by his nature Jesus was like David. And that gives us interest, and we expect it to be profitable to study the life of David. And so this evening, I'd like to have us look at a section of 1 Samuel Where David, we see David in a very unusual situation. Let's uh remember some of the earlier passages of scripture that show us about David's life. Of course, you will remember the Battle against Goliath. But after David killed Goliath, some women of Judah went about singing a ballad. that e that exalted David's bravery. They sang, Saul has slain his thousands and David his ten thousands. It was just an innocent Folk tune meant to honor David, but when it reached the ears of King Saul, he became jealous of David. and spent the next ten years trying to to kill David. And so all through chapters 19 through 29 of 1 Samuel, we find David trying to survive The threats of King Saul. He was a fugitive those years. He sought refuge first with The prophet Samuel in Rama, but Saul came after him there, and so David had to flee. Next he turned for help to Jonathan, his best friend, who was the king's son But when Saul learned that his own son was helping David, he tried to kill him. Next, uh, David saw help from the high priest, Ahimelech. But when Saul learned about that, he sent and actually had all 70 of the high priest's family killed. Only Abiathar escaped. Then David tried to hide out in the country of Gath, the capital of Philistia. But the Philistines recognized him, and again he was forced to flee. Back in his homeland, David tried hiding out in the wilderness, in the cave of Adullaum. But again Saul learned where he was and came after him with his army of 3,000 men. So David found himself on the run again. And finally, David concluded he would have to leave the land in order to escape Saul's wrath. And so he moved to Gath and made friends with Akish, the king of Philistia. And eventually Hakish offered David and his men to settle in one of the outlying cities of Philistia, the city of Ziklag. And from there, David and his men made regular raids against the enemies of the Philistines, which pleased the king. It was while David was living in the Ziklag that King Akish decided to launch an attack against Judah and King Saul. Really, this was just the moment that David was waiting for. For many months David had been laying the groundwork, carefully giving Akish the impression that he was his loyal servant and would gladly help him fight any enemy, even Saul. That brings us to chapter 29, just before we get to our text. In fact, if you look at chapter 29, you'll notice what happened right before verse 30. David joined up with the king, King Akish and his army, planning to go with them to Judah to fight against Saul and his army. But the Philistines the Philistine captives saw through David's scheme and refused to let him come along. Despite David's protests, he was sent packing. So he and his men trudged back to Ziklag. Empty handed. All their carefully laid plans and efforts were frustrated. And at the end of that weary three-day journey, when they finally arrived home, What they found was their city burned, all their homes destroyed, and their wives and children gone This was no doubt the low point of David's life. He was a fugitive, a man without a country, marked for death. Considered a traitor by almost everyone. The few hundred men who followed him were largely the rejects of society. His brilliant, daring plan to do good for God's kingdom had been completely thwarted. And now he found his home destroyed and his family kidnapped. What else could possibly go wrong? We'll see the answer in a minute. When I was living in Oklahoma, there was a tragic house fire that killed the family of a thirty-old 30-year-old man. The newspapers reported that those outside the burning house could hear the man's two-year-old son inside the house crying from his crib, Daddy, Daddy, help me, help me. But his daddy was gone at the time. And the family members who ran in and tried to save the child were also killed in the fire. So when the father returned, he found he had lost everything, his home, his possessions, and his entire family. When I read about that, I wept. And no doubt that man who lost his wife and children wept. And notice verse 4 of our text. That's just what David did. When David and the people who were with him, then David and the people with him lifted up their voices. and wept until there was no strength in them to weep. But there's more What else could go wrong? Verse 6 says, now David's followers were talking about stoning him, for he had failed them. As a leader. They had put their trust in him, and it had cost them their homes, their families, and all they had. So they were ready to assassinate David and choose another leader. And David heard that. Heard that his troops were planning to assassinate him. He went from being distressed to being, verse 6 says, greatly distressed. On top of all that he had lost, he now faced a mutiny. He had no home, no homeland, no possessions, and now no family. And the friends that he had left were planning to kill him. Next time you have a bad day, think of David You have never faced a setback like this. And even if you do Know that you were not the first. Even David was not the first. Remember Job. He lost everything, all his wealth, all his livelihood, and all his children. And actually, there are some interesting parallels between the story of Job and this story of David. Job and David were both righteous men. In both cases, disaster struck them suddenly and left them with nothing. In both cases, their so-called friends made matters worse by the things they said But at the end of the story of both stories The Lord restored the fortunes of both men in full. So by the end of this chapter, chapter 30, David had recovered all that he had lost and more, just as Job tells us at the end of that book that the Lord restored twice as much to Job that he had had before. And sometimes the Lord does bring us low as the doorway to greater blessing, though at the time there's no way to know that. But the most significant parallel between these two stories is the way that Job and David reacted to calamity. They both responded in faith. They practiced the sovereignty of God. When Job lost everything, the first thing he said, Job 1. 21, was, The Lord gave, the Lord is taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And here when David lost everything, verse 6 tells us, David strengthened himself and the Lord his God. I hope when you read those words, they clobber you. In the midst of a hopeless disaster, something inside David gave him hope. and strength. And that something was faith. faith in the sovereignty of God. There wasn't anything in his outward circumstances for David to build his hope on. He couldn't couldn't say, Oh well I I guess I'll go home to mom and dad because mom and dad weren't around. Because of King Saul, they had had to flee to f to flee and live in Moab. Nor could David say, well Mm the insurance insurance insurance will help me get back on my feet. There was no insurance for David's loss. Nor could he say, at least, my friends, I've got friends to fall back on. Mmm, they're planning to kill him. Really nothing was there on earth to give David hope, and yet he had hope. There was nothing on earth to encourage David. And yet he still found encouragement. How? By faith. He practiced the sovereignty of God. But there's a significant difference between this story and the story of Job. Job, we're told, was completely innocent of all wrongdoing. There was nothing Job had done to bring about his great loss of family and possessions. He was blameless. That's the word God used of him. Blameless. But David was not blameless. He had made some critical mistakes In the first place, he had made the mistake of choosing to live outside the promised land. That is the verdict of 1 Samuel 27, verse 1. David fled in a momentary lapse of confidence in God. He doubted that God could protect him if he stayed in Judah. In the second place, David had seriously misjudged his ability to deceive the Philistine commanders into letting him and his men come along to fight against Judah and King Saul. His plan to infiltrate the Philistine army had failed. And then in third place, David had seriously miscalculated, misjudged the Amalekites and their abilities. Even though the Amalekites often made raids in that region. David should have left a guard in the city to protect the women and children, but he failed to. Three serious mistakes. Three strikes in here out, David. This calamity lay at his feet and he knew it. He was a failure How do you handle failure? I mean real failure. What do you do? when y your world caves in around you and it's your fault. You made stupid mistakes. You sinned, and you know you sinned, and now you're facing the consequences. When your friends and family no longer are with you, No willing not willing to stand with you when you're alone and at the at the end of your rope, what do you do? Really, the answer to that question shows what you truly believe about the sovereignty of God. David practice God's sovereignty. Even at this low point in his life, he strengthened himself in the Lord his God. By contrast, back in chapter 28, when Saul reached the low point of his life, He turned even farther from God and resorted to satanic activity. The Lord often deals with his people the way he dealt here with David. He brought David as low as he had ever been in his life immediately before he raised him up to be king of what would soon be the greatest nation on earth. You see, if God had had just brought David from one success to another until he finally was crowned king, We might be inclined to say what Satan said of Job. It's easy for him to trust God. God has given him all he could ever hope for. Riches, fame, power, children. He only trusts in God because everything is looking up. But the Lord shows us the reality of David's faith by bringing him down. The weary had nothing to show that David trusted in God even in that situation. David had the same faith that Job had. Job said, Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. Then David here, on the verge of being slain, strengthened himself in the Lord. There's a saying, the night is darkest just before the dawn. And for David, that was true. But for unbelievers, things become darkest just before the bitter end, as was the case with Saul. David practiced the sovereignty of God. Even facing the total calamity of losing all, he strengthened himself in the Lord. And that word strengthen also has the meaning to encourage. In fact, the King James reads, David encouraged himself in the Lord. He had nothing on earth to encourage him. But he found encouragement in the Lord. Really, it's hard to imagine being lower than David was. But he didn't pity himself. He didn't go around complaining that everything was turned against him. He didn't berate himself for his stupid mistakes or get down on himself, rather. He encouraged himself in the Lord. And notice it doesn't just say that God was the source of encouragement. It says he was David's encouragement. David encouraged himself in the Lord. David had nothing left on earth, but he held fast the Lord his God, found encouragement in God. He found in God his refuge and strength, his very present help in trouble. In a way, this story gives us even more hope than the story of Job. If we were blameless, like Job, it might encourage us to see how God brings setbacks. into a person's life if they're blameless. But when setbacks happen to men like David, we can see We are not like Job. We are like David. We failed. We are the source of our own failure. It takes more faith to trust in God when you've really blown it. When you've been faithful Then when you've been faithful, consistent in your prayer life, wise in your decisions, upright in your dealings, then you can draw near to the Lord in full assurance of faith. When you're confident in his promises, knowing the prayer of the upright is his the way. But when you've been stupid, careless Made foolish and weak decisions like Peter when he denied his Lord, then it takes true faith to trust in God as your Heavenly Father Psalm 55, 2 says, Cast your burdens on the Lord, and he will sustain you. It doesn't say bring your successes to the Lord, your holiness, your faithfulness. It says bring your burdens. Your failings, your ignorance, your weakness, your sins, your stumblings. When there's nothing in yourself to encourage you, that's the time. to trust in God because then you don't have any confidence in yourself David had a lot to be discouraged about. All his family, all his possessions were gone. He also had a lot to be afraid about. His men were planning to stone him. And some of those men had single-handedly taken on hundreds of enemies at once and killed them all. These men were bold enough to try anything, and now they're talking about assassinating their leader. David had good reason to be afraid But he cast his fears on the Lord. As Psalm 56, 3 said, What time I am afraid, I put my trust in thee. Sometimes we wonder why the Lord seems to dash our hopes, why our good plans for the church seem to be thwarted. We had in mind doing great things for the Lord, but nothing came of it. David had great things in mind to do for the kingdom of God, to deliver God's people. He had it all figured out. But nothing came of it. Not only were his plans frustrated, but he ended up far from his homeland in the hour of her great need. In just a few hours, the Philistine army would be slaughtering the Israelites, and David would be totally powerless to help. How often have you felt really down when you you realized you wanted to please the Lord, but sin intruded? You stumbled into unbelief. And as a result, you were taken away from the place where you hoped to bring glory to the Lord. You failed, you botched things up, you were brought low. And you wonder why does God allow things like that to happen? The answer is because it is good for your soul. It's good to be reminded again and again, not to put confidence in man And of course the last man on earth you should have confidence in is yourself. It's good to be brought low, where you cast yourself completely on the Lord. Those can be the most delightful times spiritually that you ever had. I trust you find that's true. Your best times of fellowship with the Lord Are times of greatest need when there's nothing on earth to hang on to, but you find encouragement in the Lord and you love Him for His sake. Well, the question remains, how do we go about strengthening? ourselves in the Lord. Almost sounds like lifting yourself up by your own bootstraps, doesn't it? I'm gonna strengthen myself in the Lord. How do we practice the sovereignty of God when things fall apart? What did David do? How did David pray? We find the answer in the Psalms that he wrote on this occasion. We read earlier Psalm 38. I'd like to read a few verses again from Psalm 38, if you want to turn there. Or it was even in our bulletin. O Lord, rebuke me not in your wrath, and chasten me not in your burning anger, for your arrows have sunk deep into me, and your hand has pressed down on me. There is no soundness in my flesh because your your indignation. There is no health in my bones because of my sin. For my iniquities have gone over my head. As a heavy burden, they weigh too much for me. My wounds grow foul and fester because of my folly. I am bent over and greatly bowed down. I go mourning all day long. But then if you look down at verse 15, he says For I hope in you, O Lord, you will answer, O Lord my God. Many commentators believe that David wrote this psalm on this very occasion. David realized that his own sins had contributed to his calamity. And the words of the Psalms certainly fixed Match the the context of first Samuel thirty. So I encourage you to read the Psalms often, to meditate on them, to memorize them, to recite them Because in the Psalms we find God's people pouring out their hearts to Him, leaning on Him, finding hope in Him. Many of the Psalms show us David confessing God's sovereignty. Psalm 103. 19, the Lord has established his throne in the heavens, and his sovereignty rules over all. But here in this chapter, We find David practicing the sovereignty of God. He recognized God's hand in this disaster, trusting that God had a purpose for it And that he brought it about could also reverse it and turn it into a blessing. Finally, let me point out that this account of David's great distress There's also a picture of our Savior on the night he was betrayed, when his close friends, closest friends, with whom he had shared sweet fellowship, those whom he had protected and cared for were now within a few hours of completely abandoning him. In John 16, 32, Jesus said to them, Behold, in an hour, an hour is coming and has come. that you will be scattered each to his own home, and me you will leave alone. Yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me Luke tells us Jesus was in great agony as he prayed alone in the garden. But Luke also tells us that our Savior was strengthened as God sent an angel to strengthen him. Little did David know in this hour of his deep stress that in only a matter of a few days he would be crowned king and gloriously exalted. And our Lord Jesus in his hour of deepest distress likewise is only days away from being crowned in the courts of heaven and exalted on his glorious throne. And so it is for us. The hours of our deepest distress on earth are but temporary. And soon we will be seated with our Savior on the throne of David, crowned. With glory and honor. The momentary light afflictions we endure are producing for us an eternal weight of glory far beyond all comparison And so we do not lose heart. Christian, whatever deep waters the Lord brings you through, take hope from his promise. The rivers will not overflow you. He will be with you. He will bless all your troubles. He will sanctify to you your deepest distress. Learn with David to strengthen yourself. In the Lord, practice the sovereignty of God. David's faith and our Savior's faith were tested and proved by their sufferings And Peter reminds us, 1 Peter 1. 6, you are distressed by various trials for a little while so that the proof of your faith being more precious than gold which perishes, even though tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. whom not having seen you love. And though you do not see him now, you believe in him and greatly rejoice, with joy inexpressible And full of glory. Amen. Let's pray. Father, thank you. Thank you for the gift of faith. That gift which you have given to your people, millions of people around the world trusting in you, growing in your promises, hoping in your promises, strengthening themselves in you, their God. Lord, may we learn To lean upon you in the hours of deepest distress, knowing that you are with us. You will not fail us. You will bring us through. To your glorious kingdom, where our Savior is exalted right now. Please give us a growing faith as we Remember your promises and fix our hope upon them. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.