Is turn in your Bibles to 1 Samuel chapter 18. And I'll begin reading at verse 6 The last time I stood before you, we looked at the opening verses of chapter 18 and saw how the Lord brought Jonathan and David together And an intimate, a f a great friendship that lasted throughout Jonathan's life until he was killed. Today we pick up reading at verse six of this chapter Please give heed to the word of God as I read it. It happened as they were coming when David returned from killing the Philistine. That the women came out of all the cities of Israel singing and dancing to meet King Saul with tambourines, with joy, and with musical instruments. The women sang as they played and said, Saul has slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands. Then Saul became very angry, for this saying displeased him. And he said, They have ascribed to David ten thousands, but to me they have ascribed thousands. Now, what more can he have but the kingdom? Saul looked at David with suspicion from that day on. Now it came about on the next day that an evil spirit from God came mightily upon Saul, and he raved in the midst of the house, while David was playing the harp with his hand, as usual And a spear was in Saul's hand. Saul hurled the spear, for he thought, I will pin David to the wall. But David escaped from his presence. Twice. Now Saul was afraid of David, for the Lord was with him, but had departed from Saul Therefore, Saul removed him from his presence and appointed him as his commander of a thousand, and he went out and came in before the people. David was prospering in all his ways, for the Lord was with him. When Saul saw that he was prospering greatly, he dreaded him. But all Israel and Judah loved David, and he went out and came in before them. Then Saul said to David, Here's my older daughter Merab. I will give her to you as a wife. Only be a valiant man for me, and fight the Lord's battles. For Saul thought, My hand shall not be against him. But let the hand of the Philistines be against him. But David said to Saul, Who am I, and what is my life or my father's family in Israel that I should be the king's son-in-law? So it came about at the time when Merad, Saul's daughter, should have been given to David, that she was given to Adriel, the Maholithite, for a wife. Now, Michael, Saul's daughter, loved David. When they told Saul the thing was agreeable to him, Saul thought, I will give her to him that she may become a snare to him. Therefore Saul said to David, For a second time you may be my son-in-law today. Then Saul commanded his servants, speak to David secretly, saying, Behold, the king delights in you, and all his servants love you. Now therefore become the king's son-in-law. So Saul's servant spoke these words to David. But David said, Is it a trivial, is it trivial in your sight to become the king of God? Son-in-law, since I am a poor man and lightly esteemed. The servants of Saul spoke reported to him according to these words which David spoke. Saul then said, Thus you shall say to David, The king does not desire any dowry, except a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to take vengeance on the king's enemies. Now Saul planned to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines. When the servants told David these words, it pleased David to become the king's son-in-law. Before the days had expired, David rose up and went, he and his men, and struck down two hundred men among the Philistines. Then David brought their four skins and gave them in full number to the king, that he might become the king's son-in-law. So Saul gave him Michael, his daughter, for When Saul saw and knew that the Lord was with David, and that Michael Saul's daughter loved him, then Saul was even more afraid of David. Thus Saul was David's enemy continually. And the commanders of the Philistines went out to battle, and it happened as often as they went out that David behaved himself more wisely than than all the servants of Saul. So his name was highly esteemed. Pray with me. Oh Father, your word is our food, and we thank you for it. May you, by your spirit, feed us, refresh us, renew us, increase our love and desire to serve you. Make yourself glorious in our presence as we study your word together. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. This chapter in First Samuel Along with the chapters that follow, read a lot like a game of cat and mouse. Saul the Cage Lion is out to catch and devour David, the helpless mouse. And yet, no matter how cleverly Saul lays his trap, somehow David manages to escape them all. I say somehow. The explanation for Saul's inability to destroy David is found in verse 14. The Lord was with David. These chapters then are not just a bunch of interesting stories about Saul and David. They show us the hand of God ruling in the affairs of men. And they are recorded recorded for us so that we might learn to put our trust in God and recognize his sovereign hand at work in our lives. For the God who was working in the days of David is working to direct our circumstances today. So these verses have a very important message for us. Before we begin to look at these verses, I ask you to turn with me in your Bibles, if you have them, to Proverbs chapter 16. Give you a second to do that. Proverbs sixteen Mentions some of the hidden realities behind God's working in history. For instance, verse 1 says, the plans of the heart belong to man. But the answer of the tongue is from the Lord. Saul had his plans, David had his plans, but what these men actually ended up saying and doing was directed by the Lord. Notice verse four of Proverbs sixteen. The Lord has made everything for his own purpose, even the wicked. for the day of evil. Even wicked King Saul had a purpose in God's plan. Then verse 9, the mind of man plans his way, but the Lord directs his steps. And then if you turn over a page to Proverbs 19, verse 21, you'll read: Many plans are in a man's heart, but the counsel of the Lord will stand. King Saul had many plans, many schemes, but what actually came to pass is what the Lord had purposed all along. So behind the scenes in this story. Or maybe I should say in front and center in this story is the sovereign rule of God over history. And what we see here is not just the fact that God is at work. But we see the principles by which he consistently works in the lives of his people. The first thing we see from our text is that the Lord often brings adversity into the lives of his children. No sooner had David won his great victory over Goliath when the Lord put him in the painful position of being the object of the king's suspicion. And h hatred, so that wherever David turned, he was surrounded by snares laid by Saul. Snares Designed to trip David up so that he would lose his popularity, if not his life. Here was David, young, inexperienced. And here was Saul, clever, powerful, influential. He was king. David was just a boy. You could hardly call it cat and mouse. The odds were so stacked against David But God arranged it that way. He put David in this dire situation for a purpose. And if you're a Christian, he will do the same for you. You young people here, you can count on this. If you put your trust in the Lord Jesus and aim to serve him in this world, you will face opposition. And hostility. You will suffer, not necessarily outwardly. David didn't suffer outwardly from what Saul did to him, but certainly he hurt inwardly. And you can be sure that the same will happen to you. Living for Jesus is never easy. Jesus said in the world, you will have tribulation. But be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. And please notice here the way God brought adversity into David's life It was because it was caused by his life becoming enmeshed with the life of an unbeliever, Saul. Their lives were entwined like strands of a rope. In God's providence, David was brought to live side by side with Saul Not only was David Saul's servant, but soon became one of the family, Saul's son-in-law. And for the rest of his life, David was not able to escape Saul's influence. They were part of the same government. They served in the same army. David could not get away from Saul's wicked influence if he wanted to. And that was God's doing. David didn't choose these circumstances. God caused David's life to be wrapped up in the household of this wicked man. Not only were they relatives, but Saul was David's boss. David played music for Saul when Saul was in a bad mood. Saul was the one who gave to David his marching orders. And Saul was the father of David's best friend. There was no way that David could escape Saul's influence. And yet, by God's grace, David not only survived, but prospered in all that he did. This passage should teach us not to complain when troubles come our way through the people we're close to, whether it be your boss or your father-in-law or the father of your best friend. or someone else in a position to cause you trouble. David is an example of trusting in God and recognizing his hand. in every circumstance, not complaining, but simply following the Lord in whatever situation he found himself. We might wish we could escape the daily efforts of ungodly man to trip us up and make us stumble. But in this world that will never be. The Lord has put every one of us on earth to rub shoulders with, indeed, to have our lives entangled with people who hate the truth. And he does that for a reason. God wanted David's life to become interwoven with Saul's. He wanted David to endure the abuses and attacks of Saul for a reason. namely to show the world his favor toward David. Now that might sound strange. But clearly that was the result of God's bringing David to live side by side with an opponent that hated him. Everyone, including Saul, could see that God's favor was upon David. You think about it, it was truly a dirty underhanded trick for Saul to offer David the hand of his daughter, with all the honor and prestige of being the king's son-in-law. And then pull her away at the last minute. Just picture Saul coming to David, putting his arm over his shoulder and saying, Remember that promise I made that whoever killed Goliath would get to marry my daughter? Well, today is your lucky day. I'm going to give you my girl Merab. But then verse 19 says, when the time came for Mirab to be given to David, Saul gave her to someone else. And he never said a thing to David. What an insult, an insult devised by Saul to upset David, to get him to say or do something that would look treasonous, so that David would be humiliated. But God delivered David in that situation. David did not get angry at all. And at the same time, God delivered David from a marriage that might have seemed desirable. So that David could be married to someone who loved him. Notice verse 20. Now Michael, Saul's daughter, loved David. And the Lord's hand was in that. He gave David a wife who loved him. In verse 21, we see Saul's real motive in giving his second daughter to David. Saul said to himself, I will give her to him that she may become a snare to him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him Saul gave David a mission to kill a hundred Philistines in order to win the hand of Michael. Saul figured the odds were good that a hundred Philistines would kill David. And he gave David a deadline. At the end of verse 26, we read, Before the time had expired. David rose and went. Saul was hoping that David would act hastily and that he and that that would give an advantage to the Philistines. But Saul did not take into account God's favor toward David. Verse 27 tells us David went and killed twice the number of Philistines before the days had expired. And everyone who saw it knew that the Lord was with David. But who would have known that if Saul had not hatched this plot to kill David? Well, we see the same thing happening over and over throughout this book. Saul hatches his clever plans to kill David, but each time David escapes. In fact, turn over to the next chapter, chapter 19, and look at verse 11. We see another piece of insight into this plotting of Saul. 1 Samuel 1911. Then Saul sent messengers to David's house to watch him, in order to put him to death in the morning. But Michael, David's wife, told him, saying, If you do not save your life tonight, tomorrow you will be put to death. So Michael let David down through a window, and he went out and fled and escaped And Michael took the household idol and laid it on the bed and put a quilt of goat hair at his head and covered it with clothes. When Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, He's sick. Then Saul sent messengers to see David, saying, Bring him up to me on his bed, that I may put him to death. When the messengers entered, behold, the household idol was on the bed, with a quilt of goat's hair at his head. So Saul said to Michael, Why have you deceived me like this and let my enemy go so that he's escaped? Michael said to Saul, He said to me, Let me go. Why should I put you to death? Saul had an ironclad scheme to capture and kill David. He had his soldiers surround David's house in the middle of the night, and they sat there waiting for the morning. to move in for the kill. But when the steel teeth of Saul's trap closed, David was gone The Lord was with David. And all the adversity David faced just made that all the more evident. That's one reason why God brings adversity to his people to show the world That nothing that man can do can harm his servants when he is with them. His rod and his staff, they comfort him He prepares a table for them in the presence of their enemies. And even though they walk through the valley of the shadow of death, they have nothing to fear, for God is with them. And Christian, there are men today like Saul who are plotting your overthrow. And their plots would make you panic if your trust were not in the Lord. The Lord brought adversity into David's life to show his favor toward David. He also Brought adversity to David's life to show the world his grace at work in David. The troubles that God brings into the lives of his children are not only for their good, but also to bring him glory, to demonstrate his grace at work in them. When Saul offered to give his daughter Merab to David, notice how David responded in verse 18, Who am I, and what is my life or my father's family in Israel that I should be the king's son-in-law? David had genuine humility. Saul's words were actually a plot to kill David, but David replied with meekness. And then when Saul openly insulted David by giving Merab to another man, David never said a thing. He overlooked the offense. Proverbs 1911 says, A man's discretion makes him slow to anger, and it is his glory to overlook a transgression. David was able to forgive and forget. And that too showed the grace of God at work in his life. And then later, when Saul offers to give David his second daughter, Michael, notice how David responds to that in verse 23. He says to Saul's servants, Is it a trivial thing in your sight to become the king's son-in-law, since I am a poor man and lightly esteemed? David knew his proper place. He didn't think more highly of himself than he ought to think, but he thought with sober judgment. He was truly a humble man. David realized it was not a trivial thing to be son-in-law to the king. Now think about this. Have you learned the grace of humility? Have you come to see that it is not a small thing to be a son or daughter of the King of Kings? Do you consciously think that way all through the day when you pray, Our Father who art in heaven, are you conscious of the privilege it is to call the sovereign king of the universe? Your father. Do you sense what a high honor it is that God has adopted you to be his son or daughter? Or do you think it's a small thing, a trivial thing, to be the son of the king? God brings adversities to us so that our true humility might shine through. Our text shows us the grace of humility in David. And then our text also shows us the grace of courage in David. When David was sent by Saul to kill to fight the Philistines, he didn't hesitate. In fact, he went out and killed twice the number that Saul required. He had no fear of the enemy, and his courage to take on 200 Philistines at once only served to display further God's grace in his life God's sovereign control of all the situations in David's life showed the world both God's favor toward David and his grace at work in David. And God works the same way today. He brings adversity into our lives to demonstrate these two realities. His favor toward us and his grace in us. But there's something else that God demonstrates through his sovereign control of history, namely his irony. Some of these students have studied irony as a literary device. Irony was not invented by novelists It was in it was invented by God when He planned history. God weaves irony all through history That's where the novelists came up with the idea. It's a technique invented by the Lord. And and in fact, it's a prominent feature of history. We see it all through both the Old Testament and New. And it really is fascinating. Irony is God's bringing to pass the very opposite of what man intended. And the purpose of irony is to mock men's efforts to oppose God. God mocks his enemies by catching them in the traps they had set for others Repeatedly, Scripture says, he who digs a pit will fall into it himself, and he who rolls a stone, it will come back on him. Proverbs 28. 10 says, He who leads the upright astray in an evil way will himself fall into his own trap. Psalm 10, verse 2 says, The wicked in pride hotly pursue the afflicted. Let them be caught in the plots which they themselves designed. And then in Psalm 7, verse 4, David describes the unrepentant man in these words. Behold, he travails with wickedness, and conceives mischief, and brings forth falsehood. He has dug a pit and hollowed it out. He follows, he falls into the hole which he himself made. His mischief returns on his own head, and his violence descends on his own pate. That's exactly what happened to Saul. Verse 17 of our text and also verse 21 tell us that Saul plotted to have David killed by the Philistines. But think of the irony of this. It was Saul who ended up being killed by Philistines. David died, an old man full of years and at peace. The irony of history. Saul intends for his daughter Michael to be a snare to David, but instead she turns out to be a snare to him. She's the one who forced Saul's plan to kill David. It all works backwards for Saul. And God sits in heaven and laughs. as he works out his ironies in history. This isn't the first time irony is found in Scripture. Remember back in Exodus at the time when Moses was born? Pharaoh proudly thought, I'm going to destroy these Jews. I'm going to kill all their sons. But God moved the heart of Pharaoh's daughter to save the Savior of the Jews And in the end, it was the sons of Pharaoh and of Egypt who were killed And then in the book of Esther, we find many ironies. Haman, the enemy of the Jews, plotted to destroy the Jews. He especially hated Mordecai and built gallows to hang Mordecai on. But by God's irony, on that very day, Haman was made to lead a parade of praise to Mordecai through the town. And in the end, Haman was hanged on the very gallows that he had built for Mordecai. And finally, on the day when the Jews were to be destroyed, They ended up destroying their enemies. The irony of history. In verse 25, Saul cleverly devises a plot to ruin David. But instead it makes David more successful and more popular in the eyes of the people. Saul wanted David out of his life. But every move he made only entwined their lives further, as David became his son-in-law and his son's best friend. Psalm 2 verse 4 is a perceptive commentary on history. He that sits in the heavens laughs. The Lord shall have them in derision. Irony. For deriding the efforts of those who oppose him. God makes everything turn backward for them. Psalm 146, verse 9 says, He turns the ways of the wicked upside down. That's what irony is. God laughing as he makes things boomerang for the wicked. Now, why does God do such things? Why does he bring these ironies to pass? The answer is to show the world what his view is of wicked men In Psalm 58, David prays, O God, when the wicked aims his arrows, let them be his headless shafts, that men may say, Surely there is a God who judges on earth. In Psalm 59, verse 8, he praised, Lord, you laugh at the treacherous, you scoff at the nations. And then he adds, scatter them by your power and bring them down. Let them be caught by their own pride. that men may know that God rules in Jacob to the ends of the earth The ironies of history show everyone that God's in control. It also shows everyone what God thinks of those who oppose him Saul was forced to acknowledge that God was with David. You see that in verse 12. And again in verse 28. When Saul saw it, he knew That the Lord was with David. He knew it, and so did everyone else who saw these things. Here was Saul, the great warrior. But he couldn't even hit his target with a spear when his target was sitting right there in front of him playing music. The great king can't even catch and kill a teenager. He's pitiful. He's incompetent. And God was showing the world his disfavor towards all. That's one reason why God works his ironies in history. Another reason is to show the world the sin that is in the sinner's heart. God's ironies Highlight man's sin all the more. The more frustrated Saul got, the more his wickedness came to the surface. The more frustrated he got, everyone could see how evil Saul really was Now, Saul did not just become evil and unprincipled later in his life. He was just as unprincipled as a young man, and Samuel saw that. Saw how profane Saul was back then when Saul was able to hide his wickedness from men. But now through the working of God's ironies, it all comes to the surface, and everyone can see by Saul's frustration and anger what he's really like. Saul had always been a liar. His word could never be trusted. Samuel knew that years ago when Saul returned from fighting the Amalekites and said, I have done just what the Lord commanded. Samuel replied, Then what is this bleaking of sheep that I hear? And why is this king here in chains? God told you to kill them all. Saul insisted he had done the will of God. But Samuel knew he was lying. And now in our text. In his desperate attempt to discredit and destroy David, Saul shows his true colors. And everyone can see him for the liar that he is. When Saul tells David that he's going to give Mehrab to him for a wife, and then turns around and gives Mehrab to someone else. Those who heard Saul's words, and then saw him go back on his word, came to realize that Saul was not a man whose word could be trusted. Proverbs 17, 7 says, excellent speech is not fitting for a fool. Much less are lying lips to a prince. When a world leader tells lies Let me say that again. When a world leaders a leader tells lies, and the world sees it, and knows that his word can't be trusted. The world scorns that man. And their scorn in part reflects what God thinks of that man. By the lies in Saul's mouth, God was showing what an abomination Saul was I suppose most children tell lies sometimes But we expect that as a child grows up, he will realize the importance of having his word trusted. He'll want people to believe what he says. You youngsters here need to learn to tell the truth all the time. Saul never learned that lesson. As he was growing up, he hid the fact that he was a liar. But now, through the ironies of history, God exposed Saul's lies. They became public knowledge. And everyone knew you cannot trust what Saul says. Saul was a man who pretended to be religious for his own ends. In verse 17, he says to David, Here's my older daughter. I will give her to you as a wife. Only be valiant and fight the Lord's battles. Sounds religious. But he was really taking God's name in vain. David, you be a warrior for the Lord, I'll give you my daughter. But verse 17 tells us what Saul was really thinking. My hand will not be against him, but let the hand of the Philistines be against him. Saul cloaked his real motives in religious language. Samuel had seen the same thing years earlier in the oath that Saul uttered. Saul often used God's name in vain in Samuel's presence. But now even the men in Saul's court could see what the king was really up to. His selfish scheming, the phoniness of his religiosity. Saul had always been a hypocrite. But now he was exposed. And as time went on, his subjects saw ever more clearly there was no reality in his heart. Until in the end, Saul is found resorting to a false religion, seeking out a witch. God works his ironies in history to bring the hypocrisy of men out into the open, to expose it, expose them so that the world can see. What hypocrites they are. John speaks of this in 1 John 2. 19. They went out from us, but they were not really of us. For if they had been of us, they would have remained with us. But they went out in order that it might be shown that they are not of us. It is God's purpose for men like Saul to apostatize. So that the world might see there is no reality to their so-called faith. Irony shows the world God's disfavor toward those who oppose him It also shows the ugliness of their sin. Saul is less and less able to control his anger. It starts to touch everyone in first Samuel 19, 17, we read earlier. Saul says to his daughter Michael, Why have you deceived me like this? And let my enemy go so that he has escaped. Saul's angry at his own daughter. He expects his daughter to be more loyal to him than to her husband. Is he in touch with reality? He's like a madman. He vents his rage against his own daughter. And what does she do? She lies to him. The master liar is lied to. No one is fooled by Saul's lies anymore, but he is fooled by his daughter's lies More irony. Now these are not just interesting stories. They're important lessons for us. showing us the way that God works out his providences. God works the same today According to these same principles. His arm is in complete control of history, of the just and the unjust alike. Every day he brings adversity into your life and mine. For one of two purposes. Either to demonstrate his favor toward us, showing his grace at work in our lives, giving us peace in the midst of adversity, as with David. or to show his disfavor toward us, making our plans turn backward by his irony. You aim to have pleasure But you end up with grief. You aim to put down your neighbor, but your efforts only advance your neighbor and humiliate yourself You say something to ruin someone's reputation, and all it does is ruin your own God does that to show his disfavor toward you and to show the world what is really in your heart so that others won't be fooled by you. And he does that. So that you learn to repent before it's too late. If you are not trusting the Lord, if you're kicking against his providences, Beware of his ironies. You may get away with your sin for a time, but he will get the last laugh. He will suddenly turn your schemes back at you and bring about the very opposite of what you intended. You cannot win when you pursue unrighteousness. Proverbs 21, verse 30 says, There is no wisdom and no understanding and no counsel against the Lord. He is in absolute control of your life. And so you should fear him absolutely. You'll never meet a man more powerful, having more influence than Saul. He had all the reins of government, he was king, he was skillful, he was clever. He was experienced. He was a mighty warrior with a great army behind him. And yet all of his efforts were turned back to his own ruin. The lesson of our text is clear. You can't fight the living God. So when you hear God's word, don't resist it. Kiss the Son, lest he be angry and you perish in the way, for his wrath is soon kindled. Bow before the Son of God. Believe upon his name. Humble yourself under the mighty hand of God. And you will find yourself in the place of David. Rather, you will find yourself in the place of the Lord Jesus Who constantly faced adversity. Like David Jesus was hated without cause, but he had the favor of his Father in heaven, who was with him. The New Testament in Hebrews calls us to fix our eyes on Jesus, who was great David's greater son. Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured such hostility by sinners against himself, so that you will not grow weary and lose heart. And Peter wrote, This finds favor, if for the sake of conscience toward God a person bears up under sorrows while suffering unjustly. For you have been called for this purpose, since Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example to follow in his steps. Who committed no sin nor was deceit found in his mouth. When being reviled, he did not revile in return. While suffering, he uttered no threats, but kept entrusting himself to him who judges righteously. And he himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness, for by his stripes. You are healed. May we all learn patience in all our adversities that God brings our way Knowing that ironically he's showing the world his favor toward us and his grace at work in us to the praise of his glory. Let's pray.