Starting in verse 37 of 21. Then as Paul was about to be led into the barracks, he said to the commander, May I speak to you? He replied, Can you speak Greek? Are you not the Egyptian who some time ago stirred up a rebellion and led the 4,000 assassins out into the wilderness? But Paul said, I am a Jew from Tarsus and Cilicia, a citizen of no mean city, and I implore you, permit me to speak to the people. So when he had given him permission, Paul stood on the stairs and motioned with his hand to the people. And when there was a great silence, he spoke to them in the Hebrew language, saying, Brethren and fathers, hear my defense before you now. And when they heard that he spoke to them in the Hebrew language, they kept all the more silent. Then he said, I am indeed a Jew, born in Tarsus of Cilicia, but brought up in this city at the feet of Gameliel. taught according to the strictness of our father's law, and was zealous toward God as you all are today. I persecuted this way to the death, binding and delivering into prisons both men and women, as also the high priest bears me witness. And all the counsel of the elders, for whom I also received letters or warrants, to the brethren, and went to Damascus to bring in chains even those who were there to who were there to Jerusalem to be punished. Now it happened as I journeyed, and came near Damascus, at about noon, suddenly a great light from heaven shone around me And I fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to me, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? So I answered, Who are you, Lord? And he said to me, I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom you are persecuting. And those who are with me indeed saw the light and were afraid, but they did not hear the voice of him who spoke to me So I said, What shall I do, Lord? And the Lord said to me, Arise and go into Damascus, and there you will be told all things which are appointed for you to do. And since I could not see for the glory of that light, being led by the hand of those who were with me, I came into Damascus Then a certain Ananias, a devout man according to the law, having a good testimony with all the Jews who dwelt there, he came to me, and he stood and said to me, Brother Saul, receive your sight. And at that hour I looked up at him. Then he said, The God of our fathers has chosen that you should know his will and see the just one, and hear the voice of his mouth. For you will be his witness to all men of what you have seen and heard. And now, why are you waiting? Arise and be baptized, and wash away your sins, calling on the name of the Lord. Now it happened when I returned to Jerusalem and was praying in the temple that I was in a trance and saw him saying to me, Make haste and get out of Jerusalem quickly, for they will not receive your testimony concerning me. So I said, Lord, they know that in every synagogue I imprisoned and beat those who believed on you, believe on you And when the blood of your martyr Stephan or Stephen was shed, I also was standing by, consenting to his death, and guarding the clothes of those who were killing him Then he said to me, Depart, for I will send you far from here to the Gentiles. That ends his speech, and then we see the response from the crowd. And they listened to him until this word, the word Gentiles, and then they raised their voices and said, Away with such a fellow from the earth, for he is not fit to live. Let us pray. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you reveal yourself in this passage and what you are accomplishing through your Son by the Spirit. And that this that your full intention is for us even today to be strengthened. I do pray, Lord Christ, that you would strengthen your disciples through the preaching and hearing of your word. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Last week was my most popular sermon in all of my pastoral history, which isn't long. But I had more people come up to me last week about the sermon than any other sermon. And you know why? Because my sermon was on equity. And when I first announced that my sermon was on equity, they thought I was going to give them governmental job place equity training. And they became very concerned. I assure you that if they had tomatoes under their seats, I would have been hit by a fruit, because it is a fruit. But they said to me that they were quite pleased once they decided to stay in their seat and not leave. They were quite pleased to find out that I was speaking about a kind of equity that is not taught today. We could, if you want, call it Christian equity as opposed to perhaps secular equity, but I would just like to call it real equity versus fake equity, if you don't mind. What we saw last week was an equity demonstrated from James and Paul in Acts, and it is not the same as what we hear today. I have not done the research, but it seems to me that our culture has stolen the word and redefined it. I leave it up to you to keep sending me things so I can better understand how people are using the word equity today. But I hope that you understand how it was used throughout the Christian church well into the ages, and it is quite simply this equity is justice and mercy holding hands. And you know there's an even simpler way. Equity is exactly how Jesus Christ rules every situation That's equity. Equity is the Son. Equity is the Father. And equity is the Holy Spirit. Well, this week we move on in hopes that Christ will continue to strengthen us we move from equity into some other things that the church must consider to be the church. And so I'd like to make a few observations about Paul's wonderful speech here, and I'm sure it's just a summary of all that he has said. But let's make a few observations together and then get into some of the application to become stronger in the Lord for his glory. Well, here's the first observation. This whole section is an apologetic Or a defense of Paul's divine ordination as an apostle to the Gentiles I want you to take a look at chapter 22, verse 1. There's a very special word being used here. He says, Brethren and fathers, hear my apologia. Or apologia or defense. That's where we get our word apologetic from. He says, Brothers, brethren and fathers, hear my defense before you now. And we can break this defense down into four main things that he's saying. The very first thing he starts off with is in verse 3. And he recounts under Gamiliel his premier education in the law that this crowd was so zealous for. Number two, in verses four and five, he recounts his zeal and defense of that same law, even willing to kill those who seemed to stand against it. That reference back to Stephen's or Stephan's martyrdom with the clothes laid at his feet. And then number three, the third point of his speech is in verses nine through sixteen. He did not carelessly change from his understanding of the law to a different understanding. But instead, he was interrupted and confronted by God himself on the road to Damascus. The Son of God became flesh The Son of God in his ascension spoke to him and told him, verse 14, the truth and what he was to do. And then lastly In verses 17 through 21, Paul therefore explains that he was the one that received the commission from God Himself, a divine mandate, to go to the Gentiles. Well, we know as soon as he mentions the word Gentile that it's not going over well. And that brings us into our second observation. You can see in verse 22 that many of those Jews did not accept Paul's testimony of what God is doing among the Gentiles. And this creates a great divide that you will see represented in the New Testament letters. You now officially have a group of Jews, the apostles Who have determined in their official council in Acts 15 that God has always planned to gather the nations to himself The image given is that of a foreign branch grafted into an ancient rootstock of Adam and Abraham. On the other hand, for a multitude of reasons, another group of Israelites refused to admit that this is the truth of what God is doing They refuse to permit the new administration of the covenant, wherein Gentiles will become equal with Israelites as co-heirs of the new heavens and the new earth. They have always been fine with Gentiles on the outer court of the temple, but now they may draw near to the throne of grace by the blood of Jesus. The ground is level at the cross. And they are unwilling to accept that at this point. They don't think that is what God has taught throughout the ages. And this means that some Israelites forgot or never knew their main purpose or the main purpose of their existence. They were meant to be a light to the nations, as the good news of what God is doing with the whole world, but somehow and in some way, the gospel. had become corrupted under their leadership. And that brings us to observation number three. Those hard-hearted Israelites related to Paul just like they related to Jesus, just like they related to the prophets before him. I want you to notice a repeated phrase. The first time we see it is last week, actually, in chapter 21, verse 36. Away with him. And now we see it again in 22-22. Away with him Now, does that sound familiar to you? If you have attended here for any length of time, you know that we teach you to read the scriptures analogously. Where have you heard that before? Certainly it is from Luke 23, 18 through 20. We are to have this framed by way of that. Luke writes this, and they all cried out at once, saying, Away with this man, and release to us Baradas or Baraba And it continues saying, Pilate, therefore, wishing to release Jesus, again called out to them, but they shouted, saying, Crucify him, crucify him. I'm sure you remember that from some of our Friday services. Paul will summarize this same Understanding of what was going on with him, as him walking in the shoes of Christ into Jerusalem, and there being a crowd saying the same thing to Paul that was said to Christ. Earlier in history, Paul summarizes this in 1 Thessalonians 2, 14 through 16, speaking to this church in Thessalonica. For you also suffered the same things from your own countrymen, just as the Jews did from the Judeans. Who killed both the Lord Jesus and their own prophets, and they have persecuted us And what this ends up bringing us to, that we can hold on to as a reality to strengthen us as a church, to understand who we are, who God is, and what he's doing, is the following doctrine. The Son of God descended from heaven with the eternal counsels of God. He gave that good news to prophets and apostles They testified and they gave witness to this reality. They are witnesses and appointed to Jew and Gentile. And now that baton has been passed to you in the post-apostolic age. The church is entrusted with the task of witnessing to who God is, what he is doing. And what he requires of us. We are tasked with the continuance of apostolic testimony. And here is the icing on the cake. Sometimes, when you witness, it will include having to defend the faith. Sometimes witnessing includes defense. That's the short version of it. Sometimes witnessing includes defense. So, what I would like to look at are two things here, two main points for our application, and that is defending, and thank God. The second point is that we are defended. So let's go into that application now, realizing that this baton will be passed to us as a church, and in our witness, it will include apologetics or defense. I was just reading an article, I wonder if some of you read the same one. It was called The Three Worlds of Evangelicalism. Anyone? Crickets. Great. It's called The Three Worlds of Evangelicalism. I thought the person did a pretty good job. It's at least helpful. in evaluating our current situation as evangelicals. He makes the argument that before 1994, our culture, generally speaking, related to evangelicals, that's us They related to us positively, if you could remember a time. To be known as a good church going person remained part of being an upstanding citizen. Does anybody remember when days were like that? Well, something shifted in 1994 to 2014, the argument continued, and our culture became neutral to evangelicals Christianity no longer had a privileged status, but it also was not exactly disfavored. Christianity became a valid option among many options within a pluralistic society. You do you, you do you, I'll do me, kind of mentality. Well he continues to make a further argument that from twenty fourteen to the present Where there's still pockets of 1994 to 2014, especially in suburbia and rural areas. But more and more The America is being characterized as negatively associated towards evangelicals. It has shifted from positive to neutral now to negative, and he expects this to continue. Being known as a Christian is a social negative, particularly in the elite domains of society. I don't think there's any argument there. Christian morality is expressly repudiated and seen as a threat to the public good and the new public moral order. I think we all see a lot of truth right there that he's done a good job of evaluating this. Now the way event evangelicals have responded in each age has been determined by how the culture would relate to you. So he makes the argument that what the church was able to do in a positive culture basically falls under the category of a moral majority. And that movement. You can look that up on your own time. It's not important to the sermon today. In a neutral culture, it was largely cultural engagement, seeking people to win them over that Among all of the various systems, this is the truth. But now the big question question has become, and people are still trying to answer it, how do we respond As Christian evangelicals in a negative culture. I actually, uh, in my position have found it's pretty much everybody's question Grandmas are trying to figure out how to relate to their grandkids, and underneath of it is this question: How do I relate in a negative culture? Well, this picture of Paul in a negative setting, to say the least, uh right before the uh his speech he was beat. He was beaten and was only saved by a guard We certainly can characterize what Paul is doing as in a setting of defense. And of course, he uses that word in 22. 1. He used the apologetics for defense. Defense. And so it is here that we too can be strengthened in a negative era toward Christianity, knowing that we will have to move into a time of defense sometimes. To be a witness, sometimes you will have to defend. But here's the thing. What are the first things that come to your mind when I say the word apologetics to you Are you thinking that you need to take a logic course and learn all the logical fallacies and syllogisms and emphasemes and yes, yeah, yeah? I don't see although Paul is capable of that, I don't see him doing that here. And when we look at the parallel account in 1 Peter, where we're called as Christians to make a defense and to give the hope. I don't see that call of logical fallacies and syllogisms and enthememes and studying Aristotle's rhetoric and all that there either. Though some people will have to do that because of their circumstances Paul's defense is actually quite surprising because it's a defense that all of us could give Paul's defense is quite plainly him telling the Jews a story About his calling and what God told him to do based on what he, God, is doing through Jesus Christ. Paul is essentially giving them a rationale for his behavior based upon what God says. God sent Christ to tell me what his plans are with the Gentiles, Paul says in a paraphrase. This included changes in the administration of the covenant of grace, especially the ritual laws. Given God's plan, he appointed me to certain responsibilities among the Gentiles, and I'm just trying to seek to carry those things out for God. So basically, what he says on the top of those steps. And what I find interesting is underneath of that argument from Paul, can you hear that it's the same argument that has been given by the other apostles whenever they are put into a defensive mode. For example, Acts chapter 4, 19 through 20. It's really the same kind of defense. Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you more than to God, you judge. For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. Paul's just doing that. He's saying, I have seen and I have heard, and you judge whether it's right for me to listen to God or to listen to you. And they go, oh, okay, well, yeah. I mean it's a nice argument. But he really is just relaying what he has seen and what he has heard, what he has learned About what his vocation is before God. Now, what I want to do is I want to put you in the story. I want you to be on the stage where you would have to give a defense And God has preparing, has been preparing us to be successful at this. I have a series of catechism questions for you. Are you ready? Do you have your catechism memorized? No, you don't. Not all of you. I have a different catechism for you. I have a series of questions and then I'm going to give you the answers. So you're going to have a 1% 100% success rate this morning Has God spoken to you through Christ and his Spirit? I want you to put yourself in Paul's shoes That you could see that you can make the same defense no matter who you are here this morning as a Christian. Has God spoken to you through Christ and His Spirit? Why, yes, he has, is the answer to this catechism question. In the context of the community of the church, God has given me his scriptures. And his spirit guides me in the context of that community. That's the first question and answer Question and answer number two. Did Christ by the Spirit and the Word reveal to you what you are appointed to in God's kingdom? Just like he did to Paul. Why, yes, he did. He revealed that first I am effectually called to faith and repentance. And now I profess to be a child of God and a Christian. By His grace, He has given me faith and hope and love by the power of the Holy Spirit. And as a child of God, I serve my Father. In the family, I serve him in the church, and I serve him in civil society. Those are my appointments Did Christ in His Word reveal to you what He is doing with His creation, and therefore how you should steward all of the domains of your life? Well, yes, again, he did. Primarily, I'm learning that he has done so in the fifth commandment, as it is unfolded. And then here comes the big question. What if someone comes along and laughs at you? What if someone comes along, even if it's a family member and they're disappointed in you? As a Christian? What if someone comes along and they are angry with you? What if someone comes along and they fine you? What if someone comes along and they hit you? What if someone comes along and they kill you? Well, except for that last one, because you're not going to talk anymore. How do you respond? And it's the same response that we see underneath of all of the apologetics in the scriptures. Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you more than God you judge. For I cannot but live and speak that which I have seen and heard in the Scriptures. That would I have seen and heard God tell me from His Word in the context of community what it means to be a mother. And what it means to be a widow, and what it means to be a grandmother, and what it means to be a daughter, and what it means to be a sinner, And what it means that I must repent, and what it means to have faith. He has shown me all these things, and I've heard them on Sunday mornings. You judge whether it's right for me to do what God has said or what you have said. And you can get down into specifics. Which I would encourage you to do. That, my friends, is the defense. That is the defense. That, my friends, is how you live in the negative world era as an evangelical. I'm sure there's so much more to talk about under that defense, but that is the beginning that we see here with Paul. That we relate to people what we have seen and heard in the scriptures. Given to us from God. But there is also another element here within this passage, and this will be quite short. I hope to develop this another time. But we must not only be defending in the way that Paul teaches us to give our apologetic, but we must also be defended. And I'll tell you actually. This is a far more important point, even though it's shorter. I don't care how silver-tongued you are. You need Christ to defend you. And I just want to point out a few things here. That we respond in a negative culture not only by defending, but by being defended. And even in our defending, we must have that kind of courage, knowing that we're defended in it Defending is only the first answer. The second is that we must keep our faith and hope that Christ defends us. Which is one of the reasons we chose Psalm 5 this morning to sing, because it ends on that note, that He would cover your defenseless head. with his wing, that he would be your shield to you. And that is what we see, in fact, in this passage too, is it not Did you notice all of the providential moves of Christ in the passage? I'd encourage you to go back and reread these sections, just looking for how is Christ showing up providentially in order for the mission to continue? Paul is under the hands of a group of people that want to kill him, and they are beating him. And then in verse 31, under Christ's providence, the commander of the garrison catches news as to what's happening, and he runs out and pulls him to safety. And there are many other examples we could give through these accounts of Christ controlling situations in ways that are uncanny to us, but nevertheless He is in control. He knows everything that is going on, and my favorite verse to show you is in a future chapter, which we'll get to, which is in chapter 23, verse 11. Look at how Christ has been thinking of all of these events throughout time and how he continues to think about these things. How he is fully aware of what his people go through, and he interrupts at just the right time according to his will and plan Jesus shows up. If you have a red letter Bible, all of a sudden there's red letters in your Bible in chapter 23, verse 11. The ascended Christ speaks and he says this to Paul, who was just beat up in the temple But the following night the Lord stood by him and said, Be of good cheer, Paul. I wonder if he was laughing just like I'm laughing right now. Be of good cheer. This is funny, Paul. No, I don't think he would say that. But he says, Be of good cheer, Paul, for as you have testified for me in Jerusalem, so you must also bear witness at Rome. There he is. And I just wonder if you see the kind of faith that we are meant to have. As to how present the ascended Christ is with us in defending and controlling all situations that his kingdom might advance. There's a little glimmer for you. Christ planned the whole thing. Christ is not threatened by any of it He made the news go to the guard. And he tells us, because of this, and because of his continuing advance and what that means for all nations, be of God. Good cheer. This is what it's like to serve under me. Be joyful. Well those are quite the lessons that take a lifetime to learn, honestly. And I don't think we even arrive at the end of our lives. But we know that in the post-apostolic age, the church is entrusted with the task of witnessing to who God is. What he is doing with his creation, and what he requires of us. And we can see here, as well as many other examples, that sometimes witnessing includes defense. Well, that doesn't need to be overly complicated and academic is the another lesson here. We defend By reminding people that we must obey God rather than men. We are simply saying and doing What we have learned from God in His Word in the context of His church. But more importantly, actually. No matter how silver-tongued we are, we are defended. And one of the primary effects of that should be that we should be a church I leave you with these words from 1 Peter 3, verse 15. But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and always be ready to give a defense to everyone who asks you a reason for the hope that is in you, with meekness and with fear. Let us pray