Start our time together with a word of prayer. Please join me. Father, we thank you for sending your only begotten Son, for giving him uh to us. We thank you, Christ, for giving us yourself. We thank you for giving us your spirit. And we know that these gifts from you are to lead to us giving to you. I pray that that is what would be done here tonight, that we would give you our praises, our adoration, our respect, our honor, and during the sermon, our attention. And I ask these things in your name. Amen. Let's stand for our call to worship from Psalm 21, verse 13. Be exalted, O Lord, in your own strength. We will sing and praise your power. Let's sing together, Come people of the Risen King. From the shrimp shadows on the earth we will live our own in the room we're standing on. Hold on. But I'm not sure if you're not going to be able to do that. Amen. Please remain standing for our passage that leads us into the confession of sin. This is taken from 2 Timothy 4, 1 through 5. I charge you therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who will judge the living and the dead at his appearing in his kingdom, preach the word. Be ready in season and out of season. Convince, rebuke, exhort, with all long-suffering and teaching. For the time will come when they will not endorse sound doctrine. But according to their own desires, because they have itching ears, they will heap up for themselves teachers, and they will turn their ears away from the truth, and be turned aside to fables But you, be watchful in all things, endure afflictions, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry. Amen. You may be seated Please pray with me. Lord, this passage is cutting because it speaks to us as your congregation. There will, we can see throughout the history of your church, even on the pages of your inscripturated word, these very things happening. The need for convincing and rebuking and exhorting with all long suffering. And also the itching ears, choosing whatever teacher you want to support whatever desires you long to get. Lord, we see this resulting in some pretty extreme situations throughout the history of your church, but we can also see it sometimes extremely, sometimes mildly, even within ourselves. Lord, when we want something, we want it. And we will gather up teachers and arguments in order to have it. But Lord, we are meant to submit ourselves to the holy word that you have delivered to us, the faithful deposit, the apostolic doctrine. Here, Lord, we see that your church sometimes gives itself over to fables, those ways of rearranging what you have said to support our evil. uh from your supposed word that we have reframed. Lord, we are tricky, you know that. We are conniving. We are deceitful. We will do a lot of different things to get the things that we want. I pray, Lord, that you would hear your people now as they come before you taking this opportunity to be honest. to acknowledge the ways that they have been pursuing things, destroying people in their path. uh fooling themselves, lying to you. I pray, Lord, that whatever sins come to mind, that they would bring them before you now, and that you would redirect them to life. Please hear your saints. Lord, there comes a time, having been given your spirit, where we don't want to be schemers anymore. Lord, deliver us from ourselves. In Christ's name. Amen. Our assurance of pardon tonight is from First Timothy two, three through six. For this is good and acceptable. in the sight of God our Savior, who desires all men to be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth. For there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus who gave himself a ransom for all to be testified in due time. Amen. Let's stand together and sing in Christ alone. Amen. Let's open our scriptures together to Proverbs chapter five. We'll be going through the whole chapter this evening. We only have a few more lectures from the Father before we get into the actual aphoristic proverbs. It will be exciting to reach that. Chapter 5. My son, pay attention to my wisdom, lend your ear to my understanding, that you may preserve discretion and your lips may keep knowledge. For the lips of an immoral woman drip honey, and her mouth is smoother than oil. But in the end she is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two edged sword Her feet go down to death. Her steps lay hold of hell. Lest you ponder her path of life, her ways are unstable. You do not know them Therefore, hear me now, my children, and do not depart from the words of my mouth. Remove your way far from her, and do not go near the door of her house Lest you give your honor to others, and your years to the cruel one. Lest aliens be filled with your wealth, and your labors go to the house of a foreigner. And you mourn at last, when your flesh and your body are consumed, and you say, How I hated instruction, and my heart despised correction. I have not obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor inclined my ear to those who instructed me. I was on the verge of total ruin in the midst of the assembly and the congregation. Drink water from your own cistern, and running water from your own well. Should your fountains be dispersed abroad, streams of water in the streets? Let them be only your own, and not for strangers with you. Let your fountain be blessed, and rejoice with the wife of your youth, as a loving deer and a graceful doe Let her breast satisfy you at all times, and always be enraptured with her love. For why should you, my son, be enraptured by an immoral woman, and be embraced in the arms of a seductress For the ways of man are before the eyes of the Lord, and he ponders all his paths. His own iniquities entrap the wicked man, and he is caught in the cords of his sin. He shall die for lack of instruction. And in the greatness of his folly, he shall go astray. Let us pray Lord, you are uh quiet you are kind to give us these words. You understand that we are frail and weak in many ways. especially in our ability to resist temptation, particularly in this sphere. And you are kind. And this is a an aspect of your patience and your forbearance. to give us such words as this. I pray, Lord, that this would be profitable for your congregation. I ask, Lord, that you would deliver them from temptation. In Christ's name, Amen. Um maybe shoot him. The last time we were in Proverbs was in chapter four, and we looked at how the best part of the Proverb was centered, even literarily in the way that it was structured, on the heart. There were those things that come into the heart, there are those things that come out of the heart, and even those things that we do go back into the heart in terms of our actions. The main question that we ask is, how are you feeding your heart? How are you guarding the treasure of God's Word? in your heart? How are you practicing so that your behavior will backflow and shape your heart? And the doctrine that was before us was this. To cultivate your heart, you must feed, guard, and train it by God's word. I hope that you all have been taking that seriously. and seeking that out, being not just hearers, but doers of the word, which is true religion, the others false. Well I want to begin by making a few observations here with chapter 5 Chapter 5, you can see that the unity of the message. I hope you can see the whole thing is meant to be read together. That'll be the same thing when we get to 6. Chapter 6 with 7 Deadly Sins. Well let's go ahead and make some observations with chapter 5. The first thing is not an observation about this specific proverb in particular, but just in general. uh so that we can have the right framework here looking at chapter five. I want you to us to remember that the main thrust of Proverbs can be understood um perhaps through this illustration, maybe it will be helpful to think of a colony of bees. I have this on my mind because I have bees on my dad's farm and I keep forgetting to get over there and get the honey out. But nevertheless, I hope this is helpful. Holly and I still keep bees. One of the first things that we observed and that I observe from that others observe when we show them our bees is that bees are quite social. Each bee, when you get to know them, has a job, and all the bees without hesitation. And with all their heart, work in accordance with the job that has been given to them by the will of the Queen. The whole colony, in other words, is dependent upon each bee contributing well in order for the society as a whole to thrive. If they don't contribute, then you could say they are against society, or here's an important word, they are anti-social. And that's what I mean by antisocial is against society. It is such a tragedy in the colony that if there is a bee that is not operating well, they are removed. They're killed and then thrown off the front doorstep, literally. The guard bees kick them off the front doorstep. It's interesting to watch. And this illustration is meant to frame our work in the book of Proverbs. Proverbs is many things. teaches many things, it does many jobs. But it is largely about healthy community. It is about being social and not antisocial. It is about living in God's order as God's people, as a community. And thus Proverbs teaches positively about life and community, and it gives warning against antisocial behavior that the whole community That's the first thing I wanted to mention to you, just so we could be on the same page with what's going on with Proverbs. As we get into the aphoristic sayings of Proverbs, you're going to see a lot of focus on the mouth and the tongue. and uh drinking and this and that. That's all about antisocial behavior. If you don't know how to control your mouth, you destroy houses. communities. It's all the same, all towards the same end. So that's the first observation. The second observation is that I hope you noticed this already. It seems pretty obvious, that chapter five is dedicated to a particular antisocial behavior. What is it? Adultery. That's what it's dedicated to. Chapter five is dedicated to antisocial behavior called adultery. In this particular case, the woman has a husband and is luring a young man to be with her. You can read it more carefully if you'd like. But you can broaden this out, and the larger lesson has to do with God's setting healthy boundaries for the community, even healthy sexual boundaries. And those who disturb the boundaries that God has placed for our sexuality are by definition antisocial. Humans transgress those boundaries all the time. The world is transgressing it every, I don't know, what, every second probably. As you can see in verse number three, take a look with me. At first, it seems sweet and enjoyable. And yet, as the rest of the verses show, it leads to death and regret. For example, see how it moves from sweetness to death in verses 4 and 5. Antisocial sexuality is in fact a death wish. But in the end, she is bitter as wormwood. I'm gonna tell you folks, it's bitter. Wormwood is bitter. If you would like to taste how bitter wormwood is, I have this thing that I made from an herb. that uh trying out homemade medicine stuff, it's bitter. Promise. Uh sharped as a two-edged sword. And then here's the death wish. Her feet go down to death. Her steps lay hold of hell. It is not only a death wish, it is also, it leads to regret. The expression of regret is captured in verse 12. And honestly, I think it's a scene that's all too familiar. This is what the person in regret says. Tell me if you've ever had to do, don't tell me out loud, but tell me, have you ever had to do this yourself? Or have you seen other people do it? I I I think you could probably say all teenagers have had this experience by the time they hit about 25. They think back on the decisions they made when they were younger and they say things like this, how I hated instruction. And my heart despised correction. I have not obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor inclined my ear to those who instructed me. me. I was just this is my affair phrase. I was just too cool. Nor inclined my ear to those who instructed me. I was, and then this starts to get into the regret even more, I was on the verge of total ruin in the midst of the assembly and congregation. I remember a particular time. Not all of you have heard all the details of my testimony, thank God in some sense. I remember a particular time going through a very difficult youth and having to come back to my parents as I was older and just share all of the things that you see here in this project. proverb for the decisions that I made despite what they had told me. And I regretted every single one. I was so thankful that the Lord brought me to that point though. And that's the second observation, and it has to do with transgressing those boundaries and the death wish and regret. Then there's observation number three. The father is a good father. Because the father knows how difficult sexual temptation is. And that's why he's writing this lecture. Thank God for fathers that speak to their children about these kinds of things. He accordingly does not recommend a denial of how delightful our sexuality should be. He simply tells us that the desire is to be fulfilled within the lines drawn by God. Perhaps some of you were surprised by the language here tonight from the reading of the scriptures Listen to it again. Drink water from your own cistern. I want you to use uh, you know, this is a metaphor. Drink water from your own cistern and running water from your own well. Should your fountains be dispersed abroad, streams of water in the streets? Let them be only your own and not for strangers with you. This is verse 15-19. Let your fountain be blessed, and rejoice with the wife of your youth, as a loving deer and a graceful doe, let her breast satisfy you at all times, and always be enraptured with her love This is biblical sexuality. And he is not embarrassed to state it as such. I love verse 20 in particular. Because I can hear a kind of absurdity in the voice of the Father. He answered a question posed in the tone of absurdity. He says, well, essentially, why in the world? Would you be enraptured in the arms of a seductress? Why in the world would you be enraptured in the arms of a seductress? Well, here's our our final observation for tonight, and then there'll be a statement of the doctrine. And it's this finding delight in your spouse. is usually considered the silver bullet for temptation, but that is not how it is reported here. Let me say it again. Finding delight in your spouse is usually considered the silver bullet to avoid temptation of the honey-speaking foreign woman But it is just one help, and there is actually a greater help emphasized within this proverb. Let me tell you what I mean. The proverbist uh gives Finding delight in your spouse as only one help. And I'm going to list two more for you, and there's actually one that takes center stage. The first one that I want you to see is in verse 21. This is supposed to help you to stay within the good boundaries that God has given to us in our sexuality and to remain social and not antisocial. When it's to uh verse 21 says, For the ways of man are before the eyes of the Lord, and he ponders all his paths. When it says the eyes of the Lord, it is specifically referring to the Lord as judge. who surveys his land and maintains justice within his realm. Those who break sexual boundaries must remember that God sees public and private acts, and he will not permit such destructive behavior to continue. There is a lovely verse that I would love to show you sometime. And it talks about the Lord being silent. And people make the mistake that when God is silent, they think that He doesn't care about what we're doing. Or that he's condoning it, or maybe he's even celebrating it, and that it says, I have been silent. And then he says, and you have made the mistake of thinking I'm like you My silence did not indicate to you that you should keep running headlong into sin. It was rather my patience that you could turn and repent. And I could show I'll show that to you sometime or after the service if you'd like to look at those things together. Those who break sexual boundaries must remember that God sees public and private acts and will not permit such destructive behavior to continue. Have you heard all of the reports lately about destructive sexual behavior in churches? Have you? You're starting to see on church websites and on seminary websites little stamps that show that they hold themselves to a certain level of accountability with regard to these issues. Who do you think exposed them? It was God. Because he will not permit it to continue. In other words, the fear of God as judge is another help from temptation. And I'll just put it this way, and we can talk about this later. Do not test his patience. Do not test his patience with your sexual sins. Now that's supposed to be a help to you. He's a good father to restrain us. Now here's the second one, and this is actually the most prominent and emphasized help in this proverb for us to escape these temptations. And it is holding on to the Word of God. That's the one that's emphasized the most here. I want to show this to you. Look at a repetition that helps us to see that this is the key First off, look at the first two verses. Chapter 5 begins with this teaching. My son, pay attention to my wisdom, lend your ear to my understanding, that you may preserve discretion, and your lips may It begins that we are to be attentive to the wisdom that has been passed down to us in the faith, in the articles of faith, in the scriptures. That's at the beginning of this proverb. Now look at the end of the proverb. Chapter 5 ends with this teaching. He shall die for lack of instruction. That is to say, he did not hold on to the Father's words. You can see how important it is for us to guard our hearts and to hold on to this word, I'm telling you, folks. And then it's in the middle. So we've got beginning, middle, and end, which means it takes up the whole story. It is in the middle of chapter 5. It says this How I Have Hated Instruction And my heart despised correction. I have not obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor inclined my ear to those who instructed me. The whole problem Is not holding on to God's word. And the whole solution, or the one that's emphasized, of course, it's not as simple as saying the whole solution, but the one that is emphasized is holding on to the word of God. Holding on to truth and pushing away the lies. And so our doctrine tonight, to summarize this proverb, is this. To be preserved within the boundaries of our God-given sexuality, we must be attentive to God's word. To be preserved within the boundaries of our God-given sexuality, we must be attentive to God's word. Now, I want to look at this under two points, inner and outer. Inner and outer. Let's begin with our inner life. I want you to look closely at this proverb with me in verse 2. It says, that you may preserve discretion. So we have a statement, or it's really verse one is an admonition. Pay attention to my wisdom. I think we know what that means now. It's not just hearing with the ear. There's a a real embracing of the wisdom of Christ. And then we see not only the admonition, but the The aim of the admonition in verse two, and that we're going to hold on to his words, number one, so that we may preserve discretion Now I have this under the title of inner, because this Hebrew word here, discretion, refers to our inner thoughts and plans. The teaching, therefore, is that we must give our attention to God's word in order that, or so that our private thoughts Become a fortress and can push away the external influences seeking to lead us into death. Imagine, if you will, someone with honey lips speaking to you And you are preserving yourself within the boundaries of God because of the inner dialogue that is pushing those words away and saying, get behind me, Satan. Now this repeats earlier in this is earlier teaching in the Proverbs. This is not the first time that we've seen this. I actually think I gave a sermon on preservatives or something that dealt with this. But the idea is that discretion will preserve you. More largely speaking, wisdom preserves you. More specifically, again, virtue preserves you And we can see this in Proverbs 2, verses 11 through 13, for example. Listen to this. Discretion will preserve you, understanding will keep you. To deliver you from the way of evil, from the man who speaks perverse things, from those who leave the paths of uprightness, to walk in the ways of darkness. Do you see that? And it all begins with that, the inner life, and what they're calling here discretion. Discretion. You're not giving yourself over to what the person is saying or doing or what the image that pops up in front of you because you have an inner life of discretion. Preservation ends up being the key. That's really the point. The whole proverb is God giving you grace and showing you how you may be preserved during these days. times. And the first is that you would have an inner life of discretion. Now let me ask you How will you be preserved from the seductive speech of the flesh and the world and the devil? The answer that is given here, one way, is that your private thoughts will be healthy. and true. That your private thoughts will be healthy and true. So let me just ask you, how are your private thoughts doing these days? How is it that you think through things? How do you view the world? What are the conversations that you are having in your head about things? Are they corrupted? Do you pay attention to what you say to yourself? A lot of times we do not pay attention to what we say to ourselves But here in this proverb, by the grace of Christ, he's saying, pay attention to what you say to yourself, and make sure that it is pure and that it is true, in accordance with the Word of God. Do you pay attention to what you say to yourself, making sure you only speak truth to yourself? That's inner. Let's take a look at the outer. We are not only preserved with a healthy inner voice. We say horrible things to ourselves, by the way. You should just write down the kind of things you say to yourself. But we are not only preserved with a healthy inner voice, but we are preserved with external voices also. And we can see this here in the second part of verse 2. We have the admonition to pay attention, then we see the aim that we want to pay attention so that we can have a good inner life and w of discretion. And then the second part of that is, and your lips may keep knowledge. Lips are, we're talking about a manifestation now of the truth to where the whole world can hear it. Or at least our community. Our lips keep knowledge. This is a way of saying that you are a person in the community who is unwilling to speak falsehood. You are going to say things not Hurtfully or clumsily, but you are going to say things truthfully. You're going to say things truthfully, how how things actually really are And you're not going to wink at sin. The seriousness of this instruction, I just cannot communicate well enough. You'd have to read all the scriptures and be gifted by the Spirit to see how serious this is of having lips that keep knowledge. I want you very quickly to turn with me to Malachi chapter 2, 7 through 8, as an attempt to see how important this is to the Lord. Malachi chapter 2, verses 7 through 8. This is one of those books where you might have to look at your table of contents. Malachi two, seven through eight. This is a background for a lot of what Christ was doing. on the streets of Jerusalem and the way that he spoke to the Pharisees and Sadducees or the teachers of those times. And it says this For the lips of a priest should keep knowledge. You see that? Now we're really starting to get to what this proverb means. For the lips of a priest should keep knowledge. Think pastor. And people should seek the law from his mouth. Think uh eternal law. Think about um the way things really should be. And people should seek the law from his mouth, for he is the messenger of the Lord of hosts. But you have departed from the way. He's speaking to the priests. You have caused many to stumble at the law. You have corrupted the covenant of Levi, says the Lord of hosts. Do you see how serious that is? Now this is a higher degree because the teacher is not preserving uh his word with their So that's a higher degree, that's a gr more grievous sin when you have someone in in such a position of full of uh influence giving falsehood. But nevertheless, we are they are to meant to be our exemplars because we are to be like them. They are end up being models for us. And I hope that you therefore can see the picture of how important it is for there not just to be an inner life, but an exterior speaking and holding God's word true with the way that we talk about things. Those whose office it is to guard the knowledge of the Lord and only speak truth, in this case, have departed from the truth, and therefore, as Jesus would point out They are the blind leading the blind into a ditch. And it goes to show It goes to show all of us that we must pay attention to our words and speak the truth. And that you should be picky with your teachers. I have already told my students. I don't care if you have a Bible teacher. If that Bible teacher does not, you all offer them honor and respect, but if they do not teach in accordance with the word, then they are wrong. Come and talk to me and we'll visit them together. Because we're picky with our teachers, because what we manifest from our lips makes a really big difference. In fact, you must surround yourself with those who speak truth. You want to know one of the best ways to continue in perversity? Surround yourself by perverts. Surround yourself by people that can just let it go and don't want to speak truth to you because they're afraid of you or whatever it is or they they would they don't want to expose themselves. So here's a couple questions for you. And for me, of course. Who are your counselors? Now when you're a student, I can't help but to look out and see a bunch of students. Even at lunchtime, just pay attention to the different perspectives coming from the different voices in the room. And some of those voices that are speaking to you. You at school are obviously healthy, and there are some that are obviously not healthy. But the ones that are unhealthy tend to be the ones that we long to have their attention the most most. It's interesting how that happens. And so I ask you, who are your counselors? Who do you listen to? To whom do you give your ear? That goes for choosing a professional counselor too, by the way. Are you checking to make sure they accurately teach God's word? Are you letting antisocial misfits shape your mind and your heart? I can't help but to think of Media. Are you letting antisocial misfits shape your mind and your heart? Well, this is our teaching for this evening. The Lord understands that we struggle with antisocial behavior. And he graciously gives us warnings and even helps and aids to help us to be preserved. To be preserved, in fact, within the boundaries of our God-given sexuality, he teaches us that we must be attentive to his words. We must be attentive so that we have an inner life of discretion and that we always speak the truth into the world externally. Amen. Let me pray. Please pray with me. Lord, there's so much more wisdom where this came from, and each sentence could be dwelled upon for wisdom. But I pray, Lord, that your overarching intent comes through and is profitable to your people. I pray, Lord Christ, that in the sending of your spirit that you would make it so. I pray that you would make us here at Severn Run and Christians in more generally across the world that you would set us at liberty from the captivity of perverse sexuality. Lord, I pray that you would answer so many prayers that have been lifted up for so many people. That you truly would set us free. I ask, Lord, that we would listen to you more than the immoral woman. In the name of Christ, Amen Amen. Let's stand and we'll close this portion of our service with Come Valmighty King. Amen. And now receive the Lord's benediction, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God the Father, and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all. Amen. You may be see them.