For I am already being poured out as a drink offering, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race I have kept the faith. Finally, there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness which the Lord, the righteous judge, will give to me on that day And not to me only, but also to all who have loved or longed for his appearing. Amen. Let us pray. O Christ, I pray that you would move us by the preaching of your word, that you'd move us into all righteousness, that we would take our different parts in the kingdom, those Those who take our different roles, that we take up our responsibilities, that you give to us in your preached word. Ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Is there anyone here who has read or listened to the book of Deuteronomy? Yeah? Okay, very good. I was hoping the congregation would nod yes since I gave a sermon series on it. Perhaps you remember at the very end of Deuteronomy there is a succession plan Where Moses is going to pass on, actually the best way to say it is the eternal Christ is going to pass on The ministry from Moses to Joshua as they enter into the Promised Land Now Joshua would take his part, and if you were to read Joshua, you could find out all about the various conquests. And then if you were to go past that book, you would land at the book of Judges. And in Judges, you would see that there's been a real vacuum for leadership. In fact, in Judges chapter 2, verse 10 through 11, it says this. When all that generation had been gathered to their fathers, that generation, the earlier generation, another generation arose. And after them who did not know the Lord, nor the work which he had done for Israel. Then the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord and served the Baals. So there you have in just a generation. From passing from Moses to Joshua and then Joshua down into that next generation, we have a loss of the faith among the community. I hope you have been realizing that in these pastoral letters, whether it's 1st or 2 Timothy or Titus, today we're in 2 Timothy. The Apostle Paul is seeking to make sure that the next generation after him does not have something recorded about them to the same effect that we see in Judges. In other words, sometimes Paul says, It is my prayer, it is my great hope that I have not done all of this apostolic work in vain. To make sure that it's not in vain, he is writing these letters to make sure that Timothy receives the baton and carries forward the ministry. So that we don't have something like Judges 2, 10 through 11. In fact, the purpose of this passage here in front of us is really to highlight that. It's been the whole letter, but boy, is it really present here. The purpose of this passage, the purpose of the Holy Spirit, the purpose of this preaching this morning is to convince you, the congregation That you have to have a commitment to advancing the kingdom from one generation to another generation. That has to be a part, if you were in the corporate world, that would have to be maybe your mission and your vision and your values. Everything would have to revolve around making sure that we don't have a statement like we see in Judges 2, 10 through 11, where the next generation, I want you to just take a look around you And I know you're of one generation or another, but look at the generation before you. If you don't do it really, that's okay. Look at each other later. I know it can be weird for Presbyterians to be active. So I get it. But I'm looking at all of the different generations, and you could have uh one of these little folks, just a generation away. They don't know who the Lord is. And they serve idols. We have a responsibility to make sure that that doesn't happen That's what the Spirit is teaching here within this passage. So I want you to be able to see that. So we're going to begin with just breaking this down into a couple different parts The first is that I want you to see the context of what's going on here so that you can see that this ethical principle that I'm bringing out, that we have a responsibility to make sure that the kingdom advances from one generation to another. I want you to see the context which will help us to to see that. And then I want, we're going to break this into basically two parts. There's a an exhortation or a stirring up of two different kinds of people here today. There this might seem a little unpleasant to you, but we're just going to come to grips with reality here. There are some of you that are departing. You're aware of your mortality. And you have begun to think about your own death. And there are some of you who aren't really departing, but you're arriving. And I need to, from what the Spirit teaches here today, I need to talk to both of you. And that really covers everybody in the room, those who are departing and those who are arriving. So let's go ahead and do that together. Remember, our purpose here today is to see that we have a responsibility to advance the kingdom from one generation to the next So let's start by just looking at the context of this passage. Now when you go ahead and let your eyes glance down there at the passage, I really encourage you to have your Bibles open instead of just using the bulletin. But if you can't do that today, then I will pray for your soul. No, I'm just kidding. If you can't do that today, then that's fine. When you look down at the passage and you see uh six through eight, Notice just a couple things with me because uh the way that Paul phrases this, if we lose touch with the thread of this letter Then we can misunderstand what he's doing. He says, For I am already being poured out as a drink offering, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. Finally there is laid up For me, the crown of righteousness, me on that day. It sounds like he is self-interested and just trying to give you a kind of Fox's biography of martyrs and include himself. But I promise you that is not what he is doing here He's not giving his biography for biography's sake. Hey, Paul, you led a really interesting life. Why not do a book? That's not what's happening here. Paul's not giving biography for biography's sake, he is still, and this is the main thread of the letter, he is still seeking to establish Timothy as the pastor who will take over his ministry specifically at Ephesus. Now, verse 6, if you look back down, verse 6 is extremely important in establishing that argument. That this is not just biography for biography's sake. He's still trying to establish Timothy and say, hey, take up the commission! And verse 6 is important for that because if you notice in verse number 6, Paul says, I am being poured out like a drink offering. Now what does he mean by that? Let's just stop for a second and try to understand this crazy phrase that he uses that's not a part of our culture. It is a reference, you could follow your biblical references and your reference Bibles, to Old Testament sacrifices. Old Testament sacrifices and a part of some of the sacrifices you would pour out wine to create a sweet smelling aroma. For the Lord, symbolically representing that you long to live for Him and to be pleasing to Him. And that's what Paul is saying here. Paul saw his life, and even the blood that he was about to spill, and the blood that was spilled already, he saw it as not meaningless. He saw it as the sacrifices that he made for the church, for his God. And he saw them as a living sacrifice, a sweet-smelling aroma to his Christ. As Christ breathed in the life of Paul and smiled and was pleased. That's verse number six. And this really brings us to the main point. Is that if his life is, look at the language there, I am already being poured out as a drink offering. He does not say that in Philippians He doesn't have that sense of urgency and that I am already being poured out. His point here is, Timothy, now's the time for you to take up the commission. Why? Because I'm done. And the baton can't drop. It has to be passed to you. I'm already being poured out. Now look at that next phrase. He points out my And the time of my departure is not many years from now. The time of my departure is at hand. The succession, the advancing of the kingdom by way of going to the next generation. Has to start now. Why? Because he's leaving. The Great Commission, Advancing the Kingdom of God, must be passed on Right here. Timothy needs to see the urgency of that. Now, that's the context. So when we look at this, we have to acknowledge a couple different things. We've got to see that number one, first and foremost, this is Paul writing to Timothy. But we know when we look at the other scriptures that if we handle the word well, that the Holy Spirit does not intend for these things just to be written from Paul to Timothy, but for them to be written, for the whole church to be able to benefit from age to age. One way to talk about this is to say that God speaks to us. He's not silent. But he does not speak to us in abstract generalities most of the time. He speaks to us in human contexts. And a person who handles the word well Well, not just pay attention to the particularities of the passage, but see the principle that can apply throughout different ages. And what is that right here? It's what I have announced to you as the purpose of the Spirit for this passage, which is, not only is it true that there must be a succession plan from Paul to Timothy. There must be a succession plan among the church from one older generation to a younger generation that the bataan would be passed. From age to age, that the gospel would stay true, witnessing to the revelation of Jesus Christ, the gathering in of his people, and the perfection of his people. That's the main principle. And we can see that from that context. God gave you, in other words, the Great Commission. He didn't just give Paul and Timothy the Great Commission. And what is going to happen when your departure is at hand? That's why you have got to think ahead, and some of you need to think ahead more than others. God gave you the Great Commission. And now it is your turn in this age to make sure that you keep up the work from generation to generation Who's going to carry it forward until the Lord's returns? Well, that's two different people. And so I've got two things, two other points here in this sermon, is that is I need to speak to those who are departing first. I'm taking this from the passage, my departure is at hand. Relatively speaking, your summon here, your departure is at hand. Relatively speaking. And then I need to talk to a different group of people by way of the scriptures, and that's there's some of you that are arriving. And that's going to be you entering, you know, right into your 20s. Right? Personally, when I look back a hundred years, I see captains on ship that are twelve years old. So I'm really cutting you a break here, letting you wait and play video games till you're twenty. Okay? But th those are the two categories. We have those who are departing and those who are arriving. So let's let's just talk about let me speak to you who are departing for a moment. Paul is facing his death, and some of you are also facing your death. Now when I say that, I don't mean that you're in hospice I have, I'm 48 years old now, and when I go to the doctor, I have different conversations with my doctor than I've ever had before in my life There are different tests that I have to take. There are different questions that he asks me. The other day, when I was in the Narthex, I bent down to talk to a small child. And I could not get back up because my back seized and the children looked at me like I needed an exorcism. And these kinds of experiences, whether it's with the doctor or whatever it is, I begin to think, well, I'm not going to be around forever. And I better have some kind of a plan. Now that's me at 48. There are some of you who are well beyond 48, and I know that you are aware of your mortality. And he is addressing you here. You have been aware of your mortality, just as Paul is aware of his mortality, and so Paul has some lessons for you. Really, the Holy Spirit has some lessons for you. And here's the first lesson for those of you who are departing with that definition. Number one, you must remember that Christ Jesus gave you a calling. You must remember, number one, that Jesus Christ gave you a calling. And we are reminded of that when we look at the passage and we see him say, I have run the race. Well, to run the race, you've got to enter the race. So that ministry for Paul started way back in the day on the road to Damascus, and then it went forward from there. And maybe you didn't have a startling experience like the Apostle Paul, but you entered in. to that race. Maybe it's um imperceptible you're entering into the race. You just feel like you've always been in the race. That's fine too. There are different experiences, but you have entered into the race and you've got to understand in this passage When he says, I have run the race, which implies you entered a race, that he uses the word race to stand for ministry. That's what he means by race. He means a ministry. I'd encourage you over lunch, for example, to look at Acts chapter 20, verse 24. Let me read it to you. And notice the synonyms here. But none of these things move me, nor do I count my life dear to myself, so that I may finish my race with joy and the ministry. Which I received from the Lord Jesus to testify to the gospel of the grace of God. You could phrase it this way. So that I may finish my race with joy, even the ministry which I receive from the Lord Jesus. And so you have a race, you have a ministry. We talked about ministries last week. Christ gave Paul a ministry or a race when he confronted him on the road to Damascus, and likewise. Christ gave you a race to run and a ministry. And I just want you to think about that for a moment. Remember, I'm talking especially to you who are aware of your mortality, more and more and more and more When you go out in the snow, you think about whether you're going to fall and the effects of that. There are some people in this room, namely the nine-year-olds, that do not think about falling in the snow But you do. And I just want you to take a moment to think back on Christ's calling to you and the ministry and the service and the race that you have run. I want you to think back, some of you need to think back 30 years. And some of you need to think back 40 years. And kids, this is going to blow your mind. Some people here need to think back 50 years. Isn't that crazy? And we can keep going to 60 years, kids. Some of you need to think back 60 years as to when did Jesus Christ enlist you into his army and you began fighting the faith for him. I have a friend who was called by Christ. He's uh well older than me. And he was called. I don't know if this is your story, but this is one story. I have a friend who was called by Christ. He went to university, didn't know Christ. But he went to university and there was a ministry there called the Navigators, and they snatched him up. And Christ worked through the Navigators ministry in college. And ever since that time. He entered into his race. And you know, I look back, I was thinking, as I was thinking about him as an example, very dear father in the faith. I'm thinking, man, he had the ministry of serving Christ as a father. And there's so many times I look to him as to what does it mean to be a Christian father? He was that navigator's kind of guy who you'd be hanging uh vinyl siding with him. Or help or or you'd or he'd ask you over for a drywall to help him with the drywall. Or uh he needed help raking the leaves. And then you realize that he was He didn't need help with any of those things. You actually were getting in the way more than helping, but all the time he was discipling you to Jesus Christ. He was that kind of a guy, discipling you even as to what it would mean to be a father in Christ. Boy did he run that race well, and he did the same thing with his husband. He puts me in a sh as a husband he not with his husband, Fan. Yeah. Plot twist. Plot twist Nope. Glad you're paying attention. As a husband, to this day, whenever I witness him and his wife, he always opens the car door for her And she gets in first. Man, it just speaks volumes to me that he does that kind of thing for her. And and that's just like a small little piece of the way that he treats her. And the way he's he treats his children. And he did the same thing. He was in the military. He flew planes. And he he was a he was a a Christian military officer. Actively witnessing to Jesus Christ in those contexts. And he was also, and this probably isn't a surprise to you, but he was also an elder in a Presbyterian church. Wow, what a race. Wow, what a ministry. And if he were to think back 30, 40, 50 years back, he could remember that time at Navigators and then the race. And all I'm asking you to do here this morning, those of you who are departing and aware of your mortality, is to do something similar. Think about when was that, when did that race really begin? When did Christ call you in that ministry? That's the first thing. And now here's the second part, because there's two parts to this. I have run the race implies that you began a race, O dearly departing. But it also just explicitly says you're supposed to run it all the way to the end. You're supposed to finish it. And that really needs to be said. There's a gentleman who wrote in the 90s, 80s, 70s, and he wrote a book, or it was a chapter in a book, and it was called Wrinkled But Not Ruined. Isn't that great? Wrinkled but not ruined. And that was an appropriate title because he saw as a pastor writing to a congregation of those who were struggling with their mortality, that there were tremendous struggles in growing older that can take you out of the race that are hardly acknowledged among the congregation. Because when you get older, you more and more can fade into the background and you are not noticed. Well, some of the problems that he brought up that can take you out of the race if you're of an older age or in the autumn of your life would be depression. Did you know that older folks oftentimes struggle with severe depression? Just coming to grips with what's happening to their body or their mind. Or, this is a really big one, you get to a certain age and you start to lose all of your friends. They die. And it's really hard. The other thing that enters in in these autumn years are cynicism. Everything around you feels like it's changing. You don't feel like you can master your environment any longer. Technology is beyond you. It's not made for you. Your thumbs and your fingers can't hit letters that are that small. If you blow the font up on your phone to 172, somebody makes fun of you and there's only one letter on the screen that you know it's So you become cynical and you become skeptical about society and about your place within it. And that can take you out of the race, and this can result into rage and anger. At yourself and at other people when you enter into this age group. And the point of the book was to address the hard realities of old age. And to make sure that the congregation understood that, yes, you're wrinkled, but you're not ruined You've lost your spouse, you've lost your balance in terms of walking, you've lost your energy, and you're starting to lose your memory, but you're not ruined. That was the message. And that's the message of the scriptures, too. I mean, how bad were Paul's joints having been stoned so many times? What did he have to go through? Were they things that are even more than what you have to go through? And does that tell you that Jesus Christ, despite The difficulties that I just announced, which were just a handful, right? That despite those things, that he expects you to finish the race, that he still has a calling for you all the way to the end. Now, you can admit with me, if you had to run a race, then you had to begin one. And you can admit with me that if you are in the race that you're supposed to finish it. But there's a major question that often comes up, and that is, what am I supposed to do to finish this race? Well, there are, I mean, how many things are there to do? In human life. There are so many different things to do in human life. But what does the passage draw our attention to when you are a departing person A departing person, it says here, is to be finishing the race. You are to be pouring yourself out as a sacrificial offering to the Lord, and then you can begin to ask the question, how? How am I supposed to do that? And there is one answer in this passage. If you were to search the canon of scripture, there's a lot of answers, but the one I want to give you today. is that you need to pass your zeal for the kingdom and your gifts in the kingdom. And your calling in the kingdom, you need to pass it on to the next generation so that we don't end up with a judge's Chapter two verses ten and eleven situation in any of the domains that Christ has begun to conquer here on earth by way of you and your calling That is the overwhelming context that's going on here within this passage. Paul, think about it. Paul is taking his last moments, not to take a cruise. Not too um I don't it's just not a bucket list letter. He's not going skydiving. Paul is taking his last moments to ensure the continuation and the advance of the kingdom of God. That's his focus. That's his love. And he's doing it not by starting a non-for-profit company. He's not doing some big thing that he has to get advertising for. What is he doing in the final moments of his life but writing a simple letter from jail? And praying that the Holy Spirit would ensure the continuation of the gospel into the next generation. That's important for us to have that perspective, especially when you're departing, because it's not a good time for you to start a non-for-profit. Paul is taking his last moments to just write a letter, and it could be that simple. So the big question is, what do you want to do to make sure that the next generation continues to advance God's kingdom. What do you want to do before you depart? We don't need to think of big and fancy. We do not need to think like the world who has to get every last drop of this life because they don't believe in an afterlife. We don't have to think that way. We get to work. You get to work, more importantly. Forget the we stuff. You get to work in the circumstances that God has given to you. And what are they? Just go through if you all you know you buy by the way if you ever need help you can call your five little friends who what where why and when and how and we can do that here. Who? You could work with your grandchildren. You could work with other church members. The question is, who has God placed in your life where you could be influential I've told you a story from my own life of how influential it was for my grandmother to just take me out to Baskin and Robbins to find out how I was doing. It was definitely something that the Lord used. 31 flavors. Who? Well, who is grandchildren or church members? What? Well, I would say one of the the the things that you could do that would probably be the easiest is to pass on your the things that you love. What are the things that you want to see continue? So for example, there are a number of people here that are passionate and actually putting their uh life to work in a Christian alternative to abortion, which is adoption. And you're working with Wellspring of Life. Well what about the next generation? You need to raise them up to care about those same things. And to fight for a Christian alternative. What are you going to do to help them to develop a kind of passion and a zeal for that kind of thing? Some of you, your race has been, you have provided a sanctuary of a home. Your sourdough is known through all the land. And homemaking is extremely important. It's actually listed as one of the things that are supposed to be taught in Titus. Well maybe you could pass that down. Share your recipes. How am I supposed to do this when I have three kids pulling at my legs? Whatever it is, share that wisdom. Or hospitality. Some of you are excellent at that. Not southern hospitality, but Christian hospitality. Or teaching the Bible or small business or church leadership These are all different things that I've seen all of you passionate about and seeking to apply Christ and His wisdom to these domains. Well, when are you going to do this and where are you going to do it? It could be over coffee, it could be over tea. That's already started in this congregation, by the way. Little small ways where the older generation is planting seeds to grow just over a cup of tea Showing up at a person's sports game, talking with them, having them over for an Arnold Palmer And how? Well, there are many different ways to do that. My main point to you this morning is to cut you a break and just let you know that Paul chose something as simple as simple as a letter. It doesn't need to be fancy. What will you do, O departing, to ensure that the best of your ability, to your the best of your ability to God's kingdom Will keep on keeping on in the hands of the younger generation. Now, the Spirit not only addresses those departing like Paul, but the Spirit also addresses those arriving. In responsibility for the kingdom, just like Timothy. And so let me speak now to those who are arriving. There are some lessons here that the Spirit has for you. Hang in there with me. Okay, I'm getting ready to take off my suit jacket. I'm hot too. We're going to be fine. Everybody stick with me here. Okay, let's renew our spirit within us. Those arriving, your first lesson is this. You have got to make up your mind on your first love. You have got to choose. You have got to stay. Like is said elsewhere in Joshua, as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Now, why do I say that? I say that because of verse number 8 within our passage. In 2 Timothy 4. 8, it says this. Finally, There is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will give to me on that day, and not to me only, but also to all who have loved his appearing. You catch that last part? The crown of righteousness is not just for the departing generation, but it's for everyone who longs for the appearing of Jesus Christ. Now, what Paul is saying here is not just when Christ appears, we're all looking forward to it like the greatest fireworks show that's ever existed. It's going to be better than DC. This is not hard these days. That's not all that he's saying. Of course, we long for his appearing, but he's talking about longing for his appearing. On one, the crown of righteousness, entering into that eternal state of righteousness that Christ will grant not only to him, now catch this, but to the renewal of his creation. There are some times when I stand up here and I say to you, there'll be no more tears. There'll be no more death. You won't have to hold a dead infant in your arms ever again. And I can see that that is meaningful to you. And what Paul is doing is he's tapping into that. He's saying there are a group of people on this earth by way of the Holy Spirit that long for the day when Christ comes and restores his creation where human beings are flourishing to the utmost. And what I am deriving from that is to say that you, as a new generation that is arriving, you must fall in love with Jesus Christ and his plans for this world. And that happens in a million different ways. You must long for his appearing. You must long for the kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. It must be your heartbeat. It refers more than just seeing him face to face. It is a statement about seeing the kingdom of God finally take shape on earth as it is in heaven. beginning in the lives of individuals, spreading out into families, moving further into counties It ends up being the most basic requisite for Timothy or any of you who are arriving is that you must be a new generation that is characterized first and foremost by love for Jesus Christ and His kingdom. Not your own kingdom, not your selfish ambitions. You cannot be a people who just go through the motions or play at church to hide everybody from who Hide everybody from who you really are. You must be a people who long for Christ and for his kingdom. Let me give you a little bit of a test. How do you know if you're arriving and you he's your first love? I know we always have to work on that. I'm not preaching perfection here. You are already trying to implement his kingdom now. You do not just hear the word, you love his word and you do it. You know a healthy tree by its fruit. You love Christ's vision for women. You love Christ's vision for men. You love Christ's vision for children. You love Christ's vision for families. You love Christ's vision for those who will remain single. You love Christ's vision for the animal world. Molecular biology. And you love it so much that you cannot wait. You must install his vision now, insofar as he gives you the power to do that. So that's what you're always working on. Because it's your love. It's your drive, like we talked about last week. That's the first one. That's the prerequisite is that you have to be one of those who long for his appearing and the appearing of his kingdom. That's the first thing you saw in verse number 8. The second thing, this is your second lesson, is that you can't just love those things, you've got to take the baton from the from the generation You've got to take that baton. You must receive it. As you grow in the first step of having Christ and His kingdom as your first love, you then take the baton from the departing generation. And here we've got to ask the question: why would I want to do that? And the reason why I want to raise that is because I see sometimes among us that we want to affirm the reform doctrines of our understanding of being Totally depraved and the need of God's grace. Hallelujah. Can I get an Amen? But I will not give you an Amen if you use those reformed doctrines and teachings. To take away human responsibility, especially after you have received the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit equips and stirs you up for good works to enter into your responsibilities. So I have to say, you must receive the baton, and in Christ you must do the work. You must fight your fight. You must begin your race to the end. Too often as Christians we can make the catastrophic error with regards to God's power. We think He's all powerful and will accomplish all of His will. We enter into a kind of fatalism. And we are sinners, we can do nothing, so we don't have any real agency, and so we must just let God work, and then we've got to stay out of the way. But that is not what we see with on the scriptures. It's not what we see in our confession. God is powerful, hallelujah and amen. You are a sinner, hallelujah and amen. But God has chosen to work through your agency, namely the weak things of this world, to bring about his kingdom. Wasn't God powerful enough to just convert the nations? He was. But he didn't do it that way. He sent a preacher. When Christ fed the 5,000, couldn't he have just taken away their hunger? If he could take away a person's blindness, you can see now, why couldn't he say, you're not hungry anymore? But he does not do that. That's not how he works. He had his disciples take the baskets and he multiplied the bread so that there was enough for everybody We're coordinate, working together on these things. In him we live and move and have our being, of course, but you don't take away human agency. Paul writes this letter operating from a presupposition that if he does not install leadership in the Ephesian church, then the gathering and the perfecting of the saints will not be accomplished That is a presupposition here in this letter. Why else write the letter if it's fatalistic and it's just going to be accomplished? Why persuade? Why urge? Our actions, our choices. Let me back up. Those of you who are arriving, your actions. Your choices matter more than you actually realize based on the attitude that I see within you. The big question for you is, are you going to take the baton? Within hopefully if I can end this sermon, amen, right? If I could end this sermon, we have the Lord's Supper, we should be out whenever. Satan will seek to distract you immediately. To forget about any responsibility that you have. There's a football game on, there's a baseball game on, and all just goes. And you're no longer thinking about the kingdom. That's the question for you. Will you take the baton? Will you recognize that you're a responsible agent? Will those of you who are entering your early 20s and beyond take the baton and advance Christ's kingdom in the home Will you do it in the church and will you do it in this county? In ways that perhaps the earlier generation never even dreamed of There's a picture that we have in Proverbs 24. I'd love for you to look at that over lunch. I'm not going to go into that point because of the time. Proverbs 24, 30 through 34. Take a look at that over lunch. And I just want to point out to you that there's a young man. This is a story about a young man who received the inheritance of a lovely vineyard. Great wine. Cheese. Man. They have these like duck fat fries. They're amazing. But because we didn't take responsibility, the whole thing collapsed. Animals came in, destroyed the vines, walls fell down. And what the former generation had built went to ruins. And I'm pleading with you, those of you who are arriving, please don't let that happen. Please build on what the former generation has done. Do you love Christ and His kingdom? Do you want to see the earth restored? Then those of you who are departing, you must finish the race strengthening the upcoming class of Christ. And those of you who are arriving in adulthood, you must take responsibility. It is time for you to build the kingdom. Amen. Let us pray.