Continuing on in Psalm 119 again this evening, we're looking at verses forty-one through forty-eight. We're looking at the Vav stanza. If you recall, this psalm is an acrostic. Every stanza uses As the first letter of each line, a letter of the Hebrew Alephet. And we go through the first, we've gone through the first five letters of the Hebrew Alephet. Now we're at stanza six, the Vav stanza. Feel free to follow along with me from your own copy of God's Word. Let your mercies come also to me, O Lord, your salvation according to your word So shall I have an answer for him who reproaches me, for I trust in your word. And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth, for I have hoped in your ordinances. So shall I keep your law continually for ever and ever. And I will walk at liberty, for I seek your precepts. I will speak of your testimonies also before kings, and will not be ashamed. And I will delight myself in your commandments, which I love. My hands also I will lift up to your commandments, which I love, and I will meditate on your statutes. It's thus far the word of the Lord. Let us pray. Holy God, this is your word. It is true. It is reliable. It is what you, in your infinite wisdom, know that we here tonight need to accept and to be fed from. We pray, Lord, that you You will make this passage clear to us and will make us more like your Son Jesus through it. We pray this in his name. Amen. Please be seated. Opinions are strange things, aren't they? The Oxford English Dictionary defines opinions as a view. Or judgment formed about something not necessarily based on fact or knowledge. Well, given that definition, I think the old joke about opinions is true. Do you know the joke I mean? Opinions are like armpits. Everybody's got them and they all stink. Of course, everyone is entitled to their own opinion, their own views and judgments based only on their individual mind's output. The problem comes when people try to make opinions have authority over someone other than themselves. It is my opinion that a taco without sour cream is not worth eating. But I can't force anyone else to put sour cream on their taco. And there are people here who are very grateful that I cannot enforce my own opinion. Christianity is not a religion of opinions. It is not based on the opinion of Moses or the opinion of the Israelites. It is not based on the opinion of the men chosen by God to be the writers of Holy Scripture. Christianity is based on the Word of God. And this is what Psalm 119 is all about. Remember, this whole psalm is a prayer focused on our desperate need for God's Word, to know it. To keep it, to love it, to be changed by it. And by studying this prayer, we learn how we are to pray. And we learn that we are to pray as the psalmist does. So having gone through five stanzas of this together, I don't have time to review every single one of them, but I would like to just review stanzas four and five, the last two that we looked at In the Dalit stanza, the fourth stanza, we learn that we desperately need God's word because this world is not our home, and all the world is against God and his people. So we pray for God to give us hearts that love Him and love His Word and that we'll endure the difficulties of living the life that He has defined for us. In the Hay Sansa, there is a huge chasm between the righteous and the unrighteous man, one that cannot be bridged by our own effort. And so we learned that we must pray that the Lord would completely transform us by his word. Well, now tonight we come to this sixth stanza, the Vav stanza, and the Holy Spirit records for us this prayer of the psalmist. From which we can see that we also must pray, recognizing that God's word must be the center of the Christian life So what we learn from this prayer, from the psalmist, is that God's word must be the center of the Christian. We're going to explore this in the two sections of the Psalm. There's this first section, verses 41 to 44, and that shows us that God's word is the foundation of the Christian life. And then we'll look at the second section, verses forty-five to forty-eight, and see that God's word is the power of the Christian life. So look with me now at verses 41 to 44, where we see that God's word is the foundation of the Christian life. It is our confession. It is our foundation because it is our confession. And we see this in verses 41 and 42. We first see in verse 41 that it's our personal confession. We confess that we need God's mercy. Look what it says: Let your mercies come also to me, O Lord, your salvation, according to your word Like the previous stanza, this form of the verb is called the justive. It's a form of the imperative. And basically, to put it this way, to say, let your mercies come to me Clearly shows the psalmist's understanding that it is God's mercy. It is God's mercy, and only He can cause it to manifest in our lives. Having previously prayed for the Lord to transform his mind and his will, his very identity, the psalmist now prays for that which is completely outside of himself. He's not praying in this prayer for transformation, rather for imputation, that God would apply his mercy to his people in a particular way. Well, we confess that this mercy of God is the fulfillment of God's word. It is his own utterances, his own promises. The mercy of God is your salvation according to your word. And brothers and sisters, this is no less than the saving work of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is the objective reality of God's salvation, as true for the psalmist as it is for us, even though we're on the other side of history. We're on the other side of the cross to this man who wrote this. Jesus is the fulfillment of every promise the Father ever made in the covenant with his people. This is the personal confession of every Christian, that God has promised to save his people through Jesus Christ, and that God has made good on that promise by actually saving all of his people in Christ. God's Word is the only source of knowledge of the blessed promise of God, and He has given it to us that we can make confession in our heart that Jesus is the Son of God, incarnate Slain, risen, and ascended for our salvation. But it is not just the confession of our heart We see in verse 42 that it is also the confession of our lips. It is a public confession. He says, So shall I have an answer for him who reproaches me, for I trust in your word. First, we see that it is our defense against the world. We are surrounded by people hostile to Christ and to His Lordship Naturally, as Jesus taught his disciples in John chapters 15, 16, and 17, he says that since the world hated him, it will surely hate those who belong to him and worship him. But no matter what the reproach that comes to us, no matter how the world might express its disapproval or disgust or disappointment, We never need to worry. We have an answer. Now, brothers and sisters, sometimes the answer to the world's reproach might be: you know what? You're right. I shouldn't behave that way. If we are behaving in a manner that is inconsistent with our confession, inconsistent with God's word, then we deserve to be called out for it. And it doesn't matter who calls us out because the validity of the reproach is not based on the messenger. We are Christians. We believe in objective moral truth. We believe that if something is true, it is true regardless of who tells us it. Christians should be humble enough to recognize when we are in the wrong, it's not the messenger. It's not the messenger It is the objective moral truth that they are bringing to bear on the situation. Well, God has given us a marvelous gift. Which is our confidence in answering the world. He's given us his word, which is our defense, our answer to the world, but he's given us a confidence in the answer. His holy word. He says, For I trust in your word. We have an answer when they rightly reproach us because we are humble as Christians. and we accept that they're telling us something true. But we also have an answer when they twist morality, when the world calls what is good evil and what is evil good. If we are reproached for believing and doing what is good, our answer is no, I can't accept that. You are wrong. My God does not want me to think or behave in that way. Even though the world may disagree with us, we are not ashamed to answer as Christians and to refute their reproach. We have this confidence because God has declared to us what is good and what is true in His Word. And so our desperate need is to trust his word. And this trust, this need is a dominant theme throughout all the book of Psalms, but especially throughout this Psalm, Psalm 119. Our Christian life is founded on our confession, which is God's Word. The Lord shows His mercy to us by giving us faith to trust His Word, and so we have the confidence to know What we confess personally, and to stand by that same confession publicly. But we also see that God's word, along with being our confession, is another pillar supporting the Christian life It is our hope. Look with me at verses 43 and 44. We see in verse the first part of verse 43 that it is our present hope. He says, And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth. In praying this, the psalmist demonstrates that it is God's word which he needs in order to survive today. The phrase is strange to us, but try to think of it this way. The Lord Jesus in Matthew 15, verse 18, teaches us that the things which proceed from our mouth come forth from our heart. If the word of truth is in us, it's in our mouths, it is proceeding from our mouths and permeating our speech, then that is a sign to us. That the word of truth is in our hearts. And throughout Psalm 119, the psalmist shows that difficulty, persecution, and suffering often cause the believer to stray. from God's word, to stray from the truth because of frailty, because of our sin. The psalmist's hope for today is that the Lord would not utterly abandon him to himself. So the psalmists and we also pray for this because we know in whom our hope has always been founded. Our presence. Hope. But we also see in the second part of verse 43 that it's our past hope. What does the psalmist say? He says, For I have hoped in your ordinances. Throughout the scriptures, God gave his people his words that they would live by them. God does not change, and like him, his judgments and his ordinances do not change. It is our hope for each and every day that God's merciful salvation revealed in His Word is true and permanent, and so it's our present hope It's the hope of our past, but it's also, as we see in verse 44, the hope for our future. So shall I keep your law continually forever and ever. Now you may call me a legalist, but do you realize that the everlasting life you have been given by God is one of law-keeping? Did you realize that you will be keeping God's law forever? God credits us Christ's perfect law-keeping. And from the moment of our conversion, we are transformed from lawbreaker to law keeper by his great mercy, his salvation. According to his word. Our future hope is that God's word is true, just as our past hope is that God's word is true, and our present hope is that God's word is true. God will create a new heavens and earth, and in that new creation, we will only be capable of obedience. We will only be capable of keeping his law. We won't even have the ability to sin. This is the foundation of the Christian life. It is our confession. It is our hope that God's word is true. And all of it, all that we have, the confession, the words of our confession, the hope in our heart, the reason we have hope, is because of God's word. But the Psalm, this stanza is not finished yet. We can see in the second part of the stanza that God's word is the power of the Christian life. Let's look at verses 45 and 46 together. The boldness of the Christian life is what we're going to see there. Boldness to live as a Christian. to think as a Christian, to speak as a Christian, to act as a Christian. The boldness is in our thoughts, our words, and our deeds. So let's look first at what we see of our deeds. See the boldness in what we do. The psalmist says in the first part of verse 45: and I will walk at liberty. Our future is free. Our ultimate reality is accomplished in Christ. So now we live life liberated from the fear of God's judgment. Judgment. We are free within God's providence to choose for ourselves what we will do. If we submit to God's word and are guided by it through the Spirit of truth dwelling in us, we will be fearless and unbounded, walking in liberty. But our actions cannot be disconnected from our thoughts. They are our thoughts manifest. Our actions are our thoughts made real into the world. And living according to God's word gives us boldness in what we do because it gives us boldness in what we think. Look at the second part of verse 45. The boldness, I will walk at liberty, for I seek your precepts. If our minds are occupied with God's word, searching for His wisdom, His directions, and His orders, we will find that our thoughts will be altered, they will be purified, and so they will be emboldened. Do you remember what you prayed in that response of prayer? It came from Psalm 19. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. Being a Christian involves having a Christian thought life. What we think about, what we meditate on. What we call vitally important in our lives, this can impact many areas of life. If you seek a bold and powerful Christian life, you must care for your thoughts as the psalmist does, and pray that God gives you the same desire for His Word: the desire to know his thoughts. A Christian thought life emboldened by God's word leads to bold Christian actions, and the same boldness will be found in our speech. It will affect what we say. Look at verse 46. I will speak of your testimonies also before kings, and will not be ashamed. The audience is not important to us. The truth upon which our lives are founded is objective moral truth. It is the Word of God. Kings, emperors, governors, religious leaders, though all of them may have a kind of power in this world, they do not have the power to cause harm to our soul. They cannot alter the trajectory of our everlasting life. Dependence upon God's words leads to a boldness in our speech because we are not relying on our own reasoning, our own words, our own opinions. We rely on God's thoughts. We rely on God's words. We rely on God's opinions. If someone rejects what we say when we are sharing with them what God says in his word, then they are not rejecting us. But they are rejecting God. It's important to realize something here. It's important to realize that not being ashamed is not the same as being a jerk. We must notice that it isn't, I will speak of your testimonies also before kings, and they will see the error of their ways, follow what I say completely, and respect and revere me as a wise and honorable man worthy of their diligent attention. That's not what will happen. That's not what the word says. The boldness of the Christian life comes from the Word of God. Comes from the Word of God. And that is why God's word must be, as it is the boldness of the Christian life, it is also the complete and utter devotion of the Christian life. And we will see this in verses forty-seven. It is the complete devotion of the Christian life, our body, our mind, and our soul. Look at our soul first. This is where the psalmist takes us. He says in verse 47, and I will delight myself in your commandments, which I Love. Delight himself in God's commandments. The love of God's commandments. Does this describe your experience? Is this how you would describe your relationship to God's Word? Do you avoid doing things that delight you? Even though it's hard work, the sculptor delights in his sculpting. The pianist will spend many hours every day practicing and practicing and practicing, but it's not a burden. It's a joy. It's a delight. The same must be true if the Christian life is to have power. God's commandments cannot be burdensome to us They cannot be to us arbitrary rules from a despotic authoritarian in the sky. God's word must be the devotion of our heart, and we must love it. So our heart must be completely devoted to God by being devoted to his word, but so must our body. Look at what it says in verse 48. My hands also I will lift up to your commandments which I love. The heart delights, but the hands lift up. Our heart is devoted to God's word, and so our bodies must be also. Now, this is not an example of treating the Bible as an idol or bibliolatry. This is rather putting the word in its proper position in our life. Lifting it up is putting it in the center of our life, giving it the proper respect, the proper reverence, the proper devotion. And lastly, brothers and sisters, I want you to see that it is our head, our minds, that must be devoted to the Lord. And we see this at the end of verse 48: And I will meditate on your statutes. God's Word brings power into our lives through our minds' devotion to it. It is the constant subject of our meditation. It's the single most important exercise our brains will ever engage in. studying God's word, that we might think his thoughts after him. The power of the Christian life is the boldness we derive from God's Word. Boldness in what we do, think, and say, which is why we are so completely div Devoted to God's Word with all of ourselves, body, mind, and soul. Well, sometimes it is easy to take for granted the vital role God's Word must have in our lives, as our brother Nick pointed out to us earlier. It seems self-evident if you think about it. If the Bible is the only source of truth to learn about the only true God, then we must devote ourselves to the Bible to learn about the true God. But for some reason, we simply cannot drum up the necessary devotion to God's Word. None of us can. In other words, this kind of devotion is not something That can be faked. It can't be faked because it is the foundation of the Christian life. Thus, if we don't know God's word, if we don't care about God's word, if we are not devoted to it. It will be evident. Our confession will suffer, or worse, it will be totally invalid. It will be totally wrong Our personal confession will suffer. Without God's word, a personal confession is simply someone's opinion. If there is no holy scripture, then someone saying that Jesus is Lord is only their opinion We're basically saying that we have chosen to believe Christianity over other opinions because it makes the most sense to us. This means that truth is relative. Everyone gets to choose what's best in their own eyes and basically just do what they want. It will also cause our public confession to suffer if we do not have the proper devotion to God's Word and have it at the center of our lives. Without God's word, a public confession is meaningless. Us. The words of faith have been defined for us in the Bible, in God's own words. To give a confession or an answer to the world that is ignorant of God's words, or worse yet, is contrary to them, is of no use to anyone. Especially to us. It bears no authority. It doesn't exist in reality. Because again, without the supernatural revelation of God, we're just elevating opinions. We're just elevating our own wishes and our own desires about who we hope God is and who we want him to be. Only by trusting the true Word of God and having it and knowing it can we know what God truly expects of mankind. And what it is that he wants mankind to know about him. Well, if God's word is not the center of our life, then we are hopeless. We will have no defense against anyone who would try to contradict us. We will be forced to recognize the validity of everyone's opinions, which will certainly undermine the fantasy of reality that we've given out to our own opinions We'll have no confidence in our life if our life is founded only on opinion. How do we know we're right about controversial issues, about the difficult things that we'll face? How do we know that abortion is really wrong? How do we know that we shouldn't unjustly take someone else's life? If everyone's life is based on opinion Does that mean that the majority rules in all things? The opinion of most of us should be the opinion of all of us? Brothers and sisters, it is downright impossible to survive as a Christian without God's word, without power in our life, in our Christian life, without the boldness of our religion and our faith. If we are not devoted to God's word, then we will be subject to our own and others' opinions and will be tossed around like a tiny boat in the midst of a hurricane. We will have no foundation and no anchor. So consider our thoughts, consider our minds. If we believe that we are Christians and that we've been transformed into a new creation, Can we continue in the perverted and broken ways of our thinking that was before we were converted? The same perverted and broken ways of thinking that plague the unbeliever. Some of us have great difficulty with our thought lives because we spent much of our lives not caring about what we put into our minds. And others of us have great difficulty with our thought lives because we spent so much time intentionally putting bad things into our minds. Considering our thoughts doesn't just mean avoiding bad movies or bad books or bad stuff. After all, if life is just based on opinion, who said that they're bad? No, what it means is that we must avoid any way that is contrary to God's word. So, as an example, if we are trying to evaluate our speech, our words Is it okay to use bad words? No, it's not. It's not okay. Well, who defines what is a bad word? Is there such a thing as a bad word? If it's just our opinion, then there's no such thing as bad words, and that's really just someone else's thing. We don't have to follow it. But the Bible says differently, doesn't it? The Bible says that there should be no unwholesome speech or corrupt words that come out of our mouths. If there is such a thing that the Bible defines as corrupt speech, corrupt words, unwholesome speech, then we know that there are things. As bad words, bad ways to be. And the Lord doesn't want us to be like that. God's opinion is truth. And that is the only suitable foundation for our lives. Well, brothers and sisters, consider also your deeds. How do you walk before the Lord? How do you walk before the Lord Men. There is a standard of behavior which God expects from his people. He has given his laws, he has given his ordinances and his statutes and his precepts. That God, that his people, that you and I, would know what he expects. Can anyone rightly claim to love the Father and yet reject his opinion about our behavior? If God forbids something in his word, is this merely a suggestion? Or does God actually expect us to follow what he says? Again, can we be okay with all these sins that the world says is alright? Can we be okay with Homosexuality or pornography or sex before marriage or murder or theft or gossip or racism. Fill in the blank Based on our own opinions or the opinions of the world, we cannot. Because God's word speaks against those opinions and tells us what we are to believe Brothers and sisters, we are not free to follow our own opinions. We don't base our faith and our religion off of what we think We base it off of what God says in His Word. Brothers and sisters, without devotion to God's Word, the foundation of the Christian life crumbles. The power of the Christian life is nullified. And so, like the psalmist, we must pray and beg our Lord to enable us to put his word in the proper place at the very center. of our lives, where it functions as the foundation for our Christian life and as the power. Please pray with me.