In prayer. Let's pray together. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, we bow before you this morning. O3 and One, we are grateful for the realization that in community, we are here together to experience what that means, to be in you, to be in Christ. And Father, I pray that that outflowing of the love that you have amongst the Godhead would be the way that we recognize our brothers and our sisters in Christ. Father, I pray for this lesson this morning. I pray that you would guide us and lead us from your word. And Father, I pray that you would help us to recognize that it is your grace that has empowered us. And so help us understand that, Lord. That's difficult to understand. But Lord, help us, we pray. And I pray all these things in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Amen. Good morning. I thought I would begin this morning by reviewing, kind of taking up where we left off, since it has been four weeks, I guess, since last we got together. So I'm going to review some of this is is what uh hopefully familiar to us, and then we're going to move on. And I have a couple of assertions that I'm going to make after that. We are talking this Sunday school class is at some level about the question. What does it mean when When we are told, when Paul says to Timothy, that you are to train yourself unto godliness, we're asking the question at some level, what is godliness? What's its goal? What's its purpose? And or how what is the purpose of the spiritual disciplines which are part of the training unto godliness? That's what we're asking. So we began the question when we were together With what do those words mean? Train yourself for godliness. And we said that training comes from the word in Greek gymnasium or gymnase. Which means to exercise vigorously in any way, either in the body or the mind. So you think about anything in life, and we know this intuitively, anything in life that we want to have the skill to do We need to train for it. We do not just wake up and pick up a guitar and play stairway to heaven, do we, Mr. Bond? No, it it's something that takes a lot of training It requires time and energy and effort. If you want to be an incredible artist or painter, you do not just go and get your the oil colors out and paint like Rembrandt. You just don't. It requires a devotion. It requires time. It requires training. You do not step up to the plate as an in as a professional baseball player. and think that you're going to knock a 95 mile per hour fastball out of the park. You had to have seen that ball many, many, many, many times coming down towards you in order for you to be successful to even get the wood on the ball, as they say. So it seem it makes sense then that if godliness is something that we want to see as part of our life beyond just mere the mere salvation or the justification that God has wrought in us by making us righteous in his son. That godliness itself is something that we need to train on to, especially if what we mean by that is the right ordering of our loves. And that gets us to the definition of godliness Okay? So anything in our life that we uh want to see flourishing and growing and and at some level part of who we are is something that requires a lot of training. And so godliness comes from this word, and this was kind of a shock to me and maybe it was to you, this word Eusebia, which means right worship. from two Greek words, right and worship. And another way of thinking about that is rightly ordered worship. And so rightly ordered worship is worship that is according to the way that God has ordained. And according to what it means to be right and righteous. And so Guston put it this way, at some level, godliness is a rightly ordered love. That's what worship is, right? We worship that which we love, which we adore. We call it worthy. We celebrate it because it is worthy of our praise. And so it is what we love, and therefore it is a rightly ordered love. And so talking about what it means to be godly is recognizing that there are things as a result of the fall that are not rightly ordered in our lives. And I didn't go deeply into this last the last time, but I thought it would be good for us to kind of unpack that just a little bit more. So first of all, think about rightly. What does it mean for something to be rightly ordered? What does it mean to be for something to be rightly ordered? Okay? It means that we are, it is an appropriately The thing that we have decided is good or right. And of course, God's the one who tells us what that is. What are the things that are right? What are the things that are true? So, first of all, it would be a right allegiance A right allegiance, right? A right reverence. Hebrews 12. 28 says, offer to God acceptable worship with reverence and awe. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. I guess I have this thing up here. I might as well put that down. So, first of all, right allegiance. When we Right allegiance. So worship. What do you say? Let me do this right. My kids will tell you that I teach that I don't like writing on the board because one, my handwriting is atrocious, and two It takes time and I don't like taking up time writing stuff on the board. I want to move, I want to go. So let's see if we can do this. So godliness. Right worship. And Augustine would say that that means right, rightly ordered Loves. Loving what we ought to love, hating what we ought to hate. And as sinful people in our sinful nature, what we love is what we ought to hate, and what we hate is what we ought to love. And so the redemption of God has brought about us this wonderful thing, which is that He has now given us a new nature. That we might rightly love what we ought to love. But then again, we are at war. And we're going to get into that later. We talk about John Owen and godliness and his approach to that. We're at war. The two natures now that are in us that we have, that one to be fully vanquished when we are when at the end of the age, but there's still a war going on, and so we are to be putting to death that old man. And we'll talk more about that later. But Therefore, we are to consider that having at some level, because of our sin nature, disordered loves Loving things that we ought not, then part of the training and discipline is that we discipline ourselves to recognize and to understand that which we are to rightly love And so first of all, we said, first of all, having a right orientation towards allegiance, a right allegiance. The book of Romans is interesting. It talks it begins with this idea that we were once slaves to sin. And because of what Christ has done, He set us free that we might be now slaves to God. And therefore our allegiance has changed. Our allegiance has changed. No more are we in allegiance to the evil one, but rather our allegiance is towards God. But at the same time, there's that conflict and there's that struggle that we need to recognize that oftentimes in our heart our allegiances aren't properly ordered. And an allegiance can be a right reverence. Rightly revering God as we ought, a right devotion A right devotion to God, and then a right desire for God. Right desire for God. And I made an assumption when I began the Sunday school class last week. I made the assumption that if you're a Christian And that at some level, if you're here, the assumption is that you do have a right desire for God, one that was born in you by grace through the Spirit And I think about the psalmist when he says, as the deer pants for the water brook, so my soul longs after thee. And that that is at some level what was birthed in you when you were born again was a right desire for God and for the things of God. But it's something that can wax and wane, can it not? Especially as we become distracted by the things of this earth. And so a right Allegiance means the recognition that what I want more and more, more and more and more, is right reverence and devotion for God and a right desire for God There's a bunch of these that I could go through and I'm going to just briefly mention them, but but uh we we need a right orientation of our of our loves, right? And that uh that shows itself in the way that we live. So right living. And what would right living be? Right living The first thing the right living is obedience, obedience to God's word. What has he said? How has he spoken? Well, we think about this in our last Sunday school class, right? The the moral law of God is there for us, not merely as something I mean that we we talk about the three uses of the law, but It is there for us as Christians to provide for us an example of how we are to live, right? According to the Word of God. And so right living requires right obedience Purity, integrity. Maybe you can think of other things that go along with that. Purity, integrity. I don't want to give a list of that means that you will do this or do that, but we recognize that it it at some level it requires us to think about what has God said, how would he have us live, and how do we live in a way that's consistent with his word. It also means right rule of the self. So right living, right, rule of self Right? Bible tells us that we should learn how to live rule live lives of self-control. Right? Rule of self Again, I'm trying to unpack this concept of godliness, right? What do we mean when the author of uh of uh Timothy Well would Paul says That's to discipline yourself to godliness. So what is it that we're talking about? And he uses this word, right worship. And all of that right worship is a right ordering of our approach or our um understanding or evaluation of who God is. So right rule of the self, and that can be all kinds of things. Self-control. Disciplining oneself. How does one respond to difficult things, hardships Uh how does one does one persevere, all of that. So a rightly ordering of how our governance of ourself is to be. And then um, well there I've got a couple more, but I want to just I'll say one last one, right? Right um posture towards our circumstances. This has been a super challenge for me the past week or so. A right posture That's me. Is that me? Or is that somebody else? I hear a phone ringing. Oh well. Right posture. Towards circumstances So many of you may know my mother broke her uh hip in the middle or in just two three weeks ago when I was at my son's wedding, in between the wedding ceremony and the reception And the first question, one first of all, are she and I both, as I was actually the first to her, and I saw her fall and I was holding her head and she's going, why? Why? Why? Why at this moment, in between the wedding and the reception, would this happen? And I'm trying to comfort her, but in my mind I'm asking the same question. Right? I'm asking the same question. And it wasn't Immediately that I had a right posture towards my circumstances, I had to repent of it later. But later, as I began to think about it, I said, God, you were not sleeping when my mother fell. You were not off in another place and you were not looking down with your hands ringing going, oh my, what just happened? Right? You were sovereignly ordaining those circumstances. Which is why I have been trying to pray differently about what happened to her and maybe you saw this in the prayer request. I said, please pray for my mother's ministry in the hospital And I'm here to tell you, your prayers were effectual. My mother had an absolute, it's so funny to call her. And she goes, had a wonderful day. A wonderful day. There she is, you know, she had hip surgery and she had a wonderful day. Four or five people came in. One nurse came in and I said to her, Do you know Jesus? And that's just my mom. And we just think again, not a strange question, but for some reason it's a question we're hesitant to ask. Do you know Jesus? She had a number of, see my sister-in-law said, she had women just coming in and sitting at her feet while she was giving them marital advice, talking to them about the faith, comforting them. This is my mother laying in her hospital bed, and this is what she's doing. And she calls me up and said, Pray for this young man. I met him and I think he's a Christian, but I can't tell. He seems to have a misunderstanding. Pray for me. Oh, I met this other lady, she's from Turkey, said she was raised a Muslim, but I don't know. So I I gave her a track. I'm hoping that when she comes back will be able to just every day. Those are the questions. And I'm sitting here and I'm imagining, this is again, right posture towards circumstances. And I repented at that moment of my why questions and I said, God, do you know what you're doing? And you know why you do what you do. And I'm imagining one day, and I don't know if this is true or not, but I'm imagining one day in heaven some probably tapping me on the shoulder and says, you know I gave my life to Jesus because of your mother. I don't know. We'll see. If not, she was a light. She was a light in the midst of her circumstances And so that, and I'm I'm hanging out on this one because I do think this is one of the one of the biggest struggles for us when it comes to representative godliness, right? is do we have a right posture towards towards what it is? Are we content with how it is that that the things that have happened to us? Oh well look at that. Thank you very much. No, it's just pollen in the air. It gives to be. But That is the probably the the the place or the area in my life where I need to repent the most is grumbling not being willing to accept the Lord's will and having a not having a right response to our circumstances. So godliness, godliness is all these things. How we trust, our gratitude, I mean all of this is wrapped up in what it means to be godly, right? And that we are rightly ordered in the way that we approach our Creator rightly ordered in the way that we think about what he's doing in our lives, rightly ordered in our love and devotion to him, and in our approach to, or I used to say rightly uh in our in our hatred for those things that he would also hate and not want us to be a part of. And so that's what it means to be at some level to be godly. And so here's my kind of summary of that. Right worship That produces a rightly ordered life, which is marked by reverence, obedience, self-mastery, love, contentment, and visible faithfulness. Right worship that produces a rightly ordered life, which is marked by reverence, obedience, self-mastery, love Contentment and visible faithfulness. So again, that's review. And the last part of my review is what is that Chase last week brought up the idea of that our training unto godliness has to is because there's great reward. Reward in this life and in the next. And so you'll notice my first point under my review is if you want to know more about that, talk to Chase. Okay. And I only have and I listened to his uh science school. It's great. At the same time, as he said, there's a minefield there, and I'm I'm grateful for your brother to traversing uh attempting to traverse that particular minefield. Because there are things that we don't talk about in the modern world. Much more do we find them in the Puritans and the kind of language that you see there or in our confession that or that we are we are hesitant to talk about because we are trying to figure out the relationship between grace and what it means to walk out a life of devotion and faithfulness. But I will say this, I do have one kind of final thought or one thought about the reward. And it comes from your study, my study of the Puritans. Oftentimes when the Puritans talked about the reward that was awaiting them, for them it wasn't a mansion. I mean not I mean Jesus does mention that there's a mansion in many rooms and he goes to prepare a place for us and these kind of things. But it was always the reward was always Christ. Christ is our great reward. And I think about that in the verses like we find in Matthew. The kingdom of heaven It's like a treasure hidden in a field, a man found it and covered up, then in his joy he goes and sells all that he has and buys that field. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant in search of fine pearls, who on finding one pearl of great value, went and sold all that he had and bought it. The kingdom of heaven, what is that pearl of great price? You read the Puritans, it's always, that focus on those, that text is always Jesus. Jesus is our pearl of great price. And that is what we long for. And then uh just the verse in John 17 that I had forgotten to write down for you, but John 17, verse 3, I believe it is. No, verse 11. Ah no, verse three. John seventeen, verse three. And this is eternal life. That they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. This is eternal life. This is our great reward. Our Savior, His face that we get to see, the Puritans called it the beatific vision, that for which we long, that day in which our faith will be sight. And we will no longer have that veil, that cloud, but we will see clearly our Lord and Savior. And so that is for me the the end or the summary of what for ch uh Chase I uh uh of what Chase talked about last week, our great reward is our Savior, right? And so Philippians says, therefore I count everything as loss. Because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. And this is Paul's heart. that he might know Christ and this is our reward. So that's review from last week. Okay? We are here to discuss this idea of uh when Paul tells Timothy, train yourself for guidance. And so this leads to a question. And I'm on bullet point two, I think it's on page two. How does one train for godliness? How does one train for godliness? And my answer And I'm going to assert this answer, and this is where the questions will come, I imagine. I was telling Bill this morning that I was putting the Sunday school class together, and I found at this point in the lesson all of these tangents And if you'll ask my students, you'll know I love nothing more than a good rabbit trail. So if indeed that's where we need to go, but there's a lot of questions that appear in here. And so I'm going to simply assert the answer and then unpack it and give us a historical precedent, a little bit of a historical precedent, and then we will go from there. What I'm hoping to do next week, if your question is Where does grace fit into that? If that's your question, my hope is to unpack that next week. That's what I want to do. What is this relationship between grace And at some level our striving, our efforts that we put into the the development or the growth in our own godliness, what is that relationship? Because our confession and we know our doctrine of sanctification, sanctification it's a work of The spirit? What does that mean? What does that look like? How do we understand that? And even as we talk today, have the Puritan understanding of spiritual disciplines. I keep going back to the Puritans because I I found a lot I find a lot of good writing there about this relationship between the Christ is at work within you, therefore the, you know, so uh he is at work, excuse me Work out your salvation with fear and trembling, therefore, because Christ is at work within you, because God is at work within you. So that they they did a lot of work on that. That relationship between work out your salvation and God is at work within you And it's it's a challenging one. I've I've heard pastors just pass over it. Not you, Jesse, but I've heard other pastors just skip over that. We're they're going through that text, they just kind of skip over that They get to the goddess that work within you, and that's where they hang out. But that first part, hmm, that's a that's a troublesome and a difficult part. And uh I I don't know whether I'll do a good job at it or not, but I want to I'm gonna try and unpack that a little bit more for us next next week. So, the answer by proper use of the spiritual disciplines leads us to the question, what are the spiritual disciplines? That particular phrase, spiritual discipline, is rather new. It's not something that the ancients used. They used uh things like means of grace Habits of life, that kind of terminology. Spiritual disciplines kind of came around in about the 60s or the 70s. Not exactly who coined the term, but you'll see guys like Alice Woodward, which is the book I recommended to you. Whitney, uh Mathis, you'll see them. Actually Matthews uses means of grace and habits of grace uh as his terminology. But that word shows up, and so we need to kind of unpack what it means, right? Here is Whitney's definition. I don't know if you've gotten this book yet. I I'm getting a lot of what I'm doing from this book, Spiritual Disciplines for the Christian Life by Donald S. Whitney. And this is his definition of spiritual disciplines. Personal, he says they are personal and corporate disciplines that promote spiritual growth. They are the habits of devotion. and experiential Christianity that have been practiced by the people of God since biblical times. The spiritual disciplines are the God-given means we are to use in the spirit-filled pursuit of godliness. And then he says this, godliness comes through discipline. Let's pause for a second, and I want to see if you have any questions about that. What what does that sound right to you? Godliness comes through discipline. Yes and no. Now why are you saying no? What's the yes and what's the no? Well the Well the yes is work out your your salvation experience. There's obviously something that we have to do. Right. But there's also the grace of God, and we're not gonna want any money of that one. Yes. Okay. So what distinction do we need to make so that we can recogni uh so that we can embrace the phrase godliness comes through discipline? What distinction do you think we need to make? Marilyn? Yeah. I was just going to say maybe there's a dual meaning of the word. Okay. In that we discipline ourselves, but we also say discipline our children. God disciplines us because He loves us as a father. Right. Um and that That's part of our making us godly. His discipline, his testing of us makes us godly. So godly comes through his discipline and he enlists our self discipline Good. Okay, good. I I do I agree with you that there could be some ambiguity here if I just say discipline having the meaning of this. Whitney's meaning here is your disciplining of yourself, not someone disciplining you in order to bring about some kind of behavior. It is your self-control, your self-discipline, your training. So back to that idea of your training. And so, do we, what distinction do we need to make? And if I can need to unpack that a little bit more, I will, but godliness, do we need to distinguish it from something else, perhaps? Such that we can embrace godliness comes through discipline. Yes, Mrs. Lowing. Well back to your other question. kind of missing here Natalie thought what's like grace, but it's also through God's Holy Spirit. Right. Right. Versus like there is some muscling up that we do, but it is got at work. Okay. Well we're gonna we're gonna talk about that next week Yeah. Um this Whitney is is and he's actually saying so if you read the first part of it in the context, he's saying there are Uh habits of devotion. So habits of devotion are not, I mean, they are obviously going to be spirit wrought underneath, but they are the things that you do. Right? They're the things that you do. And again, contextually you're in in in certain cultural contexts, we we're hesitant sometimes to lay it out like that because we're very afraid of that word legalism, which again I'm going to get into next week. We're very afraid of some concept of merit that comes about as a result as somehow merited God's favor, that godliness is somehow a a a thing that's merited to me. I do these things and then bam God grants me godliness as a something I've I've earned in that sense. And all of your Puritans and all of these writers that I suggested to you, Whitney and Mathis and Willard all reject the idea of the disciplines having any kind of merit, which uh uh Chase was talking about last week, right? Any kind of merit for with regards to somehow God now owing us something. So again, what's the distinction we need to make in order for us to embrace that godliness comes through distance And I'm thinking about a distinction between the word godly and maybe another way of thinking about what God has given us through his own grace, right? The if you will, the the alien reality that is ours. Yes, Christine? Um I don't My students hate that about me, that I'm always searching for something and then I'm like, come on man, come on man. I'm so so yes, you're suffering what they suffered. Go right ahead. Um but I'm wondering if there's a distinction here between sanctification and godliness or or is one of root is one the outworking of the fruit of the other. Um so that God is the sanctifier, he his Holy Spirit is the one that convicts us to pursue godliness and godliness is the outworking and the fruit of the the effect of that sanctification. I think that that's close to it. What do you guys think? Any other thoughts on that? Yeah. Sure. I'm wondering if there's the connection between godliness and holiness so when God says to Israel, You are my people and I will make you Holy. He didn't do that with a magical spell. Now they are set apart from the other nations. He did it by giving them commands that they actually had to obey to be set apart like well we circumcise our males. Sure. Other nations don't do that. We serve just one God. Other nations are doing that. But that it was um where it was They were working alongside the commands God gave them in their obedience to be this whole leaves instead of archival. Correct. Or maybe there's synonyms if we can say to be this godly nation. Correct. Yeah, I exactly. I mean so what I have in my mind, Christine, to be honest with you, is I'm still working this out myself. So I'm I'm getting what you guys think about this. But it is this idea, we have this Declaration of our righteousness. That, right? It is a judicial declaration, okay? A pronouncement We are justified by faith alone. Okay? And and we talk about, and this is a biblical category that's challenging for us to get into our heads. We talk about salvation being something that has occurred, but it's also occurring. We have been saved, we're being saved, and we will be saved. And we recognize that declaration of our justification, that we are clothed with the righteousness of Christ That is our state before God, that's who we are. And there's so here's the distinction that I'm trying to make. There's that And then we are also, as we walk in this life, being conformed to the image of Christ. So we are in Christ John Owen has a wonderful phrase about that. He says this, and this is something that if you stop and think about it, your first reaction may be, I don't know about that. But then this is what Paul is saying over God. He says, whatever is true of Christ Is true of me. Whatever is true of Christ is true of me. That's what it means to be in Him. I no longer live. Praise God. Right? And yet at the same time, we recognize that there is this progression of conforming or being transformed, no longer be transformed. By this world, but right. Be ye transformed by your right worship, actually, if you look at Romans 12. Be transformed by your right worship. Being conformed to the image of Christ, being like him. And we it's a prayer we even pray, don't we? Make me more like Christ. And so that distinction of being, everything that's true of him is true of me, and now let me be more and more conformed to his image. That's the biblical category that we have to figure out. Steve Um, I'm thinking in terms of The indicative. Sure, absolutely. Um there is yeah, because Paul does it that he says it all the time. But go ahead, exp unpack that for us. So the indicative is Essentially is what God has done by His grace. And then what flows out of that is the imperative of what is required of us. Exactly. Be what you are. Become what you already are. And that is, again, that's this, it's a challenge for us because when we recognize that we're not, we we we run back to the indic in the indicative, which is wonderful But the empowering grace of God in salvation is that we might make progress in being conformed unto the image of Christ. Such that As we age and as we get older and as we are disciplined unto godliness, we are more and more not merely simply indicative, but also recognized as being godly. Right? Yeah, Jesse. Thinking that we see this not a not uh exactly the same, but in other stories besides what we see in the scriptures. I was thinking how it's in the Lord of the Ring or the Hobbit Is Frodo the second how is it? Yes. Yes, yes. So Frodo in a sense is he doesn't choose to be the ring bearer there there are way higher powers selecting him to be so. Right. And and so that would be equivalent to justification being called to be of a be a in a particular status within the universe. Yes. And then his pilgrimage with his friends is him becoming the kind of person that would be able to put the ring in Mount Dew. If he didn't take the pilgrimage he wouldn't have been able to get there. I think actually um when they were making the movies they were considering keeping it shorter by making him fly on the Eagles. each destination as opposed to having the pilgrimage. Oh my and and they ended up scratching that because the journey was so important to the main theme of him having to become a particular kind of person that could be here. Yeah, excellent. Excellent. Roger, did you have something? Oh, okay. And we're often called pilgrims. Yeah, we're called pilgrims, sojourners. So that is, when I call it a distinction, maybe it's not, but but that's part of it, right? And embracing The idea that, I mean this is uh Dallas Woolworth says this in his book, embracing the idea, I think we live in a culture that doesn't, this is seems kind of strange, does not want to embrace the idea that we can be actually Christ-like. We fall back on the well I am I'm I'm in Christ and that's it. And Willard his encouragement is no, actually grow. in grace, through the habits of discipline, that you will actually be conformed unto the image. Such that in Peter says this real interesting thing, right? Everything that you need for life and godliness has been given to you. Everything you need for life in God has been given to you through your union with Christ. Right? And he goes on to unpack that a little bit for we're going to look at that in just a minute, hopefully. So this is this is the idea, godliness comes through discipline. Now Mathis uses a different phrase, and this phrase finds its We find this phrase more often used historically through the throughout the history of the church, the time of the Reformers, the Puritans. He calls The dis instead of saying spiritual disciplines, he calls them the means of grace and habits of life. So means of grace and habits of life. Now I don't know if you're like me, but when I hear the word Means of grace. That sounds really great, but I have no idea what it means. Means of grace. In the sense that what what's going on? What does what unpack that for me? Okay? And so we think about means as the thing that God has ordained that you would use, and it's by grace that those means are effectual. Okay? And so, but what does means mean? They are the ordinary instruments, practices, and ordinances by which God, through the Spirit, sanctifies us. So what are means? The means of grace. The ordinary instruments, the practices And the ordinances by which God, through his Spirit, sanctifies believers. But they are things that we must do. We participate, if you will, in the means. They are not something that just drops onto us and therefore we're sanctified. The means means that we are participants. It's something that we are doing. Okay? And therefore, this is what God has given us. When we think about that, most of us probably have heard that the well, let me give part two here, practices through which God transforms his people. They are the practices through which, these means of grace, these habits of life, are the practices through which God transforms his people by grace And they were intended to cultivate holiness, obedience, love for God, and communion with Him. Holiness, obedience, love for God, and communion with Him. And guys like John Owen would go so far as to say, and if you are not participating or practicing the means of grace, Then you will not grow in holiness, obedience, love for God, and communion with Him. He has a real interesting phrase in his book on the mortification of sin, and it's a great little phrase that you can remember. He says, you need to be killing sin, or it will be killing you. And again, if you have a justification view of things, such that you do not recognize the necessity of per of the pursuit of godliness and holiness, then you will then you will become at some level uh subs not subservient, but you that the danger of becoming complacent because well I'm you know I'm justified so we're good. Right? That that that will that can actually work in a way that does not allow you or does not cause you to become conformed to his image. What's interesting about that, and this is where I'm I'm I feel like I'm walking through the my show right now, uh Chase Um so you gotta go read John Owen, but they they will you know this is where our doctrine of perseverance of the saints comes in. And that there's assurances in your life that come from the fact that you are participating in the growth and grace and lack of assurance if you do not see any kind of fruit or growth. And again I'm hoping to try and unpack that a little bit more next week, but that's that's tough. That's a toughie, so we'll we'll uh we'll see how the minefield goes. Yes, sir. I was gonna say that the uh Whitney's definition God gives me uh in just this language of is also I think helpful in that there is a danger of a kind of worldly asceticism uh adopting practices that God never intended. Don't don't eat these things. Right. Don't uh don't get married. or or whatever it might you see it in the New Testament studies as well, where people are adopting practices, thinking it is leading to God's answer. Absolutely. That's a great point. And we need to unpack that a little bit more too. Especially I'm that we're gonna get to that in just a second when I give kind of the traditional list of if you will, of the disciplines, right? The Westminster Confession of Faith, so let's go to that, right? So what do we think of as the disciplines or the spiritual disciplines or the means of grace? The West Winston Confession of Faith says that the primary means of grace are what are the primary means of grace according to the West Winston Confession? Prayer and worship. Well sacrament prayer and baptism. Well sacrament, that's baptism. Well, the word Right? The Word. The intake of the Word. So the Word, sacraments, and prayer. That's shorter catechism, question 88, I think. Uh it's in there somewhere. So, but what does it say? It says the primary means of grace. The implication being what? That there are others. Right? And interestingly enough, the Cast Message says the primary means of grace wherein we are grow in our understanding of our redemption. So those are the primary means of grace. So we think about it every time when we take the Lord's Supper, and Jesse says, this is the time for you to focus on what Christ has done for you. Right? So that means by which we recognize or understand what it means that we are redeemed. Okay? But there are other means of grace, if you will, if we if we can go there, that's that are that have other effects and other purposes And Whitney's going to give us a list of them. I'm going to give you his list as the first list. Okay? Core disciplines I think that's what I have on your handout, right? Core disciplines? Let me make sure I'm looking at the same hand out. Okay. Core disciplines for him. And notice to start out with the first three. Scripture intake. So that's the word. That could be your, obviously the preached word is the is that is the that's the word of Christ to us on a weekly basis. But then there are other disciplines of that. That's why he puts it in, there's the word preached. Which we receive, you know, uh uh in on in Sabbath worship. But then there's of course your own devotional time, your own uh opportunity to be in the word, your encouragement with one another. So that's why he calls it scriptural intake And then the sacraments, obviously, and prayer. And those three, according to our confession, are the means by which God communicates to us what he has done for us in our redemption. Okay? But then there are other and these these are again we can even go back if we were to trace the history and I I have that in here and if for those of you who want the entire historical president I have another handout that we don't have time to go into but I can mail that to you. Because that's my first question. Is this historical? Is this is there any basis for this in in the practice of the church? And the answer is yes, obviously. Yes, ma'am. Michelle, I'm sorry. I said this mailman. Michelle. doesn't really talk about it much and that's the meditation. And so if when in the scripture intake, is that part of or is he saying Yeah, it's part it would be part of it as well. I mean, what are you meditating on? You're meditating on scripture. Yeah, absolutely. And I'm just I'm surprised that scripture meditation Meditation isn't one as well. I think that's what is meant there. Well that's why notice at the bottom of that list I have etc. I have, etc. This is not an exhaustive list. Okay. As a matter of fact, these it all three of the books that I'm that I've been looking at have different lists of the spiritual disciplines. And again, there is a a whole lot of et cetera. It goes back to what Chase said. We have to be careful about adding to things simply because The reason why these lists are here, just a second, the reason why these lists are here is again they are historically, I mean Jesus practiced solitude, Jesus himself fasted Right? And Jesus encouraged his disciples to fast. Jesus assumed that his disciples were fasting. We're going to get into the rest of the of the Sunday school classes about looking at these different distinct disciplines and talking about what they mean, what purpose do they serve in our own growth and grace, what purpose do they serve in the development of our Godliness, we're going to get into that. And we're not going to be able to do them all because we only have seven or so weeks And I may I've even thought about saying, well what were the ones I've thought about like getting a survey. What are the ones you guys want to do or talk about? Uh because maybe you have this down, but maybe this is one you wanna want to to talk about further. I would just Um speaking back on what myself said, because the scripture said to meditate only on scripture, sure. I think it's included in scripture interface. Yeah, probably. Yeah. Not under the scripture intake. Yeah. Then you're opening up a can of worms. There's a lot of dangerous practices. Meditate on four scripture Absolutely. There are a lot of dangerous practices. And maybe that's why uh Whitney did not did not make that a distinct discipline. But again, you'll see that in other in other texts. You'll see, and of course meditation the assumption is that you're meditating on God's Word, right? On His Word, Allah I meditate day and night. Blessed is that particular man who does that, right? So we can we find these different disciplines of Scripture. But So worship, evangelism, service, stewardship, fasting, silence and solitude is an interesting one. Again, uh all three of my authors that I'm looking at affirm that these are not meritorious. We do not do them in order to somehow be then be bequeathed. No. These are the means that by his grace that we then grow into godliness. This is his ordained means. And the question is, the hard part is Or what are these are scriptural? And we'll have to get into that as we have this discussion. Does God ordain this? Yes. No, yes, let's change this word as well. Meditation point you can imagine solitude. imagine it can become a code. Sorry if you and the word it's like it's quite catchy. You can imagine it just Right. It's becoming weak. Right. Right. Um we'll worship eventually Yeah. No, and I I agree with you. And the the point is, and this is again when you when you we have to take these different disciplines and unpack them and ask ourselves the question In what way is this part of the training unto godliness? We have to ask that question. Because clearly, and certainly practices uh Teresa and I were talking this past week about, there are certainly a lot of medieval practices uh in some monasteries that got really crazy with regards to their belief that these disciplines were somehow somehow justifying them, right? That the discipl the purpose of the disciples to justify them, which is why I want to make that distinction between what I am in Christ and what it means to be godly, right? I'm in Christ. I am have all the riches and all the promises of the heavenly blessings. All of that is mine. Whatever is true of Christ is true of me. And at the same time, there is this growth that in becoming conform to his image that is part of what I am to be about. There are other instruments or habits. Again, these are from different books. You'll find these written in the early church. You'll also find it in the Reformers. Now, Martin Luther, I will say, did not have a whole lot of time for this conversation because of his recognition that justification comes by faith, but he would still even recommend uh the the the that there are things that we are doing as we are becoming conformed to his image. But he certainly had a whatever had a he had a bone to pick with the monks So be careful with Luther. But nonetheless, Calvin, Beza, Thomas Watson, a number of these authors, as you read them One of my favorites is a guy named J. C. Ryle, who's not technically a pure Puritan, but if you ever read his book called Holiness by J. C. Ryle, his chapter on sanctification. He spells it out, what it means to grow in abusing the use of the means of grace as we are growing in our holiness. and our godliness. So again, other things, accountability, simplicity, submission, celebration as a discipline, affirmation, frugality. Mortification of sin is something you you read a lot about in the Puritans. The historical precedent, I'm not going to go too deeply into that, like I said, only just to recognize, Jesus himself fasted, Jesus himself spent time in solitude, worship, prayer. The word, obviously, right? He taught these things to his disciples. The early church fathers talk about it. We do have the monastic movement, and that's where we can get we can have some interesting conversations about that. That all of the reformers, especially as they look back into the history of the church, they say, not meritorious, not getting God somehow on our side because I'm Whacking myself with a you know with a s with a s with a uh a whip or something like that. But nonetheless, recognizing that these things are the di the the means by which we will grow we grow in holiness. And so Um the the last part that I have here, the last part that I want to talk about is is there a biblical warrant for at some level? Let's see where'd I go. Yeah. Every chapter of Whitney's book, every chapter of his book, the top of it, it says, for the purpose of godliness, for the purpose of godliness, what is the purpose of the spiritual disciplines? So he's going to go through scripture reading, prayer, fasting. Every chapter is this is for the purpose of God. So if we remember that, as we're thinking about these disciplines, They are for the purpose of conforming us to the image of Christ. They are for the purpose of rightly ordering our loves, our worship. our affections for God, rightly understanding how we are to be, how we are to respond when difficult circumstances occur. Rightly revering that which we ought to, rightly worshiping. So all of these disciplines, we are participating in them as training that we might be rightly ordered in our loves. And so we need to remember that as we think about that. And so the biblical warrant for us with regards to the pursuit of disciplines. There's a number of them, and I had a bunch of them last week, but I wanted to kind of focus on these. Because second Titus 2, 11 and 12 is is It brings those two things together that we're going to talk unpack hopefully a little bit more next week, and that is grace. The grace of God and then the effort that we put in. For the grace of God has appeared. bringing salvation for all people, and it's the grace of God, the means of grace, that is training us The grace of God is training, training us. And that training is the same word as Paul uses in 1 Timothy. That discipline, that gymnasium, that hard work, right? That the grace is training us. To renounce. And who's doing the renouncing? We are. The grace of God is training me to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions. And to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in this present age. I've I've I've known some folks in my own upbringing with regards to the way they think about it. They the the let go and the let God people, are you familiar with What uh what that means. And they had this sense to us, well here's what you have to do. You have to get off the throne of your life and put Christ on the throne of your life. And then you kind of step back and watch it happen. And that's not what this text is communicating, and yet a lot of people think that. The grace of God is training us, and I just kind of it just kind of happens. I just didn't kind it just kind of happens out there. But I don't really do anything. Matter of fact, you ever talk to somebody where he said, wow, that was a really neat thing you did. Oh, it wasn't me, it was Jesus. You ever had that conversation with people? Wasn't me, it was Christ. And that's really beautiful. But I want to go, yeah, but I saw, I could have sworn I saw you do it. You know what I was gonna 'cause if it was Jesus it probably would have been a lot better, to be honest with you. But but That there is that there is that concern that somehow we're we're not we we we if somehow we're gonna take credit for something or something like that. I don't know what that is, but the grace of God working in me, I'm still here. I'm still part of this. Right? And my conforming to the image of Christ is still me. I am, everything true of him is true of me, and I am becoming more and more like him as I am training. In the school. Matter of fact, I love the reformers used to have this phrase: the school of Christ. The school of Christ. As we are in the school of Christ, as we are growing in the school of Christ, as we are making progress. In the school of Christ, we are becoming more and more conformed to the image of Christ. And it's I am it's me that's becoming more and more conformed to the image of Christ. And so the grace of God is training us. to renounce on godliness and worldly passions. And the grace of God is training us to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in this present age. And then 1 Peter, or 2 Peter 1, 5 to 7, if you had a second, let's open that up. Let's open up 2 Peter. And we'll try to end with this. Well, we'll end with Titus, but Second Peter one five to seven because the context is really amazing what he says here. Ah. Second Peter. My Bible's so thin that I can't find it. Hebrews after Hebrews James. Okay. Huh, I got it. Second Peter one and let's start with actually verse two. May grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. His divine power has granted to us all things. that pertain to life and godliness. Through the knowledge of Him who called us to His own glory and excellence, by which He has granted to us His precious and very great promises. so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature. We are become partakers. We talk about we are people who are made in the image of Christ, yes? We're made in the image of Christ. And this is again made in his image, but also being restored unto his image. There's a biblical category that we also kind of have to think about and get into our minds. We are not only made in the image of God or in the image of God. We are also, as a result of our redemption, we are being restored into his image, and ultimately we will be glorified and fully experiencing what it means to be in the image of God. So that is the that is something that's being restored, and Peter says it here, right? Having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of simple desire For this very reason, because we are being restored and renewed into the image of God by the divine power, right? Having become partakers of divine nature, for this reason, make every effort Make every effort. Those three words, uh how they hit us is is is tough because some of us it hits, depending upon your upbringing, it hits you with a a guilt. There's a guilt that immediately you kind of make every effort. Right. And maybe if you're like me, you go, I don't make every effort, so all you do is swallow in, oh I don't make every effort, shame on me, where right? But You've been given everything you need by his grace to make those efforts. And so a different approach to what it means to make every effort. And again, hopefully we'll unpack that a little bit more next week. But make every effort To supplement your faith with virtue, virtue knowledge, knowledge with self-control, self-control with steadfastness steadfastness with godliness. Godliness with brother affection and brotherly affection with love. In other words, we even go beyond godliness at some level in that things. And he goes on to say what that will do for you, if indeed that is the efforts that you are making. Because God has given you everything you need for life and for godliness. And finally in Titus uh first Titus uh Excuse me, 1 Timothy, what am I thinking? 1 Timothy 6, 11. But as for you, O man of God, flee these things, pursue. Pursue. As the deer longs for the water brook. So my soul longs after you. That pursuit is again not a work at some level, not something we do in guilt or whatever. It's something that we long for. The deer's going after the water, not because he goes, yeah, somebody told me how to go get water, so here I go. That's not what the deer's longing for the water broke. He's thirsty. And he knows that that will make that will fulfill our will, uh, quench his thirst, and so pursue righteousness, godliness. Faith, love, gentlemen, stapless. So we are the purpose of the disciplines is godliness, and this is why we are talking about them. So I think we're done. Let me pray. I need to give more time for questions and stuff at the end, and I'm sorry. Jesse always did that. I didn't do that. But I'll try and do that more as we go along. Let's pray together. Father, your word presents us with categories that we struggle with. We would prefer to be on one side or the other. And yet you have made things such that we are not only justified by your grace, but we are too easy Sanctified by your grace as we participate in the means that you have ordained to bring about conformity to the image of your Son. Father, it's what we want We want to be conformed to the image of Christ. We want to be godly. We want to be prepared for that revelation of Jesus Christ who will reveal to us all things and will reveal to us the grace that has been given to us. And so, Lord, it's with humility recognizing that it is only by your grace that we are made more and more into the image of your Son, that we ask that you would grant us grace to pursue and to make every effort and to be disciplined in our pursuit of godliness. Thank you for your love for us. We pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen.