Remember when we used to eat bacon in the morning, Natalie? Remember when Betty used to bring bacon in in the morning? Man, that was good. That was delightful. What's that? You didn't? Oh you don't eat make it? You don't eat the meat. Good evening, everybody. Welcome to our evening worship service. Let's go ahead and get settled because I'd like to open the service with prayer. Good to see you all enjoying one another. Alright, please pray with me. Start our service with a word of prayer. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for this day. Lord, it is great that even our calendars represent that all of your work is heading towards an eternal Sabbath. We thank you, Christ, for making this possible. We owe you everything, and the only way we'll give it to you is by your grace. So we thank you that even while we were still sinners, you have delivered us. Christ, we ask that now, as the king and head of the church, that you would lead us in worship by your spirit and in truth. Help us to take seriously what we're doing. Lord, our culture does not consciously enter into liturgies or know how to think about them. But I pray that you would shape and form us to see just how important it is to do what we are doing here this evening. We pray that you'd be glorified. We pray that we that you would mature us. that we can bring you more glory and profit, as Chase mentioned this morning. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Let's stand for our call to worship from Psalm 68, 5, and then verse 32. A father of the fatherless, a defender of widows, is God in his holy habitation. Sing to God, you kingdoms of the earth. O sing praises to the Lord. Let's sing together, ye servants of God. It's hymn number one. Jesus of God, your master pro name, and promise of all his wonderful name. The name of his glory, his kingdom is glorious, and rolls over all God ruled it for God Jesus, as guilt he is not his presence we have. The great contradiction is pride of trusting, Austin Calvation, to Jesus are being Shall be stunned to God who stays on the throne that all cry of the sun No longer face a no And let us go and give him his price of glory and power and beat some and might. All longer and blessing with angels upon his love. Please remain standing for Hebrews 12, 7 through 13, which will then lead us into a time of confession. If you endure chastening, God deals with you as with sons. For what son is there whom a father does not chasten But if you are without chastening, of which all have become partakers, then you are illegitimate and not sons. Furthermore, we have had human fathers who corrected us, and we paid them respect Shall we not much more readily be in subjection to the Father of Spirits and live? For they indeed for a few days chastened us as seemed best to them. but he for our prophet, that we may be partakers of his holiness. Now no chastening seems to be joyful for the present, but painful. Nevertheless, afterward, it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. Therefore, strengthen the hands which hang down, and the feeble knees, and make straight paths for your feet, so that what is lame may not be dislocated, but rather healed. Amen. You may be seated. Please join me for a time of confession. Father, we thank you for a reminder of who you are in this Hebrews passage. You liken yourself, or rather, you liken earthly fathers to yourself. And we all have familiar experiences. With fathers or coaches or mothers pushing us, chastening us, that we might develop and mature as human beings We have experiences of them chastening us in a different sense, of when we're heading down the wrong path, using internal or external means to show us that it's the wrong path. Keeping us from the fruit of that way, which eventually would be death. Lord, you or they are like you. They are but shadows of how you work with us. And yet, Lord, when we meet difficulties, sometimes we do allow our knees to buckle and to fail, and we become irritated and bitter towards you We can cry out and shake our fist at the heavens. And when that fist is raised, Lord, the assumption underneath of it all is that you are not who you said you are. That you are not a loving father, that this is not moving towards things that are good or worth it. And Lord, we all have an experience of taking this attitude with you. And I pray that you would hear your people as they confess their sins particularly, in ways in which they have approached you uncharitably, with evil thoughts about you especially with regards to their suffering or with the difficult time that you have permitted to enter into their life. I pray that you hear the confession of their sin And I pray that you would heal them. I pray that you'd heal us all. Help us to see who you really are, and to know that it's worth it, to strengthen our knees and the hands which hang down and to finish the race by your grace. Father, we ask that you'd hear our confession in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Your assurance of pardon tonight is taken from 1 John 4, 8 through 10. We have these assurance of pardons so that you can once again hear the reality of your situation being in Christ. He who does not love does not know God, for God is love. In this the love of God was manifested toward us: that God has sent his only begotten Son into the world, that we might live through him. And this is love. Not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Amen. Let's stand and respond to this gospel message by singing hymn number two, There is a fountain filled with blood. No, it is. The memory filled with God from And I think so much we need that God lose all the guilty things. Who's all their guilty stays? Who's all their guilty stage? And the ball through their military But I need noise to see that country. And they spark sea water. War my sins always. War so my sins are wicked. And there will be a smallest key water since always. And your stinks by the soul screen, by three Free God has been my feet and shall be to my God. And shall be dear by God, and shall be dear by God Really might be shall be to my God. When this for this thing had become our solid of great We have this for this time. God's violence in God raised. Tears on England, my precious blood shall never lose his mind To the whole trans, he said to sin no more. He stay to say no more, he stay to say no more. To the random church of God, he stayed with no more Amen. Let's open our scriptures together to Proverbs chapter 3, and I'll read from verse 1 to 12, just so we can Once again here, this first major section of Proverbs, we'll move into a second section beginning in 13, starting next week. I'll start at verse one of chapter three. My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart keep my commands. For length of days and long life and peace they will add to you. Let not mercy and truth forsake you. Bind them around your neck, write them on the tablet of your heart, and so find favor and high esteem in the sight of God and man. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lead not on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct your paths. Do not be wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord and depart from evil. It will be health to your flesh and strength to your bones. Honor the Lord with your possessions and with the first fruits of all your increase. So your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine. My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord. Nor detest his correction. For whom the Lord loves, he corrects, just as a Father, the Son, in whom he delights. Let us pray. Father, we pray. Lord, I pray for your congregation this evening. I know that you are working diligently in your ascension. To raise up your bride in wisdom. And I know that resentment and detesting you and your correction and discipline will keep that wisdom from being received. I pray therefore that you would work in your people this night, that they might receive the things from you as a father and as one who loves them. I ask these things in the name of Christ. Amen. You maybe see them. Last week, we by faith imagined God building the house of the universe. In the house are many rooms, each for his creation. God made the earth, sky, and sea in order to bless the creatures of the earth, air, and water. And we, acting in his image, are to consider a question. What rooms, so to speak, has God given to you to be like Him? To bless? What about the room of the family? What about the room of the church? What about the room of this county? How will you be like God, by his grace, of course, and help your family and church and county be fruitful and multiply? In other words, how will you bless them? For the life of wisdom is to strive for wisdom in order to gain strength to bless the whole community. We've now come to verses 11 and 12, which is going to end this first major section of Proverbs 3. And so let's begin with just a few observations. And then we'll bring this home with an example from the from Peter and then an example from Hebrews. The first thing I'd like you to notice, and the reason why I reread the whole first part of this proverb, is that the whole proverb is really emphasizing For the son, and this would include daughters in this context, emphasizes that the son would receive and would keep the wisdom of God. For example, if you were to look at the odd numbered verses starting in verse 1, look at how it's just a repetition over and over again of that theme. My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart keep my commands. Or in verse 3, let not mercy and truth forsake you, bind them around your neck, write them on the tablet of your heart. Or in verse five, Trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean not on your own understanding. Or in verse seven, Do not be wise in your own eyes, fear the Lord and depart from evil. These are all saying different things from the same kind of reality. This isn't the an illustration that will go down in an illustration book. But it reminds me, this emphasis in the odd numbers of Proverbs 3, it reminds me of watching uh myself growing up playing lacrosse or watching young men or women learning how to catch a baseball or uh softball. From my own experience, an experienced player would stand across the yard from me in lacrosse. I would awkwardly hold the stick, which was too big for me because I was in the second or the third grade. And that person who had been playing for a while, who had the wisdom of how to play lacrosse, would say, okay, Jesse, keep your stick right here. I'm going to toss it to you. It's basically just going to hit your stick, and all you got to do is hold the stick and just keep it, and then you'll have caught it. Be sure to catch it, Jesse. And we would try that over and over and over again until I accidentally caught it. That's very much what's going on here in Proverbs 3. The father is seeking to toss the son or the daughter wisdom, and he knows That the daughter or the son is going to think that it's easy to catch, because they could memorize a few verses or something, but in reality, how difficult it will be to hold on to it. In fact, if you continue with that lacrosse analogy, I started playing lacrosse in the third grade, and that's what it looked like accidentally. catching. But as I became older the challenge increased, but it was still kind of the same thing. It moved from okay Jesse catch the ball as I lob it across the yard to sophisticated plays against demanding opponents in high school or college. And I wonder if you can see those similarities. You can see the similarities, right? On what the father is doing and what I'm what I'm giving you the picture of of tossing that baseball to the son trying to catch or the softball. The Christian community, through education, true Christian education, and mentorship, is seeking to toss you wisdom. And they want you to catch it. That's the point of the father. Catch this. Get it. That's the first observation I want you to see. Now here's the second observation or one thing I want you to notice. Our verse tonight lets us know that we will not catch it or receive it or become wise unless God disciplines us to do so. Discipline refers to many areas, but I just want to mention two to you that I've noticed as a pattern throughout the book of Proverbs. The first kind of discipline is God putting you into a strenuous situation which forces you to fight hard and to grow. God uses some situations in life as a kind of boot camp, for example. I think that's what it probably feels like. A boot camp. And through this, he is making you disciplined. You see that kind of word of how we use that in our culture, that uh he's he's a disciplined person because he's been through the strenuous activity to make him disciplined. We are developmental beings who grow over time, and the truth of the matter is, is that you're not going to catch the wisdom that you need unless God places you into strenuous situations in which you will become that wisdom. wisdom. Some growth will not happen, in other words, unless God walks us through difficult situations. And I wonder what those are for you. But that's just the first kind. There's a second kind of discipline that I notice within the Proverbs. God also disciplines us in the sense of correcting us, correcting his children from continuing down the wrong path. I think we're most familiar with that kind of discipline. The discipline in this case is often figured in the Proverbs as a rod. But it's not always a rod. It is really tends to be any external correction to wake a person up from their folly. The reason why the rod is used is it's uh meant to give you an analogy of you've become like a mule, I'm putting it nicely, you've become like a mule, and this is what it usually takes to correct mules But it could also be a rebuke. It could be an admonishment. It could be all of these things to wake a person up to their folly that they would stop walking down this dead end. And that really leads us to verses 11 and 12, once we start to look at this whole context that way. This is where 11 and 12 come in, based off of those observations that I've said, and this is our doctrine for tonight. If you despise or if you resent God's discipline in either of those ways, then you will not catch or attain or embrace or become wise. The opportunity is lost. Now the good news is he doesn't let you lose his opportunities. That's how good he is But let me state that for you again. This is a major reality that we've got to hold on to so that you don't walk down a terrible path. If you despise or resent God's discipline, then you will not catch or attain or embrace or become wise. And to be wise is to be like God. Well, I want to give you two examples of this, and it's really just going to be reminding you of particular scriptures and what happened to a few of those in the scriptures, and then ask you a couple questions about it I think we're all familiar with Peter denying the Lord three times. Peter said that he would walk down the path of wisdom, but Peter ended up choosing folly. Do you remember this? Peter denying three times. You remember the conversation that happened before, where Peter was so sure of himself That he would die for Christ and never deny him. Jesus said to him, Assuredly, I say to you, that day, even this night, before the rooster crows, twice, you will deny me three times. I'm always moved by Mark's account of this in Mark chapter 14, verse 72. A second time the rooster crowed. Then Peter called to mind the word that Jesus had said to him. Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times, and this is what catches me every time. And when he thought about it, he wept. You could see what's going on with Peter there. That's a real human moment And then when we turn to the Gospel of John in chapter 21, you can see Jesus Christ disciplining Peter. And matching the questions that he has for Peter, the three questions to the three denials. And so Christ says in John And it's recorded in the situation, and it goes like this. So when they had eaten breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me more than these? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, feed my lambs. He said to him again a second time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Tend my sheep. He said to him the third time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? And here, this editorial comment, you can see what's going on here. How personal is this? Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, do you love me? And he said to him, Lord, you know all things. You know that I love you. You can hear a little bit of the embarrassment in Peter's voice at this time. point, the humiliation that has taken place. What you have here is the context of discipline with the Lord. And Jesus said to him, feed my sheep. Now this is very personal to Peter, but I think that you can see your connection to this as a human being, or really as a Christian, I should say. If you listen closely, can you hear the discipline? Jesus is bringing the rod, is he not? Isn't that the kind of discipline that's going on here? That Peter decided to walk down a certain path that he said he would never go down because he was too cocksure? Jesus is bringing the rod in the form of penetrating questions, and Peter catches it. He knows what's going on. And to our point tonight, this is what I want to ask you in the face of this story. To our point tonight, what would have happened if in that moment, instead of Peter being grieved, he became resentful? Of the Lord asking him once again, do you love me? What would have happened? Do you see how you lose what Christ is trying to give you if resentment enters into the scene? That could have been a temptation to not use humility and to learn and to just become resentful. That is our point tonight, and that's an example from Peter to help us to understand that point. It's a very human moment as a Christian. Well, here's another example, and it's from Hebrews, and I think you probably already know what I'll be quoting, because what we see within Proverbs 3, 11, and 12 is also quoted within the Hebrews text. Hebrews is the kind of example, though, where we're not talking about only the rod of discipline, but we're talking about the boot camp of discipline. Will you keep running the race that God has put you in? That's this kind of discipline. At least that's part of it. There's both in the text. The cloud of witnesses, for example, I don't often hear this brought up, but the cloud of witnesses are those who are in a race that is pretty tough. It's all them in half. Doesn't get tougher than that. Well it does. The cloud of witnesses were just used as examples of those who kept running the race despite the difficulty. And then the author reaches the pinnacle and says that we are to look at him who endured in the race, even the cross. And that is Jesus Christ. Then he speaks of the race which that community that he was writing to, first and foremost, that Hebrew community, He speaks to them and the race that they were running. And if you look at the book of Hebrews, you can pull out some of the things that they must have been facing. For example, in chapter 13, it indicates that these people were evicted from their homes, that they had become like a kind of refugee We're familiar with that. We see that happening in our world now. And that what was is they have become displaced because of their profession of Christ. They're displaced from their homes. Imagine losing all of your property and not having any place to call your own. Imagine having to give up friends and family. Imagine fathers and mothers being enraged with you. That's what they were facing. And nevertheless, however, the author of Hebrews says this in chapter 12, 12 through 13, very boot campy. Therefore, strengthen the hands which hang down, and the feeble knees, and make straight paths for your feet, so that what is lame may not be dislocated, but rather healed. Why? Why would they ever do such a thing? Well the author says Have you forgotten the exhortation which speaks to you as to sons? My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord. Lord. Here it is again. When you are in a serious situation that may or may not involve your sin, it's just tough. That's the point. Will you detest or resent the Lord for placing you or permitting you to be in that situation? My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor be discouraged when you are rebuked by him. For whom the Lord loves, he chastens, and scourges every son whom he receives. And who are we to resent his love? What would happen though? It's the same question that I asked you about Peter. What would happen if those who were dislocated from their family and friends and their homes decided to go down the resentful path? What would be learned? What would they become? That's what's being posed to us in this proverb. In both cases, in other words, if resentment enters in either of those kinds of discipleship or discipline. then wisdom is not possible. You become some other kind of creature, which is demonic. It makes me wonder what are the difficult situations which the Lord has permitted in your life? And I wonder if you are growing resentful towards your Heavenly Father. What are the sins for which the Lord is rebuking you? Are you resentful that he's calling you out on it? That is usually because we love the sin so much that we do not want to give it up. But he will not give up on you Are you irritated and bitter towards him because he wants good for you instead of the path of sin? Remember, if you despise or resent God's discipline, then you will not catch or attain or embrace or become wise. My son, my daughters, do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor detest his correction. For whom the Lord loves, he corrects, just as a father, the son. In whom he delights. Please pray with me. Lord, we are of course guilty of both of these things. We don't want to be in painful situations, and that's actually normal. We're not supposed to want to be in painful situations. But it is also not our calling to be resentful to you if you and your sovereignty permit us to be in them. It is a sign of arrogance for us to raise our fist against you. You accept groans You accept complaints in the biblical sense of that word, like a suit plead before you. But resentment, Lord, it leads to no good. Detesting you denies who you are as our Father. It denies the love and the fruitfulness which you intend. as you're that you intend for us your little saplings. Lord, I pray that you would cast those things out of us. I pray that instead you would use us to encourage one another, to strengthen our knees, to keep running the race. And Lord, wherein you are rebuking us or bringing the rod for our sins, I pray that you would give us clarity. Pray that you would pull us away from the evil one who wants us to resent you for trying to take something away from us that we so dearly want, but it's not good for us. Lord, we like a dog hold on, playing tug of war with you. And what is in our teeth is our sin. And then we resent you that we can't have it. Lord, I pray that you change our hearts and that we would acknowledge that what you say is good is good. Pray that you would deliver us from the evil one who casts illusions to where we don't know what's good any longer. And Lord, as we are delivered, I pray that our experiences and our discipline, as we in other words, become wise I pray that you would use our wisdom through these two kinds of discipline to benefit your community, that we would all be joined together as your bride bringing you glory. Ask these things in your name. Amen. Let's stand and we'll close this portion of our service by singing hymn number three, which is Psalm 98. Come, let us sing. Completely God to the Lord who saw praise we and sweet God for one to pray by him our God And then on the history was the great salvation of our God is seen through all the earthly points. God he does one thing and see me true and price. He called to mind his true man race in front of the state to Israel's race, and gone to earthly bolt as doubt. That's our needs of salvation now. All that to God has your voice, say praise to him with shall be voice. With always God joy and power of me that all you might praise his name. Let birth beyond, let the roar, and all that fell from shore to shore, let us come and swim one hard for Let his rejoice before the board for rolling all day judge now in judgment. The Lord shall judge with his mercy ring. Amen. And now receive the Lord's benediction. May the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. Amen. Please be seated.