Come teach at Rockbridge. And I didn't know how computer programming and going to teach at Rockbridge was going to tie together. And uh the headmaster called me about three years later and said, I got a job opening. Would you are you interested And I said, absolutely. And I've been teaching at Rockers Academy ever since. It's kind of a roundabout way to get back into ministry the way I look at it, because I have a wonderful opportunity to minister to a number of students at Rockbridge. I teach now I teach eighth and ninth grade. Next year I'll be teaching, actually this will come back around to my degree, I'll be teaching systematic theology next year to the ninth graders. So I'm very excited about that So let me pray for us this morning, and then we'll get into this particular class. Let's pray. Father, I thank you for your mercy to us in Christ. That abundant mercy which has made us righteous, which has made us pure, which has clothed us with an alien righteousness. And Father, that same grace that saved us is a grace that now empowers us, empowers us to walk with you, to live for you, to example, be an example. of what it means to be in Christ to those around us. And I pray, Father, that this class would be something that would help us to discern what that means. How do we live the life of Christ in this world in which we are living. So Father, I pray that you'd give us wisdom and help me. And Lord, I pray that this would be a blessing to this church. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. So why this topic is my introduction. If you are to take a query or a survey of people out there and asking them why they don't go to church. I don't know if you know this or not, but the number one reason given by many people as to why they don't go to church, anybody want to give a guess, venture a guess, why people don't want to go to church? Yeah. Mr. Sidjek. Okay. That's not the number one reason, but that might be a reason. Yes, Carol. They're hypocrites. Hypocrites. The church is full of hypocrites. Now, of course, we have an immediate answer to that question, right? We're not hypocrites. We are sinners who need grace, and we recognize that. But With regards to the evangelical church in the United States, and I'll focus there with this question, is that charge of hypocrisy, is it warranted? It seems like it is warranted, which again is not an excuse for someone. They need Jesus. They need to go and find him. But But it's warranted. And so that's what I've been thinking about recently. I've been thinking about it for a couple of reasons. One, uh the challenge from this book that I'm reading, but two Justin, as I hear about the number of church leaders who are who have fallen, either into sexual sin. Just controversy. I thought about naming them up here and saying, yeah, like this one and that, but I'm not going to do that. You probably are familiar with them. But for me, that's a discouragement. That's just a discouragement to see those people, those men especially, who we have we have looked to for their guidance and for their leadership. And to see them having stood before us and they themselves have gone astray. And Paul talks about that, talks about praying for those Because having preached to others, he does not want to be one who would find himself uh in a hypocritical situation. So that's what I've been thinking about, and that's what's led me to want to to do this particular class. I've called the class godliness as an imperial I've called the class basically the title of 1 John 4. 7, which is Train or discipline yourself unto godliness. And today I'm hoping that we will get to a b the biblical case for the spiritual disciplines as a rule of life, meaning that training ourselves unto godliness What is it biblically or what does that look like or is there biblical mandates in that regard? Certainly the imperative in 1 Timothy 4. 7 is It's an imperative. You are to be about, Paul says to Timothy, training yourself unto godliness. So we're going to unpack that. My goal today is to unpack what that statement means and then to perhaps look at to see if there's biblical warrant for the abuse of the disciplines, which They're not necessarily specified in here as thou shalt do this and thou shalt do that. But is there a is there warrant that at least leads us into that particular place? I have here on your um handout a little history And this is another thing that I think is also part of the issue, part of the struggle. I'm old enough now Which is kind of funny at 60 years old. I'm old enough now to be able to start, I know, to be able to start looking back and saying, okay, where was I in my teens and where was I in my twenties? And what was going on in the church during that time? And I remember when I went to college, the books that we were reading, and I kissed my, and this is one man's story, so you may have another story. But one man's story about the milieu that I was in with regards to when I went to college I was involved with a a campus organization called Campus Crusade for Christ. And the book that we were all reading was Pursuit of Holiness by a guy named Jerry Bridges. That was the book we were reading, and that was the book we were thumping and hammering. And all of our Christian music that we were listening to was all about victory and charging forward and storming the gates of hell. Anybody remember Steve Camp? Steve Camp, absolutely. And I went to a Steve Camp concert and I remember we were just We were pumping our fists in the air. We're going to godliness and holiness and that was our thing. And we're going to take this world for Jesus. It's going to be wonderful. And then, so that's the 70s, 80s. And then somewhere in the 90s, by the way, that book, Pursuit of Holiness, was written by a guy named Jerry Bridges. Jerry Bridges also wrote another book, Pursuit of Godliness. These are the books that we were all about. Then somewhere in the 90s There was a response. Again, this is one man's story, so maybe your milieu was different, but this was what I experienced in the world that I was living in. There was this response to that. There began to be this, oh, that's legalism. That's legalism and that's emburdening people. You are burdening people with this pursuit of something that God says we're righteous in the first place. We don't need to do that. And so then Jerry Bridges, the same guy who wrote Pursuit of Holiness, writes a book called Transforming Grace. And then the next thing that came into everybody's minds is grace. It's all about grace. And it's all about what Christ has done for us. And by the way, that's absolutely true. Also at the same time, I was becoming reformed. I was raised in a Southern Baptist tradition. Uh when it comes to legalism, I probably walked the aisle, I don't know, eight or nine times growing up, because I had to get right with the Lord. I sat under the preaching of a man who every sermon to me looking back was just a scold. Get right with God. Do the right thing. Be right, do right, be good, do good. So at some level, when the doctrines of grace appeared to me, I said, absolutely. Right? Uh God has done the work. God has done all the work. Christ has done all the work when he said it was finished. And that was a message that resonated with me very strongly. And so then the music even seemed to shift in the nineties. I don't know if this is the same for you, but and nowadays when you listen to Christian music too There's kind of this sense of, I'm just horrible. I can't do anything. Praise God for his grace, which is an absolute truth. Don't get me wrong. That's an absolute truth. But it seems to be unbalanced in the sense that, and then just hearing hearing preachers even say this, which this may be a shock to you, because I I love the preaching here at Seven Run, and we don't get this. But sitting under preaching where people would say, the imperatives of Scripture are there so that you will know what you can't do. And that's why they're there. You'll know what you can't do, and you are to use them as an opportunity to thank God that Jesus Christ has done it all for you. And I would sit and I'd look at the scriptures, I'd go, wait a minute, let no unwholesome word proceed from your mouth. That's just there, so I'll go, yep, can't do that one. Um, you know, just treat one another with blah blah blah. Yep, can't do that one. That's supposed to be my response To Paul's imperatives. And again, so that grace movement, and it reminds me even of an anecdote that John Piper tells. John Piper, who I'm a huge fan of, by the way. So we can talk about that if that's uh where at where you're at with that. But he tells an an he one of his anecdotal stories. He had a friend of his who was a pastor across town who this pastor was a pastor who preached the doctrines of grace and grace and grace and grace. And the pastor came to him and they said, I got a problem. He said, I've been preaching this message over and over and over and over again. And he said, I got people who are coming to my church and they're not repenting of their sins. He said, I have a prostitute. This is the story that John Parker, I have a prostitute that comes and sits on the second roll, an active prostitute. And she's like, this is beautiful. I love this. This is wonderful. And John Piper said, yeah, that's that's a bit of a problem, right? Because the message of the gospel isn't just a message of got Christ's grace for us, but it's one of reminding us of why we need his grace. which is the fact that we are desperately wicked. And so we come to him not that we might remain in it, but that he might transform us. So all of that is history as to why I'm bringing this to you guys. And maybe I'm just preaching it to the choir, or maybe I'm preaching it to myself. I told Jesse When I walked in this morning, because this is about training yourselves under godliness. I came this morning and Satan has been putting this up to me all week long. Hypocrite. Hypocrite. Hypocrite. Because and Jesse's wonderful, he said, Darren, I'm sure you've made some progress in that regard. And I I'm sure I have in sixty years. I'm sure I have in 60 years, but I'm sure as we all sit here, and if we think about that word, we probably are just reminded of Of how desperately we need the grace of Christ in every guard. But that doesn't mean that there's not progress to be made or that we aren't encouraged by Paul and by Christ and by the whole of the New Testament. This is about the transformed life. Right? What Christ has done and the work he's done in our lives is to transform us into his image. And there's a lot of scripture that is very challenging for us in that regard, and I hope to bring it to us. And I told um well I told a couple of you in here, I said, what we're going to be working out in weeks to come is how we balance that It's hard. We find ourselves on one side or the other, either just striving and working and trying to become more like Christ or Just letting go and letting God because that didn't work and then this doesn't work and then we find this struggle between those two things. So I'm hoping That over the weeks that we're together, we'll work that out. And as we introduce the spiritual disciplines, we'll see it as something that is not a legalism. but rather a means by which that very thing that Christ would have us be transformed into Transforms us. But not by the things we're doing, but by the Holy Spirit's work. As we get in line, as G. I. Packer says, as we get in step, as we walk in step with the Spirit. And he would transform us in that regard. So I have next here, I have um your outlines the first requirement of the prerequisite even for this course. It's funny because and I'm sure you guys, any of you who've ever spoken, you put outlines together, then you switch them all around, then you do it, then you put this there, and you put that there, and you go, Where where do we put this? Well, this is where I put this. Whether this comes later or now, I don't know. But I do think that a prerequisite for the conversation about training yourselves in godliness comes with the desire to do that in the first place Now I make an assumption that if indeed you have been given life by the Spirit If he has awakened you to the joys that abound in the presence of the Lord, that a desire to be like him is there, that is present. So that's my assumption. But I would say this, that sometimes that desire is greater at times than at others, and sometimes it it begins to fade perhaps as the cares of life or other things, or maybe we even get into the rut of of just kind of go along. And I want us, I want me, I want the body of Christ, I want the church in the world to have this hunger as the deer. Longs for the streams of water. So my soul longeth after thee. And if that's alive in us, uh the one of the books that I'm going to introduce to you in a second is A book written by a guy named Dallas Willard, then he begins the book with that this kind of challenge. What if What if the evangelical church in the United States of America that everyone who names the name of Christ had as their hunger The Lord God. The desire, like a deer panting for the streams of water. What if that was true of all? What would this nation be like? And Willard says, transforming. Absolutely transforming. And so even we seven run as we together hunger after God and as that transforms us. What can we expect the Lord to do in our lives, in the in the lives of our families, in the lives of this community? Jesse's been talking to us about that a lot, right? The desire to make an impact in Androndo County. What would that look like? And again, even as I'm um you can't say everything when you say anything, so even as I say this, I feel like I'm throwing a burden out. I don't mean want that to be a scold, and I don't want that to be a burden. But I what number of us have talked, right, about the desire to try and figure out how that's not a burden. Jesus himself says, take my yoke upon you. My burden's light. And easy, right? That's what he says. Is that how it goes? No, my burden is easy. And my yoke is light. Promises Christ. So he doesn't burden us, but he does say, take up your cross and follow me. Those two go together. Those two go together. So I have down here after that do your delight. And that's where I take my yoke upon you, learn from me. If anyone wishes to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross. Why do I have that here? Because again, I think that as soon as we start talking about these things like the pursuing godliness or training ourselves unto godliness, the first thing that happens is The head sinks in some of us. And we and we just feel burdened. But do you does your head sink when somebody tells you you get to go I don't know. I'm thinking of the Mr. Sinjak in the back room. William, when somebody says William, guess what? You're up to the plate next Do something. Does your head sink? Or do you go, yeah? Let's go Right? When you're out there in center field, or he's back there going, Don't hit the ball to me, don't hit the ball to me, don't hit the ball to me, don't hit the ball Are you going, man, I hope it comes my way? I hope it comes my way. Because you are delighted in the opportunity. to dive into that thing that you have been working at forever and that you've been made for at some level. Right? And so duty or delight, I think it's a a false dichotomy. I think there is things we have to do. I always, whenever I'm thinking about the Christian life, the Christian walk, and I want to say it's all of grace, yes, but I still have to get out of bed. I still have to go. And figuring out what that looks like. And if there's no delight in your duty, it won't last. At least that's my contention. We can argue that. If anybody wants to throw up a hand now and take it to me, that's fine. But that's what I've experienced in my own life. No actual delight, if it's only duty. I have a number of friends, sad to say, who came at the Christian faith with duty. And they do not walk with the Lord to this day. They don't darken the door of a church. And it's it's that's not the way to go about in my mind, the pursuit, right? The pursuit is Take delight in the Lord. And you will take the light in the Lord, says Psalm 37. Once you have come to know him, you will take delight in him. And taking the light in him leads us into A wonderful walk. When you go outside, and if I were to say to you, take the light in the sunshine as it comes up, you wouldn't be like That's just natural. It just happens. You look at a baby in a carriage and you well mostly the ladies do with I'm with Jesse with regards to that. But nonetheless, you look at that baby and that'll say, to what end shall I now experience joy over the looking at this cute baby Do you pause and do that? No, you go, oh, look at that, oh so cute, right? You don't. It becomes The duty becomes the natural delight, if indeed the thing that you are pursuing in your duty is beautiful. And our Lord is beautiful. And so, let's talk about the biblical mandate. This is where you guys get to play. Okay? That was all the introduction. This is where you get to play. Actually, actually, as part of my introduction, let me tell you the books I'm using. So I have three books that I'm going to be using for this class. Uh one of us was written by a guy named Dallas Willard. Interestingly enough, uh anybody heard of Dallas Willard? Dallas Willard? Okay, a couple of you. He wrote this book back in, I believe, nineteen eighty So we're talking 40 years. And in 1980 he said that challenge to the evangelical church. If the evangelical church were to fully understand what it means to pursue Christ and holiness, what would it look like? This book is really good. and the turning of a phrase and the depth of if you love that kind of stuff, this book's just a delight to read. So I would recommend it. I know that some of us there are we Dallas Willard as he's progressed, you know, we have there's some few warnings, be careful. Um but at the same time He he knows how to take something you thought about before and put a little spin on it and make you go, wow, I hadn't thought about it that way. The second book is a book by a guy named David Mathis. Anybody heard of this guy? He works with um John Piper at the in his ministries, the Desire of God Ministries. The title is called I was gonna do that. She sits in the passenger seat and helps me to make sure I don't drive. Don't drive off the road. So okay, thank you. Uh Habits of Grace is the title of the book by a guy named David Mathis. And his subtitle is It's worth meditating on. Enjoying Jesus through the spiritual disciplines. Enjoying Jesus through the spiritual disciplines. We haven't talked about the spiritual disciplines that we'll get to that uh in a subsequent week, but that's That's where we're heading. And then the next the last book is a guy is a guy named Donald Whitney or Don Whitney, forwarded by J. I. Packer. Any book that J. I. Packer forwards, you just need to pick it up. It's good stuff. Uh speaking of that, John Owen, right? The death of death. But uh Spiritual Disciplines for the Christian Life. I think that in the email that Nick sent out, it has links to all of these books if you're curious. I'm work I've read Two of them, I'm working through the third one, I'm working through Dawn's. This book is kind of the standard reform. This is the way to think about these things. So there's that book if you want that, if you're interested in that The name of the first book is, oh, sorry, I held it up, no title. It's called The Spirit of the Disciplines. The Spirit of the Disciplines by a guy named Dallas Willard. Spirit of the Disciplines, Dallas Willard. I've had this book for 40 years. It's crazy, isn't it? I've had this book. a long time. I was wondering if I could find it. There it is. What's that? I've read it once back in when I was twenty. So I'm working through it again. And working through it again, I remember how delightful again his just reading the uh just the way he writes is just for me. I love a good Deep sentence, I don't know. That's just me. So the biblical mandate. Let's talk about that. Turn your bible your Bibles, if you will, to 1 Timothy chapter 4. I think it's interesting to get the context of this. I haven't done a lot of work on the context of this, so if you have some insights as we're looking at this, that'd be great. I'd just mostly focus on verse 7 of chapter 4. It is interesting that in that text, it's really interesting that in this text, for the first couple of verses, Paul is talking about those who have departed from the faith. Or who will walk away from the faith. Isn't that interesting? Right? is those who have walked away from the faith. He's the warning about those who've walked away from the faith. You, my son, he says, however, train yourself for godliness. In verse 7. Train yourself for godliness The question is, and then and then he fit he he he he he completes that thought with this. And I wonder if you've ever thought about when Paul does this, because he does this a few times, maybe five or six times in scripture. Train yourself for godliness For while the bodily training is of some value, godliness is of value in every way, as it holds promise for the present life and also for the life to come. And then verse 9, this saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance. What's Paul doing there? This is where you can throw up your hands and interact if you want And if I call if you throw up your hand and I don't yet fully know your name, I may ask you for it, so please don't be offended. Just let me know your name and I'll try and learn it as we go. What's Paul saying there? Or what do you think he's getting at This saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance. And remember, Paul is giving instructions to Timothy for how he should be teaching the church. Right? Thoughts? Anybody? This is lying? It's like he's underlining it, putting several exclamations Yeah. So that's your first rose, okay. Clearly this is something that you need to stop and pause and think about. Yes, Christine. Um other letters sometimes also says sort of delineates I'm telling you this for me. This is not necessarily inspired an inspired instruction. Right. Um so it's a pattern in his writings that he liked to make those delineations between whether he knew he was delineating between inspired scripture or not at the time, but he likes to make those patterns between maybe apostolic teaching his own teaching. Um so he might be just trying to say even though this is just even though he doesn't mark it as apostolic teaching to say this is something that you can This is not in any way contrary to apostolic teaching and can be fully trusted. Yeah, absolutely. I mean what does what does trust you can trust it imply? Trust, it's true. Is he an a is he an apostle? He is. So this saying, now some some suggest that maybe there was a saying floating around out there, but when Paul uses this, that doesn't appear to be him quoting something that was floating around out there He's saying trustworthy, meaning, reliable, and authoritative. This is God's word. This is the word of God. So he he puts an exclamation point on it Saying training yourself for godliness. This is the fact that it is useful for not only this world, but the world to come, right? This is something that you need to take seriously. Embrace it. Believe it Let it shape your lives. He's calling for a wholehearted acceptance of this, which is interesting. Then he does that maybe five other places. So Paul is really wanting you to recognize, and especially as he's contrasting it with those who've fallen away. This is something that needs your consideration and your uh embracing. He's actually not, and again remember, he's Timothy is teaching, he's taking these teachings and giving them to others. And so Paul is saying as a teacher in the church, Take this saying which is trustworthy and give it, deliver it. Yes, here. Um what if it is What is the profit of godliness for the life to come? Yeah, that's a great question. And I don't know the answer to that. All right. Great. That's a great question. I've been thinking about that. I'm like, what does that mean? Because A lot of the Puritans talk about that this life is the preparation for the next. We don't talk about that as much anymore. Right? And that to the Greek, I even one of the Puritan writers, I forget his name, talked about, when you walk into heaven, you're going to have this cup of of at some level your your that is representative of your devotion to the Lord. Some of you, the couple be you'll have a cup and there'll be something in it But some of you it's going to be buller than others. And that will have something to do with your experience of God even in the eternity. Which which again we don't talk about that much. We kind of look at an egalitarian view of when we enter heaven and I'm not gonna go too far into it 'cause I'm yeah, you know, but my good friend Chase is gonna give us some wisdom here, it looks like. So yeah, Chase. While scripture never uh we should avoid any language of merit or God does is not obligated by justice to like re Rew uh rewards the good work as if it earned anything. There's plenty of language of reward that God graciously will reward. Right. Yeah. Um that's a so yeah. And and at some level for Paul that was motivational, wasn't it? Right? That was motivational. I'm looking for the prize. I'm pressing on towards the call of God, the open call of God in Christ Jesus, that I might claim the process. So there's this something out there I do think we should probably talk about it more. Maybe that'll be the Sunday school class after this one. We'll get Chase to do it. Yeah, sure. Um we're studying it for First here, and here says the same thing through the suffering things. About godliness and about doing good work through their suffering. H and one of the things is the living hope is that when you at the day of visitation, when you come before Christ, you will be rewarded for your good works. But it's not based on your good works, it's based on the grace of God that as a as a incentive to live for godliness and to persevere in the suffering of this world. No, you're absolutely right. And like I said, go read some Puritans. There's a lot of that in there. And there's a lot of that that they consider it as something to put before the body of Christ as motivational to think about the world to come and what that looks like. And you're right about the merit part, uh Chase, so be careful about that. But I'm just, so that's why I'm not I'm not prepared at all to go down too deep into that. But that's there. So that might be something worthy of our of our pursuits and discussion. Just ma'am. Tell me your name, remind me of your name. Natalie. Natalie, Natalie. Okay. So so I guess one of the ways to think about it is you and you have you and you have you have a sibling. Your siblings uh you know lived their life to please their father um and and you not so much Um, and then you come into the you both come into the the presence of your father and you you know your father loves you but there's a a bit of regret when you realize when it when it when it finally sinks in that I wasted I wasted time. I did I wish I I wish I had loved my father better. Yes. So I I think that that might be a thing for what happens in eternity, like we're we're full of this joy. And it it's wonderful, but there's a there's a bittersweet that's like now I understand and I wish I had done better. Sure That may be not that it matters to you that may matter. But not that it not that it keeps me out of heaven. Sure. Yeah, I mean and and the only other reference uh not the only other there's probably more, but the reference of some people make it to heaven just as if by fire, right? They're they're Their their deeds of the flesh are burned up and they make it in. So it does seem to be something there. Again, I I'm not prepared to go down deep into that. Um I do think there's things there and we should all right Therese you get the last word because then we gotta move on. Okay. Something I said earlier. Because all scripture is God free, all scripture is inspired. So even that part where Paul says I say this, not before a specific divorce situation but not not dot not um like even that's inspired absolutely okay I just wanted to No, that's absolutely. And I think and the and and Paul doesn't necessarily have to put an exclamation mark on anything he says because it's all apostolic and it's all the word of God. And so if anything, it ought to give us pause Here when he does say this saying is trustworthy and worthy of your full acceptance. Okay, barely. Absolutely, absolutely. Absolutely. Paul is emphasizing this. And again, I I I can only assume or my thoughts are that he is it's in the context of those who fallen away. And so verily, verily, I say unto you, train yourself for godliness at some level as a as a means by which to avoid such things. Yes sir. Brian. I was just wondering I No idea if this is right or not, but it could be that he may have been anticipating some um pushback. Sure. Anytime we bring this topic up, there's legalism and exactly right. So that's a great point, yeah. And we're gonna I'm gonna in future weeks we're gonna talk about legalism and and and our concerns about that. We're gonna get there hopefully. But uh yeah, that that could be very well be it. Trying to stave that uh objection off at the past before it comes to them. So excellent. All right, cool. Let's let's ask this question. What does it mean to train And I had fun with the Greek this week, so if you guys are into Greek, we get a little Greek. Can you read that? Read that for me, Mr. Table? Stephen. What's that Greek word? What is that? Which I don't have the Oh you don't have the handout. I'm j I shouldn't pick I'm kidding with you. Justin's leaving. He doesn't wanna he doesn't want to be get called on to have to do a Greek word. Okay Gymnastics. Oh, you got it. Okay, it's gymnase, which is from the word from which we get our word gymnasium. And from we get the same picture of the gem. Okay? It's an imperative word, so it is a command. It means to exercise vigorously in any way, either the body or the mind. What does that imply? I thought it might be interesting to just look at synonyms for train. What are some synonyms for train? Train yourself, he says. Train yourself. In the gymnasium. What's that? Practice. What else? Work hard. Work hard. Yes, ma'am. Keep going. What else we got? Labor and strive. Labor and strive. These are all words, again, that Brian as Brian was saying in certain segments of the Christian culture, when you start to talk like that, there's a little bit of of that, right? We are very nervous about the about burdening people with things that are outside somehow of grace. And so but there's our words. What else we got? What other kind of synonyms? Shall I be writing them down? Discipline. That's the per matter of fact this verse is often translated, discipline yourself to godliness. It implies a habit. Think about training. So you only go to training. My wife would love for me to have the habit of the gym I usually I I can hit maybe twice a week sometimes, but then I that's just it's tough. It's hard, right? It's difficult to get into the habit of something. What's that now? Well okay, yeah, two days to read Uh I'm not saying to do that every week. That's sometimes I get few. Sometimes. But uh right? I think it's Consistent, a consistent habit? Absolutely. It's strenuous. You think of training, you go to the gym if you do. And like I said, that's rare for me. But nonetheless, people are working hard, right? And they have goals in mind too. So training implies a goal. It's active. It's active. It's not exactly it is not passive. One of the things that I've noticed As I've gotten older, is I enjoy watching people exercise and I'm passionate. An aspect of that is spiritual disciplines where we can be very passive in just taking in podcasts and listening to things but not active in our pursuit of study and meditation. Exactly, and that's where I'm that's where I'm wanting this to go, is that is that conversation about how do we and I've got other I've even got other syners that how do we get that habit into our lives Training also implies a focused person. You have to be focused. I think with other scriptures that Paul gives to Timothy, what person what soldier, when he's involved in the affairs of soldiering, you know, gets involved in the affairs of everyday life, he's focused He has something he is trying to accomplish, and that's what he's working on, right? So there's discipline, there's effort, there's focus. It's also this is interesting, train also comes, there's other words, you guys, you this may be a uh going in a different way because I have to get your mindset this way. But how about the word tame? Train is to tame. I try to tame this thing on the on my face right here. It goes wan it just wants to keep sticking out like that. I'm trying to train most what did your mom? We need to train. your hair, right? We need to train it. Have you heard that? We need to tame it. It's wild. We train animals. My dogs are well the other gent's looking at me going, yeah, we we know about training. My dogs are wild and I'm doing a poor job of training them. But nonetheless, or even mold. mold that by shaping, training something, molding it. So all of that, all of those words are in this idea of what it means to train, to mold, to tame. to form a habit, to focus, to discipline, right? To develop. All of that is there. So Paul is saying we are to be about that. We're going to be about that. Disciplined and focused and habitual and molding and training and taming. And so what is it that we're training? We're training ourselves Is that fair? Is that a good interpretation of that text? Training ourselves unto our for this thing called godliness. Now this was really fun. I told a couple of you. Uh I went down the uh Greek rabbit hole this week, which was a lot of fun. Do you know that the word godliness in Scripture doesn't have the word God in it? Did you know that? It comes from two Greek words. The w first word is EU. Which means rightly rightly Okay, or well. To do something well or rightly. Another reason I don't like writing the board, my handwriting is horrible and nobody can read it anyway, but I'll try. Is that big enough? Okay. Well right, this that's the first Greek word. The second Greek word is Subomai. Subomai. Did I say that right, Mr. Towel? S-E-B-O-M-S-O-M-A-I-Subomai. Which means To revere, to honor, or to worship. To revere, to honor. Or to worship. And so put those two words together, and godliness, the word that we use, godliness Is literally in the Greek the word right worship, right reverence. Right honor. Is that interesting? So somebody help me understand how right worship equals godliness. I mean maybe that's Okay, duh. Or maybe not, right? Wha how does that work? Gary. So what strikes me is it doesn't mean uh this uh this behavior pattern, this behavior pattern, this behavior pattern trying to look at Okay, okay. Okay, fair. What do you think, Carol? Uh the the heart. I might challenge a little bit, Gary, but we'll talk about that. Yeah, go ahead. is um in view the heart is the seat of worship. Jesus talks about the heart in Sermon on the Mount. And so having the understanding that out of the heart um flows our actions or of behaviors or beliefs. Um so it's that aspect of what I'm saying. That's good. I it is funny what you said, Gary, is true, right? We we tend to if I say godliness, the first thing that comes into mind are characteristics. Uh righteousness and you know they're they're they don't get angry or whatever. Right? And yet godliness is begins with this word right or rightly. Christina. Um I also, you know, with the understanding that God is the author of our reality and the world, whether you acknowledge it or not. So there's a sense in which having your Heart and actions ordered according to what is truly true is aligning yourself To God. And so so yes, so absolutely, Christina. I was going to go to Chase and get him to help unpack some of Gustine for us. I wonder if he's thinking about Augustine right now. Are you thinking about Augustine right now too? I'm actually thinking about uh like an ancient view of piety uh as opposed to a modern view, which is we tend to individualize and It's like it's not a public thing, it's a private thing to be in God, but I think for Paul and the ancients to honor, to reverence Everything is honoring God. Absolutely, one hundred percent. All of life becomes an expression of honoring God God. That word right is interesting again with the ancients. What happened to man at the fall? To put it in the a modern kid way, he wasn't right He ate that boy right. You ever heard that? So he was not right no more. And that redemption is being made right. And Augustine talks about the idea that the problem with man is that his loves are out of order, like Christina was saying. They are not rightly ordered. They are disordered. And that godliness is the right ordering of the affections Right ordering of, and what is worship? Right ordering of the what is worthwhile. That's what worship is, to lift up and to demonstrate the worth and the value of something. And to have that right, to get that right, as opposed to idolatry, which would be the wrong worship. And so right worship is proper reverence, proper value of correct ordering of your affections, of your loves, of your attitudes, of your behavior, of the things that at some level are good. No, we know the fruits of the spirit, love, joy, peace, and patience. They are the fruit of the spirit. But there are still things that we look at and say, hmm Yeah, that guy's got those. Yeah, I would say that's the thing. That guy's godly. I mean what do you think about that? He goes to evening service, goes to morning service. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, okay, okay, yeah. That's the kind of things I would think of these Well that's a great point. Right? Jesus says that he warns us against that, doesn't he? He says, You worship me with your lips. Yeah, send this kid to robbed me. It's easy to uh have some kind of external expression of things is to appear the appearance of godliness, right? And he even criticizes the Pharisees for that. You're whitewashed tombs. You scrub the outside, but the inside is rotten bones. So to me this word this word is just it's just amazing that that it is about how we have ordered our loves at some level. Are they right? Is that which we call worthy Is that which we lift up and celebrate, is it right? I'm going to use an analogy here with regards to godliness, which I whether this works or not, I don't know. We'll see. But for those of you who are, let's say, baseball fans or football fans. Let's go with baseball, because I see some baseball guys sitting in the room. That guy on that team that you just think's amazing. What what does every little kid want to do when he sees that guy on that team? He wants to be like him And at some level, that's what, if this analogy works, being like a baseball player is at some level the way you have ordered your love. The way you have ordered your reverence, the way you have ordered your honor. And that ordering, the outcome of that ordering is to be like them. And this is where we're going to get into. We'll get into this later, but then what do you do to be like him? You run the bases and you you you do the drills and you swing the bat and you take the pitches and you do all of those things so that maybe one day you too can step into that major league game and knock it out of the park. Do you think, Mr. Holt, do you think you'll knock it out of the park if you never pick up a bat? And then one day you just step into a major league game? I don't think so. And so part of this expression of godliness, right. ordering of our loves is the natural inclination of the heart towards that which it most values. And that's how it becomes not right worship. Is when is when you are disordered. with what you've got. And so godliness at some level, again, we can go back to the, here's what godliness, do this and this and this and this. Or we can say, wow, the ordering of your heart towards that which is the thing that you ch is of chief value to you, then what will you do? You will train yourself unto that which you value most. And so it just makes sense. Train yourself unto the ordering of that which is right. We might even rewrite it. We might say, train yourself rightly to revere what you ought to revere. Yeah. Mr. Mackeys. Romans twelve one. I don't know if the word is the same, but in Romans twelve one we're called to offer our bodies as a living sacrifice, which is our spiritual worship. Spiritual worship, yeah. Yes. I I didn't go that far. I only looked up godliness and wherever anywhere godliness is, that's the word. But yeah, absolutely. And it's the same idea, right? We are transformed by Christ and we're being transformed, and that transformation is part of a rightly ordering of that which we are to reverence When we come to worship on a Sunday morning. I was telling Desse, I'm hoping that this class dovetails even into the with the Sabbath class, right? As we recognize this opportunity to once again reorder ourselves, maybe we've just been disordered this week. But we can come today and get it ordered and allow our loves to be ordered appropriately. Yes, sir. That helps us to think about worship on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday Absolutely. Um it reminds me of the rich young man coming to Jesus What what what do I do to be godly saved? Yes. I've done all these savings. Yeah, I've done all this. And Jesus says, Love the Lord your God. Absolutely absolutely. I have about three pages here of things that I'm not going to go into because I don't have time, but beginning to think about what a God oriented life would look like. And all of these turn into those characteristics. Because my next question is, what are the characteristics of godliness, right? Well, they are the things that we think about: reverence and devotion, obedience. Integrity, purity, self-control, discipline, the fruits of the spirit, perseverance, brotherly affection, but every one of those could be said to be a rightly ordering of something The rightly ordering of your allegiance is what leads to your reverence and your devotion and your desire for God. The rightly ordering of how you live. Leads to that moral transformation, right? The obedience, integrity, purity, the the different things that we are told to do. The right rule of yourself Self-control, discipline, perseverance. Right relationships, how are we rightly ordered our relationships around us? It's the outward love. Compassion, affection, the love of neighbor, all of those things. And so maybe if you if you're curious, I'll put that in a handout and just let you have it for next week. But all of these things that we think of that are the characteristics of godliness. Which I I think they are true. Again, how we go about doing it, we're gonna get to that. Not just doing it, but how we go about avoiding it just being a checkbox of things that I'm now gonna How many of you have ever looked at the fruits of the spirit and said, self-control, okay, I need to get some of that. And I'm gonna here I go. And it's a fruit of the spirit. And I've I've I've striven after the fruits of the Spirit in ways that I think were ungodly Um and yet at the same time there's a training that we are to be about. So We're not there yet. Hopefully that will spur a lot of conversation, even just uh at the dinner table. Okay, how do we, what does this look like But there are a lot of verses. Let's go to the end part here, just so I'm so I can get this done in time. But at the end here I put a bunch of verses. Now, does the Bible say thou shalt fast? Maybe in the Old Testament, but do we it says when you fast? There's an assumption about it But the list of disciplines is is potentially longer. It's funny, every one of these books has a whole different list. And if you go and say what are the spiritual disciplines and you read different folks, you're going to get a whole different list. We will talk about that also as well as what they are. But but is there a mandate for this life that is disciplined in the scripture? Whatever those disciplines are, we can talk about this. Usually the ones we talk about is prayer and scripture reading and I don't know if worship worship as a discipline, we can talk we'll talk about that. There's a lot of others that these guys talk about And we'll get into that later. But is there biblical warrant good and necessary consequence? That's why I have the Westminster Confession printed there in your handout, right? I think we can, from good and necessarily good and necessary consequence, deduce that the spiritual disciplines or the disciplines of the faith are part of what it means to train yourself unto godliness. And I've just given you a sample of them, right? But 1 Timothy 6. 11, pursue. Pursue. Think about that word. I underlined the words that I thought presented that same kind of idea of what it means to train. Pursue righteousness. Godliness, faith, love, steadfastness, gentleness, pursue them. You can imagine, I mean that word pursuit, you imagine a I this is where I go, so whether this is a good analogy or not, but I imagine a deer on the Serengeti or one of those uh giraffe, not giraffes, but one of those things with the big long horns on the Serengeti and the lioness is after it. The gazelle, I guess is what they would call it, right? The gazelle. And the lioness is after it. She's not shot in the lion, going, man, you know, whatever. Maybe, maybe not. She's hard after. that that gazelle. Right? Second Peter, the whole context for Second Peter 1 is fantastic. I'd start at verse 1 and we could go if we had the time. For this reason. That's why you need to start with verse 2. Because for what reason? Well, I'll leave that in mystery to you. You can go look that up. For this reason, make every effort Says Peter, to add to your faith excellence, to excellence, knowledge to knowledge, self-control, to self-control, preservation, godliness to godliness, brother affection. Maybe godliness isn't the highest thing, but nonetheless, brotherly affection is brotherly affection, unselfish love. 1 Corinthians chapter 9. This is where Paul says this. I'm going to just skip to verse 27, right? He talks about athletes and how they run, and we've already mentioned that. How athletes train. And Paul says, I train, not as an athlete, you know, just running around doing stuff that's that doesn't matter, but I run disciplinedly, if you will, because I'm not running just just aimlessly. I don't box just as beating the air. I'm not shadow boxing. I discipline my body, he says. I discipline my body. We're going to talk, we're going to unpack that more later, but again, I'm just trying to provide the warrant for, the biblical warrant for training when Paul's uh when um Paul says in Timothy training. There's biblical warrant all over the place for this idea of training. Proverbs. The soul of the sluggard craves and gets nothing. Well the soul of the diligent is richly supplied. Now is he only talking about bringing the crops in? Or is there more to that proverb? Work out your salvation. I didn't even put that one in here. It takes an ad week. There's others. I'm sure there's many more. Galatians 6 is excellent because it says that there is a reaping that leads to, there is a sowing that leads to a reaping, right? And just let us not grow weary. I think in the middle of us talking about training and discipline and all this kind of stuff, let's not grow weary. Let's not grow weary. There's Paul's encouragement to us. The fathers, don't provoke your children to anger. Bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. We are actually to train our children that they might to be godly. And then finally, the grace of God. Now that's beautiful, isn't it? Titus 2, the grace of God has appeared. Don't forget that. Bringing salvation for all people, training us. The grace of God trains us. To renounce ungodliness and worldly passions, and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in this present age. So do you want to be godly? Does that desire for the water brook like the deer pants for that water? Does that desire for Knowing God and pursuing him. I was with a really dear friend of mine this past week, and we were talking about this, and he said, every morning he gets up and his one prayer is, make me more like you, Jesus. Make me more like you. Kill this these this tendency to sin, kill this this worldly flesh, and make me more like Christ, that we might be transformed into his image. To what end? To our chief end? That we might glorify God Because the glorify him is to make him ex to make people know that he is excellent. Is he excellent? Yes. Already Do we give him more glory? No. Can't he get any more from what we do? No. Our glorifying simply means to show to everybody else that he's glorious. That's what we're going to do in our worship here in a few minutes. is to proclaim to each other and to our God, you are glorious. And may our lives be testimonies. To the glory of God as we walk and live in holiness and godness. Alright, I won't be here next week. Chase is going to bring the Reformed Doctrine of Sanctification. which is what we're calling this. This is this whole thing is what this is about. So am I right, Chase? I just set you up for it. Alright, Chase is gonna be here next week. He didn't know that, but now he knows that he'll be here next week teaching Sunday school. And um and then we have a two-week break, and then we'll be back together continuing this conversation. Okay? Let's pray together