Yeah, I love it. Uh should we use that it's not possible? Yeah, and we have to convention Yeah, yeah. Good evening everyone. Let's open our service in prayer. Please join me. Father, we thank you for giving us this day to remember you, to remember you as our Creator, to glorify you, to worship you, for being So, and our recreator and redeemer. We ask you in the name of Jesus Christ that you would guide us in our worship this evening and in our fellowship, we ask, Lord Christ, that by your Spirit we would worship you in truth. By your spirit we would have ears to hear, and Lord, that as these pieces come together, that our hearts should be shaped and molded, where your kingdom would be on earth as it is in heaven. We ask that this would continue in our conversations over food and that we would not only be blessed with you with what you've given to us in the spaghetti and the salads and all that. but with each other. That all things would be serving the purposes you have given them and today is truly good. We ask these things Our call to worship is from Psalm 104, 33 through 35. Let's go ahead and stand. I will sing to the Lord as long as I live. I will sing praise to my God while I have my being. May my meditation be sweet to him. I will be glad in the Lord. May sinners be consumed from the earth and the wicked be no more. Bless the Lord, O my soul. Praise the Lord. Let's sing together, we come, O Christ, to you. We come from Christ to the true Son of God and man. By room of his judgment in you We need live and the body ain't getting your law. You are the ways to call your blood are ransom. In you we face our judge and neighbor. As long as your short voice You are the living truth. All wisdom dwells in you. Thus force of every step of one turn all through all crazy. And you restore, restore to all every question. You only are to die to know you wish to live The war of one We may not teach their life. Hey, Bershia, the Lord and God. To you are your best adoring me, we bring so many Amen. Let us hear now Romans twelve, nine through sixteen, to prepare us for our confession. of sin. Let love be without hypocrisy. Abhor what is evil. Cling to what is good. Be kindly affectionate to one another with brotherly love. In honor giving preference to one another. Not lagging in diligence, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord, rejoicing in hope, patient in tribulation, continuing steadfastly in prayer Distributing to the needs of the saints, given to hospitality. Bless those who persecute you. Bless and do not curse. Rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. Be of the same mind toward one another. Do not set your mind on high things, but associate with the humble. Do not be wise in your own opinion. Amen. You may be seated. Let us pray. Lord Christ, we come before you as the only mediator between God and man. Lord, we read here, especially this final phrase, do not be wise in your own opinion, a phrase or sentence, a reality. That brings up many times in the life of your saints where we did not obey such a thing. Lord, we saw or see in your scriptures many kings that did things that were right only in their own opinion. Your book of Judges ends with, and they did what was right in their own eyes. And it always refers, Lord, to us abandoning you. And abandoning each other. And that is especially appropriate, Lord, in this passage, as we see in Romans 12, 9 through 16, a total emphasis on communion. Lord, we see here that we are to worship you alone and that we are to love our neighbor, the two tables of the law. And yet, Lord, we are often drawn to a different way of life, where we just love ourselves and our own ideas. Lord, I'm sure that you can bring to mind amongst this congregation many ways in which we have done those things. And I pray that you would do so now as they come before you in the silence of their heart. To confess their sins of selfishness and really arrogance before you Lord, may we think your thoughts after you, and may we be men and women that are chasing after your heart alone. In the name of Christ. Amen. Your assurance of pardon is from 1 John 4, verses 9 through 10 In this the love of God was manifested toward us, that God has sent his only begotten Son into the world, that we might live through Him. In this is love. Not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Praise God. Let's stand and sing together, Lord with glowing heart, I'd praise thee. For the Lord in Christ that saves me as the peace that's probably Hello God, my weak endeavour. This will go to after me. The thou must die will be more never, and my thought be born to raise. Praise my soul, but the precious wonderful. Felt the boss and body. Pray the Lord divine, give us all by the one here. And the light of the really take the blessing to us to me Hello to me, maybe looking. Praise the praise to promise for thee. Praise the praise that will ease. Low before thy consumerly, take my common prayer to land. Let my love by false impression was your name within me. And his words and never dangerous let my life go by Excellent song. Let us open now to Proverbs three and I'll read from verse one because this is a uh continuing in the same unit, but we will only go to verse ten tonight. Beginning in verse one. My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart keep my commands. For length of days and long life and peace they will add to you. Let not mercy and truth forsake you. Bind them around your neck, write them on the tablet of your heart, and so find favor and high esteem in the sight of God and man. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lead not on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct your paths. Do not be wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord, and depart from evil. It will be health to your flesh and strength to your bones. Honor the Lord with your possessions and with the first fruits of all your increase. So your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with wine. Let us pray. Christ, you are our true teacher, and we pray that by your Holy Spirit that you would teach us as your saints and holy ones. We pray, Lord, in other words, that this word would not be wasted on us. Give us ears to hear and hearts to obey. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Well the last time we were in Proverbs, we covered quite a bit actually. In all their ways, Christians should endeavor to know God. That was the main truth. To know God is to know his will. and desire it on earth as it is in heaven. It is at least that. We know God's will through the whole collection of Scripture. And we prayed that all of his words would be written upon our hearts, and that when they are, that our hearts would be like his. Especially towards vulnerable children and women. This week I want to make a few more observations about what we have in front of us. It's a seven is seven It's pretty much a repetition of five and six, but there's some things we can bring out, and then we have a small application, and then we'll go into a time of prayer. So the first thing I'd like you to notice, and this really is something I wanted to mention to you from verse 1, and I don't remember if I did or not, so I'm just going to say it now. Since the beginning of chapter 3, the proverbial sayings have been alternating. They've been alternating between the path and then the consequences of being on that path And this continues tonight if you just want to take a look. Here's the path. Do not be wise in your own eyes, fear the Lord, and depart from evil. And then the consequences of the path It will be health to your flesh and strength to your bones. It's like that through the whole proverb. Just wanted to make sure you knew that. You could do it again with the next one. Honor the Lord, so your barns will be filled. Path, consequence of path. That can be helpful to be able to see that structure. Well, that's the first observation. Here's number two. The first path is a path to avoid, and from which to depart. Do not be wise in your own eyes, verse 7, and depart from evil, etc. Verse 7 also. When we talk about not being wise in your own eyes, there's two aspects to this, probably more, but I'm just going to talk about two. First, this is redressing the thought life of a Christian. Christians are not meant to be original. They instead continue in the wisdom that the Son has revealed to the saints throughout time, especially in his scripturated word. The mothers and fathers of the faith, they pass down the wisdom, and we continue in that. I remember having a friend saying That he thinks if there's a Christian who's original, it's another way of saying there's a Christian who's a heretic. The second aspect to this is the life of action. We are not wise in our own eyes in the sense of being selfish. A Christian does not live to him or herself. They make decisions relative to the whole community, and both of those go hand in hand. Both of those dimensions of not being wise in your own eyes. There's plenty of examples in the scriptures that show what happens when you do that. Now You can see that the next part of this, once we see those two observations, you should expect that now that we see the path and what we should depart from, that you would see the promise or the consequences of that. Path. And here it points out that the path leads to a wholeness of being. It will be flesh, health to your flesh, and strength to your bones. This is a poetic device called a marism. It's like when they say from heaven to earth. It's not just talking about heaven. It's not just talking about earth. It's talking about everything in between Between and heaven and earth. And that's the same thing that's going on here with this language of flesh to bones. It's like saying from the outside all the way to the deepest parts of the inside. That's where there will be health and wholeness of being. That's the point of those images. The flesh is one end and the bones are another end, from out to end, from left to right, from heaven to earth. And the point And the writers of Scripture do this especially in Deuteronomy and other places. The point is that all of life is covered under this Physical, mental, emotional. Staying on God's path brings strength and health. Now that is a difficult thing for us to hear. Because your experience defies such a statement. I'm not standing up here arguing against your experience because I'm not trying to argue for the health and wealth gospel. We just said last week, or the last time I preached on Proverbs, that the scriptures must be taken as a total collection, and that is true here. If you read the rest of the collection of Scripture, you will certainly find that life has many hardships. But nevertheless, here is a truth. Faithful saints discover and can experientially testify to the truth of this proverb, nevertheless. Christ Himself, in all of his agony. would still say, following my father's path was strength and health to my flesh and my bones. Now that's a deep thought, and you'll have to keep thinking about that. that to see how your experience doesn't defy what the proverbist is referring to here when you consider it in light of the total collection. And this brings us to observation number four. In verses nine and ten, we now see a specific path of the Lord that we are to get on. It is the path of stewardship. It is the path of private property and resources and their place within our lives. Honor the Lord with your possessions and with the first fruits, the best, of all your increase. Let me ask you, what are the purposes for your property? How do we honor the Lord with our possessions? And this can extend to many different realms of life. The answer is actually given in the consequences that are stated in verse 10 or the promises. So your barns will be filled with plenty and your vats will overflow with wine. There's actually a distinction that's present here. Notice that it says Barnes, verse 9, and then vats in verse 10 will be filled. I have found that Matthew Henry is excellent. I don't know if you all have his commentary in the Bible. I really enjoy reading him, uh working through the scriptures with him as a conversation partner. But this is what he says about what's going on here with this the language of barns and vats. He says, the proverbus does not say bags. He says barns. He does not say wardrobe replenished, but your presses. God shall bless you with an increase of that which is for use, not for show or for ornament. For spending and laying out, not for hoarding and laying up. You see what he's doing with the words there? In other words, those that do good with what they have shall have more to do more good with. I'll say that one last time. It's a great little summary of what's going on here with the language. Those that do good with what they have shall have more to do more good with. In other words, God blesses the person who is righteous because the righteous are people who support and make the whole community thrive. God gives them more so that more shall be blessed You can think of all that is given to Jesus Christ, for example, in his ascension, and what he does with it. Blessing his people from age to age. So what we have here before us may be stated something like this The life of wisdom is to strive for wisdom. in order to gain strength to bless the whole community. That's been the focus really since the beginning. There's this emphasis on the sun inheriting What the Father would give him in wisdom that the community may continue to be blessed by his youthfulness and his strength. And I'm addressing it this way: the life of wisdom is to strive for wisdom. in order to gain strength to bless the whole community. Now what I'd like to do is to unfold that a little bit by looking at the creation account and then I just have a few questions and we'll conclude and go in to some prayer. If you were to slide your finger in Proverbs chapter 3 down to verse 19, take a look at that. The Lord by wisdom founded the earth. That's echoing throughout this whole account, this whole proverb. And I want to talk, I can't wait to talk about that when we get to that verse. But I'm going to bring it up a little bit tonight because it really is framing all that's going on here. And the way I want to bring that up is when I say the life of wisdom is to strive for wisdom in order to gain strength to bless the whole community, that is another way of saying that you are to want to be like your God Blessing your community. You want to be wise like him and strong like him. That's an analogy. Strong like him, that you might bless like him. And we can see this within the creation account. Now that can be surprising to some folks because the creation account is often used for apologetic or polemic purposes. to talk about the Lord created in the heavens and earth in the space of six days and all very good. And it's fine for those purposes. It's fine to be in an argument with the evolutionary perspectives and to use the creation account and the language there in order to establish good doctrine, but there's something else going on. That is present within the creation account that we see from the rest of the collection of the scriptures and how they use the creation account. And this might feel strange to you, or I may have said this to you before and I forgot, but the creation account is often used as a law text for you to know what God requires of you. before him as his king. When we turn to the scriptures, we often find the creation account utilized for those kinds of purposes. In other words, they are a part of the Torah. Actually, it is a dominant purpose. The dominant purpose is to show the goodness of God and how we are to be good like Him. Imagine yourself a farmer who in the space of six days sows seed, seeking to build things up from chaos and wilderness, getting your uh Thing that whacks down everything? I forget what it's called. Bushhog. What's that? A bush hog, right? Yeah. Imagine yourself in that situation and then you have to make the land fruitful. Well, I'm talking about the everyday life of the Israelite farmer, but am I not also talking about the creation account of what God does with chaos, turning it into order, making habitable space for his creatures to be blessed? And that we are to be like him. The creation account moves from disorder to order, and the apex of the order, or at least one of them, in stages, is when what God created in wisdom becomes a blessing to his creatures. That's a major part of the creation account that we often overlook. In wisdom, God the Son created all of the different habitable spaces, and then it says in Genesis 1, 20 through 23. Then God said, Let the waters abound with an abundance of living creatures, and let birds fly above the earth across the face of the firmament of the heavens. So God created great sea creatures, and every living thing that moves, with which the waters abounded, according to their kind, and every winged bird according to its kind. And God saw that it was good. And here's the key. And God blessed them. Saying, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the waters and the seas, and let birds multiply on the earth, so the evening and the morning were the fifth. day. The emphasis is towards the end there that I don't want you to miss. And God bless them. And if this is law text, what does it tell you? The assumption here is that you too are a farmer like your father. And that you are to create habitable spaces that his creatures may be blessed. And that is the point of this proverb. This is going to come out explicitly in verse 19 when we get there. And it'll come out again especially in chapter 24 when we get into iterations of his wisdom in creation. We do not travel down the path of chaos. That is not like God. And we are his children. We depart from evil. We are not wise in our own eyes, but we fear the Lord. Why? So that in Christ Jesus and the power of his Spirit we can be like our Heavenly Father. Father, bringing blessing instead of tragedy. Like God, we use our wisdom strength to bless others. By wisdom, He made the world. And by wisdom, we too are to bring blessing in what he permits us to create, so to speak. God gives us more and more wisdom strength to bless more and more, like Matthew Henry pointed out. It really brings up a few questions for us. One, some of the questions are just straight out of what we see here within the Proverbs, but put in the form of a question. Are you wise in your own eyes? Or do you endeavor to embrace God's wisdom poured out on the saints by the sun? What does it look like for you in that Are you wise in your own eyes, or do you endeavor to be like God using your strength for the sake of your community? What possessions and property and resources has God given to you? Are you honoring him with it? Here's a key question for us. Do you line your pockets or do you fill your barn? The barn is a public act for public consumption in this scenario. Lining your pockets is you gaining things just for yourself. I want you just for a moment to, by faith, imagine God building the house of the universe. That's actually how it's talked about, the house of the cosmos. And that's why the tabernacle is a house because it represents the cosmos. In the house there are many rooms. We saw that in Genesis. Each for his creatures. God makes, if you'll just go along with me here, the room of the earth. He makes the room or the domain of the sky and the sea. And he does so in order to bless the creatures of the earth, to bless the creatures of the air and the water unto his own glory. What if you were to think of your life in a similar way, acting in his image? What rooms has God given to you in the house of You know that we speak about it around here as he has given you the room of family, he has given you the room of church, and he has given you the room of this county. The main question before you with a proverb like this, where it leads us to see that we are the children of God acting in wisdom like God. Is how will you be like God and help your family? How will you be like God and help your church and your county? How will you be like God helping all of them to be fruitful and to multiply? It is another way of saying, how will you be like God in bringing them blessing? The life of wisdom is to strive for wisdom. But we do that so that we would gain strength, because the wise in God are strong. But we do not have our strength for ourselves, because we don't line our own pockets. We gain strength so that we can bless the whole community and be like our God. Let us pray. Father, it is good to see This vision you have for your creation. And we are so thankful that you have placed the whole thing under Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ, the cosmos is like a house, and you are the head of the household. We are so thankful that you are ordering all things onto the glory of the Father Christ, you have poured out one of your church gifts. They are strengths that are meant to be used for the whole body. And to be a light to the world. I pray, Lord, that you would make us saints that depart from evil. That we are not wise in our own eyes, and that we would honor you with our possessions. And as a result, I pray that you would act in your economy as the head of the household I pray that you would give us strength and that you would fill our barns that we can keep blessing and be like you. And we ask that all that is done, that everyone would know that it is from your hand, and that they would turn to you, bow the knee, and worship. give you thanks. And may everyone know that you are good and that you do good. In the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. Let's stand for our final song and our benediction. Let's sing together all glory, Laud, and honor. So uh Oh go on the Who is forsake and let's say one And more cold and calling God. I pray that we for the reason To be the call and we praise. Thus is not that praise, that's the place we bring. And now receive the Lord's benediction. May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. Amen. Let's re seat it and