Begin by praying for us today as people are coming in and we'll pray we'll get started. So let's pray to God. Father, we come before you this morning desirous of your presence, of knowing you, of being able to live lives that are not only pleasing to you in the sense that we are because we are clothed in Christ, but Lord, lives that are being more and more conformed. uh to the image of Christ as we walk in this day we walk, that we might be a light of the gospel to those around us. I pray, Father, that you would Grant us that grace and work in us in such a way that those desires are being fulfilled. I pray, Father, that we continue to make progress. in our in in our sanctification and in our growth in godliness. I pray Father you bless this time together in this discussion. Please give us light. that we might understand, help us to know exactly how your word would have us live. And we pray all these things in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. And so today I want to preface what we're going to talk about today by saying we have not had a lot of opportunity to discuss Because as someone said to me last week, boy, you had a lot of content and you wanted to get through it. And yes, that is correct. And so today I'm going to do a brief review for those of you who've been here It may be repetitive, but for those of you who have not, and I have a couple of you said that they hadn't hadn't been here, hadn't uh kept up. So going to do a brief review, and then we're gonna just ask some questions And I want you to be considering or thinking about the questions that you have or the questions that have come up in your own minds as you have been thinking about the things that we've been discussing. And so uh so I'm prefer uh I'm I'm I'm let's uh let's uh priming the pump as it were, begin to think about the questions that you have that have not yet been answered. And I'm not even promising that I can answer them. They may be questions that we'll have to explore together as we look into God's word and search for those answers. So that's what we're going to do today. Okay? What we have been talking about is the 1 Timothy 4. 7, the verse that says that we are to train ourselves for godliness. And the question is that we've asked you so what does it mean? What is godliness? And our definition. So here's the definition. If you ever got a chance to write it down, I have it written out. at some level uh what I think a good definition of godliness is and this might be a question that some of you might have after we get to that part. Okay, let's talk about that. Is that a good definition or not? what I have so far. Oh, and by the way, a lot of this coming from the three books that I referenced at the beginning of the class, the ones that I'm using to do this class with. So godliness comes from a word uh Eusebia, which means right worship. And so godliness is right worship that produces a rightly ordered life. which produces a character which is marked by reverence, obedience, self-mastery, love, joy, peace, patience, kindness. Goodness, gentleness, self-control, contentment, visible faithfulness, hope, humility, Christ like this, and so on. I just began to Think about all the things that Paul says that we are to be and do since we are in Christ. And that's where that list comes from. But the key there being godliness is at some level a character trait It's a character trait. And so why, we asked this question, or been asked this question, why would we pursue guidance? Well, obviously it's commanded of us, first Timothy four seven. It is the proper end of every believer. It's what we are being uh made into, the image of Christ. So we are being made into uh his likeness and that is what the scriptures teach. It promises reward, which Chase talked about in the in his class. We didn't go into that as much, but there's a lot more to be said about the reward that are the rewards that are promised that are awaiting those of us who are being conformed into the image of Christ. It provides assurance, and I haven't talked about this one yet, but If you read, and I it's why I have as a supplement, I gave you two handouts today. One's the stuff we're going to do in our class, and then the second one is actually I didn't I didn't give you that one. I didn't give you chapter eighteen, did I? I gave you a sanctification of good works. Okay. Well on your own. I have it here and we didn't get it printed up. Maybe we could print it up and If you're interested, we can print it up. But chapter 18 of the Westminster Confession of Faith talks about the assurance of grace. and salvation. And if you've not read that, I recommend it to you because it does at some level many of us who struggle with that question Am I in the faith? I find myself regularly committing these sins. I don't sense the desire for Godliness that that there's talking about. I don't have that same kind of urge. My heart doesn't long for the for the for the water brook. My heart doesn't long after God like the deer longs after the water. So what's going on? Well that that there is uh there is uh something to be understood that perhaps that that that lack of assurance is real. Like why you don't have assurance? Well it might be real if indeed there are these things. And so the Westminster Confession talks about that But growth and godliness, as you see yourself making progress, it provides assurance. Now that may lead to another question. I got a question in my mind that comes up, but I'm going to wait and see if you guys have questions about that. Next, it adorns the gospel. Titus talks about that, right? What we are doing as we are living holy lives. Our life lived on this earth does can do one or two things. It can actually detract from the gospel. It can be something that uh can cause uh uh the gospel to be, you know, Paul talks about those guys who have, as a result of their falling away or the way result of their lives, have done things to cause shame on the gospel. And at the same time, it is the godly life that adorns the gospel. The gospel stands by itself, obviously. But we can adorn it as well by how we live our lives. And so that's one of the other reasons why we pursue God with this. And then finally, and This is an interesting one which you may also you may ask questions about. It's the longing and desire of every Christian. That was an assertion that I made a couple of times in the past few classes I couldn't find a text for that, specifically. I do think that the scriptures, as Carol and I were talking about today, the corpus of Paul's work is at some level Suggest to us that to be a Christian is to long for and desire to know Christ um to be in him to what it means to to abide in him. That is the longing desire of those who have by grace been made alive, been given that new heart. And so that's at some level my warrant for that, but that may also bring up other questions, especially questions about what if I don't Feel that or have that. And so how, this is last week's, how are we to train ourselves for godliness? Well, the answer to that is by the proper use. of or proper use of or training by the spiritual disciplines. And I gave you a list of those disciplines last week. And that's what we're going to be doing going forward after today. We're going to be looking at each week we're going to take a different spiritual discipline and discuss it. Next week's will be the word, scriptural intake. What does that as a discipline? What does it mean to discipline oneself with regards to being in God's Word, hearing God's Word preached, etc. ? That's next week. But our definition of spiritual disciplines. Uh if I if you didn't get that down specifically is this. Uh and this is one that I'm that I'm working, as you can see I'm tweaking it and trying to figure out exactly how to say it, which is why I have all the hyphens and the parentheses. But The spiritual disciplines are practices, and by practices I mean what the reformers call the means of grace. What more recently times they call habits of grace are to put it more more kind of concretely, habits of devotion and experiential Christianity. So practices, right? Habits of grace. Habits of devotion. Habits is a great word in there. uh of experiential Christianity. In other words, how we practice our Christianity. And then of course the reformers wanted to remind us that these are habits that are that come about as a result of the grace that has been given to us and wrought in us as a result of of Christ's work and through the Spirit. And so that's how I'm going to complete it, right? There are practices through which God transforms his people into the image of Christ by the work of the Spirit And therefore, my conclusion at some level of all this, the end of the practice of the spiritual disciplines is to be participating in 1 Timothy 4. 7, the training of ourselves unto godliness, such that the end of this is the personal characteristic of godliness. the personal characteristic of guidance. So let me pause there. That is what we've been talking about for the past couple weeks. Let's pause there and see what kind of questions you have that have come up or not questions, comments that you have about this. And then we're gonna I'm gonna we're gonna flip the page over and we'll look at questions that I have. Don't flip it over yet, Mike. Don't don't hold on. Hold on. We'll get there in just a second. Questions. If there's no questions, I mean it's been incredibly straightforward. I've been nothing but thoroughly biblical and sound and you have no questions, which is great. That'd be great. Any questions? Chase. Yeah. to mind or did she hear uh might she hear my voice they follow me or Jesus then is picked up by the Apostle John If you love me, you'll keep my commandments. Those who know him obey his command. Those who know him obey him, and it's their desire, it's their longing. Um does she Run through the shepherd, I like that. That's really good. Good. What else? Anything else? I was talking with my wife last night about uh if you read the three books that I've recommended, they don't go into the stuff that I've done the past three weeks. They just assert that the spiritual disciplines are the way to grow godless. And here they are. Let's go. All three books. And I I have to stop. I have to find. Wait a minute. I want the warrant for that. I want the biblical warrant for that. I want the historical warrant. I want some questions answered. And I was last night I said, I said, Jen, I have no idea. Maybe I am answering questions that no one's asking I'm the only one asking. She's my wife is more the practical person. She goes, just do it, man. Just start talking about the disciples. Just go. And I'm like, yeah, but. I gotta have some foundation. I gotta have some some some questions of my own answer. So if all I'm doing here today is throwing out questions that I have and you don't, I apologize because They may be, you know how someone asked a question that you've ever asked and all of a sudden you go, man, I should ask that. Is that something I should be concerned about? Is what you might might be thinking. I wasn't concerned about that, and he's throwing this question out. Now here I am concerned about it and bummer. Because now I've got to think about that. So nonetheless I hope that that won't be the case, but I am going to throw out some questions to you that I think are worthy of us to ponder and discuss. Carol. So as I'm reading through this, I'll say some of the line, but if I were one of the Christians that I've been interacting with recently who are deconstructing their faith, they want to have Jesus and me, uh their own version of Christianity. I could read this and say, I can do all this on my own. So this uh this sounds more there's an individual aspect of it, but there's also we have to keep in mind the one another corporate aspect of the body of Christ and how That is part of training us for godlius. Yes. And we're placed in a body of believers to We then rub up against we have to begin to fit together, as Paul says, Yes. Um, into one building. Um um one family. Very good. Um so I think that that's the one thing that I would say that we we have to keep that part um our high Absolutely agree with you. As a matter of fact, when you read these again these these authors who talk about it, they distinguish two kinds of disciplines, corporate and individual. And so we'll be looking at that. There are corporate disciplines that you participate with others, uh fellowship, worship, etc. That will be a corporate discipline to participate in as you are in your for your growth and guidance. And then there'll be individual disciplines. As a matter of fact, there'll be there are corporate there are disciplines like intake of the word that are both corporate and individual. As as even fellowship as well at some level, right? There are the things that you've learned and how you discuss them. Even your meditation, which I Some people have knee-jerks when I throw out that word meditation. But we'll talk about that in meditating upon God's word and what meditation looks like. But even meditation would be something that you do could do with another. Right? So we'll we'll talk about that. Maybe one of the things that we're doing. I wasn't looking at you, Teresa, when I said the thing about the knee jerk. I wasn't. Maybe one of the reasons the three books jumped right into the I wonder if that's connected with the the um claim that is legalistic. Hmm, okay. Because I think when you stop and do what you've done here it it takes that away like the why? Like is this in my heart or am I just being religious and legalistic or doing it for others' view of who I am from the heart. And that's good. That's one of my questions on the back of a piece of paper here. We're going to get into that. That's a question I want us to ask and ponder and process. The whole question of legalism and how that comes up in in different contexts. And certainly it's something that we want to not just unpack and avoid, but we don't want all of a sudden If this practice of the disciplines becomes something that we agree needs to be part of our lives, how do we go about that in a way that doesn't lead us into The dangerous aspects of legalism being not just to be pleasing to God, but but our own guilt struggles that we have and the all of that stuff that comes up So yeah, that's that's a great point. We'll we're gonna we're gonna turn the page and get to that in just a second. But that's a great thing to remember. Other questions? I uh Christina? Yes? Um Christina have had a conversation about this a lot, so yeah. Um I would actually like to go back to Christmas and talk about the reward Okay, oh okay, okay. All right. Chase is here. So Chase is here to answer those questions. there being you know it there is a sense in which our good works are laid our crowns are laid before Christ and they're real crowns and different things but what it says for bodily exercise profits little but godliness is profitable for all things having promise of the life that now is and of that which is I don't think of the prophets of godliness in terms of etern uh in terms of reward necessarily. I will get things I think of it in terms of how I live in that relationship that I have with Christ. And so grammatically, I know this is English that I'm looking at. But if we're saying that there's a prophet and then it pertains both to this life and the next life, it seems like that profit would parallel and be the same for both. Okay. And I'm just wondering if there's is there a sense in which also our spiritual training in this life that we go through um prepares us to also live in that communion in the next Great question. Great question. I mean the scriptures say things. Paul says things to us like, right, do not store up for yourselves treasures on this earth, but store up for yourselves treasures in heaven on this earth, the moth and rust and all that kind of stuff. But not so in heaven. And so and so and over and over again, maybe we can encourage our pastor at some point after he's through with Colossians to do a series on reward. Like what? Because over and over again Paul uses that as a motivation. Right? And it's just not something that we talk about. And I don't know why But you did say something perhaps that we also need to define reward, because you said, I get things. When we live in a modern American world, we think that reward is getting things. Right? And that's that's a where if you live perhaps in Nigeria, your reward is maybe something other than getting things. Um what could so I'll throw it out as a question, what else could reward mean if it's not just diamonds and rubies and so on and so forth? Mrs. Long. Um I think about the deeper relationship And appreciation like that that the believer who here has walked humbly with Christ and grown deeper into that relationship A reward I I've thought of w reward in heaven is that depth of love and appreciation Sure. I tried to explain that once before, but again I've only read a little bit with John Owen, but he talked about that you are developing your capacity to for joy. And by capacity, imagine a cup, okay? So we all will go to heaven with a certain cup. Now your cup may be small. It'll be full. It'll be completely full. You're full, you're it'll be full, but it'll be small, as opposed to someone who has developed their capacity for joy. uh in their pursuit of godliness and the things of God, they have a bigger cup. This is what a Puritan this is a Puritan analogy. Now whether or not that's right or not, I don't know, but that's that's what they say. And over a lot of your periods, as you go back to them, you're going to have a lot more conversation about this concept of we are to be seeking the reward that is in heaven. Right? Um that and and that and then it is a motivation that's laid before us and it's not bad, it's not wrong. Um if you say, man, I'm I'm after the reward that's are in heaven. It's not bad, it's not wrong. No, we gotta but there's a balance there that we gotta think about. There's obviously a ditch. that we could fall into. But nonetheless, it's it's it's laid before us as something that we should be excited about, encouraged to to follow, to pursue, laying up for ourselves treasure in heaven. So and then now I'm gonna go to Chase after you go no, ask your question. And then I'm gonna go to Chase and he's gonna help us answer it. So thinking of the different capacities is also making me think of the parable of the talent. Um but because I've also been thinking how do you it's difficult to live in a world where there's the reality of the parable of the talent and And people get different talents and it produces different amounts. We are all to be joyful in that and accepting God's grace. So I'm thinking how in the pursuit of the reward, how do we avoid the idea how do we live with the reality that Some are given two, some are given five, some are given ten, even in the pursuit of godliness and how we see these things working out in people's lives. And how can we pursue that reward with the same joy and contentedness for what God does in our own life, even if it is making our two four. while we're watching people who have been given ten make twenty. Right. If if the goal is supposed to be to pursue that more. Right, right, right. That is a great question. Let me let Chase answer it in just a second. I do have one quick thought about that. Although he s he said it in his Sunday school class. He said The beauty of heaven will be uh no longer the ability to sin, right? And that that removal of envy Which is the reason why we look at the person who got the the ten talents and go, hm, all right, look at that mansion, look at that it's it's that. And to it's hard for us even to conceive of being the kind of person who looks at the person who got the reward and we go, that's awesome, that's fantastic, I'm so joyous and happy for them. And God, I'm grateful for what you've given me. I've joked with my my students about this in school. I said, you know, uh we are to pursue God with all of our minds. If all you've got is one talent And I joke, I say, I got one talent. The Lord gave me one, but one's what I'm supposed to put into it. And I I am often envious when I read John Owen or whoever or talk to some of my colleagues. I go, man, dude got so much more than I did when it comes to their ability to process and understand and to think and to know and to communicate. Um I just I get really jealous and So that's the reality of a sinful person. However, Christina, as we pursue and grow in godliness, we will see that hopefully diminish. As we learn, as we grow in the capacity, the rightly ordered love, the capacity to be able to look at another and say, Wow, uh, praise God for the benefits and the blessings of the stuff that he's giving you as opposed to, you know, when I l when I read Owen go, that's awesome, as opposed to sitting there just being jealous that I don't have that kind of capacity. So the good news is at least in heaven Will celebrate the mansions and if I just am a door holder, Paul says it, I mean Paul Davis is right, but if I'm just a door holder, Fantastic. I'm there. I'm I'm in the presence of Jesus. That's awesome. And that's my great reward as a Puritan as I say. Chase, anything to add to that? Well I I was hearing the question, I mean part of your question was um profit for this life and the next and wouldn't the profit be the same? I don't know if they're exactly the same, but if the if the reward ultimately is Christ himself We get that reward even now. And it's a little different in one sense because it's face to face. Right. Right. Yes, sir. Right. I I Uh my thinking in this often comes back to the idea of God's glory and in a sense, yes, we will enjoy him and face Face to face or you know while we're still on earth. There's the other aspect, like the parable of the talents, where those were grown for the Master. For the Master. For His glory. And so on earth or in heaven, we can take the talents that are given to us and yearn to do great things. For God's glory. And that's where I think the envy kind of goes away because you're like, that ten talent person over there won God great glory. Absolutely. And it's all whoever's our rewards are oriented towards the glory of God. Absolutely. Then the self kind of goes away. Even though they are kind of individual rewards, they're all oriented towards That's a great answer. That's an excellent answer. Cheryl, you had your hand up. Yeah, I tend to think about this kind of in a childlike way, but I don't think that's bad because God is our heavenly But um when I think about like my seven-year-old and my fifteen-year-old just wanting to do something sweet for mom, and say they both draw me a picture, the 15-year-old has more capacity to draw. And so they're both going to be very sweet. One will be objectively better. But both of them are doing it to be like um to not gain merit from me, to not mom's not gonna love me if I don't draw this picture for her. So it's not they're motivated by gaining merit from me. It is just I just kinda wanted to like you, Mom. And I drew you this picture. And so when I think of like this idea of reward of you know, having these jewels being added to a crown that God has worked out in me. Like He's created these good works before the foundation of the world for me to walk in. that for me to offer that to him in heaven is just my delight. Like I look forward to it being filled with the most glorious jewels that he grew my capacity over my entire life. lifetime to fill it with just so that I have the the mere delight. Not because it narrated me anything to give to him, but because I love him. And then when I see someone else Who wow, is that a crown? I'm actually just all the more excited of like my Lord gets to receive that too, which he worked in you. Yeah. And I don't know if that needs to be steered in a different direction of yes, Cheryl, but also I think reward means something more than that And I wonder if that's what Christina is saying. Like is is there something else I'm missing in my understanding? Great question. Thoughts, Jesse? A couple of thumbs that are a bit more general that are kind of guiding toward the answer. Um just with having struggled with stuff for a long time. Whenever I have to say something publicly, I don't feel comfortable unless I know that it's from God. So some of the ways into that have been number one, I don't think that the scriptures can answer all of our questions. Right. I view it kind of like a tree. I know that God answers the questions that are the trunk and he answers a lot of things that are out on the branches. But I don't see full answers a lot of times When I get into like the twiglets. I've mentioned that before. Yeah. And we we try to put the puzzle pieces together to be able to tell the story coherently And that could be difficult to do. If we do stand any chance of doing it accurately, I do think we need to remember that these documents are 2,000 years older old and older and are not written immediately to us. There is a specific historic circumstances circumstance that they're addressing. It is superintended by the Holy Spirit to where it has continuing relevance for every generation. But I think in order to tap into that you must go back with the do the best that you can, benefiting from an entire Christian community across the world in the scriptures throughout all the ages So for example, with the talents and back the parable of the talents and other parables, those are given in a very specific context. So who is Jesus and what is he getting at? Originally, and then we can ask, well, does that have anything to do with me? And it does. But uh well, you do need to do there is work that has to be done to cross over into that horizon Another like a a really clear example would be the first Timothy passage you have here on four seven. Right That let that's a letter to Timothy. So it's a letter to a guy who is doing pastoral work. Right. And We have to be really careful to univ to too quickly universalize statements. So if we look at well what is the prophet for him there, when I read that I s I try to look at the total chapters And that sounds a lot like what's the kind of fruit that you want? Profit is another way of talking about the fruit we would get. Right. And if you read the less of the letter I'm not so sure if he's talking about profit that Timothy would personally receive because of who he is, but rather the profit that would be gained if he keeps the congregation from rejecting God. In other words, I think the main message there just to give an example of if you were to look at the total context of the letter The profit that y will be received from from you, uh Timothy, will be seeing people make it all the way into the celestial city. And the only way that that's going to happen is if you uphold the faith and the doctrine. Gotcha. That's that paragraph right there. Okay. I think that's the good fight he's supposed to be fighting. And so it is actually His reward as a pastor is to see the sheep not devoured by wolves, but to enter into glory. Right, right. Now that's my hypothesis And I have different reasons for believing that that's a hypothesis I should say here at Sunday school. Being confident enough about it. Gotcha. But uh but uh so at any rate I think that's an example of making sure we're reading the scriptures Well that's good. That's really good. Um which is not I don't want to answer first and foremost questions from the medieval church who had problems with a penitentiary Right because of corruptions that entered in from the Holy Catholic Empire. Right. I want to ask questions, what is going on in Paul and Jesus' Absolutely. Amen. Which is not to say, uh what Jesse said is not to say that there isn't clearly throughout the Pauline corpus this idea of of Reward. Yeah, so so but specific context what's going on here. Um very good. Thank you, Jesse. Uh Chase, anything else to add? No? I'll say one last thing about something that Cheryl said. So whatever re my mindset right now is when I Lord willing, when I do enter those gates of glory, my Catholic grandmother said I'm gonna be I'm be Yeah yeah yeah. It was St. Peter greets you. Go ahead. But but uh yeah but uh my mindset right now is Whatever he does reward me with, I'm gonna if I'm in my right mind, I'm saying I didn't deserve any of this. Yeah. Luther used to say it's something like that. He said three things will uh surprise me when I get to heaven. One, who is there Two, who is not there, and three, that I am there. Um Amen. Well said Um good. Last thing. I just want to say one last thing about something that Cheryl said. And this is the heart this is the contrary, maybe between even what Cheryl and Brian said. One of the things that's um Sometimes we want to be careful by getting in the mindset of that whatever this means is that it's only just for God, that there's somehow it's not for me as well. Because you said it even in when you in what you said, you articulated it like this. I will delight in whatever it is that's going on. And so who's the recipient of that delight, Cheryl? It's you. And so at some level, even if that is the reward, if you will, I'm again I'm I'm not gonna say what it is, but then it's still something that you are blessed by. because you are delighting in, you are receiving or experiencing the delight. So that's why we live I'm and that's I'm taking this this is my John Piper training by the way, perhaps if you can uh hear it some of that. Even even the fact that um the Lord is what who we will see, it we will see him and at his at his right hand are pleasures forevermore. Those aren't his pleasures, those are our pleasures. In his presence is fullness of joy. So whatever reward else you want, other than pleasures forevermore and fullness of joy, that is what you will receive. And you will delight, and you will experience the pleasures of God forevermore, and you will experience joy eternal. And that'll be all the promises that he has for you. And so whatever that means with regards to other kinds of rewards. It is okay, the Lord says, for us to recognize that that is what's set before you. That is what's before you, ladies. Brothers and sisters, that's what before you is set before you. The pleasures of the Lord forevermore, eternal joy. He these are the things he sets before you. Pursue these things. Don't pursue the things of the ungodly who what's set before them is something uh too horrible to even speak of. So All right. Any other questions before I get into mine? And again, my questions are ones that you may not be asking. And so we may go. Here's a question and we'll skip. Christina, looks like you got one. You gotta go ahead. She's sitting there going like this, mmm, I wanna raise my hand, maybe not, I don't know. Go go ahead. So how the school about rewards is a personal discipline I know the answer is partly corporate later to this question. But how do you How do you pursue it rightly with gauges? So people have different capacities, but how do you determine when you are doing Enough for you. Yeah. And how does that Ah Christine? Like you and I have been having this conversation. This is a question I've been asking for about 23 years now I was talking with Jesse about this last week and asking this question and it seems like the right answer I can't give you. I can't give you what not to do. I can say don't fall into that ditch And stay out of that ditch. And there's another ditch over there and watch out for those ditches. But what it means to walk the razor's edge is something that I find myself uh saying, okay, I'm um I'm going to simply live knowing that I'm not in either one of those digits. And that's how I'm going to walk this walk of the pursuit of God and godliness. It's by grace, right? I mean, and he says it's Uh therefore put to death the disease of the flesh by the Spirit, right? If indeed you have the Spirit. I mean there are these things that Paul doesn't even qualify. He just says these two things are happening at the same time. It's not that dish, it's not that one, it's both of these, and stay right there. Jesse. Um Christina's question reminds me of um when I was working on a boat motor. When I was working on a boat motor, which I know know nothing about boat motors. So I joined a community of marine mechanics. And I started asking a lot of questions because I was approaching it more like an engineer to understand the entire system and how all the pieces fit together. And it was helpful for those guys to eventually say, aren't you just trying to replace the solenoids? And the reason why I put it that way is I think in part the answer is if you look again at First Timothy four, the reason that he says that he's supposed to be disciplined is so that people would love their mother. So how do you know? Well you're possessing your love in your mom. Absolutely. I think that's ends up being the answer. Good. That's good That kind of thing. That's good. And that leads me into some of the kind of Yeah. And that leads me into some of the kind of questions that I think come up. I I think the question you're asking just is what comes up as we think about this. And so the ditches, we'll we'll talk about the ditches that we have to avoid. And then as long as you're avoiding those dishes, you're doing all right. Why did I give you a supplement called I gave you a supplement from the Westminster Confession, right? of sanctification and of good works. Because I do think that those two things are applicable here, right? What does it mean? What do we mean when we talk about sanctification? I'm not going to get into that. Again The books that I'm reading, they don't even go down that path. But I do think that it would behoove you to read the Westminster Confession on sanctification. so that you understand it and then what is what is implied by good works because both of these help to kind of answer this question goes on going along. And then of course uh chapter 18 of the assurance of grace of salvation. I will say this And I may be in big trouble. This may be the last Sunday school class I teach up here, but we'll see. The Westminster Confession of Faith, if you search it for the word godliness, guess what you find? Bupkus, yeah exactly. Um and I was I I was disappointed in that. I was wanting to look I mean The chapter on sanctification, and Jesse will say, right, when they wrote the Western Confession, what were they dealing with? So it's an assertion of the work of the Spirit in you, and it's that is the main part that it's dealing with Uh and even when it comes to good works, it's dealing with this idea of um uh it doesn't get in it does not get into this thing that I'm talking with you about. about uh what it means to uh pursue any kind of disciplined life unto godliness. It just doesn't get into that. And I didn't find anything that would help me In that regard, in the in the confession, so maybe when we rewrite our confessions, as every generation has done throughout the history of the church. Except for ours, we'll ask maybe we'll add something on that. A chapter on of the pursuit of godliness or something like that. But let's turn the page and am I do I still get to teach next week, Jesse, considering what I just said. Uh yes. Okay, I'm joking around. You never know. You just never know if you say something way out way out of line or not, you know. Yeah, that's what basically I was there. And uh Chase will be calling me this week to make sure I'm still in on online. So turn to turn the page and get to the questions that I ask This is an interesting one because I think it last week I asked you to let's distinguish between, let's make a distinction about godliness. What do we have to be able to say about godliness in order to understand that the practice of the disciplines is what helps us to pursue it. And I said, I said, was that? And you you were Christina was like, what's the word you're looking for? Well I'm I'm wondering if this question will help unpack that a little bit, Christina, because this is the question that I asked Can a person be a Christian and not be godly? Can someone, in other words, can someone be justified and not be godly? It's ambiguous for a reason. Can a person be real but not really of Israel. Absolutely. But then you follow it up with a more specific question, can a person be justified and not be badly? I'm like, well that's a question worth asking, but they're not the same. My assumption about a Christian is that you're just is justified, right? I'm not I'm not talking about someone who's just hanging out in the Christian room. I'm talking about whether or not they are actually justified Can you actually be justified and not be? And then of course your answer is going to be, well, it depends, right? I'm assuming the answer is going to be that. But why do I even ask this question? Because I'm trying to get at what the word godly or godliness itself even means. So Chase, what would you say? Well I was just gonna say my initial reaction was to answer one way, but then I all I was already bringing in qualifications of like can there be times, can there be ups and downs, can a a true Christian, as it were, attempt you know, for a while Fall away. Yeah, I think that's true as well. So Or how about the baby Christian who just got started? Yeah. But if it were worded, can a save can someone be justified and never bring forth For proof. Okay. I would answer no. No. Different question. That's a different question, right? So so maybe I should ask the question, why do I ask that question? But If Paul says, and over and over again, this isn't just 1 Timothy 4, right? But there are things to pursue and things to add to, and Peter says, add to this and that, grow in this. Be like you continue to be putting to death the deeds of the flesh. If he he he he communicates our growth in grace as a process Right? Stephen said it very well, I think, last week. There's an indicative And by the way, if you haven't heard that before, we just kind of unpack that. Paul, in most of his letters, begins with, this is who you are in Christ. This is what has been wrought in you. This is what your justification has has gained for you. And I even went so far a couple weeks back to say John Owens would say, whatever is true of Christ is true of you. Which I don't know how that landed on your ears, but that's something to stop and think about and process. What does it mean to be in Christ? What does it mean to be hidden in Christ? Whatever is true of Christ is true of you. And yet at the same time, Paul then goes on to say, after he has said, right, well, Galatians 5. 25, the whole book is about Do not think that your righteousness comes through the law. Yet in the end of it he says, if we live by the Spirit, that is how we are, we are if we're justified, then let us also walk by the Spirit meaning to say suggest that there is also something more that is going on in our lives. We talk about salvation that way, right? I have been saved, I'm being saved, I will be saved That there is that that so godliness can be, this is my assertion, and you feel free to discuss That there is godliness can can have a lesser or a greater degree in a person depending upon their own, if you will, disciplines unto that end. That's my assertion. So that godliness is not justification. Which does lead me to the next question. I'll ask a question about is it the same thing as sanctification, but we'll get to that in just a minute. But godliness is not justification, right? Your justification is the forensic declaration that you are righteous. That you are holy, that you are in Christ and like Christ, that all of your sins are gone, yesterday, today, forever. Right? Fully atoned for by the work of Christ. All of that is what our justification is and what's been wrought for us. But our character as we go through this life is something that's continuing to be. As Owen says, we still have a loss in it. Well, it depends on how you want to translate. uh or understand Romans 7, but right that it there we still have these two natures, this old nature which is still sinful, we are not yet perfected in that regard. We have a new nature that has been given the ability, that we through which which we now are alive and have the ability by grace to pursue the things that are good and right. They are in conflict with one another. And the degree to which we pursue that the things of that new nature is the degree to which we will grow in godliess. So far so good? Okay And therefore, godliness is not like justification. It is literally a character trait. How many of us talk about, and I'm going to do this at the end of class today if I actually have the chance, I was going to actually say, let's take a spiritual inventory of our own lives. Ask ourselves the question, where where in would I like to see myself grow in godliness? And I'll get specific. For me, it would be the tendency to react in anger all too quickly. Just that tendency. My wife can testify to that, that I'll find myself hot quickly. But it's not godly. Right? I'm pretty convinced I'm justified. But at least in that area. I'm not godly. And then we talk about other things of the setting sense, the things in our lives that we just go, man, why do I keep doing that? That's not Gabi. It's all over and over, don't. He's always contrasting the godly attitude, the godly things with the ungodly, right? So if we were to take a stock of our lives, do some self-examination, be like David and say, Search me, O God, and know my heart, see if there be any wicked way within me, and lead me in the paths of righteousness. If we're to take stock, what are those things? Such that, because that's where we're going with the rest of the class, such that we can say, all right, that particular discipline will be the thing applied to that particular area that will help me to make progress in that. Which does lead to some of the interesting questions, which maybe we'll get to next week, right? Can an unjustified person appear godly? Sure. My um my brother uh uh my brother's children often talk about their two grandfathers One grandfather who appeared godly but was not saved, repudiated the faith to the day he died, but was really sweet and kind and all those kind of things that at some level if you just look at you'd go Wow, that guy's a good guy. And there are other gods-grandfather who professed faith, but but anger would be one of his issues, right? And to the day, well he's he's not yet dead, but Not a lot of progress has been seen in that regard. Right? And we can talk about other things like assurance and other things, but nonetheless, is that possible? Can they indeed practice the spiritual disciplines? Yes, they can They can do all of these things that we're going to talk about. So it's not about the disciplines themselves. They are the how God by his grace transforms us by his spirit through our participation in these practices. That's what I've been saying over and over again. Okay, so we need to remember that. I'm going to skip down to the the bottom part If you want to want to have the discussion about sanctification and spiritual disciplines, because it's not it's not the same. Spiritual disciplines are not the same as sanctification. And we need to touch with and I would say read the chapter in the confession on what sanctification is and you'll see why that they're not the same. But nonetheless here's where we're going to get into the struggle, Christina, right? We are often told, and this happens a lot, that when we say, man, let's say one of you what comes to one of your friends today and says to Warning Friends, I have decided that I am going to give up all of my television watching And I'm going to give it all up because I believe that it has been detrimental to my growth and grace, and I want to see that. What's the first thing that they're going to say to you? Good golly, man, that's legalistic So they're gonna say, right? As opposed to, hey, happy free, I'm not doing that because I don't have that issue, but nonetheless, right? But illegalistic Right? That's what they say. We we need to understand what is meant when somebody uses that term legalism or legalistic. Okay Legalism, I was going to put it on the board, but uh perhaps you know this already. But legalism simply means, and this is what Paul is against, legalism is the idea. That you please God through your obedience and somehow you merit his affection or you merit his love for you, you merit your justification ultimately That's legalism, technically. The man who says to you, I'm giving up my TV because I want to grow God, he's that's called discipline. That's not legalism. I heard um what was his name? He came and spoke to Derek Thomas. I don't know if you know that name Derek Thomas. He came and gave a conference I was at and he said, there's one word today that I want us to get rid of in our conversations. He says, because it's way overused and we talk about it all the time, and that is the word legalistic He said we just need to stop using that word. Because we use it as a way for us to avoid. This is what he said. And this is gonna this it's hard for me. We use it as a way of avoiding What Paul is saying when he says things like, or when Peter says, make every effort. And we'll get to that in just a second, I promise Bill. Bill has some words that he's going to give us about that in just a second. We just use it as a way of kind of avoiding whatever discipline or diligence that is that we are to be about. Okay? The other opposite side of the of that ditch of legalism is what we call antinomianism. If you're familiar with that term. And that is the well, I'm I'm saved, there's no effort to be made. I'm is all is well I am not, I, you know, I I I can sin all the more because of the grace that uh that God has given to me. And Paul clearly says in Romans six, right, what shall we say that we continue in sin, that grace may abound? May it never be. How shall we who died in sin still live in it, right? So there's no antinomialism as an option. I don't think that's particularly a struggle in this church. I don't know. But I'm gonna s I'm I'm gonna guess that that's not a particular struggle. Just the desire to live like the Corinthians. Hey I can do whatever I want, I'm in grace I don't think that that's the big struggle that we face, but certainly the struggle over I want to live a life pleasing to God, I want to walk in a way that's righteous and yet It feels like I am under guilt and I'm doing it for. Well, we have to get solid in our minds what it means when Paul says you are in Christ. Sins are forgiven when he says, right, you are new creatures. All of that's done away with. And now, so what's the middle road here, Christine? Because of that freedom that I now have, because of having been justified by faith. I now can walk in those works that God has prepared for me beforehand. I can now walk in them freely, excitedly. I can fail, I can make mistakes, I can be lazy, whatever, but I can I mean I can I can be lazy in the sense of I I was lazy for a time But I can repent of that and move on. But I don't live in the guilt of my a loss somehow of my righteousness. Which is what we're sometimes attempting to do. This is the sinful part of the disciplines, right? I'm going to make get myself righteous. I'm going to get myself pleasing to God. Watch me. And that's the that'll be the ditch that we gotta really watch out for as we're talking about this one. Yeah, Brian. I think uh another ditch like maybe it's like a Example of the TV for giving up TV legalism I I think I've often hear hear that come up with in the context of they're g they've given up TV but then they start judging So they might do it with the right you know reasons, like not trying to earn their own righteousness, really trying to please God is something they struggle with. There's always that there tends to be that challenge then. Everyone else is watching from the how do you explain what you're doing without impinging on their consciousness? Exactly. Especially if you go around talking about it. Maybe you just shouldn't talk about it. Just give it up and don't tell anybody. Go live your life as we had a sermon not too long ago, right? Don't let your righteousness be something that's quote unquote demonstrated before men. But go. Do those things that you believe would be helpful as you pursue uh a a godly life. Yeah, that's a great that's a great point. You were gonna say something else? I was just gonna say like I I think that's where people where the legalism word comes out most often. When people see other people doing things maybe out of obedience. But feeling judged by it and that's where anytime I've heard the word legalism used, it's always in the context of that person being legalistic because they're giving up something Yeah, very true. This is why I gave you the Western's Confession of Good Works, because that's the very first at some level the first paragraph is about these things that we come up with. that will be our good works, right? I'm gonna not whatever. I'm not gonna listen to the Beatles anymore. That'll be that'll help. That'll do it, right? Whatever, right? Um I say that as a joke, but I I remember one time driving along in my car and having a a Beach Boys cassette in my thing and I remember being, uh, this is uh and I chucked it up the window. I didn't feel bad about the littering But whatever. So yeah, it is interesting as we uh we we that is one of the the the the the major ditch that we gotta be careful is somehow that we think that the pursuit of disciplines is is uh um In our own self-righteousness, making ourselves holy and free. That's why, you know, uh at some level we have to go back to what the confession says about sanctification. This is a work of the Spirit, who is perfecting us by his grace and who is transforming us and who will ultimately transform us to that place. Right? We have a lot of words in the that we have to be careful about, and this is the word Chase is talking about landmines. If I use the word participating with or something like that, synergism, or any of those kind of words we have to be careful about because I got her. I see her. We have to be careful about because what do you mean by is always the big question. But certainly the ditch of self-righteousness and judgmentalism and all of those kind of things are are not what we are talking about here. Matter of fact, that would be something that you would write down. Not godly because I am so judgmental And because I am so self-righteous and have not found myself in humility in the place of the recognizing that what God has done for me has been completed in Christ. That'd be one of those things that we'd write now. How do I Lord help help gro grow that in me? Let's grow that in me. What are the things I need to do? Just intake of his word, so on and so forth. Here. Sorry, I had to keep complete my thought there. Comment on antinomianism. we have here, but I would argue that we every day have a problem on both sides. we can fall on this ditch of legalism. And it may not be in the v the overt, you know, sin that other people will recognize, but we we often I find myself excusing small sins, things that I allow myself to fall into and And um justify by oh I'm tired or I it's not a big deal. So I think that is a uh the battle of the heart is it's both sides. Yes. Both ditches. Yes And that thank God that in Christ we when we begin to recognize what we have in Christ, that we have what we need to battle Absolutely. I I would even go so far and I agree with you, I agree with you completely, uh that the practice of the disciplines is what would help us to avoid the ditches. If done correctly, and that's what we're gonna be talking about. Can I just say what's the thing that's a good thing? Yes, sir. Chase, go ahead. Absolutely. That's a great point. Yes, sir. Oh Stephen. Well I thought you were telling me to stop. I wasn't. Okay, oh, okay, Stephen, a question. All right, question. Go Stephen. Yeah. Um I think it's using the spiritual discipline as a means to the mindset of maintaining one salvation as another way to look at look at it. I think the correct mindset would be, wow, what motivation which God has given me to grow the knowledge of who He is and what it is That he is rightly required. Yes. So that I can serve them in love and serve the community in which he's placed. I mean that's the purpose of the spiritual business. Absolutely. It's the way in which we see God's grace to us. Left us for our own devices, but He's given us all these tools to grow in God's instance of the purpose. is I think that's what you're aiming at the work through this Sunday school is legitimate mindset of what the spiritual institutions are. Yes. There's a checklist of things that we Yes. That we have the freedom to be able to do. Fantastic. And if I haven't said that yet. That's what I meant to say, because that's exactly right. Mathis' book, the subtitle is Enjoying Jesus in the habits of grace. So the you're doing these not because but because, wow, I'm I'm in the presence of the Lord. I get to enjoy him more and more and I'm seeing more and more of the sin tendencies in my life fade away and the thing that I want to do is to be more and more like Christ because I want to you know I want to know my Savior and I want to be like him Right? I want to emulate him. That's that's a thing you get to do. Not a thing you that you drudgedly would want to have to do. I love that, Stephen. That's that's fantastic. All right. We're out of time. We're out of time. So I need to uh pray first and close it up Well, uh next week we're going to look at scriptural intake as a discipline, and um we'll keep answering questions as they come up. So excellent. Thank you for this time. Let's pray together Father, I uh I agree with you