Verse 24 we see that Samson, the woman bore a son and called his name Samson, and then in 25 we pick up with him being empowered by the Spirit. And the spirit of the Lord began to move upon him at Machana Dan between Zora and Eshtel. Now Samson went down to Timnah and saw the woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines So he went up and told his father and mother, saying, I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines. Now therefore, go or get her for me as a wife Then his father and mother said to him, Is there no woman among the daughters of your brethren, or among all my people, that you must go and get away from the uncircumcised Philistines? And Samson said to his father, Get her for me, for she pleases me well. But his father and mother did not know that it was of the Lord, that he was seeking an occasion to move against the Philistines For at that time the Philistines had dominion over Israel. Let us pray. God and Father of our Lord Christ We thank you for this word. We ask, Christ, that by your Spirit that you would teach us, that we would not just be hearers but doers. And in this way, let us be comforted by you. In Christ's name. Amen. You may be seated. Nick, I think you can turn this down just a little bit, unless that's my imagination. Well last week we looked at the uh Barren Woman uh scene and drew a few conclusions We, for example, had as our main doctrine that another symptom of the canonization of the church is theological dullness and dim-wittedness, but not in the way you would think in terms of just being an academic or something along those lines. We wanted to ask the question instead, in what ways is your relationship between you and God and your family, in your church, in your community? In what way are you not informed theologically about your vocation? In what ways don't you know about God and the things that you do? In what ways don't you know what God requires of you? in the things that you do. What are some ways, instead, which Christ has provided for you to soar like an evil eagle over this earth, knowing God and his heavenly ways? Well, this week we're jumping really into the introduction of the Samson cycles. And I'd like to make a few observations, and then I have a couple applications this morning. The first thing I want you to notice as we start to dive into the actual watching of Samson is verse 25. In verse 25, we can now see that Samson has not only been born, but the eternal spirit, or the eternal son rather, has sent his spirit to it empower Sansen for service. You should recognize this as just a regular part of those cycles that we've seen in some of the others at least. Now here's the thing. Yet at this point in Judges, just because he has been sent the Spirit, I do not want you to expect too much from Samson. Remember the image that we had last week that we're in brackish water, to say the least. We're always going to have a mixed bag at this point. Samson is not going to be your moral example. At least not always. So we want to be careful about that. And in fact I want to show you that the narrator is going out of his way to portray Samson. as a slave to his dull, debased, limited human view and appetite. I want you to notice, for example, in verse 1, there is this emphasis. I don't want to over-emphasize it, but there's this emphasis on Samson and his eyes. This is often symbolic for lust or being a slave to appetite, but he sees the woman in Timnah, verse 1. In verse 2, explaining to his family, I have seen a woman. You can see what the North Star and guiding light is for his life at this point. And then again rebelling against his parents in verse 3 when they very derogatorily say an uncircumcised Philistine. That's not a nice thing to say. In verse 3, he says, she pleases me, which is literally, she is right in my eyes. So we have this little trail that we're following, and it's I or seen, see, see, seen, eyes. Then we have, to build on that, we kind of come into this cul-de-sac. of not only eyes, but right in my eyes. And does that remind you of anything? It really should remind you of where we're headed because the final verse of this entire book is, and they did right in their own eyes. Now that's starting to surface explicit explicitly. It's always been present, but now it's really starting to come out. And it means more than just not being able to control what you look at. It means that she, in this case, the Tim Tim Knight woman, she was right in his mind of or opinion and according to his standards rather than according to the standards of God, which in this case have been made very clear to him, because uh even At the point of his conception, all the way up to this point, he has been raised in a particular way of life because he has a particular calling. all of it at this point. And that will become even more clear. This really shouldn't be too surprising though. His parents, verse 4, you'll notice, this is not just a historical remark. You really got to look at these things closely. In verse number 4, notice that his parents are even ignorant as to what God is doing. And the narrator needs to step out into the spotlight and say, listen, this is what's actually happening, so that people aren't confused. Now that's the first thing I want you to notice. Now here's the second thing. is that despite all of that, despite the brackish water, the moral compromising, the mess that they're all getting into God, nevertheless, is determined to do marvelous works. That was a theme that we picked up last week, and we're going to see it more present this week and in the weeks to come. Even though the parents still demonstrate their theological dullness, and even though Samson's heart is fundamentally selfish, God is at work still accomplishing his will, even through their selfishness, as we saw in the Joseph account. Now here's a question: what is the Lord up to? You can see that in verse 4. What's God doing marvelously? It says that he was seeking an occasion to move against the Philistines, for at that time the Philistines had dominion over Israel. And this is another way of saying that God was using Samson's evil to bring about good. He would use the unlawful marriage to accomplish his own purposes. He's not condoning What Samson has done. That's not what that phrase means concerning the Lord. What he's saying is that despite that, God is going to use the evil for the good and for his glory. Now at this point, it's going to be helpful to look at the bigger picture to see what is God doing and why is he doing it this way? At the beginning of Judges 1, verse 3, there is a statement concerning the nature of who the Judahites are, or the tribe of Judah. Listen to this description of the kind of people that they are. So Judah said to Simeon his brother, Come up with me to my allotted territory that we might fight against the Canaanites, and I likewise will go with you to your allotted territory. Do you see the picture? They are ready to continue the conquest of Canaan just as they saw under Joshua and as they saw under Caleb. You help me, I'll help you. We're going to take this place. Now We're going to see quite a change by the time we get into some later chapters. We'll get to this a little bit later, but in chapter 15, listen to Judah and the Judahites. We have come and speaking to Samson, let's turn off our phones. Speaking to Samson, they say to him, We have come down to arrest you that we may deliver you into the hand of the Philistines. Then Samson said to them, Swear to me that you will not kill me yourselves. This is a sign that not only Judah but Israel Has come to terms with their oppression under the Philistines and they've learned how to coexist with them. Now, if they had a car It is quite possible that a bumper sticker on the back of their car would be coexistence. And it'd have little Philistine symbols and little Israelite symbols, and they would all get along. That's the kind of picture that's going on here. But God, you see, in verse 4, has other plans. And he is going to use their complacency to draw them back to himself and separate them from the world. As we read in verse four, he using Samson and his unlawful marriage to the Timnite woman will create a conflict between his people and the Philistines. What you see here is a divine subversion of the status quo That would be a good way to summarize it, is that what you see here with God is a divine subversion of the status quo. And so we may have this doctrine this morning from the eternal Christ. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is a growing acceptance and coexistence with evil. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is their growing acceptance and even allying themselves with evil. But here's the positive part that is also a part of this doctrine. I really want to focus on this. The eternal Christ, however, shakes things up. keeping his church true to her calling. The eternal Christ, however, shakes things up, keeping his church true to her calling. Now I want to look at this really I want to understand this a little bit more. I want to look at how God does this in other places so we can see that it's not this is not just a single example. And I want to do that under two S's, children especially who are taking notes. Simile, you can ask your parents how to spell that if you need to. Simile and shaking. Two S's, simile and shaking. The eternal Christ, however, shakes things up, keeping his church true to her calling. Now here's the simile that I want you to see. Does anybody here know what a simile is? Yes, Jesse, they do, because eighty percent of this congregation are teachers. That's right. So simile is a figure of speech wherein you show that one thing is like another thing And the Spirit is showing us. This is I don't want to dwell on this too long, but I do want you to see this so that we can get more of the point. The Spirit is showing us that Samson is like the church. As we've seen the church, especially in Judges. Think about that just for a minute. Samson received a special calling from God. The Old Testament church received a special calling from God. I will be your God, and you will be my people. Samson is willing to set aside that calling. He'd rather have the desires of his debased heart, marrying the Timnite woman. The Old Testament church is often characterized as chasing after other gods as Samson chased after foreign women. And in fact, sometimes the same thing is said about the church that the church chases after foreign women. It's often couched in marital language and adultery, as you know Verse 5 ends up capturing this really well. Did you catch this, by the way? No, you didn't, because we didn't read it. But here's verse 5. This captures it really well. So Samson went down to Timnah with his father and mother and came to the vineyards of Tim Timnah. Now if any of you are paying attention, what's the question that you want to ask at this point? Samson, what are you doing in a vineyard? Because is this not, come on guys, what are you doing in a vineyard since you have taken a Nazarite bow? This is meaning more than just a travelogue about Samson and where he is meeting his wife. This is speaking to who he is and the nature of the church when they become canonized. The answer is that he is acting like the church. He is intoxicated with the worldliness of the Canaanites. It happens over and over and over again, and it is symbolized by this vineyard which he should not be in, with this woman that he should not be with. Perhaps you could even think, if you'd like, of Proverbs 31. Oftentimes we think of the second half of Proverbs 31, but King Lemuel's mother, right in the beginning, says, Listen, son You need to be aware of a few things. Number one, do not get together with the wrong woman. And number two, you watch the wine. And that is true literally, but it is also true for all things which may intoxicate you and draw you off from the Lord. And that's exactly what is happening here with Samson. I wonder if King Lemuel's mother had him in mind when she warned him. What a precious gift, therefore, it is for Christ to give us this eternal perspective. For our decades and in our generation, the Triune God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit has in fact And is in fact still doing what he has always done. He is calling his people out of the world. He has called all of you Christians. He has called us along with the rest of the church across the world to fulfill our place as the body of Christ on earth And within that special calling, we have more specific local vocations that we talk about all the time, family and counting, for example. And I'm just wondering, before we get to the second part of filling this out. is do you see when we see Samson as a as a simile for the church and her struggle Do you see ways in which the church today has left her calling and joined the world in the vineyard of her evil? Are there ways that that still takes place? What about the Christian family? Do you see the Christian family and the mother and the father and the children all receiving vocations from God? Those are titles for vocations Do you see them being intoxicated and going off and to eating the grapes of the world? What about a subset of the Christian family and a support of the church, the Christian school? Has the Christian school stayed true to its calling? Or there's a popular phrase right now, do they have mission drift due to finances or whatever? Or perhaps you need to start at square one, and you just need as a church to ask the question, well, what is God's calling for all those different things? And then once you have that answer, then you can say, have we drifted? Have we moved over into the vineyard of the world, not heeding the warning of that we see in Samson? True to the history of the church, we are prone to wander, and we are given this knowledge. Yet in another way by the eternal Christ, by seeing the similarities between Samson and his life and his choices and the church. It's a nice easy way for get it to get our heads around truth that we need to hold on to. That's the simile. Now, I want to talk about the shaking. God shakes the world in order to realign the church with her calling. That's the second part of this whole teaching, and the second part of that whole doctrine. Not only do we have the worldliness of the church, but there's Christ who's shaking the world in order to realign the church out of that world. Remember, this is what we see God doing in verse 4 of our passage. God is using Samson to shake up the relations between the Israelites and the Philistines. in order to separate ill Israel from the Philistines. They have the coexistent sticker on their bumper s their the sticker on their car And then the Philistines are going to start to become upset, and they're going to become upset with the Philistines, and they can no longer just live happily ever after together, which God never intended to begin with. They were always meant to be in the world, but not of it. And so he is going to shake up the status quo. This is not, in Judges, the only time that we see God shaking things up, especially by his son and by his spirit. I wonder, and you could tell me at the meet and greet, what are all of the ways that you see the church drifting into the vineyard of the world and then God shaking things up so that she would then separate? You know, my grandmother used to say after I was naughty, you know, a hundred times that day, you know what you need, Jesse? You need a good shaking. I don't know exactly what that meant, but it was not enjoyable. But it shook me right out of what I was doing, which is the same point here within this passage. Where are all of the places that you have seen that God shakes things up in order to separate his church from the world? Well, here's one. Let me give you a couple examples just so you can see the character of God and that I'm not over-generalizing. The ascended Christ shakes Saul to separate him from his murderous lust, it says in the passage, and calling him away from the ungodly Sanhedrin to himself for the salvation of the Gentiles. Now that was a shaking. John in his first letter reports, this is 1 John, you might want to write this down and look at it later. 1 John 2, 18 through 19. Look at this later. John in his first letter reports that the early congregation was shaken. And they were shaken in such a way to reveal that some who were among them were not really Christians and needed to go away from them. Now, if you lived during that time and you saw what that actually looked like on the ground, that would have been extremely painful, and some of them may have been your friends that you had over for dinner. They had to be shaken out of the church as heretics. John points that out in 1 John 2, 18-19. And that's the eternal Christ working on the purity and the peace of his church, to which we vow. Well, here's another one here. Hebrew foretells of God the Father shaking heaven and earth by his Son and His Spirit. It says this in Hebrews: whose voice then shook the earth But now he has promised, saying, Yet once more I shake not only the earth, but also heaven. Now this yet once more indicates the removal of all those things that are being shaken. as of things that are made, that the things which cannot be shaken may remain. Now this is ultimately talking about the final shaking But there are these little shakings, if you want to think about it that way, these little interruptions that are throughout history where God cleanses his church. You can think, for example, of 70 AD as a major one. Or even the time of Christ walking the streets of Jerusalem, shaking up the Sadducees and the Pharisees, sifting out for people what should remain and what should not remain. And the question that we must ask as we see example after example, and we could go on, is that are we in a time of shaking? I'm starting to hear grunts from the congregation and amens and groans. If that's the case, if we are in a time of shaking, maybe not the worst shaking that's ever happened, but if we're in a time of shaking, then the assumption as we look at our doctrine this morning from heaven Is that things are present in the world and the church which should not remain, but they need to be shaken out. That's the assumption, is there's some kind of deficiency or lack. Things that are here that don't belong here, and the way they're removed is shaking. Now, this gives us quite a different perspective and response to our current shaking than what we would usually have as our natural response. I remember uh being here some year, I don't remember years, but it was some year, we were having a tutor meeting in the front room and there was an earthquake. Does anybody remember the earthquake that we all felt and it made me have to reset all my doors because none of them closed correctly? Anyone remember that? That was about a thank you so much. This is why we have each other. Eleven years ago, thank you. That was a shaking. And do you know how we responded? One woman said, Dear Lord Jesus! And then another woman said, Jesse, pray. And then I think somebody might have went under the table. And I I kind of wandered out and looked and you know, I didn't do anything helpful for anybody. But those were the different responses to this shaking, a literal shaking of the earth in an earthquake. What have been your responses? And I know that they've changed because we've been on this story arc But what have been your responses if you agree that we in fact have been shaken or we are being shaken? So here's some of the things that I've seen within myself and others We can become overwhelmed with anxiety, not even really sure where it's coming from sometimes. Somebody says, well, why are you anxious? And then you say, I don't know. Hear that? Hopelessness. And that hopelessness can show up in so many different ways. It can show up of in you not wanting to get out from your down comforter. Or it can show up in the doubts that consume you and the cynicism that consumes you, and it can start to show up in lots of depressive attitudes. demotivation and then it can start to give over to this ungodliness and feeling like everything is a meaningless pursuit. Why do I even try? And why would I especially ever try to be righteous? Why not just give myself over to whatever I feel like I want to do and the lusts of my heart? The Bible captures that by saying, let us eat and drink and be merry, for tomorrow we'll die. Those are some of the responses that we can have as a people to when the eternal Christ is shaking. But do you see the assumption that's back behind all of those responses And that assumption, that belief, that truth that motivates all of those things is really a falsity. It actually contradicts what we see here within our doctrine. I'm not saying that if you're in the midst of a shaking, that it will be easy or that you should always have this smile towards everyone. But it shouldn't look sometimes the way that it does for us. Now that we know that the shaking is from God, as we saw in verse 4. That verse 4 is specific to that historical context, but it is also universal for the church throughout time. That we must see in all of our shakings what God is doing. That He's doing good things. That in the end, when we look back, as we always do, we will say, Thank God. He is wiser than I am, and we will drop together into doxology. Now we see that the shaking is from God and for the good of the world and his glory. Then the response, as tough as it may be, will be hope and contentment. Hope and contentment I want to remind all of you of something as we think about this. A lot of this has been at the 30,000-foot level. Learning about God and His ways. And I want to just I want to land the plane here with you, okay? I want to land the plane and I want to remind you. Of when most of you think the shaking began, which is when we first heard about COVID. I was in Florida And I was trying to have a nice vacation. And we realized that wasn't going to happen anymore. Uh if we were ever going to get back to Maryland, uh f for some reason every car on the road was from Quebec. I don't know why that was the case, but we just needed to make it through the Quebec traffic Uh before uh I couldn't get here in time and so we had to put together a video. And so I dropped to my knees and spent an enormous amount of time asking Jesus Christ In a time like this, when you are shaking things, what could I possibly say to your church that is true that they must hear? Now we still have that video, and I'm not pointing out the video so that you can see me. I'm always just trying to re- and by God's grace trying to relate to you things from the eternal Christ. And during that time, with those tropical plants behind me on the screen, he had given to us Isaiah chapter 49 verse 14 through 15. Does anybody here remember that If you do not remember, it was a word from the eternal Christ that you were meant to hold on to during all of the shaking. That's why he gave it to you. In Proverbs, we've been going over in the evening how we're not only to hear the word, we are to hold on to it. Don't let it go. It's like this slippery thing that just wants to go away all the time. We've got to hold on to Isaiah 49, 14 through 15. This is what it said, and the crow and Christ still is saying this to you through Judges verse 4 during all of our times of shaking. He starts by reflecting on what Zion, on what the church has said throughout the ages. This is our posture so often when we start to get shook. The Lord has forsaken me. And my Lord, He's forgotten all about me. That's what we say in our hearts. He has forsaken me, he has forgotten all about me. And God replies like this through the Son. This is what was preached to you before all of the shaking started. Can a woman forget her nursing child? And not have compassion on the son of her womb. And this is quite surprising because the eternal Christ says in this passage, right after that line, can a woman forget her child? And then God says, actually, she might. And then he says this yet I will never forget you. I will never forget you. Now that truth is hard to hold on to during the shaking. And maybe you can't see that full-bodied truth just in verse 4, but I'm here to tell you that it's there. It's the same heart from Isaiah 49 that is in Judges chapter 14 verse 4. It's the same heart because it's the same son speaking to you about times of shaking Now that, my friends, if we truly hold on to that, we'll move into the responses. Not of a uh jolliness in the midst of some things, but hope and contentment It is true, in fact, that another symptom of the canonization of the church is our growing acceptance of evil. But here's the thing. The Eternal Christ shakes things up, keeping his church true to his calling. And he will continue to do so until the final shaking, when only that which will remain forever shall remain. When we are being shaken, We must remember these words from Isaiah. They were given to you from the Lord's servant for a reason. Can a woman forget her nursing child and not have compassion on the son of her womb? Surely they may in fact forget, yet I will never forget you. He has not forgotten us. If there is any shaking going on, it's because, contrary to forgetting you, he knows you better than you know yourself. He is calling us back to our calling. Perhaps today, instead of thinking down those paths that don't lead to anywhere good, Perhaps with hope in our hearts, we need to ask this question: In what ways is the Lord calling you to return to Him? Amen. Let us pray together