Let us now turn to the word preached Mark, could you grab my Bible out of the Sunday school room please? Thanks. Does anyone have a s the Bible where I could read That'd be great. Thank you. Thank you, Roger. Thank you. We're looking at Proverbs 3, and we'll be reading the first 12 verses. If you need a Bible, like I did, if you could raise your hand, someone will bring it to you. Woo, that's going to go down in the record books. Okay. First 12 verses of chapter 3 of Proverbs. Thank you, Roger. My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart keep my commands. For length of days and long life and peace they will add to you. Let not mercy and truth forsake you. Bind them around your neck. Write them on the tablet of your heart. And so find favor and high esteem in the sight of God and man. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct your paths. Do not be wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord and depart from evil. It will be health to your flesh and strength to your bones. Honor the Lord with your possessions and with the first fruit of your increase. So your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine. My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord. Do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor detest his correction. For whom the Lord loves, he corrects, just as the Father, the Son, in whom he delights. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word that you have given to us We thank you for the promises that you have given to us, and we ask now that you would illuminate our hearts, that we would not just hear, but that we would be doers of your word in the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. Roger, here you go. Thank you. Thank you, brothers. Thank you. The book of Proverbs, if you take a look at chapter one, just to remind you, This is a study of Proverbs, and it begins with a prologue or a preamble, which are the first seven verses of chapter one. And ask that you would recall that the preamble or the prologue tells us the purposes and the prerequisite of the book, and that X marks the spot. Because of the way that that passage is structured in verse 3, you can see that it is in 3B, justice, judgment, and equity are the things that this Author Solomon and the Holy Spirit seek for the church to know. But it comes with a prerequisite. The prerequisite is found in verse 7, it is the fear of the Lord. The fear of the Lord is defined as that affectionate reverence By which the children of God bend themselves humbly and carefully to their heavenly Father's law. Interestingly As we noticed last week, the prologue tell does not, it tells us the purposes and the prerequisite, but it doesn't tell us how to obtain them. That was left for chapter 2. In chapter 2, we're instructed in a cell phone fashion, 443, 443 And in that structure, God's people, if you receive and treasure, incline and apply, like one wave washing further another wave up the shore If you cry out and lift up, if you seek and search God's Word, then God, through Jesus Christ and by the power of the Holy Spirit, will give you the fear of the Lord and judgment and justice and equity. Who can find wisdom? It resides with God, and it is Him through Christ as our mediator that dispenses wisdom to his church. You will receive, in other words, through God's power, theological and ethical formation, or Education through those means. This newly formed character in turn, as we saw at the latter part, the last eleven verses of Chapter eleven, that this theological and ethical education is God's means for protecting you and those you are disciplining from the wicked man and the woman of the city. And I would say that the protection extends far beyond that if you keep reading the book of Proverbs. I was just thanking God multiple times this week for the diligence and carefulness that he has placed within doctors who are over certain members that we have here at Severn Run. that that skill of wisdom and that that um patience and fortitude that is in those doctors is a blessing and a protection to them. If they were careless, they would be unprotected. For sure. And that's what's offered to us here at the end of chapter two is that kind of protection, but particularly against the persuasiveness of the wicked man and the woman. We now turn to chapter three, and we're only looking at the first eleven verses. Next week we'll look at the rest and the value of wisdom. But I want to begin because to understand what Proverbs says, you must know how it says it. I want to start again with another structure. This one isn't as fancy as the ones you're used to. This one's very simple. You should actually see it within the way that your paragraphs are grouped within your Bible. Notice how it should be the case, how two verses are clumped together into couplets throughout the first twelve verses. You have one and two together, three and four, and etc. And then you should notice further that the odd verses For example, one and three, they give you the command or the admonition or the exhortation, the admonishment. And then in the even verses, they give you the promise And really it acts as a motivation and so therefore spurs you all in to do the the uh odd verses. So the the your Bible should have paragraphing that shows this, mind uh In this chapter, Solomon in chapter two, Solomon appealed to the son to gain the fear of the Lord, if you remember. He says that also in one, by commitment to his word, that's chapter two, the appeal was for wisdom. In chapter 3, Solomon adds to the value and the appeal of wisdom by showing the health and the wealth and the prosperity that will result. Now, you should have some red flags that just came up because I said health, wealth, and prosperity, and I put it that way to be provocative We're all skeptical of the health and the wealth and the prosperity gospel, but I do want you to notice the even verses in this passage. It's present, so we've got to deal with that. We've got to figure out exactly what's happening here. We'll work toward a resolution We must consider that such promises in some kind of way are made and that they do serve as motivation to attain wisdom. So what I want to do in the first part of the sermon is just consider the odd verses, and then towards the end, we'll work toward a resolution of the earthly promises. That are given in Proverbs, not only here but throughout the book, so that you can better understand what's happening there and learn how to take this genre of literature, this wisdom of literature. So I'd like to look in the first four verses at the Father's commands. Then I want to look at the trust, the fear, and the honor of Yahweh, or your relationship with God. And then lastly, I want to look at the discipline of God. I'll announce those again. So let's look at the first four verses together with the father's commands. The father in verse one commands the uncommitted youth to not forget his law, but to keep his command. My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart keep my commands, and then it moves on to the promise. The word law here is Torah. And that's significant. Usually, when you hear someone say Torah, you think of the Ten Commandments. The word can, in fact, and does refer to legal codes, but here it also refers, and this is important, to catechistical instruction. Given from the Father to the Son. And this is what that means. The Son sits before his mentor and is expected to learn the fundamental teachings of life And usually they are put in such a way where you would memorize them for later discussion, which we'll see later. And that's why I've emphasized and that's why the book emphasized memory in uh chapter two. To be sure, the teachings do com do contain commands, as you can see in 1b, keep my command There. So whether instruction or commands, they should not be forgotten, but instead be kept. And you would think that that would just refer to the memory, but it goes beyond that in the context of Proverbs. That's just a starting point. That's just a means to a an end. Do not forget at a minimum minimum refers to keeping the instructions in memory, and I already know of at least one person in the congregation that has memorized probably 420 through 27. I'm very proud of that person. I could kiss you. Thank you for doing that. I hope it benefits you. Here it goes beyond just instructions in memory, though. Take a look at chapter 2, verse 17. This is speaking about the adulterous woman who forsakes the companion of her youth and forgets the commandment of her God. And so there's a more profound sense here. To not forget and to keep mean that you will not turn your back on the covenant community The covenant community and the teachings of the covenant community, you can't separate them. Those all go together because of the way that the Spirit works. But you will not turn your back like the wicked man and the woman. You will keep or guard the sacred way of life that is handed down to you. And remember that this is primarily a book that is speaking So I'm saying that to you. The sacred way of life is handed to you to guard and to keep for future generations. And I ask that you would take that seriously and evaluate your life by that. Are you the kind of person that could keep or guard our sacred way of life handed down To us by God. This means more than the memory of words. The verses are carrying for us the mental memory, from a mental memory to a way of life. That's really what's happening here. It's a way of being, really. There's an existential reality that must be present here. And the mind, of course, is the highway to the heart. kind of the idea. This way of life is described in verse three actually. So we move from do not forget my law, but keep those commands, meaning don't turn your back on the covenant community, protect that sacred way of life. And the way That that is seen at its utmost is when it becomes embodied in verse 3, let not mercy and truth forsake you. This is the essence of the Father's teaching It's the heart of the book, actually. I mean, not in any weird structure, but this idea, arguably, mercy and truth are terms that summarize the entire goal of your human existence. Mercy and truth. These are arguably actually the most important words in all of your Bible And let's talk about that. You shouldn't know these words. The words are Hasid and emet. I say that to you in that way to unfamiliar you unfamiliarize you a little bit The word amet, let's begin with that, the word amet or truth in my Bible, you might have a little bit of a different translation there. You might have faithfulness, which really gets to the heart of it Because even in the NKJV, when it says truth, it means it in the sense of dependable. So for example, does he tell the truth is another way to ask, is he dependable? And that's what's happening here. Hasid means essentially to help the needy. There's more to it than that, but it means to help the needy. It refers to a situation where a needy member of the community depends on another for deliverance, and the deliverer does so freely, entering into a covenant with them. And from all of their finer spiritual and sensitive instincts, for example, kindness, mercy, love, prudence, and loyalty. Notice that that is a summary of the heart of chapter one in the prologue, that from all of those They will exercise these things in freedom and faithfulness and dependability, resulting in a combination which means to exercise mercy without fail. It is love bound to a to a helpless person. By covenant. And that is to epitomize your life. That would mean that you are wise in the way that This book is speaking about. And of course, when I say Hasid Vahmet, you should immediately think of your God, especially in the face of Jesus Christ. The Father, from his boundless mercy, sent his only begotten Son, Jesus Christ, to deliver us from sin and death. The idea of Chassed is deliverance. Now, listen to the deliverance from the New Testament. Grace to you, and peace from God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ, who gave Himself for our sins, that He might deliver us. from this present evil age according to the will of our God and Father, to whom be glory forever and ever Amen. And this immediately moves, that's from Galatians chapter 1. This immediately moves into an existential obligation that we have to demonstrate the same wisdom within our life because of the ministry of the Spirit in our lives. It says in Ephesians 5, therefore you, church, be imitators of God as your children, and walk in love, as Christ also has loved us and given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling harama. This is Hasidva Amet seen in Christ and you are asked You are commanded as Christians, and you are given the capability as Christians to offer this same wisdom to those who are around you. Notice, therefore, that Jesus, through the ministry of his spirit, is seeking through his spirit for you to gain Hasid Vahd. That's what it means, essentially, to be a Christian. This is how they'll know you. They'll know you by your love for one another. Even the world would know you that way. That this is your characteristic. And any of you who have ever wondered what your purpose is in life, it's Hasid Ba Ahmed. It is mercy and faithfulness to those who Are in need. And you have to look through that lens, really, that covenantal love, that lens to understand all of the scriptures. All of the scriptures are, in fact, a covenant document. And so far, the emphasis is on our relation to the instructions. That's the first point. You see these commands and how they're both to be embodied in the first four verses, instructions and commands, and our ethical embodiment of this instruction. As it takes place in community. Verses five and seven move from our relationship to commands to our personal and corporate relationship with God. The movement from verses one and three to five and seven are packed with significance. The temptation is for the church to put their trust in an abstract code of ethics and to speak to people And nothing but legal codes. But here the message is that our lives don't depend on impersonal codes and laws. We trust in the merciful Yahweh to be faithful to his covenant with us, that's his Hasid, and to uphold his moral universe and the promised prosperity. And this is the emphasis clearly in verse 5 and following. I just want you to notice a pattern here. Starting in verse 5, notice how it shifts and it's all about Yahweh. 5. Trust the Lord. Seven, fear the Lord. Nine, honor the Lord. You see that? It shifts here. This is all about Yahweh here and your relationship. So in the same way, in all your ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct your paths, as of course, and the same thing. The motivation and the promise. I'm sure that someone has said to you, trust in the Lord. And it has been the most unhelpful thing that you have ever heard It didn't cut through the difficulty that you were facing within your life. Without definition by this context, it ends up being a truism and it doesn't meet the difficulties for you to just it comes off uh platitudinous, does it not? Just in the Lord. It sounds a lot like I'll pray for you. And that can be a good thing. And someone could mean that, but we have to give some meaning to this. Light is shed by comparing verse 5 and verse 7. They're set in opposition to one another. To trust in the Lord is to set yourself in opposition. Do not be wise in your own eyes. Wisdom in your own eyes means autonomy. Instead, you must lean, and because of the context of the passage, don't rip this from the context, it means to lean on his thoughts, to lean on his faithfulness, to lean on his love, and how he offers to that to you in his Really revolves around that, this trust that we have in God. In fact, you will not, as it said in chapter 2, for you to commit yourself to God's words, you will not, in any practical sense, do that if you do not trust Him. Tell me that do you listen to persons that you don't trust? Don't you second guess everything that they say? And so trust ends up being the bedrock here. Now I want you to picture, as we think about trust in the Lord with all your heart, not just the part, but the whole thing. I want you to picture a pond covered over with ice. Do you see it? There are three kinds of people in relationship to this pond. Those who stay on the bank of the pond, is that you? I'm just talking about a pond at this point. You don't venture out onto the ice. There are those who walk out just a little to see if they could get an ice hockey game going And then there are people like my Uncle Eddie who drove a VW bug out on it. Actually he drove out onto the Magathy when and uh I have pictures So maybe I'll show you. And likewise, this is the picture that we should have for uh what's going on here in terms of of trust of the Lord. Likewise, with trusting God's word and His backing up His Word, there are three people here this morning. You stand before the same pond. There are those who do not trust, but stand on the sidelines, trusting themselves, and smart people. around them. There are those who barely trust, but who have taken a few steps and are learning to trust. The ice has knocked Correct. And then there are those who seek to drive all the weight of their lives into the center of God's will, and that's what this is talking about. That is the goal. That we would be seeking. And you need to evaluate yourself and seek through prayer and fellowship to grow in your trust. If you don't trust God, then you will not commit to Him. Thus the importance, as it says there in the verse, that you would trust with your whole heart that not in the foolish way that the illustration gives you, but That you would drive your whole weight out there. That is, that is the fulfillment of your existence is to be in a relationship with Yahweh like that, as depicted in our father Abraham. Where he trusted God, even with his only begotten Son and the promises. Now, verse 9 escalates the commitment to God. Take a look at verse 9. Honor the Lord with your possessions and with the first fruits of your increase. Everybody here thought they were going to get off just being pious in their interior castle. That's not happening here. The first fruits are another way of saying that you should not keep anything from the Lord. That your possessions should honor him. And in addition, the language of first fruits uses the overtone. Of worship. And so you should picture yourself taking all of your income. Imagine your budget and every line item that you bring before God and you offer it to Him in honor of Him. That it would in fact work to the purposes of his kingdom. Every single possession ends up becoming sacred in that way. You would say to him, I will use even this to honor And I will use this to honor you. And it ends up being a check and balance too, because when you bring Xbox Live before Yahweh, it has trouble fitting there But you have to work through that yourself and figure out what needs to leave the budget. You really need, in fact, to bring the whole proverb into this verse as you're there before worshiping God with your whole life. Your unfailing covenant love is expressed tangibly by using all of your money and your possessions for the benefit of your community. I can think of no more practical way to demonstrate Hasidva Ahmed than in your possessions and your finances. By benefiting those who are in need and helping them. In fact, we'll see this next week, but you can see in the rest of this passage in verse 27, chapter 3. Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due when it is in your the power of your hand to do so. And I think taking this whole thing is that you would work diligently enough on your own budget to where it was always in your power to help. Other people. I think that's the goal, whether as an individual family or us as a church, that we would do so. And verse 10 helps us here to understand that this is what what he how he's approaching this God fills the barns of those who commit their possessions to God because they can be trusted to use their possessions possession for God's work. That's the idea. And there we have our relationship with Yahweh. It's not just a legal code or a set of ethical principles. It's a relationship corporately with the three persons of the Trinity. And here we then move into the discipline to ensure these promises. It could be kind of a surprise for us as we come to the end of the passage hearing all of this to move into a time of chastening. But verse 11 is marked off, actually, quite distinctly from the rest of the passage because he repeats, my son. This demarcates it, and I believe, therefore, should really be you should read the whole chapter through this Because of the way that it stands out. It stands out and it must be related to everything that was said before. And so therefore this would be the point. As a child of God If you turn your back on the covenant community, and if you don't trust God, and if you don't honor God with your money and your property by helping others, You will consequently forfeit his blessings. He does not want that to happen, and therefore he will discipline you so that it will not happen. That's the point. Is that he wants to bless you so badly that he will ensure that it takes place through his chastening discipline. Now you can make no mistake that Jesus Christ, by his Spirit, walks among his churches with unfailing love, sanctifying his people from their death. Disloyalty. It's actually what we see within the letter of Revelation in the New Testament, in verse 19 of chapter 3: As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten. It is a ministry to you from Jesus Christ. As the only mediator between God and man. Christ's sanctifying ministry, the church, actually continues even to immediately after clinical death. When you die, as a child of God, he shall through his Spirit make your souls perfect in holiness and receive you into the highest heavens. where you shall behold the face of God in light and glory, waiting for the full redemption of your bodies. And if you are alive when Christ returns The children of God still alive at Christ's return shall be changed to complete holiness and glory in the twinkling of an eye. That is how serious he is to the very end that he would chasten you. The odd verses in this passage admonish you, the church, to keep godly instruction and command, allowing it to shape your character into helping the needy with covenant loyalty. That's that first part. We, of course, are not just relating to instructions and commands. At the center, as I pointed out to you with the repetition of Yahweh, at the center is the church's relationship with Yahweh. Fear Him, trust Him, honor Him in the most tangible ways And for added security, we are promised his love, which corrects us, ensuring our theological and ethical formation and ensuring the blessings of a godly life. But this raises the ultimate question. as we come toward the end. Does Proverbs promise too much? It's something that has to be dealt with for a very practical reason. You will not give yourself over to the book if you don't. doubt it. Is that really the way things are? I know that we all have those questions in our mind. These heavenly promises of life, health, and prosperity and honor, quite honestly, they seem detached from the harsh realities of life. And that's the difficulty. If you compared, for example, this wisdom literature to other wisdom literature, for example, Jove and Ecclesiastes, the promises and proverbs seem false to human experience. Experience under the sun. So we have to address it because it will hold you back from giving full commitment to the book. And that's another part of the study of Proverbs. is that you'd read it on your own and that you'd benefit from the wisdom. So for example, here's everyone's favorite one. Are you ready? Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it, and yet we see departure. That's that that is a the perfect verse to encapsulate our struggle or one of our struggles with the Book of Proverbs The popular solution to the promises and proverbs, like that one, is to say that these are not promises, but they are probabilities. And I'd ask you to search your own heart to see if that's how you handle what happening in the book of Proverbs. Do you think of them as promises or probabilities? It doesn't fit with me to call these probabilities. The church is supposed to keep its obligations perfectly, but saying that it's a probability means that God may keep his probably But the scriptures tell us the opposite. Though we are faithless, he will remain faithful. So that is not a good solution for me and uh of course I don't want to straw man that position. So we can keep talking about that if I've misrepresented it. But I think I've represented that popular Evangelical position well. And I can't give a complete solution to this this morning. That would be absurd and arrogant for me to say so. But I can give some steps towards a resolution because this is a most difficult question. So here we go. Are you ready? Here are some steps. And again, this is for a very practical effect within you that you'd be able to have surety as you read the book of Proverbs. And stop thinking about these as probabilities. First, in all honesty, these are excellent motivations because I think that most of the time they are validated by experience. Quite honestly. The sober, not the drunkard, the cool-tempered, not the hothead, and the diligent, not the sluggard, as one commentator has said, they usually experience health and financial stability. That's a truth that I see within my life. And now, second, besides that, and that's very motivating, that that is really how God governs his universe. Second, the genre of Proverbs restricts these sayings to pithy, concise statements with no qualifications. That's the genre of this literature. They are called epigrams. And they are enigmatic. If you were to write them differently so that they qualified themselves to cover every situation, they would no longer be proverbs. They're supposed to sound witty. And therefore, the proverbs cannot and may not be read in isolation one after the other. Thinking that one proverb gives the absolute and unqualified truth of all of existence. They must be read as a whole, which is the Which capitalizes on the point that you should be memorizing the book, reading through it all the time and discussing it with friends. Each proverb must shape and qualify all the others as well as the rest of Scripture And this is scripture-informing scripture, actually, which is a sound hermeneutical principle or interpreting your scriptures. Each proverb must shape and qualify the others. And what goes along with this perfectly is third This is the most exciting for me and was offered to me by a friend. Proverbs is a book that is meant for dialectical discussion. It means that we are to have dialogue with each other as a community, student and teacher, working through these things at the dinner table. It's set up to where you would talk to each other. If you do not talk to each other about the book, then you will not understand the book. It's meant for dialectic. In fact, you can see how the father is entering into dialogue with his son, and he does so in a way that is provocative, that gets the child thinking. Is that really true? Without qualification? And then the conversation begins because it's already piqued the student's interest. So here's an example. Teacher says: Can a child depart from their religious education? The dialectical student scratches his head and says, Well, 226 of Proverbs says no. But on the other hand, earlier in Proverbs, the wicked woman and man threaten the youth, and they can choose the path. So I'm not sure exactly how those two things fit together. But I will say, however, that even if the youth do stray, it seems that their um their upbringing stays with them in some measure, where they have some level of godly wisdom inside And I suppose that the parent, even if that does happen, while the child acts a fool, they don't answer the fool according to their folly, but at the same time, they don't allow them to become wise in their foolishness. That would be multiple proverbs from multiple chapters that the student would have to think through, and that would be a couple hour discussion to arrive at those kinds of conclusions. Or a couple sit-downs. So if you look at it this way, Proverbs ends up being genius as we think about catechizing each other and discipling each other. The inherent tension That I'm raising here and thinking about the promises that are offered, the inherent tension itself provokes the mind and thrusts you into conversation. And that's beautiful that the Lord would hand this down to his church. The mind, especially of the young, loves it when someone says something without qualification. So think of middle school boys and girls or a little bit older, and this is how it happens in my home. Stay in your room while your grandmother is babysitting. You say that to a young mind, and this is What you're going to hear. Even if I hear screams from the living room? What if there's a fire? Do I do it if there's a fire? What if I hear water bubbling up from the earth or Jesus returning? Do you still want me to stay in the room? They're working through all of the different qualifications that were not covered in that particular pithy and concise command. And of course, if the house is on fire, you shouldn't say it But they want to work through those kinds of things in their education. That's exactly what's happening here within this book. And it it sets you up for success in discipling others Because there's an inherent tension where they want to ask you a question. They want to say, is that really true of the Christian life that you receive wealth and prosperity all your days? Through and you help them understand. And now here, lastly, here's another one. The promises offered in Proverbs, this is perhaps the most important next to the way that we Lastly, the promises offered in Proverbs are not constrained by the limits of clinical death. The promises offered in Proverbs are not constrained by the limits of clinical death. Now I know we often think that because we don't see the afterlife. We think that the afterlife isn't present in the book of Proverbs It is, immortality is mentioned. In 2416, this isn't where immortality is mentioned except indirectly. In 2416, if you want to flip there, I'll show you how the best commentators handle this. For a righteous man may fall seven times and rise again, but the wicked shall fall by calamity. The seven times here is the signification of completion. There's a knockout. It's equivalent if you know a cat has nine lives. Well, they just use up the ninth That's what's happening here. And yet it says that in the end, he will rise again. The promises will be made full. And so, being on the other side of the cross, we may add this. The teaching in Proverbs is supplemented and made full, just as an acorn is made full by the full-grown oak tree. That on the other side of the cross we know about the resurrection of the righteous to everlasting life through the obedience of Christ, fulfilling all the covenantal obligations of the of the Son, which should get you in a dialogue about this proverbs even more so. Jesus fulfills all his covenant obligations. And after his resurrection and ascension is exalted to his rewards for his obedience. Being full of Hasid Va Amet, He pours His own inheritance on us. Starting now with a renewed heart, and after the resurrection, the fullness of eternal life. Amen Please pray with me. Father, my ultimate prayer for Cyberron this morning is that there would Of course, be a growth in Hasid Vahmed, it's what this church was planted on. It's what it means to rest yourself under the tree. It's the framework for the whole deal. But Father, we cannot do this if we do not trust you. And we will not trust you if we don't understand the way that you have constructed wisdom literature. Father, these are not just probabilities that you you you give to us. But there's so much more. There are means that you've laid out for us to have instruction and to be provoked into understanding. And to lead our children to righteousness. Father, we pray that our hopes would remain steadfast Well, and the obligations that have been met through Jesus Christ and his covenant of redemption with you. And how you, Lord Christ, in your Hasid Vahmet You saw us in our need. And you reach down to deliver us. And you give us now your whole inheritance. You even call us Brothers, and you are not ashamed to join with us in the assembly. We thank you, Lord Christ, that you have ensured the fulfillment of our prosperity after our resurrection. Our wealth after our resurrection, and that you have assured that we will have the characters that can handle such good things. We thank you for this wisdom from above. This hidden wisdom that you've given to us. We ask, Lord Christ, that you would continue to pour wisdom upon your church in the form of loving and faithful covenant mercy to each other and to those who are made in the image of God. We ask these things in your name. Amen.