And try to place yourself there. Have the opportunity to picture the Savior of the world. This is Mark chapter 6, verses 30-44. Then the apostles gathered to Jesus and told him all things, both what they had done and what they had taught. And he said to them, Come aside by yourselves to a deserted place and rest awhile. For there were many coming and going, and f uh they did not even have time to eat. So they departed to a deserted place in the boat by themselves. But the multitude saw them departing, and many knew him, and ran there on foot from all the cities. They arrived before them and came together to them And Jesus, when he came out, saw a great multitude, and was moved with compassion for them, because they were like sheep, not having a shepherd. So he began to teach them many things. When the day was now far spent, his disciples came to him and said, This is a deserted place, and already the hour is late. Send them away that they may go into the surrounding country and villages and buy themselves bread, for they have nothing to eat. But he answered and said to them, You give them something to eat. And they said to him, Shall we go and buy two hundred denarii worth of bread and give them something to eat? But he said to them, How many loaves do you have? Go and see. And when they found out they said, Five and two fish. Then he commanded them to make them all sit down in groups on the green grass So they sat down in ranks in hundreds and in fifties, and when he had taken the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven, blessed and broke the loaves, and gave them to his disciples to set before them, and the two fish he divided among them all So they all ate and were filled. And they took up twelve baskets full of fragments and of the fish. Now those who had eaten the loaves were about five thousand men. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we so desperately need your light to come into the darkness of our lives and your word is light and you empower it by your spirit. You, Jesus, have chosen your word as a means in which or by which you would be gracious to us. As we sojourn or persevere here or are preserved as your pilgrims, making progress for your glory, we look forward to your return. We ask that this would edify us and build us up. onto your glory and to the love of our neighbor. It's in the name of Jesus Christ that we pray these things. Amen. Amen. Please be seated. I don't remember exactly the age and it was but it was young enough. to where I cannot tell you how to get back to this place. But in my imagination it's beautiful and mysterious. It's like being in paradise. I knew where that was one day and I lived there. And now I don't know the way back. All I know is that at at one point in time in my childhood, my mother rented a place in the Poconos and had a creek with crayfish. Literally had bats in the belfry. We had uh all kinds of different animals, and there was one uh uh uh experience I remember out of all the others living in the Poconos, Pennsylvania has the perfect hills For children. And my mother had a believe it, believe this or not, but my mother had a Volkswagen rabbit. Anyone remember those things a Volkswagen rabbit, and there was this one part right before a little overpass that uh on the countryside where she would speed up and we'd go over this little hill and then it would just drop. And you could feel all these butterflies and and whatever it whatever you call those things that happen in your stomach. And we just loved that. It was scary and terrifying but joyful and you laughed and and you couldn't help it it would happen to you. And there's a there's actually a great place in Arnold that has a hill. And if you check and make sure kids aren't playing then you hear You could get away with it. Uh but it's perfect. And and you know if you go into Amish country, for instance, in Lancaster, I don't I don't ever pronounce that correctly, forgive me. Uh they uh also have some hills like that Now I don't I don't uh all of us have that experience. We know the the physiological and emotional engagement that that brings. And I don't mean any disrespect by this at all, and I don't think it is disrespectful. I've examined this But I want you to picture if Jesus were in the car with you, if Jesus were in the Volkswagen rabbit with my mother and me and my brother, and we went over the hill, what would his reaction be? Do you think that he would smile? Would he laugh? Would he enjoy the experience just as we are enjoying the experience? The problem that we have sometimes is that some of us picture Jesus, and we function like this sometimes, where we would picture Jesus sitting in the passenger seat going over the hill Like this. Like a robot. Like he had no emotions. Like he was uh the s uh like a Stepford wife in some sense But it didn't really have any emotional engagement with the things around him. He didn't have any joy. He wouldn't have been able to understand the how visceral and the physiology of the experience. Is that the way, just check for a second. Do you know the emotional life of our Lord Jesus Christ? Have you ever had the opportunity to think of him as an emotional being, in fact, as the premier emotional being that all other humans are to imitate that That one day uh we will be like that because he is the the he is the perfect human in terms of how his in all things but also in his emotions. Or do you think of him like a robot Would he be unable to connect with you in that experience or in your other experiences? Maybe it's not a Pennsylvanian hill. Maybe it's the grief of a lost loved one or watching someone suffer or a joy in your life. Maybe if you when you think of Jesus and he were present there with you, that he would be indifferent. Or wouldn't be able to connect with you. Is that the way that you think of Jesus? I hope that it's not. And I hope that as we look at this passage, we can develop in our understanding of the emotional life of our Lord. The Lord Jesus would enjoy the Pennsylvanian hills. He put them there for us to enjoy, and he would enjoy them the same. And he is expressive of so many other emotions. I would challenge you to take a look through the scriptures and just see how Jesus emotionally responds. To the people around him, the deep, especially the deep compassion and the deep concern that he has for those. That are around him. If you were to work your way through just through this gospel of Mark and start at chapter 1, you'd uh land upon chapter 2, where he expresses his compassion towards the paralytic. You would in chapter 3 see Jesus and his concern and compassion and love for the one with the withered hand. You'd see his love and his compassion and his concern for Jarius's daughter. In chapter 5, and then also in chapter 5, with the woman with the flow of blood, and she reaches out to touch his garments, you would see him look lovingly and compassionately at her. If you were to go on in other places, you'd see him kneel down with the children, or that he would sympathize and work with a prostitute who's washing his feet The emotions in our Lord Jesus Christ are the most beautiful and the most excellent. And here we see not only just from chapter 2 and 3 and 5, but in this passage. In chapter 6, verses 30 through 44, we see that Jesus is the concerned, the compassionate, and the promised shepherd of his church. He's the concerned, the compassionate, and the promised shepherd of his church. That's what the Spirit wants to teach us this evening. That Jesus is the concerned. He is the compassionate and he is the promised shepherd of his church. And we can look at this this um whole passage, and you can go home and you can keep talking about it if you were to just divide it into three parts, and it's the same three parts. In the statement that I just gave you, it's concern, compassion, and promise. And I just want to look at those three parts of this passage. That he's concerned, compassionate, and he's the promised one. So let's together take a look first at the concern. That Jesus shows concern for his church, and he does so emotionally. You can see this beginning in verse 30. Then the apostles gathered to Jesus and told him all things, both what they had done and what they had taught. And he said to them, Come aside by yourselves to a deserted place and rest awhile. For there were many coming and going, and they did not even have time to eat. The concern here is expressed, but to gather the concern, it's really important to see the connection. of the great stress and the great significance of what the disciples were doing so that you could see in greater contrast the concern of Jesus Christ. If you go back just a little bit here in this same chapter, you have the sending out of the 12 and beginning in verse 7. There, Jesus is referring that into in verse 30 when he says that the apostles gathered to Jesus and told him all things. both what they had done and what they had taught. They're referring to them being sent out, the twelve being sent out, and doing all the work that you can read there later in verses seven through thirteen. The work there is unmistakably of the great of great significance and took a great deal of effort and drained them greatly of their energy. I'll just point out to you, and you can ponder this later, that Jesus limited them to having a cloak, belts. sandals and a staff in hand, which are the exact same items that they could only bring in Exodus chapter 12 when they were leaving to go into the wilderness. I think this is the time that Jesus is setting up for to of the of the similar significance that they, under a new Moses who is Jesus Christ, will now be taken out of slavery and bondage. And in there is a new Exodus happening. And imagine the great energy that it took for the first Exodus. And imagine when you're overcoming the devil and demon possession, the great energy that it took within the disciples in this second Exodus. With the new Moses Jesus Christ. Certainly they were tired. And then you see also here, if you look in just the context, that right after the sending out of the twelve, there is the beheading of John the Baptist. You know, Mark records Peter giving these sermons in Rome. Mark writes down the sermons and teachings that Peter had given in Rome, and he organizes them here, and he often uses the sandwiching technique between two scenarios. You see in verse 30 them referring back to verse 7, and then there's this story in between those two segments about John's beheading. And what part of what is being pointed out here is that the disciples were exhausted and that they had to consider the cost of what it meant to be a true disciple of Jesus Christ. This is not an easy task. You can lose your head over it. You not only would have to lose energy and and uh and be drained from the casting out of demons and being in strange towns and speaking with strange people, but you could even lose your head. by those who are the rulers within charge. And Jesus sees all of these things, and he understands the great work that they are doing. And they come to him and they tell him the great work. Do you see that there? They bring a record to him. Then the apostles gathered to Jesus and told him all things, both what they had done and what they had taught. They had been working diligently for him, and he understood that, and he took great concern for them. Now before we focus on the concern, let me just ask you just uh briefly, and then we're going to run right on through. At the end of the day, are you in the habit of giving a record to Jesus on what you had done for him that day? I just think that's such an excellent idea that if we are put into this world and he's empowered us by his spirit to be full of joy for his gospel, having tasted the Lord and seen that he is good. And he he places us out there in our o our own gardens, so to speak. And he gives us work to do. He brings all kinds of people into our lives that at the end of the day we could record those things. We can say This is what we had done. You can tell him about those things. I just think that's an excellent habit and allows you to be more Christ-centered and heavenly-minded. But Jesus seeing this great work that they had been doing, he says these wonderful words to them that can be hard for us to believe. He says, come aside by yourselves to a deserted place and rest a while. He shows his concern for them and the great work that they are doing. by asking them to go to a solitary place with himself and to spend time with him and to rest. Now, uh I I know that all of us as um as Christians uh know that we are being sanctified and that we are growing up in the Lord. But have you ever thought about this aspect of it? That Jesus is your great, not only your great justifier, but he's your great sanctifier, right? And you think of all of the different ways in which you need to be sanctified, and you think immediately of lust or something along those lines. But what about becoming more of a beautiful human being and that you rest with Jesus? Do you know how to rest? Is that something that you may need to begin praying about? How do I rest with Jesus? Do you are you in the habit of being able to get away with him and maybe some other believers or just him and just resting with him? You know, there's a whole practice that has been lost that if you were to read some of the Puritans, you would see them talking about this practice of meditation and of heavenly-mindedness. Jesus was in the habit of getting away and spending time with his father and he uh we should be imitating him. And the Puritans talked about that from different passages of us practicing heavenly mindedness, of getting away and just thinking about Jesus. Do you know how oppressive it can become when you're constantly doing the work of the Lord? When you're around a paralytic here, or a withered hand there, or someone in depression here, Or someone who's grieving over a lost loved one there. All of the different misery, all of the different work that the Lord puts on our plate. those who are blinded to the truth of the gospel, sometimes being our own children, wondering if they're ever going to start glorifying and praising the Lord. That becomes burdensome. And the Satan slither and Satan slithers before us and whispers in our ear That God doesn't love us, He doesn't know how we're feeling, He can't connect with us, He doesn't really have concern. He's just trying to drive you into the ground because he's oppressive And he's just up there in the ether doing his own thing, not aware of what's really going on with you in this life. And those thoughts begin to become embedded in your mind. And before you know it, you're believing those things, you would never admit it, but you're functionally acting like Jesus is not concerned, so you stop going to him because he doesn't listen anyway. And what Jesus is saying is that it's time to get away and take some rest and to see what this world is really about and how you're really supposed to be looking at it. You are to set your mind on things above, not on the things of this earth, not on the spin and the narrative that this world places upon it, but the narrative that Jesus Christ has established While Jesus is voluntarily dying on the cross, everyone thinks that he is losing. But you know that is not the narrative. Jesus is winning in the midst of his agony. Who would have ever guessed that if they did not have faith? Even the disciples had to wait for three days to see, no, he's not dead. He has resurrected, and we'll be celebrating that next Sunday. The great concern of Jesus is expressed toward us in saying you need rest, especially on the Sabbath that He has given to us, which means rest, but also not on the Sabbath, but rest. In the evenings, taking time to go aside. Just today, I was thinking about this and I ran through ten different uh Scenarios for my past on when Jesus has been there for me and it lifted my soul and I was I was feeling rested. Can you do the same? Can you rest with Jesus? That's the first thing that we see here that's that Jesus is the concerned one about those who are doing his work. And then we move next in the passage not only to see that he is concerned, but that he is compassionate. He is the compassionate one He shows his compassion in thirty-three and thirty-four. saw a great multitude, and he was moved with compassion for them, because they were like sheep not having a shepherd. So he began to teach them many things. Jesus was moved. He had a physiological experience, and if you were to look at the original language here, it's happening in his gut. We understand this particularly with this emotion, but there are other emotions experienced within the human life. When we have anger, it motivates us and physiologically affects us to where we could raise our fists against injustice. Or if we are astonished, we would raise our hands and our face to heaven to glorify our great Lord who astonishes us And here he is moved physiologically and intelligently with compassion for this crowd as he looks out to them. And surprisingly to all of us, if you had compassion, how would you manifest and express it if you had your choice? If you looked out on a group of people that were lost and had no leader and they needed a shepherd, how would you look and you looked out on them and you had this compassion rise up that gave you this energy and this motivation? What would you do? You would teach, right? Didn't even cross your mind. Didn't cross my mind at first. But this is what Jesus does. He teaches in his compassion. The emotion wells up and he chooses to teach. Now, isn't that marvelous? And doesn't it teach us the priority of his preaching and of his teaching ministry? And that we should not degrade those things since he has held them so high. What did he teach? It doesn't say. I'm sure he taught them the whole counsel of God in his ministry, and spoke many things there. What it focuses on is the emotion from which, the emotional life of our Lord from which He does the teaching, that He teaches With compassion and from compassion. That's not the only way that he taught. It's not the only emotion that he had and that he taught. When he's flipping over the tables and teaching about the abhorrence in the temple that was going on. That wasn't the emotion there, but here it's compassion, and then he teaches. How do you teach? From what emotion do you primarily teach? Have you thought about it that way even? I had not before I had the opportunity to meditate on this, not this clearly. When you're teaching your children, Or you're teaching your family or your friends. Are you teaching them out of compassion? You know it makes all the difference in the world how you look at a person and the emotion from which you are teaching. If you are teaching, for instance, because you are motivated to establish your own reputation and your own image, then you will teach from selfish pride. That will be your primary motivational emotion. Selfish pride. If you are teaching because you are blindly zealous and that's what you're supposed to be doing is teaching, but I never thought about why I'm doing it, then you're going to be teaching with indifference possibly. Or maybe just because you're excited about the subject. And the majority of the time, this is what we are subjected to as Christians, and the majority of the time what we get is an information dump on us. As if we were computers just downloading bytes from another computer. But do you think really with Jesus preaching and teaching out of compassion that he was just relaying information to them? Would 5,000 men, not to mention their wives and their children, gather for a bunch of information? Of course not. And we should learn from our great Lord and also be teaching from our compassion. He shows us his concern and he shows us his compassion. And here we move towards the climac or the consummation of this whole section and we move now into that he is not only the concerned one and the compassionate one, but he is the promised one. He doesn't lose the two attributes prior. He keeps them because part of being the promised one is that he'd be compassionate and be concerned But here is where it becomes even heavier in the passage that he is the promised one. Take a look at verse 40. Jesus is the promised shepherd. Then he commanded them to make them all sit down in groups on the green grass. And verse 40, so they sat down in ranks in hundreds and in fifties. Do you see this? Do you see what's going on here and the connection that he's making with the Old Testament as the new Moses? As the one who had always been promised that Moses had declared would be the one that would take over the rulership of his people. Jesus has throughout all of Mark been revealed at very key moments through the grand providence of our God. Think about that. You have a Jesus being revealed who he really is, that he's God when that storm comes upon the boat. And he and you he's revealed earlier than that in Mark when the demon-possessed man comes forward. And when he goes after that to forgive sins. He's revealed, his authority is revealed, his true nature is revealed. God providentially put opportunities in Jesus' path So that when Jesus acted, those who had faith around him would see the true nature of who Jesus is, and that he is the Christ, the Son of God And here is another example of that with Jesus feeding the 5,000. But guess it's not a storm this time that brings out his true nature. It's the disciples. The disciples were meant to were supposed to be fools for Christ, but here they have become foils. for Christ. They are set in contrast to who Jesus is. They're arguing with him or questioning his judgment. You can look at that. In the passage there where he's thinking, they're all thinking, it's become late. We need to send these people away in order for them to get some food. And by the way, we've been hungry since verse 30. So what's going on here? And he says, Why don't you buy why don't you get them something? What, we're gonna buy food for five thousand people? Great idea. That's just the men. What do you have to eat? Well we have five loaves and and and two fish. And then he tells them to sit down in ranks. And what's what is being revealed here at that moment when he says, have them sit down in ranks of fifties. is exactly what is quoted in Numbers chapter 27. When you combine that with what happened earlier, we see here a a picture forming. Of the new Moses. In Numbers chapters twenty-seven, and this is from earlier in the passage, then Moses spoke to the Lord saying, and then uh moving into seventeen, who may go out before them and go in before them, who may lead them out and bring them in, that the congregation of the Lord may not be like sheep who have no shepherd. It's prophetic. It's Christocentric. And here we have Jesus sitting them down just as Moses did when he was. taking care of the people who had just been delivered from Egypt. Here is this new Exodus with Jesus out at the forefront. The promised shepherd, the true Joshua, has arrived and it's Jesus And that is being revealed here that he is the promised shepherd. But you know it goes even further than that if you look at the verse that just comes before it, that Jesus is not just a promised shepherd. In other words, you had Moses. And then you after that you had Joshua, and if you put it on a scale, you'd say, okay, Moses was an eight, and Joshua was a six in terms of leadership, and so now we have Jesus and he's going to be a ten. Here, in this verse that we're getting ready to look at in 39, that he's the promised shepherd, Jesus is not even on the same scale with Moses and Joshua. He is completely other because look at what is being revealed here. It just catches you off guard until you can see it and then it becomes clear as day. He says, then he commanded them to make them all sit down in groups on the green grass. Do you see what he's saying? Of what's going on here? as he's been reflecting and showing himself to be the fulfillment of him who is spoken of in the Old Testament. Think about the picture of the green grass and the Mid Eastern headwear that was probably white. They may e have even looked like sheep on a hillside. And he literally tells them to lie down in green pastures. We have here Jesus declaring himself to be and setting up an entire scenario using human beings. And situations in God and his providence showing himself to be the Lord who is our shepherd. Lord, capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D is the translation for Yahweh. The God of the Old Testament, I am who I am, has come down and has taken on flesh and is shepherding his people in concern and compassion as has always been promised. He has finally arrived. And it is people like us with which he is doing so. Oh, how marvelous. Is this revelation that is given to us this evening about who your Lord Jesus Christ is and how he can connect with you in his emotional life, that God has chosen to connect with you. He has chosen to connect with you and being concerned in the work that you're doing for him. And he's giving you rest, and one day you will rest for eternity in that eternal Sabbath And he has expressed his compassion towards you as a shepherd. He had looked upon you one day, and you remember and you you taste and you know that the Lord is good because he looked on you in his mercy. And in his compassion, and he taught you about himself. How will we know who he is unless there's a preacher? And how will there be a preacher unless one is sent? And who sends him but Jesus Christ our Lord? Jesus makes himself known to you and teaches you from his compassion that you would become his follower, and he's doing so even right now through the preached word. And then lastly, we see again that he is the promised one. Not only the promised new Moses, but we find out that he is God Himself, who has taken on flesh. To shepherd his children, the new Israel, who is us, his church. That is what we have seen here this evening. And so he combines in this passage his compassion and his recruitment of you to his work. He takes his concern, he takes his compassion, and he lays it aside the work that you are supposed to be doing. There's one part of the passage we haven't really dealt with yet. And that's where you can see this most clearly, his compassion and his recruitment of you. You know, I I've said this to some people and I said it to the Sunday school this morning. Jesus could have immediately had compassion on the people and filled all of their stomachs. And yet he chose in all of his glorious wisdom to allow the disciples to participate with him in his ministry to his church And it really ends up being our story, doesn't it? Can't you go ahead and put yourself right there in the middle of the narrative as one of the disciples? Can't you see that God has given you your own garden like I had mentioned earlier? He says, tend it and keep it. And be fruitful and multiply. I've given you the spirit and renewed the image and righteousness and holiness within you, and I'm working with you, and I'm going to bring things into your garden that you are to take care of and to bring glory to me through. You may particip if I wanted to, I could sustain the garden myself and make it perfect myself, but I want you to participate with me in this ministry. Of bringing glory to me. And so he brings these things into our lives that we're supposed to be bringing glory to him. But let me ask you this: what are those things right now in your garden? that you know that you have that he has put on your plate. What is it that's growing up in the woods on the left? What's the field that has gone sallow? What strange creature has walked into your garden that you've never seen before? Do you have snakes that need to be taken care of? And then let me ask you this. I know you can think of stuff. I know you can think of stuff in your families. I know you can think of stuff with your work, and I know you can think of stuff stuff with The church Things that are in your garden that He has given to you, and let me guess that you're having the same response as me and the same response as these disciples, and they're saying Five loaves and two fish. But then you look at the garden and you say, but this is obviously Jesus, this is a 5,000 loaves problem, and you're giving me five loaves and two fish. And Jesus says to all of us, my strength is sufficient for your weakness. We look at this picture here, and I need you to put yourself in the place of the disciples because it's where you are today. They're not just silly, they're human beings wrestling with something that you're wrestling with. And it's can we trust that Jesus is concerned for us? Can we trust that He's compassionate And can we trust that He is the gu that He is God and that even if we only have five loaves and two fish and it doesn't look like it's going to be able to solve the problems that he's brought into our garden, that he will be there with us and he will multiply, and we will return with twelve full baskets of fish and loaves? Of course. Let me end. And I pray that this would just wash over you as you think of yourself and the work. That he has brought to you as his disciple, I want to remind you that the Lord is your shepherd and that you will not want. He makes you to lie down and grieve pastures. He will lead you and lead you beside still waters, and he restores your soul. He leads you in the path of righteousness for his name's sake. Yea, though you walk through the valley of the shadow of death, you will fear no evil, because he is with you. His rod and his staff, they comfort you. He prepares a table for us in the presence of our enemies. He anoints our heads with oil, and our cups run over. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow us all the days of our life, and we will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you