Nevertheless, you have done well that you shared in my distress. Now you Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel When I departed from Macedonia, no church shared with me concerning giving and receiving, but you only. For in Thessalonica you sent aid once and again for my necessities. Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that abounds to your account. Indeed, I have all and abound. I am full, having received from Epaphroditus the things you sent uh the things sent from you, a sweet smelling aroma, an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God. And my God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus Now to our God and Father be glory forever and ever. Amen. Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren who are with me greet you. All the saints greet you, but especially those who are of Caesar's household. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. Let us pray. Father, we see the great covenant In which you have placed us. And we have come before you to sing the doxology and the glory of Patri already. And we now hear from you, from your preached word. I pray that your preached word would, in fact, be your message, for the messenger has no right to have their own message. And I pray, Lord, that your message would go out with power. That it would influence your people unto the greatest end, their chief end, that they would glorify you and enjoy you forever. Ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Every now and aga now and again I will receive a letter or one of the elders Will receive a letter from a missionary that we support. And the missionary will, for example, there are some missionaries we have been supporting for many, many years. And they'll just say, hey, these are the things that are going on. And we want to thank you for your faithfulness in supporting us all of these various years. I w uh I should have brought a letter and maybe read it to you, but sometimes they're personal. I don't know if that would be appropriate. But if you did want to see a personal missionary letter to a congregation that had been supporting through years and shown faithfulness All you really need to do is reread the section we just read in Philippians. Paul is pointing out the same thing. As a missionary, you can look in the back of some of your your Bibles that are study Bibles and you'll see titles like Paul's missionary journeys. And there'll be these colorful little trails where you can see where he went from city to city And he is saying here in this final chapter that he had been receiving support for some of that time from this Philippian church, and he called that a sweet fellowship. This is a fellowship between the two of them, and in this final paragraph, he's letting them know just how sweet it is. Paul took the time to show his appreciation for their loyalty to him. They showed him of loyalty, not just in finances we've learned, but also in the sending of a Pathforditus as a messenger who almost lost his life. We could even say when we get now to verse number 19, and we're going to go to the end of the book here this morning, but in verse number 19, you can see that there's a hint here That the proper way to talk about what the Philippians have done is not generous giving. The proper way would be sacrificial giving. Now I wonder if you know the difference between generous and sacrificial giving. The Philippians did, and they picked up therefore the Christ pattern talked about in chapter 2. Paul hints at this, that it's not just generous but sacrificial giving, because he says in verse number 19, and my God shall supply all your need. So it's possible here that they've given even to the point where they themselves are wanting. Now In the midst of this situation, where the Philippians are in continual need, or are in continual want As they continue on their mission, there's a number of instructions or observations that we could make about what Paul says to them in this moment. That was not just meant for them to learn, but it was meant for you to learn. For example, just notice this in verse number 19, that Paul uses this moment where they're in need. To remind them that God, verse number 19, will supply their needs with his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. He reminds them that God is the provider. God is the supplier. He sees their need and he will supply. The second thing that you should notice is that as Paul thinks of God's care for himself, as Paul meditates on God's care for the Philippians, both in the past and in the future. He breaks in verse number 20 into a doxology, celebrating the glory of God the Father. And it's from these two observations in this particular circumstance with the Philippians that we're able to derive a lesson this morning. One that we can hang our hat on and take home. It's this. God supplies the needs of his people, calling us to praise him for his glory. God supplies the needs of his people prompting praise for his glory. And so this morning, we're going to just take a look at this in two parts, which is that God supplies the needs of his people, and then secondly, that seeing God's care prompts us to praise him. Specifically. God supplies the needs of his people, prompting praise of his glory. What a magnificent lesson that Paul leaves us here in the very end of the book. The very end of the letter. He he goes to the consummate lesson and truth. Truly If he were standing here with us today, he would say, listen, you want to know what the letter was all about. Have you not read the first question in the shorter catechism? The chief end of all of us is to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. But He's going to unfold that a little bit in a human circumstance so that maybe they and we can understand that some more So Paul says that God supplies the needs of his people in verse number 19. I don't need to stand here and dissect any words for you. He says it right there. He said as much in verse number 13. Go ahead and scan up again. This is not a new theme for him. In verse 13, he says, I can do all things through Christ. Christ who strengthens me, the strength that Paul would need for his specific mission is the supply that Christ will give You can see other passages that connect with that or cross-reference to that where Christ says, My grace is sufficient for you. I will supply what you need. But Paul doesn't invent God as the supplier or the provider. It's not like Paul came up with a good idea and he's just going to plant it in the New Testament so people could finally be encouraged. There is a long history captured in the scriptures that record God as supplying the needs of his people, that he is the provider. One of my favorites is Psalm 104. And when I say one of my favorites, that's really a contradiction in terms. You're only supposed to have one favorite. But if you know who I am, I have favorites. And Psalm 104, the reason why I say that's my favorite is because it keeps coming back up for me. It ends up being a nice picture of God's relationship to his people, to his congregation. And I try to remember this. Now it's a longer psalm, but I just want to give you this one little section where he says in verse 14 of Psalm 104, 14 and 15, there's this picture at the beginning of the psalm praising God for who he is. And there's these springs that are coming out of the mountain, and the water is flowing down into the valleys. And the psalmist uses this. Now when you pick up Psalm 104, verse 14, he says it in regard to like cattle. He says, he causes the grass to grow for the cattle, and vegetation for the service of man, that he might he may bring forth food from the earth And wine that makes glad the heart of man, oil to make his face shine, and bread which strengthens man's heart. All of the things that would make society good and festive, if you want to go back to their source, they all come from God. The Heast is the one who supplies. Now that psalm continues, and as it continues, it becomes more and more my favorite because of the imagery. In Psalm 104, 27 through 28, for example, he says this. All of these creatures Everything that you have made, they wait for you, that you may give them their food in due season. What you give them, they gather in. And here's the image that always touches my heart. You open your hand, and they are filled with good. There's a long history of seeing God as supplier, and part of the history is seeing that God is the kind of God Who meets his congregation and Jesus teaches us even the unrighteous with a hand that is open A hand that is open not just with bread but with so many different things that are a part of our lives. An open-handed God. Paul will have experience with this himself. I keep pointing back to Acts chapter 16 To understand what Paul is saying in Philippians, because he's dealing with the people and the congregation members of the congregation at Philippi in that chapter with Lydia and the jailer And I wonder if you remember the story of the jailer. Certainly you could use the story of the jailer, which we used a few weeks ago. And the way we used it a few weeks ago was to say that look at how powerful and glorious God is in how he releases Paul. And we typically have that focus. Some of our hymns say that the chains were released, and I move forward praising God. That's a rough paraphrase of a great hymn. But in Acts 16, 31 through 34, I reviewed it and I noticed that there was something else in there I had never noticed before. Let me just ask you a question in preparation for this. Do you think that Paul in preaching the gospel, everyone eventually coming to hate him and stoning him and throwing him in prison? You ever think he didn't have a meal and he started to get hungry? You ever think he went through the night with a stomach that hurt? Because no one was willing to give him food because he was the scum of the earth. Just the basic need. Listen, just thinking of Paul's actual life, think about the the listen to the story of the jailer now. He says In verse 31 of chapter 16, so they said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved, you and your household. This is what they say to the to the jailer. And then they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house, and he took them the same hour of night and washed their stripes, number one. God washes through the jailer his stripes, letting him know in only the way that God knows in his wisdom that he hasn't forgotten about him and that he cares for him. And immediately he and all his family were baptized. So God washes the family. And then number 34, just getting down to the basics, because God knows all of our needs, he says, now when he had brought them into his house, he set food before them. And he rejoiced having believed in God with all of his household. There it was. the little thing that Paul needed to then again have an experience so that when he wrote to the Philippian church, he was able to say, you know God gives us what we need. And it wouldn't be surprising to me as Paul was speaking to what we call an amanuensis, someone who's writing down these words for him as he dictates. It wouldn't be surprising to me if he had examples like this on his mind. I remember when I was worried about the the stripes on my back where I was whipped. about them becoming infected and how could I keep going for Christ. But then God had someone bring me a cool cup of water in a way I didn't expect, and it was not for me to drink, but for my back to be washed. And then when that was done, we went in and I didn't want to complain because God deserves only my praise. But there I started to smell that someone was cooking me some food. And I knew that that was from God too. Truly, as I'm on this mission, continues Paul. God is my supplier. I have no reason to fear. What could get in my way as I seek to preach the gospel? That's a little picture, and the way that that is captured in Psalm 104 is through rivers that run to us, that we might always have drink, that God takes care of every living creature, and the way that that is pictured is that He has an open hand for you. And Paul was able to experience that in very specific ways. It is true, isn't it, that God doesn't always give us everything we want? That's like the platitude of the year. If you're still surprised that God doesn't give you everything you want, I don't know what to say. But he does give you what you need. And let me I'm going to say this pretty technically based on the full canon of Revelation here. God does not always give you everything you want, but He does give you what you need in His timing to accomplish His will in your various callings. That would be a conclusion you'd arrive at if you walked with him for a while, seeing his goodness. God does not always give you everything that you want, but he does give you what you need in his timing to accomplish his will in your various callings. Well is that important? That's one of the lessons that Paul wants to leave the Philippians with, and what the Holy Spirit has preserved so that you would hear that God is your supplier today. for what you need. It's important that you have ears to hear this. I remember doing a mediation with uh A family, it was a it was a mother and a daughter. That was a while ago. It was probably in two thousand and eight, maybe two thousand and seven And as the daughter grew up, the mother and the daughter started to move apart. Anybody familiar with that happening? So as your children grow up, they move apart. And this happened not in the sense of the daughter just becoming more independent. It happened in that the mother began to feel bitterness and resentment towards the daughter, and the daughter returned the favor. And in the mediation Before we when we were preparing for the mediation, I thought, man, this is not going to go well. They are going to claw each other's eyes out. As we entered into the mediation, as often happens, you can tell that Jesus Christ, by way of his spirit, just shows up. And you can tell that he has shown up and he's going to supply them what they need to restore their relationship because all of a sudden the mother Took a different tact that was attacked only from the Spirit, and she confessed her sins to her daughter. And that was used by the Spirit to melt the heart of the daughter. And she confessed her sins to her mother. And they both started asking for forgiveness. Now, that's a that's beautiful how God supplies. But what was surprising to me was we went through the mediation and then that following week I heard from the mother who then started to tell me about all of her other problems. It was like a day later. And I thought, there are two things going on here. Number one, human beings have a lot of problems. That's true. I get that. Number two, I don't know why within twenty-four hours we have to move into more problems And we couldn't just spend a little bit of time thinking about how God just solved a major one. In other words, Why isn't that we couldn't take more time to just see that God supplies all that we need? And rest in his glory Rest in his glory. God opened his hand. God filled their relationship with good. And she barely took the time to acknowledge what had just happened. Now I imagine, Nina, that was way back in the before days in 2007, I bet you, knowing who our God is, that she is more mature than that now. I bet you Because that kind of behavior and that kind of attitude is childish. That is what we see on Christmas morning When we're very excited for a child to open a gift, they open it, they look, they throw it, and they go for the next. And we can be that way with God, not stopping to acknowledge what has just happened in His care for us. As we grow out of our two-year-old selves, part of maturation. As we sit and we acknowledge, oh God, look at what you have done. You know what I should probably do? I should probably get the the family together and we should sing some hymns to you. Because that's what you deserve. And that really brings us to some questions I think that are important. What about you? Have you stopped to smell the roses of God's glory? Are you stopping to see the glory of God's care for you? It's a good practice, actually, to count your blessings. And that brings us, since I brought up singing hymns to God, that really brings us to the second part of the lesson that Paul is giving in this moment. with the Philippians, and that is that when we see God's care, that the Holy Spirit leads us into the right response, and that is that we would praise Him. When we see God's care, we are prompted to praise Him by the Holy Spirit. That's very important, that second part. You know, if you don't take that second part, you know what that's like? I remember reading C. S. Lewis. He said that praise is the natural uh consummation of the acknowledgement of the truth of the glory of God. In the same way That if you're a guy and your wife comes walking forward and she's beautiful, you have got to tell her You're not just telling her because you want to stay out of trouble or that she would feel nice. There is something that rises up inside of you and you have just got to say it It's the natural consummation of the recognition of her beauty, and it is the same thing that happens with us who are filled with the Spirit When we see the glory of God in any area, but here we're focused on the glory of God's care that it prompts us to praise Him Now you can see this again, I don't mean to spend a lot of time explaining it to you in verse number twenty, because verse number twenty is considered a doxology and he immediately moves, I don't think, just because of verse nineteen I really think that this consummates all that has been revealed about God and Paul writing this letter. Now to our God and Father be glory forever and ever. Amen. That's his heart, is that he sees God's care, sees what God is like, and he must praise him. Now you sing a doxology every week. Let's just do a couple steps here. Number one, did you know that you sing a doxology every week? That's the first step. Okay, we're starting small. Second step is, do you know why we call that a doxology? I was originally going to call this sermon doxological living, and then I thought I will never get away with that There is no way. Because the doxology is centered here. Doxology is from uh two Greek word doxa, which is glory, and and logos Which can mean different things, but here it's like words or speech. It's literally the words of glory. And it is focused on God's glory and exalting God. giving him all honor and praise that is due to his name. The scriptures are filled with doxologies. There's a few in the New Testament. I'll just give you a couple. We went through this letter already. Do you remember this one, 1 Timothy 1:17? Now to the King eternal, immortal, invisible, to God who alone is wise, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. There's so many more I wish I had time to read for you, but here's another one. Revelation 5. 13. And every creature. Mark that. That's very important. And every creature which is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them, I heard saying Blessing and honor and glory and power be to him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb forever and ever. And those marks, those consummate praises, are given to us throughout all of the scriptures. Because that is the main point of it all. Doxologies in our culture will be seen because they have a hint of liturgy to them. And we repeat them each week, they will be interpreted by those just entering in the church, and perhaps even you visiting here today, they will be interpreted as meaningless formulas. And certainly they can become meaningless in human hearts. But they're not meaningless formulas. They've been recorded by the Holy Spirit. Throughout the scriptures, for us to see where everything is headed Doxologies are not meaningless formulas. They are, this is the right way to view it, they are responses of the reborn heart to who God is. Doxologies are the responses of a newborn heart to who God is. Let me go back to a picture that I used a little earlier. I've had the privilege of doing an a number of weddings now. And in each one of the weddings, it's always interesting. You're standing up front, usually right about here, and you'll have the groom here. And some are more nervous than others. And then that moment comes when it's time to open the doors for the bride to come through. And when that door opens, and you up to do this if you haven't done it before, watch that young man's face. One, it'll tell you if you if you're the mother or the father if you made the right decision. But so far, 100% of the time when I watch their face, usually it r it is has tears going down it. Now let me just ask you a question. What if standing there at the front here, the bride, the door opens, the beautiful bride comes forward, and the young man goes, she's okay, you know Could you imagine? Where would his heart be? Does he have the proper affections? Is he seeing reality? Does he have the right mind? No. And that's an analogy for us to be able to see where we could say, how much more is God's glory? than the glory of a bride stepping through those doors. But keep the image in mind. Think about all the ways that God reveals his glory to you. picture it even in the back by faith where in each time that God is going to reveal how glorious he is to you there's a door open and he steps forward with his glory and each time you standing up here at the front, you see what he's doing, and that it's another picture of care for you. And because he has given you his spirit and your heart has been renewed by faith, each time the door opens and you see his glory, you burst into tears. And the only thing that you can do to stop a kind of holy pain is to say, all glory to my God. In the same way that by the time the bride comes up the aisle, I usually hear the young man say, You look beautiful. And before he can say it, he looks like a popcorn colonel that is getting ready to pop. And that's exactly the way that it's supposed to be. And that is a little taste and picture of the way it's meant to be for you as human beings who have been captured by God and given a spiritual sense of things. That is how you are to be responding when God reveals himself to you. When he reveals to you That though you doubted him because he allows you to go through some pain, in the end, there was no doubt that this was the wisest thing that he could have ever done. And that he didn't just accomplish the one thing you were asking for. He accomplished fifteen hundred other things at the same time Or his care for his people and mercy to the unrighteous when that is revealed. His power to accomplish his good plans. Have you seen some of the the stories within the scriptures of the kind of power that God has at his disposal. The only thing that you can do is describe that as a glorious power In 1 Kings chapter 17, there was a prophet, and God knew that he would get hungry. And do you know how he fed him? Listen to this. So he went and he did according to the word of the Lord, for he went and he stayed by the brook Kareeth, which flows into the Jordans. The Jordan. And then just reading contextually by the power of God, the ravens brought him bread and meat in the morning. And bread and meat in the evening, and he drank from the brook. Do you see the power that's at God's disposal? You can y you you want to glorify God and praise. Understand Him to be the God who has an open hand. You want to really glorify God and praise Pay attention to what it looks like in all of the ways he can open his hand. If you're hungry, he has the power, and you might as well just want to keep a lookout. For ravens to bring you meat and bread. If you were to put those together, maybe you could have like a close to a McChicken sandwich or something. But I don't think God would bring you highly processed foods. The ravens brought him bread and meat in the morning, and bread and meat in the evening, and he drank from the brook. Could you go ahead and ask yourself the question, why would God do it that way? Why wouldn't he just send somebody with a a basket of something? Or have crops that he could glean from? Isn't it because God is always giving us the one thing that we lack the most, a knowledge of His glory? He's always trying to help us faint-hearted creatures. Yes, even those whom Christ has given sight. This is a major truth that's assumed here or implied by way of Paul. Even you whom Christ has given sight. We find it difficult to see God working, or we find it difficult to see when He does work that it is glorious. If you want to go ahead and make an inventory of all of your problems, go ahead. But make sure at the top of the list is this. You have trouble seeing that God is glorious, and therefore, since you don't have the truth about God, and that is that he is glorious, you have trouble to give him praise. Now, to make that even worse, it's not only what is inside of you where you struggle with blindness, there are others that pull away from his glory. I'm going to share with you just one more thing here as we're coming to a close. Take a look at verse number 20 and There's a number of people that point out that Paul has become very particular in the doxology when he says, Now to our God and Father. Be glory forever and ever. I think that goes along with the supply because Father would supply. We see that in the Lord's Prayer and its exposition. But they also point out that this would be an important thing to say with regards to all of the other ways he's done the same thing throughout the letter. Because in verse number 22, we see that all the saints greet you, and even among those saints are those who are of Caesar's household. And they point out that Caesar liked to take the name Father for himself. That he was the one proclaiming himself in gospel proclamations across the world that he is going to be the supplier of peace and well-being to the whole world. And as we have seen in other parts of this scripture, Paul could be subverting that and saying, no, there is only one God and Father. And he alone is the supplier. And Caesar needs to learn the same lesson as Nebuchadnezzar. And don't you forget it. Based on the political terms in Philippians, many see this as Paul pulling the congregation away from total devotion to Caesar and toward the triune God. And so we have something in us that struggles to see his glory and therefore struggles to glorify him. And there's also something outside of us who's always saying, look at me. I have glory. Give worship to me in some way. Loyalty to me and adoration to me. Boy, is that a tough situation. And this shows us the heart of the battle, and it raises the consummate question for you as a congregation, right here at the end of this letter. Will you as a congregation acknowledge who God actually is and that in every way, in every attribute, he is glorious? Will you as a congregation, therefore, in seeing that, will you stop? And will you give him heartfelt authentic worship? Will you worship him on the Lord's day and during the week in words of praise? And prayer? And will you worship by giving your life as a living sacrifice? I imagine that everybody here is familiar with the parable of the seeds And by the time we get to the parable of the seed, end of the parable of the seeds, we see this soil that, because of God's Spirit, is capable of producing a harvest. uh fifty hundredfold. We all remember this. Let me just ask you a question. When you picture You have the picture of a farm field growing up and then there's this large harvest. Let's say it's corn. When you move away from the metaphor and into the reality, What is the harvest of produce that you imagine coming out of that soil within actual human beings? What's the highest What's the most valuable fruit that could be born from a field wherein you could harvest? What Paul is saying here are two things. That the highest produce would be that you are able to see that God is glorious. And because you see it and you know the truth by the power of Jesus Christ and His Spirit. The second produce there, directly related to it, is that you give him praise. There is no one else that is your God. There is no one else that deserves adoration. There's no one else that deserves your praise. There is no greater fruit than a fallen human being restored to the point where they see God, and from what they see or hear about him, they give him glory. So where does that put you? What is your worship life like outside of Sunday? If you find that throughout the week you are not worshiping God and you're not teaching your children or your grandchildren to do so If the bare communication that you have with God is your head hits the pillow and sometimes you remember to thank you, Lord, for the day, or thank you for these fries That's good because you are giving thanks. But there's so much more that is promised to us in Christ Jesus as we mature in the faith. If you look at this past week and you're really not offering God praises, what you're learning from Paul here this morning in the Holy Spirit is that you never s saw anything about him or heard anything about him that you thought was praiseworthy. And that means that your heart is broken. Your heart is broken. Even if Christ has mended it in certain ways, the heart is still broken. And I would encourage you to take up what we learned last week and enter into fellowship with someone and perhaps just begin by saying I know that God is glorious, but I'm having trouble seeing exactly how that's true. So the way that ends up working out is I'm doing everything in my life. out of my own motivation and effort, and I hardly ever give him any praise except when they force me to with the bulletin on Sunday. I'd encourage you to start there. I'd be happy to meet and talk But please don't let another day go by where you do not address the most serious sickness that has ever stricken the human race, and that is that you do not know. That God is glorious and therefore you're not giving him glory. God is supplying your needs. Are you giving him praise? Let us pray.