Turn to first John chapter three. We'll be looking at verses sixteen through eighteen after I pray for illumination. I'll read and then I'll pray for illumination. It's first John chapter three, verses sixteen through eighteen. Verses sixteen through eighteen in first John. By this we know love, because he laid down his life for us, and we also ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. But whoever has this world's goods and sees his brother in need and shuts up his heart from him, how does the love of God abide in him? My little children, let us not love in word or in tongue, but in deed and in truth. Let's pray. Lord, we ask truly that you would illuminate our minds, but especially our hearts this evening That we might become people that love one another more and more out of a love for you. Amen. Please be seated. A beautiful picture I remember in my mind and seeing a couple at the Annapolis docks downtown and the glow of uh the city lights right before the water on a chilly uh fall night Is when the temperature began to drop, they were walking along with each other, and you could tell that she began to get a chill. Her shoulders were bare. And The man, being aware enough, immediately took off his jacket and put it on her so that she could be warm, and then they continued to walk together. Uh Having good conversation, I imagine. It's a beautiful picture there, and it's a representation really of what we see within this passage. the consummation really of what John is teaching us. The the act of taking off the jacket and putting it on his his wife, I assume. was an act of uh him knowing that he himself would become cold and become uncomfortable, but his uh his considerations were more about his wife's concerns. that he was willing to literally take off something and give it to her, to lay down his jacket, so to speak. And in some way his life by just that little moment. It was a beautiful little picture of love. And if you could catch it, that the the movement on film, I imagine it would remind people of exactly what love is. And that's what we're looking at now. We're looking at love in John, particularly laying down our lives for one another kind of love. This is the third test of other total of three tests that we've seen here in the letter. You know, we began with the doctrinal test, seeing that the Son of God has taken on flesh. And that as true Christians, we confess that. And it shows that the Spirit of God dwells in us, that we can confess that He is the Christ, the Son of God and our Lord. And the second is righteousness, that we long to love our Lord, and in fact do love our Lord. And an expression of this righteousness is the social test which we see in this chapter three that we've begun. with the with loving one another. Loving the brethren. Not a a uh a love for the whole world as if we were at Woodstock. But a love for the family of God in particular. You remember particular phrases in other parts of Scripture saying, especially the household of faith. That's what he's talking about here. Loving one another in the household of faith. You know, when you think back to the where we are now in that jacket scene, wouldn't it be nice speaking metaphorically and maybe even realistically that when you're cold someone would give you their jacket? Wouldn't it be nice to be around people like that? And wouldn't it be nice to know that if someone were called, you would give them your jacket? That you could be that kind of person. I don't understand that's a small thing, but it's the beginning, it's the seed of what John is speaking about here. This is something that's important to us. What he's teaching us here is that as Christ has given up his life, so too we are to give up our lives for our church family. Just as Christ has given up his life, so too are we to give up our lives for our church family. I want to unpack that in three parts. I'm going to look at our pattern, our life, and our livelihood. Our pattern, our life, and our livelihood. So let's start by looking at the pattern. We see this here brought out in verse 16. By this we know love, because he laid down his life for us. There's a couple things here in this passage. You can see the pattern right away, that in the same way that Jesus laid down his life, we are to imitate him, and he has a pattern for us. and how we are to be laying down our lives for other people. But there are particular words here that we have to take notice of. Notice again that he's repeating this word that we see often, by this we know. We saw that word last time when he said, we know from the beginning, and he was referring to that inalterable message from the apostles. Here he's referring again to those things which would be quite obvious to his community that just as Jesus loved So too we are to love one another by laying down our lives. Now can you think of why they would know that to be so obvious? You can't really Think of the gospel, the Gospels and the story of Jesus Christ without thinking about him laying down his life. The consummation or the climax of the whole story of the life of Jesus. is that he gives up his life for others on the Roman crucifix. And you can think of all of those conversations that John would have relayed to his community that he was a part of, that where Jesus said You are to lay down your life for one another. I tell you that they will know that you're my disciples by your love for one another. And the foot washing. All of these different examples, it was quite obvious to them exactly What the message was that we were to love just like Jesus Christ. They already knew that. But he doesn't say it just because this was obvious and something that they only needed to re recollect and that it wasn't brand new. He says it, I think. Because it's not that we would struggle here, just like them. We're not struggling in knowing the truth. It's doing the truth. We know, it's not a matter, he's saying, of us being ignorant. We know That we are to love just as Jesus Christ loved. There are so many different examples of his love in our struggle is not ignorance, but rather the discipline and the willpower to take off the coat and to give it to another person, knowing that we ourselves would be cold. That's all packed in here. You know, Covenant Children, I don't know if you remember the um the the movie uh the first uh these movies always pop out of my head now, but the very first Narnia The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe. There's a beautiful scene. It's just an analogy. There's many things that could be perfected about this. And of course, we find the perfect story in the scriptures, but just as a metaphor and analogy. You see Lucy and Susan follow Aslan out of the camp, knowing that Aslan has to do something for Edmund to atone for his sins. To appease the deep magic. And so Lucy and Susan follow Aslan as he voluntarily works his way through the forest. And then he sees all of the goblins and the ghouls And it's Aslan as they watch him go forward and voluntarily allow himself first to be humiliated through the shaving of his mane and to become ordinary and lose his majesty. And then secondly, he voluntarily allows them to bind him with rope and place him on the altar. And then he lays still, although able to b Burst the ropes whenever he wanted to. He lays still as the white witch raises the knife and stabs him in the heart. Do you remember all of those things from the movie? That is a metaphor and analogy, I'm sure, within the mind of C. S. Lewis, trying to bring out the voluntary laying down of life. of the great majestic king for his people or his person in that case. And that's what John is talking about here. Even you covenant children from your Bible stories and you adults, you know the voluntary love that Jesus has showed you and all of his people, and not only being sacrifice, but the humiliation that preceded it. And he's not to be pitied. It's not that they apprehended him because he didn't know they were going to show up in the Garden of Gethsemane, and then he didn't know that they were going to take him to the cross. He voluntarily placed himself in the Garden of Gethsemane that he might be betrayed. He voluntarily was mocked by the soldiers. He was voluntarily kept on the cross when at any moment he could have called a thousand angels down. And he did so because he had a purpose in his mind, which was to glorify the Father by laying down his life for you. And this is our great pattern. He is our great pattern. But we not only see a pattern here, we see our pattern. And so this impacts our life. We see in the continuation of verse 16 that The fact that Jesus Christ did something is just not a neat historical fact. And the actions that we would perform in our lives. Look at verse 16B. And by this we know love, because he laid down his life for us, and we also ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. There is an instant obligation upon those who follow Jesus Christ that if he has laid down his life for you, then you would lay down your life for others, just as he has laid down his life for others. That the imitation is a commandment in some sense. He doesn't need to even preach the law at this point. You just look at what he does, and then you do it. You don't atone for other people's sins, of course not, but you show sacrificial love. Just as he did. And there's a couple reasons that we know that this should be the case, that we are obligated to this one we've seen in this letter, because Jesus is the revelation of eternal life. He is the only human who has been brought to their glorified, fully resurrected, glorified state, and we can perceive eternal life in looking at Jesus from Nazareth. And so we then have a picture of what we are destined to be, and all those who have a hope to be changed in in that glory begin to purify themselves now. We begin to look like Jesus now. That which we only see in a glass darkly. Whatever we do see, we begin to want to imitate now. And that, brothers and sisters, is that we would lay our down our lives for one another. But there's another thing, another principle in here that helps us to understand why we would have to or get to imitate Jesus Christ and laying down our life. John is the beloved disciple. He loved Jesus. That's how he's known. He loved him. His heart was full of love for Jesus. And when you look at his gospel, he relates these stories. Other times when Jesus had to teach his disciples that they must lay down their life for one another. There was this one time If you remember, when the disciples began bickering with one another as to who would sit at the Lord's left hand in heaven and who would be in charge of who. And Jesus immediately was able to tell them, you are not getting it. You don't understand what it means to be my follower, what it means to imitate me. And he gives two basic principles that are the essence and the heart of what it means to have the Spirit dwelling in you and for you to be a Christian. He says, one A servant is not greater than his master. And if the master will suffer, then you can expect that the servant will do so also. Now that's kind of lost on us today, but it wasn't lost on my grandfather. This is what I mean. My father graduated from University of Maryland and immediately started a construction company. My grandfather retired from being a fi a fireman and began working for my father. My grandfather grew up during a time when they actually had a work ethic. And whenever my father would pick up a shovel and try to dig a hole for a foot or for a deck, my grandfather would take the shovel from my father and he would dig the hole because he understood the role of the laborer next to the person who owns the business. He was my father's father. There was something within my grandfather that would not let him dig the hole. And maybe that principle is lost on us, but I I think you can even if it's even if you're not totally convinced that the servant is not greater than the master and therefore should grab the shovel or at least dig alongside of them. You can see the beauty of that, can't you? The humility and the strength of character in my grandfather. Isn't he a great man? He is a great man. His name is Ridgeley. He's excellent. He lives in Annapolis and he's he's still working constantly A servant's not greater than his master. If Jesus is going to pick up the shovel and do the hard work, then you should expect that you're going to do the hard work. He had come, he said, to lay down his life. For other people. He came to serve, not to be served. And you are not better than your master, are you? Are you better than your master? And he also gives another principle. He says, and the student longs to be like the teacher. And the same passage is what he says. Now we just heard about Wyatt this morning, and I guarantee Wyatt as he's working on uh in the on an auto shop with b uh collisions and doing body work on cars, I bet you that there is someone there in his apprenticeship. who does such an excellent job he can't wait to be able to do bodywork like him. I bet you Wyatt has in that guild and in that apprenticeship. I bet you he has someone that he looks up to and that he wants to be like his teacher and how he is able to fix a car. And that is true across the board, whether it be woodworking or musicians or you take an apprenticeship in many different areas And what Jesus is saying here is that you are my apprentice. You are a part of the guild and the school of Jesus Christ. And if you want to be just like your teacher, do you know what that means? It means that you better be ready to lay down your life for other people, even onto death. That is what it means to be a true friend. That is what it means to be a true human. It's the essence of Christianity. Now you have to consider the cost as to whether you really want to do this. Because that is what you're saying that you want to do when you become his apprentice, that you want to be just like him. Well, he does not allow other people to serve him, but he serves others. He always takes his jacket off to cover up his shivering church. He always does. This should inspire us to be like him. And to see the beauty of Jesus Christ. And when we see the beauty, we see the beauty of his servanthood. And that therefore we long to serve God and one another. And so you have the pattern, and the pattern dictates our life. So we have our pattern, we have our life. But then there's a play on words here within this passage, and he moves into our livelihood. I love that Jesus brings everything down through his disciple here, right smackdab on earth. He goes from our pattern to our life imitating our pattern to our livelihood. But whoever has this world's goods and sees his brother in need and shuts up his heart from him, how does the love of God abide in him? What I was just speaking about was a lofty love, and of course that's uh lovely. But he speaks about the mundane here. He speaks about our daily lives and being able to share our livelihood. As I mentioned, there are a there's a word play here where he's basically saying, lay down your life. And then he wants to play by using another word and saying, by giving your livelihood. Now the words here that you see in the verse are has the world's goods, and that's not how we talk. You would never say, hey, I really like your goods When you walk into somebody's house, I like your worldly goods. But what what we understand here are the possessions that we have, our livelihood. Those things, those material possessions and things that surround us, he's saying that if you truly want to love someone and lay down your life for them. And a very good example of that would be that if you see someone who is in need, that you would not just give them lip service, but you would actually give up something A comfort, something that you could use for yourself, instead you would give it to that person. That's what you would do. And he gives the example of a I think a financial uh portion here because his congregation is dealing with uh poverty that we don't understand. But I think it's okay, in fact know it's okay, to draw on an implication here. And John would not argue with us and Jesus would not argue with us if we were to apply not just that we are to be giving and laying down our lives financially for one another, even when it's uncomfortable to do so, but also our time and our spaces. There is something that has been lost within the Christian community in laying down our lives, and it's called Christian hospitality, and it requires time and it requires a space. When I first came to this church, I had the privilege of going over and interviewing Graham and Libby Gucci. Over at Anna CP. Arch sent me over there to do uh an interview for the Chesapeake Theological Seminary newsletter. And I got an opportunity to see two people who had been practicing Christian hospitality longer than I had been alive. And it was excellent. And they told me stories of sharing their time and their space and how they gave up things for other people. When she had her house remodeled. She the contractor offered to put in all the new amenities, including a dishwasher. But she gave up her time and her space and she said, I don't want a dishwasher. And you know why she said that? Because when they re- when they finished eating dinner, some would stay at the table, she would bring the dishes over to the sink, and then she would invite people to come over and dry what she had just washed And if you're going to stand next to Libby Gucci, she's then going to say, while you're drying the dish for her, so how is life going? Can you tell me where Jesus is showing up in your life now? Is he good? You see what she's doing there She gave up and that's a little thing. Some of you were thinking, uh, give up my dishwasher? It's an example, though, of giving up our time and our space and our finances in order to be able to minister to someone else, to lay down our life for them because they need it. And that's one of the most important points of this passage. Look at the obstacle that John tells you that can arise when we attempt to do so. He says, do not shut your heart up against them. Do you see that? You see your brother in need and you shut up your heart from him. How does the love of God abide in him? How would the love of God abide in you if you shut up your heart? What he's talking about is that emotional gift. That God has given all of humanity, but particularly the Church of God, and that when they see someone in need, compassion arises. You know, we have these things. You wonder where anger comes from. It's a gift that God gives us that we might have the energy to fight injustice, to punch it in the face. And why does compassion arise within our hearts? That we might lay down our lives for those who are members of our church family. And we shut our hearts. We push down the compassion with justifications. So that we would not lay down our lives. And one of the largest culprits of shutting our hearts down towards one another could just be laziness. It could just be laziness. But we are not to shut our hearts. Now this is a little tricky and it's not exactly present right here, but I think it's a legitimate application that I want to bring out. You have a situation that we're all very aware of where we can we can feel the compassion rise within our hearts and and then we know that we should give up something and we know exactly what it is that we're supposed to give up, but then somehow we end up shoving the compassion down, justifying the behavior, but getting really busy and being distracted and forgetting about it. And then we never lay anything down and we never love 'em. We understand that we need to repent of that. There are some, though That have a little bit of a different struggle. It looks like their heart is open to everybody, but really it's only open to themselves In other words, you may not struggle with the laying down of life and always giving away your things and your time and your space. But it's the reason why you're doing it. There's a story that I heard from C. H. Spurgeon, he relayed this story, and I'm not sure where he got it, but there once upon a time was this farmer who loved his king. And he loved his king so much that he in his garden decided to grow the king a prize carrot. He worked on the soil to make it just perfect, in order for this carrot to be the orangest carrot ever alive, and the the uh the juiciest carrot ever alive, and to have little hints of earth about it so that it it tasted great. And he brought the carrot to the king, and he said that I grew this, and the king so touched and warmed in his heart for the present that this man has Given to him, said, Because you have done this for me, I will give you an acre of land that you may grow even more crops. And so he did. And there was this guy who was attending And he overheard this conversation, and in his mind he says, well, if you can get a whole acre for a carrot, imagine what you could. And he starts working the salesmanship out. And he goes off and he decides that he's going to raise a beautiful horse and give it to the king, that he might get maybe 50 acres. And so he does. It's a beautiful, beautiful horse. Brings it to the king. The king accepts it, and then he dismisses the person. And later the person asked the king, well, but I thought you could get, I thought an acre was only worth a carrot these days. I mean, how much could I get with a horse? What are you doing? And the king replies like this. The king said, that man gave me the carrot. You gave yourself the horse. And that is something that we have to watch out here in the giving of or the laying down of our life. You could be laying down your life and and looking like you are laying down your life out of a motivation of love for God, but really you're only doing it for yourself. that other people might like you and think that you're the greatest and to uplift your reputation, but not for the real reason. And so if you're that person, then you need to check your heart and do self-examination and no longer fear man, but fear God and forget self and then lay down your life as Jesus did for the Father, not for yourself. You don't lay down your life for yourself. You don't give yourself the horse. You give someone else the carrot. And so we've seen that we have a pattern that we're to imitate, that it is to be expressed in our lives, our pattern, our lives, and that we can do so most practically. With our livelihood, our pattern, our life, and our livelihood. In closing, there's one more verse here that I want you to see And it says, My little children, let us not love in word or in tongue, but in deed and in truth. And I want this to be the final application. Here basically what he's saying is something we're also very familiar with. You don't give lip service. You actually love people. You don't, and you can read the book of James to see this over and over again. He who says But then just says, uh, have a great night. I'll be praying for you. But doesn't actually ever love them. That's not true love. That's not laying down your life for the brethren. And this is something that we all we all can struggle with, having lip service as opposed to action. It's not ignorance that is our problem. It's asking and being willing to lay ourselves at the feet of Jesus Christ to actually sacrifice ourselves for other people. You know a person that really struggled with this that we can learn from? And we can learn from the questions that the Lord asked him is Peter. You know, Peter, when Jesus was talking about all these things about being self-sacrificial, Peter said, you know, I would lay my life down for you, Lord. And what did Jesus say to Peter? He said, Peter, before the rooster crows three times, you will have denied me. Or crows, you will have denied me three times. We can see in the pages of scripture that Peter struggled to love, just like we struggle to love. But we know that Jesus Christ continued to work with him, and that toward Jesus Christ's latter times here on earth. That he went before Peter and he posed a question to him that I'm going to pose to you tonight because your problem is not ignorance. You need no longer any more instruction. You just need to love one another. And these are the questions, basically, that he poses to Peter and that we have this evening. Do you love Jesus Christ? Do you love Jesus Christ? Then love one another. Do you love Jesus Christ? Then love one another. Lay down your life for each other. That's only twice. There's a more awkward third time. Do you love Jesus Christ? Do you love him? Does the love of God abide within you? Then lay down your life with your time and your space and your finances for the people that you see here tonight and the rest of our congregation. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we know that love is shed abroad in our hearts and it is a gift from you. We ask that you would please give us this gift in unlimited measure, that you might be glorified throughout the earth, that they would know us as your disciples because we love one another. We pray this in the name of Jesus. Amen.