Turn with me to Acts chapter thirteen. And our reading today is from verses forty-two to fifty-two So when the Jews went out of the synagogue, the Gentiles begged that these words might be preached to them the next Sabbath Now, when the congregation had broken up, many of the Jews and devout proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas, who, speaking to them, persuaded them to continue in the grace of God. On the next Sabbath almost the whole city came together to hear the word of God. But when the Jews saw the multitudes, they were filled with envy, and, contradicting and blaspheming, they opposed the things spoken by Paul. Then Paul and Barnabas grew bold and said, It was necessary that the word of God should be spoken to you first, but since you reject it, And judge yourselves unworthy of everlasting life. Behold, we turn to the Gentiles. For so the Lord has commanded us. I have set you as a light to the Gentiles that you should be for salvation to the ends of the earth. Now, when the Gentiles heard this They were glad and glorified the word of the Lord, and as many as had been appointed to eternal life believed. And the word of the Lord was being spread throughout all of the region. But the Jews stirred up the devout and prominent women and the chief men of the city, raised up persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and expelled them from their region. But they shook off the dust from their feet against them, and came to Iconium. And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit. Let us pray. Lord Christ, these are confusing days. And so I pray for your congregation today that you would shine a light. That their path would be made well known as to what your gospel is. I pray, Lord, that it would not just be heard, but That it would be embraced in the name of Christ. Amen. May be seated. Did anyone go home last week and read Habakkuk? You do not need to raise your hand. I did see your pen go up though. Uh if I'm not mistaken, um Jeremiah, did we not write a song that was at least the last chapter of Habakkuk or was it the whole book? Did Brad not write you a song when you preached yeah. Is it the whole book? Okay, the last song in Habakkuk, which is a very important song. Brad um can put music to those words if you ever wanted to learn that last chapter that way. By way of memory, it would be a good start for those of you who still haven't read Habakkuk. Last week we witnessed Paul quoting Habakkuk. That's why I bring this up. That citation in verse 41 of Acts 14, behold your despisers marvel and perish, the Septuagint reading of it. That citation led us to the foundation for understanding the gospel. Paul will continue to use Habakkuk throughout Romans, for example. And what we end up seeing is that in the midst of an evil world, Habakkuk is crying. He cries out and he says, How long, O Lord, until you bring salvation? And it's within that context that we can start to understand the gospel of salvation. Paul picks up this theme, showing that now, in Jesus Christ, the promise of salvation has arrived and will arrive. God the Father has sent Jesus Christ the Son to restore his creation from evil. That includes you as his creature. The Creator has not abandoned us, in other words. That is a summary of what we said last week from that passage in Acts. This week, our passage provides us with more of that same perspective of the gospel. So what I want to start is just noticing a few things so that we can get this passage in our minds and then a few lessons. I want you to notice first that Paul's preaching received two distinct responses. I'm sure you saw that. I mean a line was really drawn in the sand here within this passage. For example, if you were to glance down at your scriptures at verse 42, the Gentiles on the one hand begged That Paul and Barnabas might preach the gospel of Jesus Christ to them the next Sabbath. And when the next Sabbath arrived in verse 44, the whole city came to hear the word of God. From nearly the whole city came to hear the Word of God. Now, that's just that's just excellent. I like to think about that just for a moment But then there is this other party that is rising up. The Jews, on the other hand, were filled with envy They contradicted what Paul and Barnabas had to say about the scriptures. They blasphemed them. And they ended up opposing him as a general summary term in verse 45. So you see these two responses to the same gospel. And they end up going a step further. The Jews stirred up prominent women and chief men of the city. To persecute and expel, that word is often used for like an exorcism, getting demons out of the place, to expel Paul and Barnabas from their region in verse 50 Two very different responses to the same gospel message that Paul preaches by way of Habakkuk. That's the first thing I want you to notice are those two distinct responses. Acceptance and rejection. Now here's the second. I want you to notice second that Paul, to your surprise perhaps. Holds those people in their rejection fully responsible. In verse 48, we see the familiar statement which we're all expecting, especially how I've handled the book of Acts. We see in verse 48 the familiar statement on the sovereignty of God. And as many as had been appointed to eternal life believed. Some of you heard that this morning and you said, and that's why I'm a Calvinist. There it is, right there. Boom! Light drop. Right, fine. That's fine. But I want you to notice another aspect in here too, which is also part of being that same thing. Biblical. Yet in the same episode, we also see human beings being held fully responsible for their actions. Look at verse 46. You judge yourselves unworthy of everlasting life. It will be the basis of Christ's judgment himself when he returns. So I wanted you to see both of those things here present. And then I want you to notice third that rejecting Paul's message is rejecting God Himself. That's important for many of us to hear, especially those who like to share what God has to say. I want you to be encouraged. You are not primarily being rejected. It is God who's being rejected. They're not your words, they're not your laws, it's not your gospel, it's his. And they are rejecting his. So please be encouraged by that. In verse 47, for example, just to put some meat on this, Paul quotes Isaiah chapter 42 and chapter 49. And this Isaiah passage is obviously about what God is doing through his servant Jesus the Christ. That whole section is about the servant of Israel, not about Paul and Barnabas. But Paul uses it here to explain his ministry with Barnabas. And so what we end up seeing is that Paul sees his preaching not as his own thoughts and ideas resting upon his own authority given to himself. But rather that he has authority that is given to him from Christ who is in heaven, and Christ has showed him the right way to understand the scriptures. Christ has established Paul, therefore, to give the gospel. He works, in other words, Christ who is in heaven works through his shepherds. This is a major deal here. Christ, who is in heaven, works through his shepherds and the preaching of those shepherds on earth that earth might know the will of heaven. Very important in terms of how you approach even preaching this morning. And then I have one last observation for you, and then I'll summarize all of this. I want you to notice lastly that if you respond in faith to the apostolic preaching, then you are clean. You are a clean house, like we read about in Leviticus. And if you do not respond in faith, then you are still unclean. That is the way that this has to be talked about. And now you some of you want want to wonder why is it that do you want to use that language clean and unclean? It just sounds like something I would never say at a dinner party unless I wanted to be stoned to death. Well, I use that language of clean and unclean because I don't want us to forget, number one, that that is the context in which we're dealing. Don't forget about Cornelius. Cornelius is the that that whole occasion of him and the vision that he had on the rooftop of the unclean animals and the sheep. It was all setting the stage so that you could understand Paul's ministry to the Gentiles. Remember the vision of Peter and the realizations he had through working with Cornelius. Remember this voice. But the voice answered me again from heaven. What God has cleansed, you must not call common. Acts chapter 11, verse 9. And that same kind of purification context continues in our passage today. And I tried to bring that out by that Leviticus passage for you in connecting with the act of shaking off the dust from their feet, that there would be no impurity left on them with the house who chose to allow the plague to remain, so to speak. It is an act of purity or cleansing on the behalf of the apostles. Paul and Barnabas are saying, if you want to remain unclean, then that and your own blood is on your own head. But we want nothing to do with it. We want nothing to do with that plague. It is death. It is destruction. We want nothing to do with that decision. And we therefore shake off any connection, even the dust on our feet, so that we have no connection with that kind of impurity. And that impurity are those who fail to recognize that Jesus is the Christ, whom God the Father has established to bring salvation. And so, if we were to take these four notices together, what we end up seeing here is that we all stand before the preaching of God's gospel. It is not true to say that only they stood before the preaching of God's gospel. Every tongue and tribe and nation, as the preacher comes, they all stand before the preaching of God's gospel, just as you do this morning. And we are responsible for how we respond. If we reject the message of Christ as the Savior, then we remain unclean and we forfeit eternal life. If we accept the gospel, then we count ourselves as among those whom God has appointed to eternal life. And that's how we have to see how Paul is viewing all of these things. But what I would like to do in terms of drawing that out in lessons is to really get into the gospel according to Habakkuk. and see why it is rejected and why it is and why we would want to accept it. And I hope that will be useful to you this morning. Let me restate the summary for you though We all stand before the preaching of God's gospel. We are held responsible for our response. If we reject the message of Christ as the Savior, then we remain unclean and we forfeit eternal life. If we accept the gospel, then we count ourselves among those appointed to eternal life. And now let's look at why some reject, and then let us see what we do in our acceptance. Why do people reject the apostolic preaching? I raise that particularly because of verse 45 within our passage. One reason is given amongst one group of people in one town. 3,600 feet above sea level. But when the Jews saw the multitudes, they were filled with envy. Now we could draw out all that that means, and perhaps we'll do that another time, but that's one of the reasons why a person would reject the apostolic preaching. I think envy here is alluding to the fact that the Jews would be supplanted and shown to be false shepherds and in need of great repentance, and they are unwilling to do that. But there are lots of other reasons. I want to answer the question on why folks, including ourselves, may be tempted to reject the gospel by looking closely at Habakkuk due to Habakkuk's influence on Paul. If you were to read Habakkuk and understand it, you will see the seeds of Habakkuk all through Paul's preaching, even in our own passage Particularly in verse 52, when the disciples are filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit. That's really the closing of Habakkuk right there, of ending in joy and rejoicing. We worked from Habakkuk last week recalling his cry. And I want to do so again. How long, O Lord? His cry came on the one hand from watching evil flourish on the earth, but on the other hand, his cry was something far more profound than just watching evil. And it's really captured in Habakkuk's cry, How long, O Lord. Emphasis on the long The most difficult thing for folks that causes them to be tempted or to reject the gospel these days is the delay of God in the face of evil. Not just evil itself, but that God has done nothing about it. And is a huge hurdle When you and I watch a movie or we read a book, it consists of the following structure. Please grant this to me. Those of you who are narrative scientists, I don't want to argue about this. There's a basic setting. There is an inciting moment when someone is forced to move forward in rising actions that eventuate in a climax and then a denouma. Where everything comes back into peace and harmony or shalom. Now, for example, take the profound plot of finding Nemo. The setting is the coral. The mother is eaten. Sorry for those of you who haven't watched this, but it's too late. It's been around for such a long time. It's almost in public domain now. The mother is eaten, and so the father develops an excess of caution. Nemo is caught by a scuba diver. Those of you kids who have watched that because he touched the butt or the boat, if you remember that, the father meets many dangers on the way to the Australian coast. That's the rising action, and then the climax is that Nemo is rescued and the dad lets go of helicopter parenting. And you could, really, unless you get into some weird French or German existential movie, you could take just about any story and see that there's one thing that they all have in common Resolution. Someone shows up and things are fixed. The boy meets the girl, or however whatever the story is, romance or comedy or tragedy. And it resonates with us in a kind of cathartic feeling, says Aristotle, because we are all longing for the day when things are resolved, when order is set right. Well, that too is what we have heard through Habakkuk. But the problem that we end up seeing ends up being the same problem that Habakkuk sees when he cries out, How long, O Lord? When we look out on the world and we don't see resolution is when the problem is. And yet you believe in a God who says he wants resolution. Well then where is he? How long will this story go on? How many rising actions? When do we get to the climax? When's the denouement? Now I have a trivial example of this kind of experience. There was someone that I I still know, and he was in the third grade. He was told to wait for his dad after school at a city elementary school. The dad was going to pick him up just outside of the playground on the side street sidewalk And so what he did, school was released at 3. 30. Everyone put their backpacks down and ran out onto the playground to be able to play tag. All his friends were there and they were having a great time. And then within about a half hour to forty-five minutes You started to notice cars pulling up. One friend after another had to run away from the tag game because the parent arrived. They grabbed their backpack. From the gravel and headed into the car. One by one, more and more were picked up, except for this one third grade boy. He's still waiting. And now something even more foreboding happened. The cars that lined the city street from the city workers began to pull off one after the other because their day of work had ended. They were going home. And then it got dark outside. The boy sat at the picnic table in the dark at the city playground with his book bag waiting for his father. And eventually, the boy had to give up on his father, found somebody who had a kind face on the city street, and asked, Could you please help me find my way home? That is a story that um well when you're in third grade that's not trivial, is it It's trivial with the things that humanity faces. I think about the other countries I see in the news and how much more they're facing than us. But what we should see within that story of the boy is Habakkuk's cry. Can you hear Habakkuk's cry in the boy on the playground? How long, oh father? Until you come. That's the most profound part of the cry. The most profound profound part of the cry And this is the context that I'm trying to establish that you might see more clearly what the gospel is, and the difficulty of people accepting the gospel and why they reject it. The most profound part of the cry is due to the father seemingly not showing up, and all that that means to the boy. All of the inferences that that boy is able to draw from the delay. We don't know anything about the father. We don't know why there is a delay. Is it justified or is it not? But we get what can happen within a boy's heart. The delay of God is perhaps still, in my experience, the number one reason for the rejection of God and his gospel. Not plausible. Evil has plagued the earth for so long, and God is still not doing anything about it. How long, O Lord? Will you let this go on? It is the same first chapter of Habakkuk repeated for every generation. We say, trying to infuse some hope into the situation, well, he did send Jesus Christ But then we do have to also admit, but he ascended, and it has now been over 2,000 years. O Lord, how long will it be till you return? This ends up wearing on people, and like the boy on the playground, they find someone or something else to deliver them from waiting in the dark for their dad. I think that's a pretty good snapshot of a modern-day scene of what Habakkuk is struggling with. Really, if you think about it and you go through the scriptures, what every person Who is God's person? Every community that is God's community, this is what they're struggling with. Look at what is happening. Look at how evil seems to reign. God, how long will it be until you do something about this? And why is it that there is such a delay? And that can, like water on a rock, end up wearing a person away. That is a number one rejection. That will come up in 2 Peter also, if you want to take a look at that. But now, how is it that if we agree with the characterization that I have just given, and there is a lot to speak to that, that God, there is a kind of delay, or a, in the words of Habakkuk, a tarrying How is it that we are to continue to accept the gospel of God? Why is it that you have not rejected it on these same terms? And that's where we can continue to look at Habakkuk and start to understand more and more of what Paul is doing here in his preaching. Habakkuk not only shows us the problem, which is the delay But the answer in the face of the delay, and guess what the answer is? It's not for you to buy a gun, though you have the freedom to do that for now. It's not for you to get 17 PhDs so you can figure out all the complexities of the universe, though you could do that if you want. If God calls you to do it. His answer is the most profound answer that has been a part of the community from the beginning. And that is that we continue to accept, even in the face of the delay, by faith. The answer in the face of the delay is faith in God and His proclaimed commitment to his creation. That captures quite well the earlier sermon by Paul and the sermon that he would have continued to do and give and unfold as the whole city gathered in this scene. I want you to listen to this hymn from Habakkuk. And I want you to think about that boy on the playground. And I want you to think about your own life and what you have to face. And I want you to think about Rwanda. And I want you to think about Afghanistan. And I want you to think about all the Christians out there who are saying, Lord, how long? Listen to Habakkuk at the very end of the book. This is his resolution of how he continues to accept. Though the fig tree may not blossom, nor fruit beyond the vines. Though the labor of the olive may fail, and the fields yield no food, though the flock may be cut off from the fold, and there be no herd in the stalls, Yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will joy in the God of my salvation. Habakkuk 3,17 through 18. And now I want you to take a look at the end of our passage in verse 52, and I want you to see what the Holy Spirit did with the people. And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit. That's what's going on here. Is that even in the face of for Habakkuk it was the Chaldeans, for the Jews it was the Romans, and it was also the corrupt Jews? For every generation is something different. For us, it's whatever you think it is that is oppressing true order in the world under God's reign. Whatever that is, the people of God refuse to not show up and worship. Because they know that their God, no matter what it looks like by sight, is true to his word That he is true to his word in taking upon himself flesh, his name is Jesus Christ, he is true to his word that he shall return in his person and order all things under his reign. And we, therefore, show off every Lord's Day with a song in our mouth The proper expression, according to Habakkuk, and perhaps the most profound, is faith, but it is particularly faithfulness in songs of praise. And the singing of psalms and the singing of hymns with joy filling our hearts And isn't that a bit of a witness to our world today that in the face of all of those realities which we admit across every country, that we still are filled with joy? Paul, in this story with Acts, has all of the chief men and all of the chief women of the city rise up seeking to expel him From the city, which will eventually in the next town lead to him being stoned. They think he's dead on the ground, and then he comes back to life in a kind of way, and he goes on to the next city How is it that a person is able to do that? How many stones have you been hit with in your life? And why is it that you continue to praise God through all of it? It is because by Christ's grace he has poured out on you a gift. And it is the gift of faith. But here we are seeing the content of the faith, which is the full gospel, that you believe that God is going to come through with what he said. That you believe in what God has said. What we see here in Habakkuk's confession is an acknowledgement that God may in fact permit his creation to be so corrupted that it becomes almost completely uncreated and barren. That's the picture with the fig tree There is no fruit on the earth. And he uses agricultural imagery for a reason. But you could fit it to any day, agricultural or not, because we get the point Some will have to say, even if we become refugees and have no home or country living in Afghanistan, we refuse to not praise our Lord because we have faith that we have a country. And it is not of this world. Even if my tribe members are exterminated in the street, the women and the children are killed, the young boys are turned into soldiers in Rwanda. We will continue to praise our God because we know that this is not where the world will end. Even if you permit a virus to develop variant after variant after variant after variant after variant, which is what viruses do in order to stay alive as a life form, we will still praise our God every Sunday In fact, we may want to pick up Habakkuk's words where he says, Yet I will rejoice in the Lord Jesus Christ. I will joy in the God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit of my salvation. Not just the salvation of my soul. But I'm talking about the salvation, yes, that includes my soul, but of my body, of his creation Now that contextualizes for us the gospel and why it is that we and how it is that we continue to accept it. Christ maintains our faith in God. And that faith goes forth in praise of God The truth of the matter is that we all stand before the preaching of God's gospel. You have done so when you sat before the preaching of God's gospel this morning. We are held responsible this morning for everything that we have heard. If we reject the message of Christ as the Savior, then we remain unclean and we forfeit eternal life. If we accept the gospel, then we count ourselves among those who are appointed to eternal life It is true, and maybe it is true even in this room, based on what some of you may be going through, is that you are tempted to reject the gospel due to God's delay. But those who continue to accept the gospel will do so by faith, just like Habakkuk had to when the Chaldeans took over the whole world. It says in Hubak that the Chaldeans spread out a net and caught every nation as if it were a fish and subjected them to injustice. And yet Habakkuk says that song in the face of it. Even in the midst of that, Lord I will have faith in your proclamation that you, as the Creator, will vindicate your creation, and you are doing so through Jesus the Christ, which is the whole purpose of Psalm 8. The new Adam. We end up knowing as Christians God's vision for the end. And since it is God's vision, we continually put our faith in it from faith to faith. God does not lie. Though the realization of that promised world is delayed, we are encouraged by Habakkuk to wait for it, because it will surely come He says specifically, I'm not lying to you. This really is good news. It's not fake news. God knows that the wicked seem to control the earth. It has been the problem from the beginning. The serpent has always struck. But Habakkuk 2. 4, which is the development really that Paul uses for his whole systemization of the gospel in the book of Romans, says this: the just shall live by their faith. That's the context. We are Protestants, and our great mantra is justification by faith. I'm telling you what it means this morning. It means in the face of that which causes faith to decay. Will you continue to give your trust to God and His hope for His creation? Faith that God the Father through Jesus Christ, the Son, and his Spirit shall bring salvation to this earth. And I'll close with this, and I I really want to say this, that I pray that it is your prayer. that it would become your song. And again, Bradley has written a song, so there's even less reasons for it not to become your song. Though the fig tree may not blossom, nor fruit be on the vines, yet we will rejoice in the Lord. We will joy in the God of our salvation. That, my friends, is the summary of a Christian life. Right there. And that is what we were doing this morning. Let us pray.