Please turn with me to James chapter five. We're going to look at the last two verses, verses 19 and 20 of James chapter 5, and then next week we'll begin with a series in the evening on the Book of Colossians. Please hear God's word. Brethren, if anyone among you wanders from the truth And someone turns him back. Let him know that he who turns a sinner from the error of his way will save a soul from death and cover a multitude of sins. Let's pray Christ, you reveal to us again from your servant James an important ministry for all of us. I pray that you would Not only allow us to hear these words and to understand them, that they would be intelligible, but that we would do them. Pray that you'd make us into the kind of human beings that Do these kind of things, as well as everything else that is involved that we have seen in this letter. Pray that you would sanctify us and that we would be known as your people, wholly consecrated unto you. and distinct a peculiar people with your name written on our foreheads. In your name, Amen. I'm sure you're aware of a sociological principle. You've probably studied it either later in high school or in college or you've heard it from me before. I think I've mentioned it about four or five. There's a sociological principle where observations were made in a series of high-rises that have a central courtyard. And in the courtyard, someone was being attacked. There were many people looking out of their window in the high-rises at the attack, and no one went down and helped the woman. The sociological principle expanded from this particular instance. It just ends up being an example of something that's quite commonplace. We don't go and help the person in the square, or when they did a survey to find out why didn't they go down and help the person who was being attacked, they said, we thought someone else would go help. Something that we see within our own lives. Perhaps when you drive someone whose car is on the side of the road, you think someone will stop. And then the sociological principle is everybody drives by and says the same thing. And no one really stops. It's interesting when we think about that as Christians. If we're looking out from a high-rise through a window and down into the square, Would we have enough courage or enough loyalty to Christ our King to deny the sociological principle and be the aberration in the statistics? It's a question that we can ask in that moment, or you can ask it just throughout your own life. If you see someone who is in difficulty, perhaps even in sin, Are you willing to reach out and help them? Are you willing to say something to them? In other words, as a Christian, are you willing to rescue another Christian in their sin. That's the picture that we have before us tonight that we have to consider. And James is seeking to convince us that Christians must take seriously their role in rescuing or reclaiming or re-establishing fellow Christians. The fact of the matter is, is that Christians backslide, and that it is our responsibility to bring them back on the path of life There are different reasons besides this sociological principle for why we do this, and I'm sure you'll have some that run through your own mind, but I'd ask that you would consider over and over again this is a very important thing. that's clearly before you. You have an obligation and a duty to rescue your fellow Christians from sin. So I want to look at this. Let me restate the big idea here, the main idea of James 19 and 20. Christians must take seriously their role in reclaiming or rescuing fellow Christians. The division is a command considered. See that in 19. An example observed. We're going to look through the whole letter of James, just certain parts of it. And motivations given. So let's begin with what I say is a command, although it's implicit. Here, let's consider this command, a command considered in verse 19. Let me read this. to you. Please follow along. Brethren, if anyone among you wanders from the truth and someone turns him back, it's actually going to be verse 20, let him know. That he who turns a sinner from the error of his ways. And my focus is on let him know. Verse 19 begins with the familiar call to all the brethren among those churches to whom James wrote. The whole letter is a gracious gift to the Christian church. It's not simply gracious to Christians that have their act together if there is such a person. It's not simply gracious to folks that we would think of that way. As you can see throughout the whole letter, and I hope that you can remember, James's focus has continued throughout the letter, right here to the end. And what is his focus? Well, on we wander from the truth. Sorry. That's been the focus all along. I've used this verse as the theme verse for The entire letter summarizes everything that he has done so far. We wander from the truth. James has taken his ministry to the wanderer very serious. His letter is now over, of course, and so the ministry to the wanderer, like a baton, is passed on to the brethren who are members of these different churches They must take it up. They must take up the same ministry that he has exemplified. It's passed on to the next generation. James took his ministry seriously, and he expects all other Christians to do the same. And so we see this in verse 20, which is very much like a command, although it is not in the imperative. It just has the sense and the force of a command. He says, let him know that whoever brings back a sinner. Some translations say, let him be assured. But both senses are present. Why would James assure Christians at this point? Why would he say, be certain? That if you do this, then this results. Why would he speak that way? The threat of assurance began with Elijah from last week's sermon on prayer. James gave arguments from the life of Elijah to motivate Christians to take prayer seriously and to start praying. That's why he gave it. There were motivations. And the same thing is being done here. And here's a few questions to draw this out. If prayer is so powerful and it is so certain and at your disposal, then what do you think you should do? Let you be assured that prayer is powerful. What do you think you should do? Pray. Well, the same thing is going on here with the argument. If reclaiming is so powerful and it is so certain Then what should you do? We should reclaim. We should rescue. That's the whole idea. There are great promises behind the ministry of admonition. of pulling those back from backsliding. And therefore the command, let him know it actually is in the imperative, I apologize. Therefore the command, let him know, is meant to inspire confidence and a sense of obligation to reclaim fellow Christians. The ministry of reclamation is so serious that we end up having a number of different questions. What are the errors? What is wandering? How am I supposed to do this? What about this situation? How do I admonish? What does admonishment mean? James has been exemplifying this throughout the letter. And so rather than just coming up with a single answer to that, I want you to look at an example observed in how James has participated in the ministry. I just want to point out a few passages to you so that as you read and reread James, you could learn from him on how to Reclaim your fellow brothers and sisters in Christ. So let's move on to the second point now, which is an example observed. This is really dealing with the whole letter, not just this passage. The ministry of reclaiming a brother or sister is a ministry, verse twenty, of bringing them back from wandering or the errors of their way. Take a look there. Let him know that he who turns the sinner from the error of his way. Sometimes it says in some translations from wandering, but it really is error of his way, will save a soul from death and cover a multitude of sins. This same picture is given throughout the Proverbs. If you remember the passage where the father watches the young man, do you remember this with the Looking through the lattice where the father, the covenant father, looks out at the young man. Remember this passage. And that's the picture here. Those with a heavenly perspective are to rescue those who are following an earthly per perspective. And James has shown that in the contrast between heavenly wisdom and earthly wisdom. The whole letter is filled with examples. And so let's just take a look at a few examples here for you so that you can ponder these in your own time. Take a look in James chapter 1, verse 2. My brethren count in all joy when you fall into various trials. One thing that you can do when you're looking at each of these statements. Is if you remember in the Sermon on the Mount in chapter five of Matthew, Jesus said it like this. I tell you that it has been said, but I tell you the truth that it is. Or you have heard that it was said, but I tell you the truth. That it's this way. You could do that with each one of these instances. You could say, you have heard this is how you're supposed to deal with it. with trials. But I tell you the truth, that is a wandering from the path, and actually you should consider trials a joyful event because of what God is accomplishing in you. Each each instance here is an example of him pulling people back from backsliding and from wandering. And that's what we have in one two. My brethren, count in all joy when you fall. Into various trials. Christians may wander from the truth about trials, and so James has the courage to correct them. How do we think about trials in our culture? And have Christians taken that on and wandered from the truth? Well, let's bring them back. Or take a look at chapter 1, verse 5. If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all liberally. This has to do with prayer, about double-mindedness, the kind of prayers that God would ask. to be in the elevated position or advantaged or disadvantaged. 1-9 deals with social standing based on wealth. It turns the world's conception of it upside down And Christians so often base their understanding of wealth on what the world says. But here James calls them back. In chapter 1, verse 13. Let no one say when he is tempted, I am tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he himself tempt anyone. Here you would be you would bring a person back, that when trials come, that God is not seeking to rub their face in the dirt. That's not how He works. Or consider chapter 1 verse 22. But be doers of the word, not hearers only, deceiving yourself. Here, this is a correct use of God's word. Is this how you think of God's word? Functionally, not just what you think Think with your mind. What about those who are around you? Do they need to be called back to the truth? Have they read a lot, but you see very little? James is giving us an example for all of these things. Chapter 2, verse 1: My brethren, do not hold the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with partiality. Do we have a problem with partiality? Those who are beautiful and have money, do we give favor to them over against those who are not as popular in our society? Another example from James, chapter 3, verse 1, has to do with speech. My brethren, let not many of you become teachers, knowing that we shall receive a stricter judgment. How do we think about the tongue and the gift of teaching to someone? Do we think if someone just is willing to teach that they should be teachers? What about chapter 5, verse 7? Therefore be patient, brethren, until the coming of the Lord. How do we deal with suffering in our lives? Is it with patience? These are all examples that James has given to you. This is his ministry of admonishment. It's almost as if every single sentence and that has been my argument all along, is an example put before you of verses 19 and verses 20. And I'm simply reminding you of that. So if you want to know the answers to what does it look like to reclaim sinners, I say study the book of James. Re-listen to the sermons. Read the book over and over and over again and ask the Holy Spirit to teach you to be a bondservant, like James was a bondservant. With all these examples. With all of these examples, here's one of the problems. You could follow, everyone in this room, I could follow you around and wait for you to make any of these mistakes. Just so I could have a robust admonition ministry. But that would mean I haven't read James. Take a look at James chapter four verse eleven. Do not speak evil of one another, brethren. And we talked about that and what slander is, that we must be charitable and humble with one another in our speech. And then if we turn to chapter 3, verse 13. It shows what it really should look like to have an admonition ministry. It's not following people around. Who is wise and understanding among you? Who truly has an admonition ministry that is from heaven? Let him show by good conduct that his works are done in the meekness of wisdom. But if you have bitter envy and self seeking in your hearts, do not boast and lie against the truth. This wisdom does not descend from above, but is earthly, sensual, demonic. For where envy and self-seeking exist, confusion and every evil thing that are there. But the wisdom that is from above is first pure. than peaceable, gentle, willing to yield, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality and without hypocrisy. Now the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. That's what the admonition ministry looks like. From heaven. It doesn't look like following a person around like that. What you have before you is an example of issues that are important and guidelines on how to communicate those issues all through the letter of James. And I would just ask that you'd read and reread. With that in mind. In verse 20, now, as we come to our final point, James is going to end with two motivations because he knows that there are things against you, working against you in your mind and your soul. to keep you from entering into a restoration and reclaiming ministry. And here they are. These are the motivations given The one who brings back a sinner from wandering is motivated by two benefits for the sinner. Let him know that he who turns a sinner from the error of his ways, one will save a soul from death, and two, cover a multitude of sins. The first is that you save the person's soul from death It goes without saying, but I'll say it anyway, you don't save any soul from death. This is a manner of speaking It is God who saves the soul from death. But I don't want to erase the strength of the language. The language shows the privilege of our participation that we have to take our work seriously. God works through his appointed means of which you are. There is some question as to what James means by death. Could it mean physical death that you would save someone from physical? I think actually it could mean that. Consider this scenario. Some sins do lead to physical death, and if you were to call them back from them, then they would not die So for example, a Christian may backslide into drunkenness and die behind the wheel of their car or their motorcycle. If you called a Christian back from immoderate drinking, that could save them from that death. That could be what he means. I don't think that's exactly what he has in mind, however I believe that James is using death as he used the word in chapter 1, verse 15. Take a look there. Then, when desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin, and sin, when it is full-grown, brings forth death. See, this is the ultimate end of wandering. And so to stay true to the context as much as I can, this is the kind of death that he's talking about. James is speaking about a death here that is developed extensively in the Old Testament. And since you're all experts in the book of Proverbs, you're well aware of this kind of death. It means to work outside of God's boundaries He drew a circle. Happiness is inside the circle. To go outside of it is death and chaos. That's his point here. It is a picture, death. of a lifeless place that is outside the presence of God known as Sheol or the Grave. And if you've been going to Sunday school, that has a rich meaning to you. The point is that when a person wanders outside the boundaries that God has placed around every life endeavor, then that person has moved into death. And James in 115 shows you the process by which that would happen. James describes this death domain, furthermore, in chapter 3, verse 15. He says, this is what's in this domain. Earthly, sensual, demonic, self-seeking, confusion, and everything evil thing are there. I think he's talking about that same thing Thus, the point is that in participating with God in the reclamation of a backsliding Christian, you have delivered them from the lifestyle of the grave. That's the point. And that's the first motivation. I can't think of a more lovely motivation, quite honestly, and I I have no need at this point to move So we're going to look at a second motivation also. That's just such a good motivation to do that for people. Who wouldn't want to do that? The second is that you will cover a multitude of sins. Again, you do not have the power to cover over people's sins. He's speaking of you as a means again, as a participant in the process. God uses you to bring a person back to have their sins covered Covering over sins, if we were to turn to Proverbs, is most often in the context of overlooking the faults of other people. It's not what's going on here. There is a sense of overlooking offenses throughout the scriptures Having thick skin and being charitable in your heart is a social virtue of God amongst God's people, not being thin-skinned and high maintenance. That's not a social virtue. That's not the sense here, though. I want you to take a look at Psalm 32 to see how the sense is real explicit in this psalm. In Psalm thirty-two, verses one through five. Here's another way in God's word that the covering of sin is talked about. Now I'd encourage you to study this on your own time. This is rich. Begin in verse 1 Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Now listen to this. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord does not impute iniquity. and in whose spirit there is no deceit. Now listen to this. Listen to this process that this person goes through for their sins to be covered When I kept silent, my bones grew old, through my groaning all the day long, for day and night your hand was heavy upon me, my vitality was turned into the drought of summer And you can always put in a however or eventually. I acknowledged my sin to you, and my iniquity I have not hidden. I said, I will confess my transgression to the Lord. Lord, and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. You see the process there of a person who initially was hardened and wouldn't bring his sin before the Lord. But then over time the Lord chastisement pushing heavy even to into his his or her bones. We all have that experience if we walk with the Lord. And so therefore I believe when James refers to covering over of sins that he has the same Process that he mentioned in chapter 4, verse 7. Therefore, submit to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. Lament and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be Turn to mourning and your joy to gloom, humble yourself, humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and He will lift you up. And thus the second benefit is that through your rescue work Your ministry of reclamation and admonition, God will bring a person to humble themselves, confess their sins, and God will forgive their sins and restore them. them. Another beautiful thing that you're able to participate in. Those are the two motivations. Those are overwhelmingly good, are they not? What other motivation do we need to take rescue seriously besides these two? God will use us to deliver lives from chaos and pain, what is more worthy of our time, and to restore them to loving fellowship with life himself. This is the command considered. In chapter five, verse 19. Be assured and know. And the example observed is all throughout the letter of James of what it means to be in a reclamation ministry, as James himself was. To you now to keep it going and to have understanding and wisdom in this kind of ministry. And he gave us two motivations when all we really needed was the one. He gave us these two motivations to be able to save a soul from death and to cover a multitude of sins I want to end by reading to you a quote from Dietrich Bahnhofer. This is from a book that he wrote called Life Together. And it speaks of the ministry of reproof or admonition or reclamation. Reproof is unavoidable. God's word demands it when a brother or sister falls into open sin. The practice of discipline in the congregation begins in the smallest circles, where defection from God's word and doctrine or life imperils the family fellowship and with it the whole congregation. The word of admonition and rebuke must be ventured. Nothing can be more cruel than the tenderness that consigns another person to their sin Nothing can be more compassionate than the severe rebuke that calls a brother or sister back from the path of sin. It is, in fact, a ministry of mercy. An ultimate offer of genuine fellowship, when we allow nothing but God's Word to stand between us, judging and succoring Then it is not we who are judging. God alone judges. And God's judgment is always helpful, and it is always healing. Christians, therefore, must take seriously their role in reclaiming fellow Christians. Let's pray. Father, this is easier said than done. We have heard that it was said, and we could fill in that Blank with so many different ways in terms of admonition. So many different things go through our minds and paralyze us when the moment comes for the admonition to take But we pray that we would humble ourselves before you, that perhaps we ourselves, being outside of the circle in regards to admonition Would confess our sin to you, and that you would exalt us and give us wisdom that we could walk in the way of heaven and no longer of earth We do pray, Father, that heaven would come to earth, though, in us as we participate with you. We pray that these motivations would work in our souls, that we would truly engage these ministries. And we pray that you would teach us all the other scriptures that deal with this, and how to do this in humility, and how to do so with wise speech, and a fit word at the right Pray that you'd give us all these things that we could truly edify one another and that you would be glorified as people are able to see the beauty of your community through edify. Admonitia. We ask these things in your name. Amen