The former account I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began both to do and to teach until the day in which he was taken up. After he, through the Holy Spirit, had given commandments to the apostles whom he had chosen, to whom he also presented himself alive after his suffering by many infallible proofs being seen by them during forty days and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God. And being assembled together with them, he commanded them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the f promise of the Father, which he said, You have heard from me, for John the b truly baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit, not many days from now. Therefore, when they had come together, they asked him, saying, Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? And he said to them, It is not for you to know the times or seasons which the Father has put in his own authority But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be witnesses to me in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria unto the ends of the earth And now when he had spoken these things, while they watched, he was taken up, and a cloud received him out of their sight. And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel, who also said Men of Galilee, why do you stand gazing into heaven? The same Jesus who was taken up from you into heaven will come in like manner as you saw him go into heaven. May the Lord add his blessings to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Luke of all the biblical writers was the one most concerned with giving a precise account, even sequential account. of Jesus' life. In these verses, and as he is mentioning here, the former account that he talks about is of course the Gospel of Luke. But notice how he says there, and he kind of sums it up, that in the closing chapter of Jesus' earthly life, during his mortal life, Luke says that he gave commandments to his apostles. And then after his death, Luke very carefully notes, he presented himself alive by many infallible proofs. He appeared to them for 40 days, speaking to them of the kingdom of God. Now Luke was very careful about this. He's a very careful writer. He actually says that about himself. That's how he identifies himself. And so you can bet that Luke checked out these stories pretty carefully. He talked to Peter, I'm sure, and he talked to John perhaps. He verified his sources, he compared notes, and this was his conclusion. In fact, he says, it is a fact. Jesus Christ did not stay dead. He arose from the tomb. Luke says we know this because of the many infallible proofs that have been given that he was alive. Now perhaps Perhaps these proofs that Luke is speaking of here is coming directly from the apostles themselves speaking to him. Perhaps he talked to Peter. Or perhaps he talked to Thomas. Thomas, who had made such a bold statement about what that he wouldn't believe that Jesus was alive until such and such happened, it was Thomas that Jesus appeared to and says, okay, Thomas. Take a look at my hand. See these holes here in my hand? Put your fingers there. Or you see this hole in my side? Go ahead. Stick your hand in there. Look, Thomas, look and believe. Now that's proof And perhaps it was that Luke actually was able to talk with tongues, because he says that Jesus appeared with infallible proofs of his resurrection. But then Jesus himself, in his resurrected state, brings even more amazing things for the apostles to report. He gathers them together, he brings them to this special place up on a hill, I think, and there to their absolute amazement, he let them watch as he ascends into heaven. Now what a sight that must have been. How would you like to have been there? How gracious it was for our Lord to extend this grace to these men who had seen him beaten and bloody and broken and hanging on a cross now seeing him in his glory, in his perfection, in his absolute joyful state, rising up into heaven. For it to settle in. Jesus is alive. And even now he is ruling and reigning in glory, his work on earth complete. But then perhaps the apostles and perhaps Luke himself stepped back and said, no, wait a minute. Jesus is gone. He's vanished from sight. People can't see him anymore. What are we supposed to do with that? What's going on here? Why? Why don't he just remain here? Think how much easier it would be to get people to believe in him if we could just introduce them. Okay, this is Jesus. He used to be uh here and he got crucified on the cross and he's alive. Believe. Being a Christian would be so much easier if we could just point to Jesus and say, look, there he is. If we had this irrefutable proof at our disposal. Why did he do that? Perhaps Luke wondered about that. But I think there's an outline of the reason in these verses here before us today. The answer comes when we realize that Easter is not only about the resurrection of our Lord Christ. It is also about the dawning of a new age. The age of the Holy Spirit. Jesus has departed from us in bodily form. But even though he is absent in body, he emphatically has not left us alone. He has left us with his spirit. And brothers and sisters, that should be every much a cause of joy for us here today, as Jesus' resurrection from the dead itself. This is the most glorious of Sabbath days. Every Sabbath day is an Easter. But with today especially, we rejoice because the sting of death has been removed. Life has risen victorious from the dead. Jesus Christ has proved beyond a shadow of a doubt that the great struggle that is going on between life and death and between light and darkness and between joy and grief Is such that life wins. Joy wins. Brothers and sisters, those are certainties. Those are unchangeable realities. Jesus has risen. And so our joy should be overflowing, if nothing else, for that. But what Jesus did in leaving behind and leaving us with the Holy Spirit adds another dimension to that. Because, in many ways, Easter is the Holy Spirit's day also. The Spirit was very present in ancient times. It always grieves me to to hear people say, well, you know, those Old Testament people, they didn't have the Holy Spirit. Well, sure they did. The Holy Spirit was present in his people. He was present in ancient days, but now it is his turn to shine, if you will. He was the one who worked salvation. He is the one who works salvation in every age. He takes the work of Christ and he applies it to the hearts of those whom Christ came to save. And in that very individual and subjective sense, he is the same in every age. He is the same whether he is doing that with Abraham or David, or whether it's Saul of Tarsus. It's one spirit, one salvation, one sanctification. But now He has been given to his church in a new and I hope exciting way. Jesus tells these apostles, you will receive power from the Holy Spirit. After you are been baptized with him in Jerusalem. Jesus is looking forward here to Pentecost. When tongues of fire will come down and envelop these very apostles. And Jesus is here pointing the disciples' eyes toward a new day that is just dawning. where the Holy Spirit will be working not only subjectively, but for all practical purposes Not for and for all practical purposes, not just confining his work to the nation of the the people of Israel, but now he is going to be working objectively through his visible church, taking the gospel of Jesus Christ and starting in Jerusalem and then going out to Judea and then to Samaria. And he says there in that grand summation. You will be my witnesses even to the end of the earth. And there's where we see the Holy Spirit shining. In the Old Testament people of God, the nation of Israel, the Holy Spirit was confined to a relatively few people. The time was not yet ripe for the harvest of the nations. If you wish, without being irreverent at all, think of the Holy Spirit as being cooped up, restrained by the providence of God. But now with the work of God's Son finished, it's time for him to be unleashed. And that is good news. It is great news. It is news worth shouting about. Hallelujah. Christ is risen and the Holy Spirit has been poured out on mankind. How's that going to work? How is it working? If this is the age of the Holy Spirit, how how do we see that? How will the Holy Spirit reach the ends of the earth? With Jesus firmly seated on his throne, having all authority and power in heaven and earth given into his hands, how is the Holy Spirit going to accomplish his will throughout the remaining years of history before he returns again. This passage teaches us That the Holy Spirit will do his work, his great work on earth, and will demonstrate his power in the lives of men through the visible church of Jesus Christ. In this new age, this age that dawned on that first Easter morning, the Holy Spirit will be poured out in Christ Church and on Christ Church The Holy Spirit will give his church at Pentecost the power to speak the gospel in every language of the world. At first, that first Pentecost, it was a miraculous event. At Pentecost, the Holy Spirit did indeed baptize these apostles with tongues of fire. But as a result of that, they were able to proclaim the good news in what was for them foreign tongues. They proclaimed it in Greek and Latin and Cappadocian and whatever language it was that the people of Crete used. But that was just to get the ball going, just to start it rolling. For the big picture of that event. We have to see that the power of the Holy Spirit was not going to be confined to Hebrew and Greek. It was not going to be confined just to the people who spoke Hebrew and Greek. The Holy Spirit was now going to be unleashed through the languages of all of the tribes of the world. His ministry was then and is now and shall be until the Lord's return a message for the whole earth. And against all odds, against every scientific prediction, that is the message of the entire book of Acts that begins with this passage. The book of Acts begins on a mountain with men looking up to heaven and hearing the words of an angel after having heard these words from Jesus. The book of Acts ends in Rome, the capital of the earth, with another apostle, Paul, who was not present there that day. telling all of those who can't come to visit him in the place where he is being held. Acts 28-28 Let it be known to you that the salvation of God has been sent out to the Gentiles, has been sent out to all of the world, and they will hear. Do you hear that word of triumph in Paul's voice? Do you hear the word of victory that's there? Coming from a man who in all probability was shackled to a Roman guard, who himself is a key figure in the purposes of the Holy Spirit, In taking this gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ unto the ends of the earth. Against every statistical probability that you could possibly consider, the Holy Spirit had taken eleven men staring up at heaven, and added others to them, he had guided the steps of Saul of Tarsus to a point on a road to Damascus. Whereas Saul was brought face to face with Jesus Christ in his risen glory, and the Holy Spirit had then opened Saul's eyes to the person of Jesus, whom he had been persecuting. And like millions of sinners coming throughout the rest of the ages, Saul suddenly saw that the stories were true. Christ is alive. Death has been conquered once and for all. And that is the Holy Spirit's great work. To take the things of Christ and to apply them to the heart of sinners, to change them from what they were into something they are to be. And in this age of the Holy Spirit, that is exactly what is happening now. And it's going on throughout the whole earth. We the the news is full of bad stuff right now. And if all we did was see the news, we of all the people of the earth would be the most miserable. Well, brothers and sisters, there's something going on underneath that news that's not making the headlines, but it's nevertheless true. They are persecuting Christians in Iraq. The glory is there are Christians in Iraq. The church in China is underground. But there's a church in China. Japan, where the whole idea of Christianity is almost impossible to communicate to the Japanese, has a fledgling church. That is growing. Paul, a guy that even used a great natural catastrophe to advance his gospel in that country. There are only a few languages left in the world that have not been translated into which the Bible has not been translated. Brothers and sisters, there is a sweeping work of the Holy Spirit going on across this earth, and we are part of that. The story of the book of Acts continues right now to this day, and it teaches us that the time of harvest is now. That now is the time for the reaping of souls, and that is the Holy Spirit's great work. And brothers and sisters, that is the great work that every person who possesses the Holy Spirit must embrace. If a person is united to Christ, if a person has been open to their, have their eyes open to the cross, as we talked about on Good Friday, If a person truly understands what the supper that we celebrated on Monday, Thursday means That person now stands with the apostles before the throne of God, washed of every stain and prepared for eternity for the Lord. That's what the Spirit has done in you. If that is the case, then you have the Holy Spirit, brothers and sisters. You have him because you believe. You wouldn't believe without him. Those things, that belief, that faith is the evidence of his presence in you And brothers and sisters, if the Holy Spirit is in you, there is his power in you. So we need to recognize here today that the cross was only a beginning. Christ rose on Easter, and just as we were united to him in his death, so we are united to him in his resurrection. We have been given new life, a new life that is baptized by the Holy Spirit, just as Jesus told these apostles. That means that the Holy Spirit has great work to do in us. Great work for us to do. We have been baptized into his work, the work of being a witness to the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. That is the great purpose of our age. It is for the visible church to carry the message of Jesus Christ to the ends of the earth. We have been saved to that purpose. That is the work that the Holy Spirit was sent to save you to do. That is his intention for your life. That's what he's all about. If the Holy Spirit is in you, he is the one who is to bear witness to the Lord Jesus Christ. If he's in you, he cannot remain silent. His mouth will be your mouth. The words that you speak will be the words he gives you to speak. That he brings to your mind. Open your hearts, open your minds to this reality because it is just as certain as the Lord's resurrection. You are as saved as you will ever be. Nothing you're going to do from here on out is going to make you more saved. Your eternal reward is secure. That's what Christ did. His work is over, but you remain. And you remain with a life to live and a great work to do. Here we see the difference between the Old Testament people of God and we. And us, rather. Abraham didn't go about preaching Christ. Abraham didn't do that. Abraham was not a preacher. The Holy Spirit united him to Christ, just as he unites us to us. But Abraham's job in his mission was to begin a people to be the father of a great nation, a nation through whom Christ would come. Now that job is done. It's over. The people through whom Christ came are just one more people among many. But the new covenant people, that's who we are. We are the people of whom John says are not born of man. in our essential nature. But rather, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. We have been born of God through the Holy Spirit. And therefore, for those born of God through the Holy Spirit, it is a time of harvest. If you came here today, brothers and sisters, truly Not just because it's another religious thing to do. It's Easter, let's go to church. If you came here today truly to celebrate the resurrection of Christ, as I pray that you did. And the Holy Spirit brought you here today because if you confess with him with your mouth and you believe in your heart that God has raised Jesus from the dead, then you are to know for certain that you will be saved. You have been saved for an eternity of joy with him. If that's why you came here today, then know just as certainly, just as truly that when you leave here today, You go forth unto the ministry of the Holy Spirit. That is to be the determining feature for the rest of your life You leave here today with the power of the Holy Spirit resident in you, and just as Jesus promised these apostles, you will have his power working in you. And through that power, you are to become witnesses to Jesus Christ, to the entire world. From your Jerusalem, your immediate family. To your Judea, your extended family, to your Samaria, the circle of your acquaintances. to the ends of the earth in your life, the intersection of your life with all of those whom you encounter through the providential leading of the same Holy Spirit who marks, makes you guide your steps to whatever encounters you're going to be involved in. This power has been given you in such a way that you cannot fail to bring fruit. Your life and your witness will be successful because that's what the Holy Spirit will ensure. Some will hear your words and some will see your life and the seeds of the gospel that you spread will be planted in deep soil. The Holy Spirit will till that soul and in time or perhaps even immediately that seed will sprout and the Easter story will take root in someone else. Others will hear your words and perhaps observe your life. And the darkness that is in their heart will continue to consume them. And they will demonstrate in their reaction to your witness and to you personally that they are enemies of Christ. But brothers and sisters, that is fruit also, because it strips away from them any pretense of being otherwise. The Word of God is a two-edged sword slicing through the illusions that people have about themselves and exposing what is truly underneath. That is what must be done. So every man and woman who is here today and hearing the message, know that you have the obligation to be a witness. so that people may know where they stand with respect to this risen Lord you believe in. That is the Holy Spirit's work. And that is the work that He is to do through you. I tell you, as this Bible proclaims, no Christian will enter the gates of heaven without fruit. The crown that we will wear is the crown of the witness we bore. Some will bear fruit in their twenties, some will bear fruit in their sixties, some will bear fruit a hundredfold. But there is no such thing as a fruitless Christian life. The Holy Spirit dwelling in every person cannot be denied, and fruit will be forthcoming. I hope that what you see then that this is no heavy burden. This is no heavy yoke. It is the yoke of Jesus Christ, and it is easy. We love him. So we show forth our love for him in word and deed. It is the yoke of joy, but it is a yoke that we all must bear For you pray with this