Chapter twenty-four of Luke. Now on the first day of the week, very very early in the morning, they and certain other women with them came to the tomb bringing But they found the stone rolled away from the tomb. Then they went in and did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. And it happened, as they were greatly perplexed about this, that, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments. Then, as they were afraid and bowed their faces to the earth, they said to him, Why do you seek the living among the dead? He is not here, but is risen. Remember how he spoke to you when he was in Galilee? The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, be crucified, and the third day rise again And they remembered his words. Then they returned from the tomb and told all these things to the eleven and to all the rest. It was Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary, the mother of James, and the other women with them, who told these things to the apostles. And their words seemed to them like idle tales. They did not believe them. But Peter arose and ran to the tomb, and stooping down, he saw the linen clothes lying by themselves, and he departed, marvelling to himself at what had happened. Now behold, two of them were traveling that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was seven miles from Jerusalem. And they talked together of all these things which had happened. So it was, while they conversed and reasoned, that Jesus himself drew near and went with him. But their eyes were restrained, so that they did not know him And he said to them, What kind of conversation is this that you have with one another as you walk and are sad? Then the one whose name with Cleopas Answered and said to him, Are you the only stranger in Jerusalem? And have you not known the things which happened there in these days? And he said to them, What things? So they said to him the things concerning Jesus of Nazareth, who was a prophet, mighty indeed and word, before God and all the people, and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death and crucified him But we were hoping that it was he who was going to redeem Israel. Indeed, besides all this, today is the third day since these things happened. Yes, and certain women of our company, who arrived at the tomb early, astonished us When they did not find his body, they came saying that he he that they had also seen a vision of angels who said he was alive. And certain of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it, just as the women had said, but they did not see him. Then he said to them, O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken, ought not the Christ to have suffered these things and enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself Then they drew near to the village where they were going, and he indicated that he would have gone farther, but they constrained him, saying, Abide with us, for it is toward eating, and the day is far spent. And he went in to stay with them Now it came to pass, as he sat at the table with them, that he took bread, blessed, and broke it, and gave it to them. Then their eyes were opened, and they knew him And he vanished from their sight. And they said to one another, Did not our heart burn within us while we talked while he talked with us on the road, and while he opened the scriptures to us So they rose up that very hour and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven and those who were with them gathered together, saying, The Lord has risen indeed, and has appeared to Simon And they told about the things that had happened on the road, and how he was known to them in the breaking of bread. Now, as they said these things, Jesus himself stood in their midst and said to them, Peace to you. But they were terrified and frightened, and supposed they had seen a spirit. And he said to them, Why are you troubled? And why do doubts arise in your hearts? Behold my hands, my feet, that it is I myself, handle me and see. First Spirit does not have flesh and bones, as you see I have When he had said this he showed them his hands and his feet. But while they still did not believe for joy and marvelled, he said to them, Have you any food here? So they gave him a piece of broiled fish and some honeycomb, and he took and ate it in their presence. Then he said to them, These are the words which I spoke to you while I was with you, that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms concerning me And he opened their understanding that they might comprehend the scriptures. Then he said to them, Thus it is written, and thus it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name to all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. And you are witnesses of these things Behold, I send the promise of my father upon you, but tarry in the city of Jerusalem until you are endued with power from on high. Amen. Please pray with me Oh God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we ask that you would glorify your Son here today. and that you would motivate his body. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Jeremy, are you able to hear me all the way there in the back? Okay, very good. Great. If you can't, just raise your hand and I'll put my Charles Spurgeon voice on. Boy, have we been a lot through a lot since last Sunday. If you have been here with us, you've gone through our Monday-Thursday service, our Good Friday service, and here we are arriving in the daylight On the Lord's Day to celebrate the resurrection of Jesus Christ. What we did over those services, even starting in Palm Sunday, was to stand amidst the crowd. That's the way Luke wants us to position ourselves. The last time we stood together, we stood at a distance to see Christ crucified, and we asked the question: what do you make of him? When you see him on the cross, what does it all mean? And we saw that in him we see the very decrees and plan of the Holy Trinity. To restore our world to order, to raise it to life. A place wherein God and man are at peace A place wherein humans with other humans are at peace, a place where humanity is even at peace with their environment. Though Satan, though Christ underwent great satanic trials, he endured the cross in obedience To his father, bringing cosmic harmony between creature and creator. And this morning we begin to see the results of that. We begin to see that that is true. He is not dead. He is not left in the grave. He is raised and is ascended to the right hand of the Father. Now what I'd like to do this morning is just notice a few things with you, and then I have a couple useful things to say at the end. First thing I want you to notice as we have our scriptures out is that Luke ends where he began. Did you notice that? In the beginning of Luke, where we were we studied that during the Advent time. and Christmas. It began with angels, and here we are at the end with angels again. In the birth stories of Jesus, we witnessed angels revealing divine truth to folks like Zacharias, Elizabeth, Mary, and Joseph. And we were supposed to pay attention to how they responded so that we could learn lessons about what it meant to be a good and faithful disciple. He does the same thing here in chapter 24. Very early in the morning, certain women went to the tomb with burial spices. When they arrived, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus, but there were two angels present who explained, He is not here, He is risen. Don't you remember him saying that he must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified and then to be raised again on the third day? They reminded them of his teaching. Now the women remembered those words. They remembered Jesus teaching that. And so believing the account of the angels, just as we saw women doing earlier in Luke In the first few chapters, they run off to tell the rest of the disciples as to what is going on. The apostles, however Chapter 24, verse 9, do not believe the women. They say it sounds like idle tales or fairy tales, something devised. And there we begin to see that just where Luke started, so too is he ending with different responses to the message of angels. The other thing I want you to notice is that from this point forward, Luke places most of the emphasis on Jesus onboarding his disciples and the apostles with the truth of what those women said. The road to Emmaus, for example, is an account of Christ helping disciples to understand all the scriptures concerning himself. I hope you notice that repetition. You hear it over and over, the to comprehend all of the scriptures. That's a major emphasis that we should detail. Later, Jesus found the eleven apostles and confronted their doubts with the evidence of his hands and his feet. And after they made Jesus broiled fish, I love that. Rockfish, I assume. Jesus taught the same lessons from the road to Emmaus, unlocking the meaning of the Torah, the prophets, and the Psalms concerning him as the Christ. Now, let me ask you, why would there be such an emphasis? We see the women coming and detailing that he has been raised from the dead. When people find out that Jesus is raised from the dead, Jesus could have spoken about so many different things And I'm sure that he did. But Luke places an emphasis on recording that he taught them the scriptures. Over and over again, that they would understand from the Torah, from the prophets, and from the Psalms, that is to say, all of the Old Testament, that they were teaching what they were teaching concerning him. Why would he do that? You can see why Luke is emphasizing Jesus' teaching in our third observation. Starting in chapter 24, verse 46, Jesus reveals, this is why I read for so long. Jesus reveals that his disciples have a mission That he is in fact giving them a mission. Now this makes sense too that Luke has a second book that you could start to read also called The Acts of the Apostles. So we're we're moving immediately almost into Acts here Seeing the emphasis on mission. They must wait for the promised Holy Spirit, as you heard me read, and then they are to preach to all nations, beginning in Jerusalem, all that they have witnessed about the wonderful works of God. Jesus alluded to this earlier in Luke 22, 28 through 30. He said, I bestow upon you a kingdom, just as my Father bestowed one upon me. Now, in terms of Good Friday, we could put it this way: just as the Father sent the Son to accomplish the determined plan of salvation, So too, the Son, by the power of the Spirit, sends us his church to accomplish the determined plan to redeem all nations. And there it is. That's why there's so much focus on the comprehension of the scriptures that they might be competent witnesses, beginning in Jerusalem, going out into Judea, and then the rest of the world. We could gather all of this up in a nice neat little bundle of doctrine this morning and say the following. In accordance with the scriptures, Jesus is raised to all authority, sending his church just as his father sent him. In accordance with the scriptures, Jesus is raised to all authority, sending his church as his father sent him. Now, this morning, I'd like to be useful to you so that you can have a good day today. And I've tried to do so through two main points. One is called the resurrection. And the other point I'd like to bring out is the mission. The resurrection and the mission. What are we supposed to make of the resurrection? Here we are gathered with all of these readings around the resurrection. There's this buzz of resurrection today. I don't normally have traffic on the way to church on Sunday morning, but there it was this morning. Traffic from Saverna Park to here, what are we supposed to make of the resurrection? Now that question itself holds several questions Perhaps the most fundamental is whether or not God really did raise Jesus from the dead. We would call that a question of fact. In fact, was Jesus raised from the dead? Was there in fact the resurrection? Now, I want you to do me a favor and answer that from what you have heard from the passage this morning. What are the ways in which the passage would start to answer that kind of question? But I want you to go one more step and I want you to ask what information was given to persuade the original readers to which Luke addresses this account, what information is given to persuade them and us of the fact of the resurrection? Well, there's multiple persuasive features that are present, but the primary feature is one of witness. Go ahead, and I want you to enumerate with me. All of the witnesses that we see within Luke's account. Try to think of them right now. Who are all of the witnesses that would tell you, yes, Jesus was raised from the dead? Now, something interesting happens when you begin to look for those kinds of answers within the Luke passages that we read this morning. You could start to answer, for example, the angels are witnesses of the resurrection of Christ, and they wit witness to the women. And then when you start to enumerate that, it becomes interesting because Luke has listed out the particular names of most of these people. Now, isn't that interesting? Usually within these gospel accounts, if you don't know, they usually say a certain man or a certain woman or such and such or so and so. But here within these accounts There are pains taken to list who these people are that they would know. So if you were to start enumerating the witnesses again with more attention, it would be Chapter 24, verse 10. Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary the mother of James, and it mentions some other women who were with them. But if you were to go to Mary Magdalene, Joanna, or Mary, Mother of James, and say, who were the other women with with you, then they would say, well, it was Dorothy and this and it was these folks here. You know, the women we always hang out with, the lunch punch Now jump to the road to Emmaus. It names one of the names, Cleopas, witnessed Jesus himself raised from the dead. Verse 18 And they had conversation and a meal, and there's another person with him. And you could say to Cleopas, who was with you? And he would tell you the person's name. And they live at seven, you know, Bacon Ridge Road, or whatever it is. Those two brought the news to the remaining 11 apostles, and those names are not listed in our text because you should know the names of the eleven apostles just as they would have remembered them. It would have been Peter and James and Johns and Andrew and Philip and Thomas and Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alpheus, and Simon the zealot, and Judas the son of James. And the roster is starting to get pretty long of those who have witnessed. And then Jesus Himself appears to those eleven, so they're not just taking someone's word. for it and they eat fish with him. It's like an ultimate proof that you've been raised from the dead. I'm sure someone here could put together a logical syllogism saying that you cannot be dead and truly eat fish. You must be raised from the dead. Now, we could bounce outside of our passage to 1 Corinthians 15, and we would hear Paul, who says that Jesus even appeared to him. And he is a witness to his resurrection. And then Paul in that same passage will say, and he appeared to 500 other people. Now, why do you think? Forget the 1 Corinthians 15 if you want. Let's stay within Luke. Why do you think the witnesses in Luke are listed by name? The reason is that this is not some philosophical or mythological writing. These are not fairy tales, as the apostles first thought When Luke wrote those words, you could literally travel and find those same people and you could ask them Was Jesus raised from the dead? And they would look at you in the eye and they would say, yes. I cannot think of a more powerful argument to establish the fact that Jesus is raised from the dead. Is that there were all of these people that you could visit. You could take them out for a coffee to just ask the single question, did he appear to you? Did you touch his hands and his side? Was he raised from the dead or was he still dead? And they would look at you and they'd say, Jesus Christ was raised from the dead. They would not have to reason about it in their own minds. It would just be an acknowledgement of something they saw with their eyes. They would even say, yeah, I mean, yeah, we ate fish together. Now, I want to go beyond just the fact of the resurrection. But I hope that that sinks in with you. That there are that many witnesses to this fact. But let's go beyond the fact of the resurrection and ask: what is the significance of the resurrection? Why do we make such a big deal about this? And this is answered in our passage also. Jesus Himself keeps pointing us back to the Torah. to the prophets and to the Psalms for the answer. All of that sacred scripture that we call the Old Testament holds all of the information that we would need to be able to understand the significance of this resurrection. Now during his trial, Luke kept Dropping and evoking different passages from each of these places, from Moses and the prophets and the Psalms, so that we could understand the significance. In some ways. In Luke's gospel, for example, I mentioned on Friday that Jesus quotes a line from Psalm 31, and I encouraged you to read that Psalm, that it would be a blessing to you. I hope you did. And this shows us, if you were to review Psalm 31, this shows us something quite significant. It shows us that the resurrection of Jesus Christ is a statement that is being made by God the Father. It is a statement that God the Father is making and he's saying, My son is vindicated by me and he is the righteous one. Death shall not hold him My son is the one who is innocent. You are the ones who are guilty, and now that he has offered the body that I gave him even before time began. Now that you are consecrated unto me, I shall raise him to justify him. Pilate and the Jews, they killed a righteous man. And God wanted to make clear to them exactly what the centurion said. This was a righteous man. Do you remember him saying that when Christ was on the cross? Surely this was a righteous man. Well God wanted to make sure that we all understood, God the Father, that Christ is in fact righteous And so he rebukes their judgment of execution, and he reverses their execution, freeing Jesus from their pit Though they had set the trap, and God the Father and Christ had planned for it to go off on him, he is rescued from the trap. Now, if you were to go on to continue to try to understand the resurrection as to from the total Old Testament, you would see Peter himself will reason from Psalm 16. in the early chapters of Acts. He will reason from Psalm 68 from the early chapters of Acts. He will reason from Psalm 110 from the early chapters Savaks That the resurrection of Jesus is God the Father establishing Jesus as the Christ. Now what does that mean It means that God the Father has given the Son all authority to grant forgiveness of sins and to renew this entire created order. Now, those are some of the things that show the significance of the resurrection. It shows the significance of the one really who has been raised. And so Peter says this in Acts 2, 36. This is his first sermon. Therefore, let all the house of Israel know assuredly. That God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. Did you notice that he starts with therefore? Many people point out that this is what is called an inductive inductive sermon. He leaves his main point till the end. I always give you my main point in the beginning and the end Because I know that I'm I need help. I try to give you help and we give the main point all the time. But here Peter gives it right at the end Therefore, let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made this Jesus whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. Now, what was there before the therefore? It was all of those Psalms that I quoted to you, Psalms 16 and 68, and 110, talking about his resurrection. And this is Peter's conclusion. That when Jesus is raised from the dead, you must understand this is a declaration. If you understand and comprehend the scriptures, this is a declaration that Jesus has made this Jesus whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. Now We have covered the fact, and we have covered some of the meaning of the resurrection. Now, let me ask you: what is your response to this message? If you have been with us since Palm Sunday, that's almost the major point of every sermon. Because that's what Luke is doing. Luke wants to deliver something to you, and then he watches your face. And he watches your heart, and he wants to see how are you going to respond to the preached word? Because it will be telling, it will say volumes. And sometimes what it says should get you shaking in your boots about who you are. That is the question we've been asking. What is your response to Jesus and his witnesses? We've got a couple new discipleship responses here in our Luke passage. One of my favorites. People ask me sometimes, what's your favorite Bible verse? And I say, I like the whole Bible. But if I had, if you tortured me and made me say one, I would say, did not our heart burn within us when he unfolded the scriptures to us. That's mine. Is that your response? Is that your response as you see Christ and the comprehension of the scriptures of all of the prophets and the Torah and the Psalms? Does your heart burn within you as you hear these things? Are you cut to the heart? That's what will be said in Acts 2. They heard all these same things. They heard Peter's inductive sermon. They heard his therefore, and then they said, We are cut to the heart. What shall we do? Are you cut to the heart this morning? Or is your initial response, here's another response, even among the apostles themselves. This sounds like idle tales. Things that people make up to make money. That was another response in our passage this morning. Is that your response? I want you to be very careful this morning on Easter. Your response places you into one of two communities. You will either be included in the community of the faithful with the other disciples, or you will be like those who rejected the Christian witnesses. and are put in the community of those who will be separated from happiness forever. You must be very careful about how you respond. If your choice is to say this is a bunch of fairy tales If that is your choice, then I grieve over your choice. You make me cry. Because you have rejected the testimony of Moses, you have rejected all of the testimony of all of the prophets. You have rejected the testimony of David the King and all of his Psalms? You have rejected the testimony of Jesus Himself as recorded by the gospel writers And by the apostles? You have rejected the testimony of all the apostles? That includes Paul, and it includes the 500 people that Paul mentioned. And so though I grieve over you, I want you to know that if you stay on that path, your misery is your own doing. And I'm here this morning to let you know there is a different path. You could join the community of all of those witnesses and be a witness yourself. to the fact and the significance of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. I call you to that this morning. Please let me know If you would like me to witness to you about Jesus Christ's presence in my own life Now, I'd also like to talk to you not just about the resurrection this morning, but about our mission. I've already begun it up here. I'm already starting on the mission. But I want to say a little bit to all of us about this mission. This is a great opportunity to remember the model that is given to us as the church who has a mission from Jesus Christ. The Father sends the Son, and the Son sends his people by the power of the Spirit. We have a predetermined plan that we are a part of for the salvation of the world. We get to participate in that And I want to give you two main remarks about this mission that we have as we head out from this time forward from Easter. The first thing I want you to notice is I want you to notice how patient Jesus Christ is with the disciples. Can you believe That those who are meant to be witnesses to the rest of the world of the resurrection of Christ do not believe in the resurrection of Christ when they first hear it? Can you believe that that is in the passage? I mean, it just goes to show how true the Bible is, because if you if you really wanted to show off, would you have put that in there that they did not believe when the women returned? It goes to show you that this is not a legend. And look at how patient Jesus Christ is with the disciples. He does say, man, you are slow to learn these things. He does say that. I think he has more of a sense of a humor than you allow. But he says you, but he is patient with them. None of the eleven believed that Jesus was raised from the dead, and none of them understood the realities. That Jesus had to point them to that they could finally understand the scriptures. They were so twisted up from the teaching they had been under since they were children with the Pharisees. And the Sadducees, but Jesus sets out the clear thread going from Adam and through the rest of the Torah, all the way in the prophets and through the Psalms and the wisdom literature and Ecclesiastes. And he helps them to see. Their minds, he says right there at the end of our passage, that they begin to understand by his illumination. And that, boy, does that give us a moral duty ourselves, since this is a model. As the church, therefore, we must not be short or impatient with those who reject the message of Christ in our own day. Now that's a tough thing for me to say to you because the easier thing to do with all these people out there that are crazy is to just mind your own business. Let them dig their own grave. Stop bothering them. Dismiss them. Keep your circle of friends tight. Remember in COVID when you're supposed to have your bubble? You could have a bubble that didn't include any of those crazy people. But here we see a model that we are not to be short or impatient or dismissive of those who reject the message of Christ in our own day. We are delivering the message instead over and over again to a culture, even when they have no ears to hear, and even when they begin to punish you for the things that you have said to them. Now, how could I say that to you with a straight face? Because this has been the message of Luke very early on in his gospel. He said to you that just as Jesus Christ had a cross to bear, so too will Jesus give you a cross to bear. And guess what that cross is going to be at the least? That cross will be that you have to keep in patience, delivering the message of salvation even to your enemy. When Paul was under arrest and facing those who hated him, he looked even for an opportunity to tell the whole story from the beginning to the end. That they would receive salvation. In fact, one governor said, It sounds to me like you're trying to convince me to become a Christian, Paul. And he said, Oh, that I wish you were a Christian. And that is a model for us. God the Father gave Christ a cross, and Christ gives us a cross too. Now I want to leave you with a picture of this first remark. It's from Luke twenty-three, twenty-six, and there's a special little detail in that passage that is not in the other gospels. It says this Now as they led him away, speaking of Jesus, they laid hold of a certain man, Simon a Cyrenian. who was coming from the country, and on him they laid the cross that he might bear it after Jesus And there is that picture with Christ, with the main cross of the determined will of the Father, that salvation would once again come to the earth, and there he is in the front. But who will follow after but his disciples in the cross that they must bear as they participate in the salvation of the world also? And so see yourself behind your pioneer and the one who paved the path. But see yourself there correctly in this picture that you have a cross. And you must bear it as you witness to the world. Now, that's the first remark I'll make in terms of our mission. And here's the second one. And I'm going to need to make this remark a lot. We must begin persuading others from the Torah. From the prophets, from the wisdom literature, as read and explained by the New Testament apostles in their gospels and their letters. Let me repeat that. O Christian, we must begin persuading others from the Torah From the prophets, the Torah is the first five books of Moses. From the prophets and the wisdom literature, as read and explained by the New Testament apostles in their Gospels and their letters. Let me give you a news flash. And I really want you to talk about this afterward and do a little bit of examination to see if you grasp what I'm getting ready to say to you. Jesus Christ never expected his church to accomplish his mission with only the New Testament. It is a way, if you want to do that, you might as well just go ahead and tie both of your hands behind your back and get into a battle with the devil. You were going to lose by yourself with both hands out front. Do you see what happens when you tie them behind your back, thinking that God has only revealed Himself and the nature of reality And how you are to conduct your lives and the lives of your children from only the New Testament? It shows that Satan has really done a number on us. Jesus Christ never expected the church to accomplish their mission with the New Testament alone. Many of us are either ignorant or have disposed of most of God's wisdom to us. Because our lives and our view of reality is no longer controlled by the Old Testament. If you look in Luke, where are they deriving their understanding and illumination from? The New Testament is not even written. They are learning about Christ from a revelation of the Father and the Son from all of those Old Testament books. Please stop tying your hands behind your back. The battle is difficult enough. You will need both hands to carry the cross. Now let me give you another picture. There is a cathedral in France, and it has a set of windows beneath a rose window on the south side of this cathedral. In those windows, they're called lancets, and they're like long like this. In those windows are depictions of four main prophets. Daniel, Jeremiah, Isaiah, and Ezekiel. Now Those prophets are not alone in those windows. Those are Old Testament prophets. Do you know what else has been put in those stained glass windows? There are men literally sitting on their shoulders. Sitting on their shoulders, Luke is on Jeremiah. Matthew is sitting on the shoulders of Isaiah. John is sitting on the shoulders of Ezekiel, and Mark is sitting on the shoulder of Daniel. And this is part of the picture of how our mission, too, should be conducted. We gather up for our children because they are a part of our mission until we hear a profession of faith, and even then they move into discipleship. Nevertheless, we gather up for our children and this world the total revelation of God from the beginning of time till the close of the canon, and we use it all to the end of gathering and perfecting the disciples of Christ That all whom Christ has called may enter into paradise So I want to make those windows longer than they already are. It will be a great construction project on this cathedral. Do you know who is meant to sit on the shoulders of the apostles who are sitting on the shoulders of the prophets? It is us. We are to bring everything from foot to the crown of our heads to bear, that we might complete the determined mission that God the Father has given the Son, and the Son has given to us. Oh Christian, are you ready for the determined purpose of your life? It is a cross for the salvation of those around you. Oh Christian, do you have your sword ready? It is all the scriptures centered on Christ. Or if we were able to bring your heart out into public, would we find you're responding much differently this morning? And you have no real interest in the Father's will. In accordance with the Scriptures, Jesus is raised to all authority, sending us as his church, just as his Father sent him. Amen. Amen. The Lord is risen