We saw a catalog of fools, if you remember, and sometimes it looks like the fool will end up being in charge forever, but I ensure you that is not the case Because God has installed King Jesus to protect and maintain his created order in justice, and he will act always at just the right time. I want to make a few observations about our passage tonight in 22, 5, and 6, and then I have a brief application before we go into our time of prayer. Here's the first thing I'd like you to notice. As from the beginning of Proverbs, what we have here once again is the main analogy to life in the world as a path or a set of paths That especially those who are coming of age will choose. If you take a look at verse 5, verse 5 is divided into two parts, and it is based on two paths. The path of the wicked and the path of the prudent. The prudent is understood thereafter the comma, but those who would preserve their life stay far from them. Staying making a choice to stay far from something that is dangerous is a prudent act, and so I'm calling this the prudent person that is in contrast to the path of the wicked. The path of the wicked is infested with snares. The specific kind of snare here is the one that would be used to catch birds. You can think of birds being netted. That's the idea here within the Hebrew. And this should not be a surprise, because the wicked often do not consider their path well. And they often therefore tread on roads infested with those kinds of traps and snares, which really translate analogously into moral dangers. Their path is full of those kinds of The trap, of course, throughout Proverbs has so far referred to many different things, but just to remind you of a few has referred to various temptations which take away the good life of the young. I'm sure you can think, especially within the first ten chapters of Proverbs, of some of those traps. Now there's a contrast in 5B, and I mentioned it's the prudent or the shrewd person, and they stand in contrast to the wicked in this singular way. They stay away from those paths. And the result for doing so is that is their own preservation. And you could look at other Proverbs to see that it is the preservation of their family. And the preservation of their property, and the preservation of just everything. Now the second observation is this. Verse six is really well known among us. I wonder how many of you as I was reading it started to recite it from memory. in your own minds and your hearts, how many times you've seen this as a parent, for example. It's well known among us, and so far, uh I've been a part of God's church here since 2008 and before that, much earlier, early two thousands and every time I had heard this verse come up it was a source of confusion and tension and consternation. especially for parents. I want to make a few observations about it, and then we'll get into it a little more seriously in the in the application. A few observations I think are helpful though right away. In verses 6a and B, this this proverbist is building on the previous verse, verse 5. Verse 5 is directed primarily to teenagers and young adults. You could say those who are coming of age, the age of discretion. Verse 6 assumes the truth of verse 5 about the paths and that warning to the children that you must be careful which path you choose and the one who stays away from the unrighteous path. will be preserved. All of that is assumed. And now when we come to verse number six, it is not a direction that is given to the children. It is a direction that is given to the parents. And what is the direction? It's real clear. Start off your children on the right paths, away from the paths, which are all the snares, which we read about in verse 5. Just as the wise person would stay away from those paths, a wise parent would keep their kids away from them. And when they are old, they will not turn from the path. Now, the difficulty with that is that people's experiences contradict the teaching. So we need to look at that more closely. But before we do that, let me just state the doctrine from these various observations. And here it is. The church protects their youth from the deadly way of the wicked by dedicating them at the start of life to the opposite of their natural folly. Let me just say it one more time because that was a mouthful. I usually don't try to go over about 10 words, and this one's longer than that. The church protects their youth from the deadly way of the wicked by dedicating them at the start of life to the opposite. Now what I would like to do to unfold this just for a couple minutes is look at an objection to this verse six, and then I want to work on that objection for a little while and try to untangle it a little bit a little. So let's look at the objection stated and then the objection addressed. So let's uh let's just state the objection as I've experienced it since the early two thousands. The difficulty with verse six is that our experience contradicts It says that if you do this stuff in the early years of your children's life, seeking to raise them in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord, Lord, then when they get older they will not turn away from it. But then we see as time goes on that some children turn away from it, and so then it becomes confusing to parents. And to hold churches. They're not sure exactly what to do with verse 6. Well, there's a couple things that I've seen people do with verse 6 based on their contradiction and their experience. One group usually takes this attack or path, and they see this verse as stating plainly the entire truth. The problem here, the reason why the children die or go off onto a path later in life, and uh and there's a contradiction of experience is because they as parents messed it up. God is always true. He is never a liar. This is exactly what he has said. So I draw the conclusion that I, as the parent, must not have done a good job in raising up my children when they first started in the faith and continuing. And the blame falls on me. That's one way that I've seen people solve this verse. And that is a crushing solution for a parent. Another group I've heard say that even though it looks like their children have turned from the path, All they need to do is just to be patient and to wait for the promise to be fulfilled because it was in fact promised to them. Those are two main ways that I've seen This worked out with verse number six. And although parents sometimes do make poor decisions with their children. I am among them. And though we should always keep hope alive for our children to receive receive the gospel no matter how old they are. There is a third way that we must present and see to understand. verse number six. And we are postured and poised to understand this verse because we've done a lot of scripture study together. The way forward is to acknowledge that like all the scriptures, they must be read as a total collection in order to arrive at the total truth Verse number six, I could put it this way. I think this is a nice quick way to encapsulate what's going on here. Verse 6, in other words, is true. But do not make the mistake of thinking that it is the whole truth. It is true, but it is not the whole truth. And how many times have you been confronted with that wherever you read in the scriptures? You read something that Paul says and it sounds absolute and there's no qualifications, and if you were to take it as the whole truth, you would twist the scriptures. And so you begin to look at the total collection of the scriptures, which we call the canon, and you realize that, yes, what Paul said is true, but it's not the whole truth. I need to take this into consideration. In context with all that God has revealed. If you really want to know the heart of Jesus Christ, you can't just take a single verse. You've got to look at all of the verses and all of the collection. It is true, in other words, that parents influence their children. That's the truth. But it is not the whole truth. Are there not other influences which shape our children? I mean, if you were to just think about the book of Proverbs, how many things have we seen in cause and effect relationships? where this thing can cause or has influence over children. How many other things have you seen besides parents? Think of some of the examples from Proverbs. Don't children sometimes choose a path based on the influence of various seductions. There was an entire chapter in Proverbs letting you know that there is something out there that they called the foolish woman who is seeking to seduce all of our children into her home. Certainly she has influence, just like the parents do, otherwise we wouldn't be warned of her What about in Proverbs where we see children choosing a path based on their own foolishness in their hearts with which they're born? Surely their own foolishness and sinful inclinations and dispositions are an influence over their decisions. It can't surely just be the parents, just based upon the proverbs. The proverb, in other word, that we see here in verse 6, must not be pushed to mean that the educator or the parent is ultimately responsible for the youth's entire moral orientation. You do not have that kind of power. You are not responsible for the youth's entire moral orientation. That is not what is being taught here. There are other proverbs that recognize the youth's freedom to choose sin. Listen to this proverb-like statement. from Ezekiel 1820. The soul who sins shall die. The son shall not bear the guilt of the Father, nor the Father bear the guilt of the Son. The righteousness of the righteous shall be upon himself, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be upon himself. Think of the principles that underlie that. Look at I'll cite it again so you can look at it and we can talk about it over spaghetti, Ezekiel 1820. The person and their decisions are another viable Cause for the path that they go down. It says right here in Ezekiel 18. 20, that the son shall not bear the guilt of the father. And the father shall not bear the guilt of the son. It's more complicated than thinking that parents or fathers or mothers are fully responsible for the moral orientation and choices of their children. Ezekiel 1820. Here's another one. This is from Proverbs itself, Proverbs 5, verses 11 through 14. And you mourn at last. This is speaking to the child who has made poor decisions. Listen to where the responsibility is laid, even from the own child's mouth on the day of judgment. And you mourn at last when your flesh and your body are consumed. And you will say, child, how I have hated instruction. And my heart despised correction. I have not obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor inclined my ear to those who instructed me I was on the verge of total ruin in the midst of the assembly and the congregation. Now who is responsible there for the moral orientation? The responsibility is not laid on the shoulder of the parents, but on the child who refused to listen to the parents. And you can see the point that I'm trying to prove that there is more going on in terms of who influences who than just Just thinking verse 6 says, all the responsibility lies with the father and the mother or the family. Furthermore, let me just point out that the book is addressed to youths and not parents. Think about the logic of that. If the parents were ultimately responsible for a child's moral choice, then what would be the point of even bringing it up to the children? Just focus on the parents, since the whole responsibility and causation lies with them. But that's not what we see. And let us not forget that the main author of the proverbs, Solomon himself stopped listening to instruction and he strayed from knowledge. It's important for us to remember when we see verse 6, especially with the history of how I've heard it, turn people over, make them nauseous. We must remember that Christ is in heaven and he is still bringing great blessing to us here on earth. In one way that he does so, Christ brings even the blessing of his prophetic voice through the word preached even this night. The passage is sometimes read and preached out of line with the intent of Christ, our great prophet, and I'm standing here this evening declaring to you in his stead That is a twisting of what he has meant. The fruit of such misreading and twisting are parents who are wearing too heavy of a yoke when their children go astray And so let us hear the truth in line with the intent and the heart of Jesus Christ. What did Christ intend by giving us verse number six? This proverb promises the educator or the parents that their original and early and moral initiative has an effect on their child. children for good. But that is not the whole truth about religious education. There is much more to say than what the parents have done Without overreading the passage concerning the role of parents in education, let us affirm the doctrine tonight. The church and parents protect their youth from the deadly way of the wicked by dedicating them at the start of life to the opposite of the natural folly. Let's understand that without attaching all of the unnecessary and misleading baggage to that truth. Amen. Let us pray together.