This is a faithful saying. If a man desires the position of a bishop, he desires a good work. A bishop, then, or a presbyter Then must be blameless, the husband of one wife, temperate, sober minded, of good behavior, hospitable, able to teach, not given to wine, not violent, not greedy for money. But gentle, not quarrelsome, not covetous, one who rules his own house well, having his children in submission with all reverence. For if a man does not know how to rule his own house, How will he take care of the Church of God? Not a novice, lest being puffed up with pride, he fall into the same conduct Moreover, he must have a good testimony among those who are outside, lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil. Please pray with me. Father, we pray that you would help us as a congregation as we lead into hearing of your word and really the the actions that will come from that. Will be a dialogue with one who is eligible. We pray that you would lead us to seeing not only tonight, but for the future of Sever and run the men that you call to serve us that we might glorify you and love one another. We ask these things in Your name. Amen. Please be seated. This is a pretty short sermon. The point is really for you to be under the preaching of the word but it for it to lead into QA and to definitely leave time for prayer. It's a lot that we're trying to do. I'd ask that you would have that passage in front of you as well as that you're ready to look through into other places in 1 Timothy also. The common approach that I have seen in interpreting this passage in seeking to understand it Is in the following way. They would make a table that would include all of the different qualifications of the elder And then for each and every qualification, they would look up those qualifications in a dictionary. And they would write out all of those definitions so that they would understand. Exactly what it meant for a person to be qualified for this task. The problem with that, it's not evil and it's not a problem in and of itself. But the problem with approaching this passage that way, or really approaching any passage that way, by flipping open your dictionary or your lexicon, that's another word For a dictionary, basically, is that it does not take into consideration that words in one sense are defined not by a dictionary, but their use in a sentence. You have to figure out what does the word mean here. Oftentimes, and it's becoming more it's becoming worse and worse, what the dictionary says is not what God intends. intended by the word. There's a classic example. It's in many books. But if I were to say to you, I hate pigs, what do I mean? If I were a criminal, I'd be saying, I hate policemen. If I were a woke feminist, I'd be saying, I hate policemen. Men. If I were a disillusioned farmer, I'd mean I hate literal pigs. And how do you tell which meaning is meant? It's by having the context as to whether or not you're dealing with a criminal or a woke feminist or a disillusioned farmer. That one word can have multiple significances. And it's the same thing with each of the words that are present here. The same is happening in this passage from 1 Timothy 3:1 through 7. And so let's just take a glance, again, this is a very short sermon, at the main context in which this list is given. And uh I would encourage you to take a look at First Timothy three, verse fifteen. What we find in f in first Timothy three fifteen Uh now you know th this is very interesting to me, by the way, because we're all just about at the center of the book. And you know how I am with centers, with uh the Pentateuch and Keith And all that kind of stuff. So not going to say anything about that yet or even tonight, but we're just about at the center, and here we have a purpose statement for the whole Letter. It says in 1 Timothy 3. 15, but if I am delayed, and then he tells us why he writes the letter. I mean it's right there. I write so that you may know how you ought to conduct yourself in the house of God. So he's writing to Timothy, an elder, on how he ought to conduct himself in the church. Church of God, and it is my assumption that all elders should be conducting themselves similarly in the Church of God. This purpose statement happens in just about the center of Paul's letter. All the first half leads to it. And all of the second half is determined by it. That's really how I read this letter, and it's how I outline the whole letter. And so this is our context. This is how we would understand all of these different qualifications We must read the qualifications in a way that takes this historical context seriously. The list of qualifications is not an abstract philosophical set of virtues It was something that's that's like an amen, but a grunt, when I read, if you can't take care of your own house, how would you take care of the church of God? And that's the same thing that comes through in 315. That he's writing that you would know how to take care of God's household. And how could you take care of God's household if you can't do so with your own household. That's the main way to look at all of the qualifications. All of those qualifications are necessary if a person were to manage the household well So for example, let me give you a few examples of managing the household well here. Example one, I want you to notice in verse 16. Notice that elders must look after the foundation of the house. The truth or foundation is summarized in verse 16 in a very ancient creed. It says, and without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness. And here's the creed. God was manifested in the flesh, justified in the spirit Seen by angels, preached among the Gentiles, believed on in the world, received up in glory. These are different parts of the story of Christ Of God the Father sending the Christ, and the Christ sending the Spirit. And therefore, an elder must know the gospel truth and not be tossed back and forth with it. He must understand the role of the incarnation, the death and the resurrection of Christ, the ascension, and Christ through the Spirit in the world, and to be able to defend those things. If you take a look, for example, at chapter 4, verse 1, notice what is taking place even amongst this group of people, why you would need someone. To protect the foundation. It says even in verse 1 that demons will seek to lead the church astray. In my Bible, it's titled apostasy. The elder must protect that foundation. So you could see in the list that we read for that first part qualities that would lead not to the crumbling of a foundation. Not to a house becoming destitute, but to a house that would thrive and flourish. All of those are the kinds of things here. This is not an exhaustive list of a person. But these are the kind of things that we would need to be present given the purposes of an elder. But this creed is not just a faith statement, it is a life of faithfulness. That the elder must promote. Take a look at chapter 5. And notice how we start to see different members that are present in the household that are highlighted. Elders must lead the congregation in how to love their neighbor. And we see this in chapter 5, verse 1. Timothy should know himself how to relate to older men, and he should lead the congregation in doing the same. And younger men? And older women? And younger women. I'm not sure there's anyone left after that. Chapter 5, verse 3: The elder should steward, so widows who are really widows would be honored. Another member of the household. And if we kept going, if you started from chapter 1 of 1 Timothy and went all the way to the end and you teased out every example of the member of the household and how the elder contributes to the promotion of godliness We would see that the elder must manage the household of God to be the new creation on earth, which loves God from a heart purified by the Spirit, and loves neighbor from the same. That's the context. And that's why the qualifications that are there are there. Because those are the things that are needed to accomplish that kind of purpose. But we have to take one more step. What I've said so far would apply to any church, and that's why Paul wrote it the way that he wrote it. It's really general. But what does it look like when the rubber meets the road within particular congregations? That's a really important question. In fact, I've given myself over to saying that we could add to the list. Not that we could add to scriptures, but that we could go along with the spirit of the verse to see what are the other kinds of qualifications that might need to show up in a person who's taking on this kind of role. Let me read to you a quote that shows the importance not only of considering something generally, but considering elders to your specific situation. Perhaps you've heard this. This is attributed to Martin Luther, but I um looked it up and some people say it wasn't him and they didn't tell me who it's from, so who knows. If I profess with the loudest voice and the clearest exposition, every portion of the truth of God, except precisely that little point which the world and the devil are at that moment attacking I am not confessing Christ, however boldly I may be professing Christianity. Where the battle rages, the loyalty of the soldier is proved. And to be steady on all the battlefield besides Is mere flight and disgrace to him if he flinches at that one point. Do you see how it's not just enough to talk about a soldier? That's another theme that runs through first battle? Will they be able to stand there? That's the question. That's where the soldier is proved and the loyalty is challenged So the point today, as we go into a question and answer, is not whether Mark meets the qualifications in the list. That's actually not the point. If you're following this sermon, you realize that. By putting him before you as eligible, according to the book of church order, the session is already telling you that he meets by By God's grace, the qualifications. He is eligible. But that's just general. The point today is to find out if Mark should be elected to rule over this specific At this point in the battle, at this moment on the battle line. So let me put it this way. I had a friend put it this way, and it was very helpful to me. He didn't know that I was convinced of this possession position yet, but I I am he put it this way. He says, um uh uh where is the battle raging at Severn Run? These are the kind of questions that we We need to ask. What are our needs as a family? Because every family's different. They have similarities, but every family is different. And what are our needs at Sever and Run? Where is the enemy gaining a foothold here, a foothold here among us? Where are we not neighborly? Is God calling for Mark to be in office to help? Not in general. There's no such thing Is he calling to help here at Severn Run with those things? That's what you need to find out so that you know how to vote when the time comes That's your responsibility. God has put the election of the officer in your hands as the way that through his superintendence he shows who he has called to be in that election. office. That is your power. Let me give you this illustration that a friend also gave to me. Let's just imagine that I die. And you need to call another teaching elder to take my place. You receive five applications, although it could be fifty, couldn't it? Because this is such a great church, everybody's Buying to get in here. You receive five applications. Each application, brothers and sisters, will be from a vetted, eligible man How do you decide? They're all standing up there with a seminary degree, with godliness in their background, with cute little families that come along with them How do you decide? They're all eligible. You have to become specific. You don't elect the one that is eligible because they're all eligible You elect the one that is eligible specifically for Severn Run. Who is the one that God is calling here? Not who is the one calling. God calling in general. They'll probably all receive a call from some church. Who fits us in our weaknesses, in our strengths, and our personalities, and our history, and our problems? That's what we're looking at here with this question and answer. And of course, you can ask whatever question the Lord leads you to. That is lawful. That's the one that the Lord would lead you to. a lawful question. But that's the idea as we come forward for a question and answer. That's the idea that's present there in 1 Timothy. Chapter 3, if Paul is after. So I'll invite Mark to come on up here. It's odd, uh