Let us now turn to our scriptures in the book of James, chapter five. We'll be looking at verses seven through eleven. James five, seven through eleven. Therefore be patient, brethren, until the coming of the Lord See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, waiting patiently for it until it receives the early and latter rain. You also be patient, establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand. Do not grumble against one another, brethren, lest you be condemned. Behold, the judge is standing at the door. My brethren, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord. You have heard of the perseverance of Jove and seen the end intended by the Lord, that the Lord is very compassionate and merciful. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you know all things and that you communicate to us. From your omniscience. We pray that as these words go out tonight, that they would be useful for your people, and that your name would be glorified not only with our mouth. But with our lives, we pray that you would keep us from wandering, that you'd pull us back from backsliding, that you'd open eyes, that you'd give us ears to hear We ask, Holy Spirit, that you would illuminate our minds and renew us. In the name of Christ. Amen. Well, I've turned the page in James and come to some of the final paragraphs. So we're coming close to the end of the series here. I hope that you remember that the framework of James is seen there in chapter 5, verse 19. Brethren, if anyone among you wanders from the truth, Someone turns him back. Let him know that he who turns a sinner from the error of his way will save a soul from death and cover a multitude of sins. It's exactly what James is doing in his letter. James has been doing that all along. However, I consider the last chapters four and five to be to have a certain um There are certain high-risk areas that James is particularly concerned about as he considers wandering. Last week in the evening, we saw the high that there is a high risk for wealthy Christians to wander relative to their wealth. The first way in which Christians could wander is that you could hoard your belongings and not share, the rust would cry out against you. In addition to the hoarding, you could stray if you exploit workers, not paying them what they deserve or when they deserve it. Or when we backslide when we use our wealth to sponsor injustice or the silence of the poor. This evening, the high-risk area is directed not against the oppressors, but against the There's a switching of focus. And here's the big idea. When under injustice, Christians must exercise patience and perseverance Those are the two main foci of this passage. You can see in seven through nine basically, and a little bit of ten is the page. And then eleven is the um and the rest of ten and eleven is the perseverance part. You can see those both of those work And so we'll look at first the Christian exercising patience and the Christian exercising perseverance. Very simple outline for tonight. Thank you, James. Now, it is one thing to say in our first point, Christians must exercise patience. It's a one thing to say that it's one thing to say That and it is another thing to do that. And you can see that Jesus has the same mindset as He gives His Holy Spirit to inspire James here because he doesn't just give us a command You see there in verse 7 it says, therefore be patient. It is in fact a command. It says, brethren, and then it goes on to give us an analogy to be able to understand this. Which means he understands that in us in our weariness and in our weakness and in our frailty that we need illustrations and analogies and ex Examples to help us as human beings, and it is just like Christ to advantage us in that way, to take time, to sit us down and to speak to us Verse seven says that for his first encouraging metaphor, see how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, waiting patiently for it until it receives the early and latter rain. I consider this verse a janna. And that just means that it both looked back and it looks forward, which is why I preached on it last week. And I'm going to go a little bit deeper this week as we now look forward in the passage. Janus is where we get January where the it both looks back on the year and forward. And there's also some mythology behind that. Here we're looking forward in verse seven with this analogy of the farmer. First, I want you to notice the fruit that is present. The precious fruit of the earth is the final harvest of God, is what it says. And this final harvest is when the Lord shall return. It mentions that right there in terms of him coming back. Establish your hearts, or the coming of the Lord is at hand in verse 8. This final harvest is when the Lord shall return and bring his complete and manifest rain on earth. That's the only thing that will ultimately stop the injustices The final harvest will include the liberation of the people of God from all of the weight of the world. I want you to notice that the fruit cannot be harvested according to this announcement. tragic that might take place. And if we were to look at some of the other scriptures, we see that this is exactly what's being communicated here. I think Jesus is or that That James is thinking of some of the words of Jesus as Jesus spoke to his disciples about when it was time to reap the harvest. You don't want to pluck too early because you would uh pull some out of the ground that don't deserve to be reaped. I think he's overhearing those same kind of conversations. The harvest cannot take place until the garden is full and the fruit is ripe. Here he says, Peter, but beloved, do not forget this one thing: that with the Lord one day is a thousand as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. Speaking again about getting your timing right in terms of being patient. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise as And here is why there is a delay according to Peter. He, Christ, is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. That's what would happen if the harvest happened too early, is that Christ would not gather those in that he intends to gather. And the same thing is being communicated here in this analogy with the farmer. If he harvests before the early or latter rain, then some will be lost, and God is not willing that they should perish. That is very important information for us to have as we consider whether we should be patient or impatient. I think the ultimate question that we're asking here is, do you love the lost? Do you love those who Jesus loves that he has not gathered yet? Yet. And if you do, could that stir within your heart an amount of patience for you to be able to wait? Could you be on his clock and see that he has good reasons for why he has not returned yet? If so, then exercise patience. And that's where the command comes from. Actually, James says in verse 8: it's better than exercise patience. He says, establish your hearts in patience. He expects us to take on a particular posture or stance or commitment or lens or paradigm in which we look at the rest of the world and in which we Behave. To establish the heart is to speak of a deep commitment here. I remember watching my friends not be committed as we climbed a really high oak tree. Tree grabbed onto a uh uh an oak tree and grabbed onto a rope that was tied to an even higher branch and thought of swinging out into the Chesapeake Bay. You'd watch them go No. No. But then finally, the one who had the courage to do it, you'd see it in their face that they were finally ready. And they would launch and they would swing and they'd fly out in glorious joy and beauty into the Chesapeake Bay. And that's a picture of Kabul. It's what's being asked here as we establish our hearts in the same way you must release and swing into this single fact that James is communicating to you tonight. Jesus Christ will return. It is a fundamental commitment. In fact, it says in this passage that he stands at the door, about to open it. But he will not open it at an inappropriate time, so that none of the elect shall be lost. That's what he's communicating here. Patience has to do, really, here, with being on the same clock as God. And in his mercy and in his grace, he reveals to us why his clock is set the way that it is. And it's not a surprise to us that it flows from his compassion and his love and his faithfulness to his people that he would gather them in. So after we see this patience that James encourages us to establish our hearts in, to swing out, now we move to perseverance. Which is not just having a good sense of timing, but in that time being able to persist through agony sometimes, but pain. The Christian must also exercise perseverance. Again, it's easy to say, persevere, and you see the command here to persevere. Do not grumble against one another, brethren, unless you be condemned. Behold, the judge is standing at the door, and to take the prophet. As an example of suffering and shame. And actually, I don't see an imperative there for perseverance, but I believe that that is implied. That he expects that of us. Here we see that he wants us to consider perseverance, and in the same way that he did with the farming analogy, he knows our frailty and our weakness, and therefore he undergirds his implied command with motivating examples and illustrations. First, he wants us to consider the prophets in verse 10. As an example of suffering and patience, those who spoke in the name of the Lord. And indeed we count them blessed who endure, as he thinks of the prophets here. All the prophets were blessed. I just took one example. Noah preached about the visitation of the Lord through the flood. Noah preached, it says in 2 Peter 2:5, about the coming of the Lord. His culture did not believe him. They, I'm sure, ridiculed him. And why they we've all heard this as to why he would build a boat, not ever having seen Something like that, having no faith in the promises of God, but Noah persevered in the building of the ark, and we considered him blessed. Everyone who did not was found ashamed. Although at the time of feast preaching But that's how it works, because just as the prophets of old, so too today, whoever is relying on the Lord in the end will have built Their house on the rock as opposed to sand that shifts and falls away. So the same can be said of all the Old Testament prophets. They all prophesied of the advent of Jesus Christ in the context of injustice, especially the latter prophets. They, their culture, did not believe. They tortured and were and the prophets were killed, but they were they endured and they were proven right. And we had the opportunity to see ourselves in the same paradigm and in the same frame. Framework, doing the same kind of job that they were doing. You, as a Christian, are in the same situation and therefore must endure as the prophets before you. You are, to be honest with you, looked at as ridiculous That you claim, imagine having a conversation with someone trying to establish for them that Jesus Christ is the King of the cosmos and establishes justice. Imagine trying to do that. And he He died. Okay. Uh no, but then he okay, I see. Then he conquered death, he was raised, and well yeah, you're in a couple weeks he left. That's true. Trying to establish that before people, they look at you like you're ridiculous. And then saying that he would return and so much time has passed. And when there's no commitment or trust in God to begin with, it looks like you're the fool. Important to us because in all of the Old Testament prophets it was the exact same thing. In addition to the prophets, he wants us to consider Job. And you can see this in verse 11. Indeed, we count them blessed to adore. You've heard of the perseverance of Job and seen the end intended by the Lord. That the Lord is very compassionate and mercy. This is a great example of agonizing with his condition, agonizing with the condition of being in your pilgrimage here in your wilderness, but enduring. It's a picture of our Christian life. The main point is that the agony was not for agony's sake. Notice the emphasis that's placed here in the passage. What he brings out. He said, You've heard of the perseverance of Zo Job, and then he immediately mentions the intention of the Lord, bringing out that the Lord intended all along to be compassionate and merciful to Job, although he had to go through agony and pain. The intention of the Lord was always one of compassion and mercy. Job 42, 12. Now the Lord blessed the latter days of Job more than his beginning And it's the same with every Christian, although it doesn't seem like that to the world now. Which is why we can persevere. And here we arrive at another commitment. Just as we swung off the tree and committed to the return of Christ at the right time that none should be lost, here is the second commitment. that we learned from Job. The second commitment is to believe that Jesus has not delayed because he is uncaring. He has not delayed or made you go through or permitted agony or pain as you continue your pilgrimage on earth because he's unaware or he does not care. It says that his intention is to be compassionate and merciful to you, and like Job, that your latter days would be fruitful, much more fruitful than the beasts. Beginning. What is his intention? His intention is full of compassion and mercy, and he intends good for you. That's what we end up seeing in both sections of the passage. Notice. In the first we realize the reason why his timing is the way that it is is because he's compassionate and merciful to the lost that he'll seek together. And it's the same thing why we must persevere and why we can and persevere because we can always look at our God and our at our situations through the lens of knowing that our God is compassionate and merciful and He intends to Just as we see in the example of the prophets, or we see within Job. Patience and perseverance. We know that Jesus shall return. It is a reality to believe by faith in our God who fulfills his promises. We have no need to take matters into our own hands We have no need to complain and grumble against one another. One of the ways you could wander if you don't accept this, as it's mentioned in the passage. We have no need to complain or to be hopeless. Jesus kindly provides through James farming analogies and examples to encourage us as Christians. It is my prayer that Jesus' words would seek deep within us, and that the Spirit would take those words and that He would work within us patience and perseverance. Let's pray. Father, we do pray that we would meditate on these Deep truths that you have given to us about your return, about why you have set the clock the way that you have, and your intentions in permitting us We prayed that these would soak into us, that they would become basic commitments, and that we would swing out on the rope of life knowing these things. Grumbling against one another, but that we would be thankful in our hearts and that we would be patient. We ask that you would keep us from wandering in the name of Christ.