Entitled today is actually equity, I'll get to the idea of uh away with him another in a future sermon here when we get to Paul's defenses and speeches. So today's sermon title is Equity and the reading is verses 15 through 25. Beginning in chapter 21. Now it came to pass that when he had departed from them and set sail Oh I'm sorry, fifteen after those days we packed and went up to Jerusalem Also, some of the disciples in Caesarea went with us and brought with them a certain nomason of Cyprus, an early disciple with whom we were to lodge. And when we had come to Jerusalem, the brethren received us gladly. On the following day, Paul went in with us to James, and all the elders were present. When he had greeted them, he told in detail those things which God had done among the Gentiles through his ministry. And when they heard it, they glorified the Lord. And they said to him, You see, brother, how many myriads of Jews there are who have believed, and they are all zealous for the law But they have been informed about you that you teach all the Jews who are among the Gentiles to forsake Moses, saying that they ought not to circumcise their children, nor to walk according to the customs. What then? The assembly must certainly meet, for they will hear that you have come. Therefore, do what we tell you. We have four men who have taken a vow. Take them and be purified with them and pay their expenses so that they may shave their heads And that all may know that those things of which they were informed concerning you are nothing, but that you yourself also walk orderly and you keep the law But concerning the Gentiles who believe, we have written, we decided, that they should observe no such thing, except that they should keep themselves from things offered to idols, from blood, and from things strangled, and from sexual immorality. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for this passage that you have given to us. And we ask that you would glorify yourself by helping us to understand By way of these examples, how we are to conduct ourselves as a church. We pray, Lord, also, that you would give us insight into the actions of Paul in the following passage. wherein he does accept James's and the council's ruling at uh much expense. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Now last week we were strengthened by Jesus Christ through the example of Paul Paul gave us the example of what it means to live as a Christian. Number one, we must know God's will. Number two, we must prudentially determine how to achieve that will. And number three, which was our focus last week, is that we must have the courage and fortitude to finish the race. This week we continue alongside Paul as he enters Jerusalem. And I want to begin by just making a few observations about the passage that I read, as well as some of the verses into the next paragraph. And then we'll get into some application on equity. Here's the first observation that I'd like you to notice Last week we watched Paul exercise the virtue of courage. This week we'll watch him do the same. But there's more than just Paul exercising courage at this point. This week we realize that the Holy Spirit has given it to all of Paul's companions because all of Paul's companions have followed him into Jerusalem in verses 15 through 17. What an excellent picture of the church as a community of courage. That's the first observation. Very simple. Observation number two. Courage will not fade away in our passage, but another virtue which will be raised, there will be another virtue that's raised in emphasis. And that virtue has been throughout Christian history titled equity. If you read the Reformers, for example, which are quite late in Christian history, They explain equity as that virtue which holds together justice and mercy. They further say that it is the virtue necessary for any community to remain in peace and in order. And so it is no wonder that we see it present here during this very difficult time in the church. You read the next paragraph, the right towards the end, they're going to be beating Paul based on the riot that ensues within the temple. Which was James, James and the council had a plan. Paul decided to submit to the plan, and the plan resulted in him being beat over and over again in the temple. This is serious business as to what's going on in the community of the church and the fellowship at that time, and the leaders are seeking to therefore exercise the virtues that Christ teaches them. In verses 15 through 25, you can see the church planning out by way of equity what they should do. Just make a couple observations with me here. Although rumors abound. Seeking to destroy Paul's reputation. That's what you heard the council say to him. James and the elders, they sift through all that. And instead, they welcome Paul and his companions into their inner circle of fellowship. Even more They rejoice at the work that God is doing among the Gentiles through him. Now, if you study equity, you'd see that this is an equitable judgment that has just been made. That's just the first one. Here's the second one. Despite the rash and blind zeal of the church at large, the apostles and elders are still seeking ways to help this congregation who will later beat Paul. This is not only true of their moderation toward the Jews, but their continued moderation. Verse 24 and 25 are referencing Acts chapter 15 with the Jerusalem Council and the decision that they made in order to try to keep peace between Jew and Gentile. That was the whole purpose of the ruling was peace and order within the church, and they're seeking to do so by way of their equitable judgment. That's verse 25. And then finally, we see the leaders of the church seeking the peace and order of the church through equity by Paul himself. Willing to set aside his liberties and his safety by making the vow in the temple in verse 26. He did not have to do that. But he did it out of mercy. Well, this brings us to our observation number three, and this one's pretty short, and I hope to develop this in future sermons, but it's important for you to know. This is from verse 27, which I know I didn't read to you, so please look at it. Despite the moderation of the leaders that we see in verses 15 through 25. The false accusations of the Jews from Asia prevail among the fellowship of believers in verse twenty-seven, ensuing a riot and unjust actions towards Paul. Very important for you to see how this unfolds. And that importance will become clearer as we continue with these final chapters of Acts. Now, what I want to do is what we did last week. I want to approach this morning similarly to how we approached the passage last Sunday. I want us to see the leaders of the church as exemplary for how we should conduct ourselves during difficult times. What are the principles that Christ gave to them? What are the virtues that Christ gave to them that they might make it through difficult misunderstandings and disagreements? The ascended Christ gave them the Spirit in order to accomplish good works for His glory, and may Christ work in us as He worked in them. Last week we learned the importance of us demonstrating fortitude. And this week it will be equity. And so here is the main statement which I encourage you to acknowledge from our passage this morning. In order for any church to abide in peace and righteousness, we must practice equity. In order for any church. And I could say this, if I were standing here giving an address to the United States of America, I could say the same thing to them If you do not have equity, you will cease to exist in any meaningful way as a nation. And I can say that to you as a commonwealth. If you do not have equity, you will not in any significant way exist as a united fellowship of the body of Christ. And so we see the example given to us and the virtues poured out by the Spirit in the early church leaders of equity. And so what I'd like us to do is to understand equity, and then I'd like to get into practicing some equity. Let's begin with the first application of just trying to understand equity because uh it sounds outdated. Equity sounds unfamiliar, but I promise you it is present within the scriptures all over the place. It is the primary principle within Proverbs, and there are many passages that we could quote, but translators have chosen, because of the unfamiliarity of the language, to use other words But if you looked up these words, for example, in the Oxford English Dictionary, you would see that these words really are talking about equity For example, words like gentleness, it has its root in equity, brothers and sisters. Tolerance. Being yielding, being kind, being courteous, they are all rooted in this sense of equity. We hear those words in the Bible. We think as a modern as moderns disconnected with our past, we tend to think that these words, when they say be gentle to each other, be kind to each other. We tend to think of that in the sense of a generic let us be warm and fuzzy with each other. But it is far more sophisticated than that when we examine all of the scriptures. I do not have any problem with you being warm and fuzzy with each other. But when you look at the history of those words, there is a thicker reality to what they are encouraging us to do in order to exist in society with each other. At its heart Equity is living our lives not only with a concern for justice and righteousness and law, it is living our lives equally concerned for mercy. In fact, the image that you should have that has been used for a very long time is justice and mercy holding hands. That is what will keep us together. And our passage is exemplary in this regard. Paul is perfectly just and righteous if he does not make a Nazarite vow within the temple. Yet, given the common good of the people, Paul shows them mercy. He engages in a Jewish ceremony that does not violate the gospel. Paul has done this kind of thing before, don't you remember? Think of all the ways he is merciful to people. That if he wanted to stand up for just his rights and the law, he did not need to do. What about Timothy? Let's put Paul and Timothy together and see what kind of equity they demonstrate. Poor Timothy. For the sake of the gospel, chooses to be circumcised as a crown man. That's quite difficult. I don't even know if they had local anesthetics at the time Timothy was perfectly just to remain uncircumcised, and yet Timothy yields to Paul and the apostolic mission, especially to the Jews. He was gentle. He was equitable. You see that even further here with the Apostle James. He shows equity in how he evaluates all of the scandalous rumors about Paul. Many of the disciples believed the false teaching about Paul, but James exercised moderation of mind. The Spirit gave all the leaders, in other words. The virtue of equity as a great gift in order to seek the peace and the order of the church. And they will continue to demonstrate this throughout the ages. And Christ will work through it as the means to hold his people together. Now, that's a basic understanding, and an image holding hands, justice and righteousness holding hands, righteousness and mercy holding hands, that's a basic understanding of equity. We could talk for a really long time about it, but I don't want to. I want to get into the practice of equity because I think that's where we're really going to start to become clear on what is required of us and see the example here within this passage. We could say a lot about the practice of equity, depending on who you are as a person and your position within society, whether you're a public judge or you're a private citizen. But I want to focus on one single fundamental that seems to get lost among Christians. As I said earlier, equity is when justice and mercy hold hands. Any community will eventually die if it does not have both. But here is where I want to focus because most communities, however, err on the side of justice. Especially, you might feel very merciful when nothing wrong is going on, but when it really gets down to it, and you are frustrated and annoyed, or whatever it is. I'm going to tell you, it is rare to see a person remain merciful. They tend to err on the side of severity and justice, announcing what their rights are And that you need to obey their rights. So I'm going to focus on the mercy side today, though there needs to be another sermon on the justice. We're just going to focus on the mercy side. It is in difficult circumstances, it is more difficult to give mercy. That is the one fundamental. How can we as a church be wisely merciful and not unlawfully tolerant? That's a serious question. How can we be righteously merciful, even Well, that fundamental of mercy through the history of the church has a very specific name, and I'm going to say it, and I'm really hoping that I don't regret it. Some of you are going to think, oh my goodness, I could have stayed home. And he's going to say this word. But I'm going to do it because you need to know these things. Okay? This is to strengthen you. Just hang in there with me. The fundamental through the history of the church is called, are you ready? A mitigating circumstance. I'm so I apologize for the language. But you need to know because if you look through history, this is what the church refers to. This is how they talk about it And it's quite good if you look up the words. Do you know what it means to mitigate something? I'm sure you've heard the language, actually. It means to make something less severe. Less furious and less painful. But the question is, how is it or when are we allowed to do that and not violate justice? That's the question that's always before us. When the church speaks of mitigating circumstances, it means that circum Certain circumstances should make our application of the law or a person's responsibility to that law less severe or serious That's what that means. Now let me give you an example because this is not just highfalutin stuff. This is your everyday. Or as some of you would say, my air day. Let me give you an example that will be helpful. When Holly and I were early in our marriage, we were often over a friend's house. They were really discipling us on what it meant to be a couple. And then they were discipling us also on what it would mean to be parents. Very thankful for that. Well, we would go to their home quite often They had been married for a while and they had small children. Their oldest daughter was not even in kindergarten, so this is really early on. The mother said to the daughter, I remember watching this, obviously, because I'm telling you. The mother said to the daughter, please fold the laundry from the laundry basket. The daughter ran to the laundry basket. I was sitting in the chair next to the laundry basket, not folding it. The daughter ran to the laundry basket. And she separated all of the clothes into kinds. Have you seen little kids do this? They like to organize everything into kinds, like little atoms and eaves organizing the cosmos It's lovely. I love watching that. Well here she's doing that with shirts. Shirts with shirts, pants with pants, socks with socks, undies with undies But you could not say when she was done that she folded those clothes. She made heaps of clothes according to kind. And they all still needed to be folded. When her mother came to check on her, I wonder what you think she said. In light of our conversation on equity, what did her mother say to her? Did she say, you rotten and disobedient child, you wicked daughter of Eve? My command, which is substantiated by the fifth commandment, was to fold these clothes You dishonorable. That is not what I witnessed. Praise God. It was nothing but praises for her daughter. Their mother was actually impressed that her daughter, while so young, separated the clothes. She was also impressed that her daughter, when asked, ran to do the work. In other words I know that this may seem like common sense to you because you would have made the same decision. You would have been just as proud as a mom or a dad or as an older sister or whatever. So I know there's a kind of common sense when we start to get down to the actual practical examples, but I want you to know that we're still talking about the same thing. The mother showed the daughter mercy. Due to the mitigating circumstances of the daughter's young age. The command was for her to fold the clothes She did not, in the great enormity or the severity, or the exactitude of the command, she did not fulfill the exactitude of the command. But due to her age, her mother acted appropriately. We all know this. You see, you know this. It's been a part of us as a society for very long, but now we're talking about things that we've only known or taken for granted Our passage, therefore, is another great example of the church using mitigating circumstances in order to determine how to be wisely merciful. James and Paul are in our passage, are they not? Do they not both have apostolic authority? They would be within their rights and they would be righteous to pull the whole church together and to remind them that they are required to submit to their teaching on the law, and that includes Paul. And the church should in fact submit to apostolic teaching even to this day. But as wise and equitable leaders, they have considered that there are mitigating circumstances. Consider verse 21. The church has been informed about you that you teach all the Jews who are among the Gentiles to forsake Moses, saying that you ought not to circumcise their children, nor to walk according to the customs. Verse 27 and 28, the Jews from Asia, seeing him in the temple, stirred up the whole crowd and laid hands on him. These are mitigating circumstances. The Church in Jerusalem is living in a culture of fake news, misinformation, and constant defamation. And in addition, they were raised up in Sunday school to respect the ceremonial law of Moses. And this is a transition period as we move from one administration of the covenant to another. That's another mitigating circumstance. In light of all of this, Christ has given the wisdom to his leaders to judge equitably and to seek the peace of the and the order of the community, not by declaring And enforcing in exactitude apostolic authority according to the law, but by trying to demonstrate mercy, by trying to work with the people He, James, and Paul, they understand that that church at that time is not going to hold the laundry well. The circumstances are mitigating. The law, you shall obey apostolic teaching, is as applicable as ever Yet in this moment, given the state of their culture, they are not holding all the disciples to the exactitude of the law. Now I hope this all doesn't sound overly technical. I think I've demonstrated with the laundry basket that it doesn't have to be. It really gets down into our lives, where we actually live. I think it could be helpful, after hearing all of this, to just consider a few questions. Mothers and fathers, I wonder: do you lack peace with your children? Children, it's not all on your parents. This passage is for you too. Do you lack peace with your parents? Husbands and wives, do you lack peace with each other? Church members, do you lack peace in your fellowship In your workplace as a teacher or as an administrator or wherever, do you lack peace in that society of workers? What we're saying this morning is another question, or can be put in another question, and that's this. Have you considered that maybe it is because you and others are not equitable? Maybe it is in fact an issue of justice. There are people out there that take advantage of your mercy, and what they need is justice. But maybe someone needs to be held ac and maybe someone needs to be held accountable to their moral responsibilities. There's plenty of people that are like that But quite often, however, it is instead a lack of mercy. Let me ask you a few more questions. Please bear with me. These, I think, are getting even more and more personal. Let me ask you, I really want you to think about this the whole day long. Do you consider the circumstances of the people in your lives? Do you know what's going on with the people that you're talking to and that you're making demands of? Or do you only know the demands of the law I wonder if you would have spanked that little girl who stacked the laundry because she violated the fifth commandment In light of today's teaching and the example, coming from the example that we see within our passage, I want you to ask one last question, which is a difficult one to end on, but I really want you to consider it. Is it possible that you are cruel? Is it possible that you are severe Is it possible that you are a legalist when it comes to the law? Those are all of the words that are used within Christian history to describe someone who doesn't know how to equitably show mercy. They say in the literature, they are cruel. That's the context of those words in the conversation that we're having right now. Basically, what Christ is having us consider this morning is of the utmost value. In order for the church to abide in peace and righteousness, we must practice equity. At its heart, equity is living our lives not only with a concern for justice and righteousness and law, it is living our lives equally concerned for mercy. And we determine what that is by way of mitigating circumstances. And I'll leave you with this in the old translation of a Philippians chapter 4, verse 5. Let your equity be known to all men. Let us pray