Good evening. Good to see you all. Let's go ahead and open our service with a world of prayer. You okay? Let's let's pray. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for this evening. We ask that you would minister to us. We ask that as you do, we would see your glory and glorify you. Lord, thank you for these songs, these readings, for the scriptures, the benediction, everything that will be a part of this, especially the prayer, especially after we have heard from you this morning Pray that it would be a sweet and meaningful time. And Lord, that it would prepare us for all of the work that you have ready for us this coming week. We thank you for this rest unto that end. And may you be glorified in the good works that you do through us. In the name of Christ. Amen. Let's stand for Psalm 148, 7 through 14. Praise the Lord from the earth, you great sea creatures and all the depths, fire and hail, snow and clouds, stormy wind, fulfilling his word. Mountains and all hills, fruitful trees and all cedars, beasts and all cattle, creeping things and flying fowl, kings of the earth and all peoples Princes and all judges of the earth, both young men and maidens, old men and children, let them praise the name of the Lord, for his name alone is exalted His glory is above the earth and heaven, and he has exalted the horn of his people. The praise of all his saints, of the children of Israel, a people near to him, praise the Lord. Let us sing together all creatures of our God and King. All creatures of our God and hear us your voice and make us sing, Hallelujah, Hallelujah. The burning sun with gold and beam, thou silver moon with salt and gleam, all praise him, all praise. Thou rushing wind that horses of strong meet, thou set sailing, heaven law, Oh, praising Hallelujah The rising morning, praise we joy, Elice are beating my voice, all praise, all praise Now knowing water, your enemy music for my own to hear. Aleluya, Aleluya Thou part and pride, that gives man more warm and life, for grace him, over him And all ye men of tender hearts, for giving God your heart, O think ye alleluia He who long pain and sorrow bear, praise God and not Him cast your death. Oh, praise Him, oh, praise Him Alléluia, Alléluia, Alléluia Then we'll take that create your blessed and worship him in humble death. Oh great, hallelujah Praise, praise us of water, make us side, and praise the spirit free one. Oh, praise give, for grace Amen. Let's remain standing for our confession of sin passage from Philippians 2. Therefore, if there is any consolation in Christ If any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any affection and mercy, fulfill my joy by being like minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than himself Let each of you look out not only for his own interests, but also for the interests of others. You may be seated. Please join me in a time of confession. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we see here in this passage from Philippians that you have communal concerns. We see throughout all of the writings of your New Testament that you are bringing unlike-minded people to be like-minded and to become a single body politic under one head who is Christ. Lord, as you know, there are bound to be problems. But Lord, you pour out your spirit, which is a spirit of unity of peace, of yielding, of sacrifice, of truth and loyalty and mercy. And we bear forth his fruits. But Lord, sometimes the other path is still attractive to us, other ways, nursing our wounds, holding grudges. Not considering the interests of others, but only our own ambitions and conceits. And the fruit of those things is eventually death, severing of relationships So much hurt and pain. Lord, we come to you now to confess to you that we are at a minimum, sometimes relationally awkward. And at other times, we devastate relationships. And we ask, Lord, for you to forgive us. I pray that you would hear your people specifically confess their sins now. on how they sometimes do not bring community together or manifest the virtues that are a prerequisite, but tear them apart. Lord, we ask forgiveness for our antisocial behavior. In the name of Christ. Amen. The point of the confession is not to give you a guilt trip. The point of the confession is for us to turn from darkness to light, from evil to good, by the power of Jesus Christ. And so, with that as the context, our assurance of pardon makes sense. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities The chastisement for our peace was upon him, and by his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. Witness Jesus Christ and his forgiveness and what he has done in his community. Let us stand in response to this salvation and sing, Arise, my soul, arise. All right, my soul, all right, shake off your guilty fears. Come leaving that required in white meet up here Before God from my surety stamps, before God from my surety stamps, my name is Christ Lord His pen. He never lives a ball for me to interceep. His glory, his precious glory to me. His blood is told for every race, his blood tone for every race, and sprinkles now not through race. By leaving, receive our reason. A more effectual prayers they brought me for me Forgive him oh, forgive me Christ, forgive him oh, forgive a cry, for let that ransom sinner. My God is recognized, boy. He told me for his cause, I can no longer be With God's favourite sight now draw nigh, with God's faith, I now draw night, and Father of the Father. Amen. Please turn with me to Proverbs chapter 3, and we're looking at verses 1 through 4 again, though the focus will be on verses 3 and 4. Proverbs three. It may also be in the bulletin. We'll start at verse 1 and end at 4. My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart keep my commands. For length of days and long life and peace they will add to you. Let not mercy and truth forsake you. Bind them around your neck. Write them on the tablet of your heart, and so find favor and high esteem in the sight of God and man. Let us pray. Lord Christ, we plead with you this evening that you would give us ears to hear and eyes to see. We pray that you would give us the right way to look at your words that you've given here. We pray that they would not just be words that are heard and forgotten. But that become a part of who we are, that we are shaped by these words. I ask that you would do all these things. In your name. Amen. You may be seated. Well, we're back to the same set of verses we were last week. Uh this is part two. Last week we drew emphasis on the words do not forsake and keep. And our teaching last week was that as covenant children come of age, God calls them to carry forward the Christian kingdom. It was a kind of uh where are we headed sermon? And where should you be headed? And one of the distinctions that we made was that it is more like carrying forward a family farm And less like receiving information in a classroom. Carrying forward farming like family farming practices, for example. This week I want to draw out a different aspect of Proverbs 3 through 4, 3, 1 through 4, because it ends up being so much of the focus of the entire book of Proverbs, it's good for us to get an eye on it. And so our vocal our focus is really going to be on verses 3 and 4 tonight. Let me make a few observations and then we'll get into bringing it home. Notice that verse 3, when you look closely in the scriptures, is the fruit of verses 1 and 2. If he does not forget the law and lets his heart keep the commands, what you're going to find is that it's mercy and truth that will be bound around their neck. It's a way of summarizing what the commands of the Father are after, mercy and truth. You see how we moved away immediately from a classroom, just a classroom situation? where you would memorize a series of commands. It's being embodied in a whole life at this point called mercy and truth. In verses 1 through 2, in other words, the father exhorts the son to not forget his instruction. And in verse 3, if the son remembers the instruction, if the instruction shapes and forms the son Then that son will be merciful and truthful. And of course it's true for daughters also. Remember the meaning of those words at this moment, mercy and truth, or truth and mercy. The truthful person in the scriptures here in the Proverbs, and this will be discovered over the long haul. Is not so much the person who gets the facts right and tells things as they are. That's a good thing. Getting the facts right is always helpful. But here the emphasis is really on the person who is honest, trustworthy, dependable in both word and deed. In other words, it's a person who not only gives you true facts, but who is true themselves. Do you see what I mean? To be true to other people is not merely to recite facts There's a real character about this person. And I think you probably have people like that in your life. I hope that you do. People that are true to you Well, that's what he's talking about here with truthful, but there's also mercy. It refers to a situation where a needy partner depends on another for deliverance, and the deliverer is not obligated to help them. But does so anyway. Think about that kind of person. Where they would look at you and they would realize, I have no responsibility to you, but I'm going to help you anyway. I wonder if you have people like that in your life. Because these are the kinds of people that are being encouraged to dwell within our communities from Proverbs 3, verses 1 through 4. Kindness, mercy, love, loyalty. Please notice that both those definitions have the same focus: community. Mercy and truth are communal virtues in the Proverbs. This is not first and foremost an emphasis on personal piety These things in the Proverbs are not possible outside of community. That's the point. It's are you productive or destructive in community? And the father has been encouraging this child since they were young, that he wants them to be a blessing to all of the people, the community of which they're a part, and here he reduces it to two things, truth and mercy. That's the first observation. The second observation is that verse 4 shows what will happen if a son or daughter becomes merciful and truthful, and this is really important. They will have social esteem with God and men. It says there in that verse, in the sight, in the eye. of God and in the eye of man, they will have a high social reputation of the right kind. And that's what we're looking for within ourselves and within our children. is to have a high social reputation for their truthfulness and their mercy. This should evoke several parts of Scripture. A one, for example, would be 1 Samuel 2, 26. And the child Samuel grew in stature and in favor both with the Lord and men. But that was just a vestige or a whisper of what would uh come in the Lord Jesus Christ from Luke chapter 2, verse 52. And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature and in favor with God and men. That's the picture that we get. You can see that circle come together. So the teaching here for us this evening then is that Christians are called to grow in the image of Christ for the benefit of their various communities. That's a real simple way to understand. At least in one sense, what it means to be a Christian. It means to be in the image of Christ, especially as he was in community. So I want to look at understanding Jesus Christ in community a little bit, and then I want to take that into our own communities. I would encourage you to track down all of the stories. This would take some time, but track down all of the stories that illustrate Jesus increasing in wisdom and stature and in favor with God and men. And to try to get a real good picture by faith of who he is and why he had that kind of reputation. amongst those communities. Let me give you a couple examples. I'm going to read some scriptures to you here, just two of them, and you're welcome to follow along if you want. The first one that I want you to see is Jesus in community in Luke chapter 7. Verses 11 through 15. If you want to, you can just listen. That's fine. Now it happened the day after that he went into a city called Nain. And many of his disciples went with him and a large crowd. And when he, Jesus, came near the gate of the city, behold, a dead man was being carried out, the only son of his mother. Catch that A dead man is being carried out, the only son of his mother. So the mother is going to be destitute and completely alone at this point. That's what she is, because the last family member just died. And she was a widow. You see the picture? And a large crowd from the city was with her. Now watch this. When the Lord saw her, he had compassion. on her, and he said to her, Do not weep. Then he came and touched the open coffin, and those who carried him stood still. He stops the whole funeral procession, in other words. And he said, Young man, I say to you, arise. So he who was dead sat up and began to speak. And this is a beautiful moment here. And he brought him to his mother. Isn't that beautiful? of what Jesus Christ is doing in that community, specifically for that woman. This is the picture. This is the picture that we're supposed to see when we read Proverbs 3, 1 through 4. If you pay attention to the details, then you hear that the death of her son, the mother present at the funeral, is about a woman who's left alone without any family and without any help. Having mercy upon this older woman, Jesus brings her son back to life. He is beneficial to the community He doesn't break it down. Well, I have another example that's um a very different Aspect of who Christ was from John chapter two, fourteen through sixteen. Here we'll we have on the one hand him bringing uh r resurrecting, if you will, this son and bringing him to the mother. And here in John 2, 14 through 16, listen to this. And he found in the temple those who sold oxen and sheep and doves, and the money changers doing business When he had made a whip of cords, he drove them all out of the temple, with the sheep and the oxen, and poured out the changer's money, and overturned the tables. And he said to those who sold doves, Take these things away, do not make my father's house a house of merchandise. Here we see religious leaders using religion to make money and to grow in corrupt power Jesus steps into the space that they think that they have claimed and he flips over their tables, saving the poor and the sincere from their corrupt oppression. That's also who he is in communion. But you see how both of them were for the sake of life and not for death. Preserves that woman who's a widow and preserves those who are really there for the right things, but who are being taken advantage of. That's Jesus Christ. And that's the picture we're supposed to have from Proverbs 3, 1 through 4. And those are just two examples of how many And I would encourage you to search those out. What you're going to find in all of the examples that you would search out with Jesus Christ and who he is. in community is a part of a much bigger project that he is doing with the whole world. In the book called Hebrews, the author reveals the reality of Jesus Christ and what he's doing with all of creation It says this in Hebrews 2, 7 through 8. You have crowned him with glory and honor, and set him over the works of your hands. That can be a little cryptic, but what does that mean? You have crowned Jesus with glory and honor and set him over the works of your hands. What does it mean to be set over the works of your hands? of God's hand. When the author tells us that God set Jesus over the works of his hands, he is simultaneously acknowledging two things. First, that the entire creation needs somebody set over it because it's going nuts The entire creation is moving towards chaos, evil, confusion, one person eating another person alive in their greed, ambition, and conceit. It's the life that you know. Welcome to planet Earth. And the other thing that's simultaneously being acknowledged is that Jesus Christ is the one whom God has appointed to bring order, to bring good. Those examples, in other words, at the funeral or flipping the tables were specific examples of the kind of person, the kind of person that Jesus Christ is and what he is doing across the globe through the whole world. He will restore this earth in all of its goodness. In the words of the proverb, Jesus Christ is full of truth and mercy. And thank God. Finally we found someone who has power, who is full of truth and mercy. He is the one who shall save all the good things that we care about. And therefore, do you know what he is? He's highly esteemed among us. That's the point. He has an excellent social reputation. among us. He grew in stature before God and men. Now I give that example because he's the ultimate We are to be shaped to be like him as Christians. One way in which Christ is bringing peace to this earth is by calling his people to join him in truth and mercy. And so that means that the way that he was in community, by the gift of his spirit, we are becoming like that in community also. And this is how we should be raising our children. Or if you don't have children yet, if you do have children, this is how you should be raising your children. That they would be a certain way in community. He therefore, in order to accomplish this, sends his Holy Spirit. Jesus sends his Holy Spirit to change us from evil to good. From darkness to light, from the power of Satan to God. There's so much to talk about there in terms of the work of Christ sending his Holy Spirit When we profess to be his followers, we seek to follow him as he is in community. We are meant to bring good, and we are not meant to bring evil. The person who is mature, who has grown in the Lord, is one that the community can see as mature and fruitful, who has ripened. And we grow in social esteem You know, that's an interesting topic we'll have to keep talking about. But what are the ways that we esteem people in our Christian communities these days? Is it for truth and mercy, or has it been replaced with something else? Upward upward mobility within corporate America, car, whatever it is, have we adopted the social esteem of a different community that is not the Christian community. That's a good question. Or here's a question for you. Have we as Christians said it doesn't really matter what your reputation is in the community? I hear folks say things like that sometimes, as like a solution to their problems of feeling social pressure, and I'm befuddled. I've heard someone say, what other people think of me does not matter. This is usually a young person that'll say this. What other people think of me, that does not matter. Or I'll hear one young person say to another person, stop worrying so much about what people think of you And I understand that there are situations where that would be wise. Stop listening to what they think of you But to say it absolutely with no qualifications is the pinnacle of foolishness. Maybe not the pinnacle. I don't know. I haven't weighed all those things. But it's foolishness. How about that? The Christian community is meant to exert pressure, helping you know if you are in a good or a bad place. To say that there should be no pressure or to pay attention to not pay attention to the pressure is not a good place to be. You're missing a main way in which God gives you grace. I remember when I was younger, I don't know what I was doing. I was doing something sneaky. I did a lot of things sneaky when I was younger. And I remember, have anybody out here ever done anything sneaky? Well, when you're doing something sneaky, you somehow have to check to make sure no one is watching you. And I did. I looked up to see. Is anybody watching me do this sneaky thing? And there my grandmother was. And she was staring right at me And you know what I felt? Pressure. I felt a lot of pressure. This woman, she could just look at me and I just I feel like there's a thousand pounds on me pushing me toward the right thing and away from the wrong. She just had this way about her. She could just it's like a turn of the head and I don't even you know You all had grandmothers, you know. The pressure that I felt from her to stop was a grace. She was showing me what it would mean to be a real man. Real men have integrity. They don't do sneaky things And that's what she wanted from me. Now I want to ask you a question. Can you imagine being a person who did not pay attention to the pressures toward good which a community exerts on you? Imagine being immune to social pressure. A lot of the times we've only been afflicted by bad social pressure. And so we think that all social pressure should just be evaporated from our lives and we'd be happy, but that's not true. Because of who we are as creatures God graces us with social pressures that are good, moving us providentially toward the good. Imagine being a people, a person who is immune to all those pressures, the good ones. Do you know that I looked that person up in the dictionary and I found the name? Sociopath That's actually the definition of a sociopath. Here it is. It's a noun, by the way, and it's a person with a personality disorder manifesting itself in extreme anti-social attitudes and behaviors. When grandma looked at them, they felt no pressure. And that's a problem. I think you see the point, and you see what the proverb is is getting at with this underlying reality. For the sake of clarity, if you profess to be a Christian, then you are to take seriously your esteem in your various communities Now, when you hear me say that, and now I'm going to go through and I'm going to ask you questions like, what benefit do you bring to your family community? Your temptation is to hear me just get on your case. And that is not what I'm doing. I, like my grandmother, and I'm staring at you, that you would move toward the good It's a question for discovery that you would move towards that which is good and that which is beautiful, not to just make you feel horrible. That's not the point of the pressure. The pressure moves you. It doesn't crush you. So here they are. These are great questions for you to discover and to start moving. What benefit do you bring to your family? And you can also ask that about your children. What benefit are my children bringing to your family to the family. It is a great way to go right into the heart of the matter and who they are and what they're struggling with. It'll help you to see what filters they have on that can be really, really unhealthy. What benefit do you bring to your church? What benefit do you bring to your larger civic community? And I would encourage you to be very specific, that's a redundancy. Be specific. List it out. And be honest with yourself. Be willing to see who you really are in the mirror. So that you can feel the pressure of Christ's providence and be moved towards the good. Jesus Christ is bringing liberation to the world. He's moving everything with his pressure in that direction. And he does so from truth and mercy, so we can trust him. He's loyal to you. He's good. You've heard the accounts that I gave. I gave you two accounts of him, and there's so much more. Look at who he is. You can trust him. He calls people from all around the world to join him. And they are called Christians. If you profess to be a Christian, I encourage you to be honest. What is your reputation? In your family, what is your reputation in the church? And what is your reputation in civic community? Christians are called to grow, which is a kind of movement in the image of Christ for the benefit of their various communities. That's the reality that the Proverbist is pushing on you. this evening. Let us pray. Father, I pray that as a community you would help us to See the deep reality of pressure really across organisms, the pressure of a hermit crab needing a different shell That we'd be able to tie these things together to see how you work, whether it's at the bottom of the seafloor or in the highest heavens or within us, there's a kind of common providence among your creatures. where you push us towards the good. And you do this especially in your church. I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that we would stop looking at your pressures as wrong That we would stop being listening to the voice that tells us to interpret your pressures as to run away from it, to ignore it, to be seared towards it, but instead that we would listen. And that we would turn at your rebuke, that we would know that you do not intend us harm, because you are full of truth and mercy. I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that your people would grow in their esteem in this world, that they would be known to be true, and that they would be known to be To be loving even when it's not required. I ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. Let's stand and sing together Immortal Invisible in response to the truth we've heard this evening. Immortally for God only by next devotee Most father, most glory, the ancient of days, Almighty Victoria, thy great name we pray. Unresting, unhasting, and silent and flight, nor wanting, nor wasting, the rules in mind Thy justice, thy mountains, thy soaring above, thy fountains are fountains of good new love. To all life thou givest, to both great and so, in all life thou livest, the true life of all We want some advourish and lead or poetry, and wiver, and perish, but not change at me Great Father of Glory, your Father of light, thine angels are for me for failing their sight. For praise we would render all her butt to see, 'Tis only the splendour of white eyes Amen. Now receive the Lord's benediction. May the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.