And when they had come to the multitude, a man came to him, kneeling down to him, and saying, Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is an epileptic and suffers severely. But he often falls into the fire and often into the water. So I brought him to your disciples, but they could not cure him. And Jesus answered and said, Jesus rebuked the demon, and it came out of him, and the child was cured from that very hour. Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said, Why could we not cast it out? So Jesus said to them, Because of your unbelief, for assuredly I say to you, if you have faith as a mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, Move from here to there. And it will move, and nothing will be impossible for you. However, this kind of this kind does not go out except by prayer and fasting. Now, while they were staying in Galilee, Jesus said to them, The Son of Man is about to be betrayed into the hands of men. They will kill him, and on the third day he will be raised up. And they were exceedingly And when they had come to Capernaum, those who had received the temple tax, those who received the temple tax came to Peter and said, Does your teacher not pay the temple tax? And he said, Yes. Yes. And when he had come into the house Jesus anticipated him, saying, What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth take custom or taxes? From their sons or from strangers? Peter said to him from strangers. And Jesus said to him, Then the sons are free. Nevertheless, lest we offend them, go to the sea, cast in a hook, take the fish that come comes up first, and when you have opened its mouth, you will find a piece of money. Take that and give it to them for me and you. May the Lord had his blessing to them The reading and understanding that comes from his word. We Christians struggle with self-image just like everybody else, and don't be don't be fooled into thinking differently. All of us have our weaknesses There are are parts of our inner being, if you will, that we try to keep hidden. There are things about us that are embarrassing such that if we we just think w if anybody else saw that I just couldn't live with with them knowing about it. At least we think so. We think along those lines. So we we try to suppress those things and keep them Hidden. We put a face on and we present ourselves as different in this sense from we what we really are. Brother Rubb just spoke a few minutes ago about how we're all guilty of apartheid. And to some extent, and to the extent that I'm speaking of it here, that's always true. Now I'm not saying that that hiding those Secret faults is necessarily wrong all the time. God does not call us to go out and intentionally parade our weaknesses and to down in front of everybody, to be like the Pharisees walking around on the street You know, beating their breasts and saying, I'm a repentant, I'm a sinner, and I repent. God does not call us to do that. I'm just talking about the fact of life that we all are facing. We have false Right? We all have faults. Right? Okay. We are fallen. But we try to stuff those Things in the background. Why? We just don't want to look bad. There is a saying in the Navy, and uh particularly true among naval aviators, I'd rather die than look bad And sometimes that came pretty close to being true. It's just the idea of our self image is such the the way that people relate to us in thinking who we are. But brothers and sisters, even as if it is appropriate for us to to deal with some of our private sins privately, yet at the same time To grow in Christ means that we have to deal with those very weaknesses that we want to perhaps If we are going to become a better Christian parent or a better spouse or a better person at work or to to in our community If our witness is lacking because of such things, then we have to deal with that. We have to come to know ourselves in such a way as to understand what these faults are and to clarify Clearly identify them, not just say, well, that's just who I am. You know, deal with it. We have to take those weaknesses to the cross We have to. And we have to ask for God for the ask God for the power to overcome them. Repentance, believe it or not, is a lifelong activity. We don't just do it once when we invite Jesus Jesus into our heart, and that's it, we're over and done with. Repentance is something that is a persistent characteristic of the true Christian faith. And that brings up the topic of faith. And this weakness that we sometimes keep hidden is especially true when we actually think about our faith itself. Faith in Jesus Christ is the core of discipleship. It is the message of the gospel. How are we saved? By grace through what? Faith in Jesus Christ Jesus Christ, absolutely. And yet, what if we have those hidden fears that perhaps our faith itself is not what it is ought to be. I mean, I have faith. I think. Sometimes I don't act like it Do I mean do I really have faith? Are we putting on a face sometime and blustering around acting like we have faith, you know But inside we're saying, hmm, maybe not. I heard it said once and it it kind of encapsulates This if Christianity was a crime, would there be enough evidence to convict us? And if faith is categorized in that area Is there enough evidence to convict us of having faith? We worry about things like that, and we put on a mask and we hide behind it and we we put on on this face of being a Christian and right like true Americans raised up in the heritage of America, we try to gut it out. You know, we just live through it whatever this is going on. And we figure that it's gonna work out one way or the other in the end. But there are those hidden doubts and the worries, the things we're ashamed to admit admit the things we had never talked to about with a pastor. What if he found out I was a sinner? Oh my. And we ask, is my faith It's really real. Sometimes I wonder. I think these passages, this passage before us, helps us in this area today. In this passage, I want us to note three things, if you would I want us to note that saving faith here, true saving faith, is nevertheless fallen faith. It is fallen faith. And therefore, we must not lose heart entirely when we struggle with it. This shows up in this passage in the way that it presents it. itself. There are several different things going on in these verses. As you can see, Jesus and the three disciples have come down from the Mount of Transfiguration. We see the man begging him to help with his son. There's that teaching about And all of them I think come together to give us these three things about saving faith that I wish us to consider today. Saving faith is nevertheless, as I mentioned, fallen faith. It is fallen faith. Secondly, saving faith, even though it can move mountains, is limited As we go through our walk in this life. And lastly, saving faithhood is fallen and limited, yet it breaks our chains and sets us free Let's consider those things. First, saving faith in this life is not perfect, it is fallen. What does this man do? He comes to Jesus, he cries out, he says, These disciples Are useless, at least as far as I'm concerned. My son is doing all of this stuff, and they can't help him Now, you know, we're sitting here two thousand years on the other side of that, and we're saying, well, you know, you're being a little presumptuous there. If my son is what is either called an epileptic or demon-possessed. You know, should it be surprising that I go to a guy in the church and they can't help him But remember, back in chapter 10, Jesus had given these disciples authority to heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, and cast out demons. So Jesus' ministry of healing and and showing forth the power of the kingdom of God was not confined to just Him alone. And that was one of the evidences of the kingdom to show that the kingdom itself was not just a person. God was not just restricted to Christ. So it was not unreasonable for this man to come and ask the disciples for help. But they couldn't do it Now we'll get to the limits of fallen faith in just a moment. But right now, let's just focus on how Matthew deals with this issue. The d the d the depiction of this in the other gospels is somewhat different. So Matthew has a clear agenda here in what he's saying. Matthew leaves out certain details that we see in the other gospels. In fact, here We don't see Jesus, as he is presented in some of the other gospels, working with the Father. That famous statement about I believe helped out my unbelief. That's not here. Rather, Matthew focuses on how Jesus deals with the faith of his disciples. Jesus says, How long do I have to put up with you? The S the cry of the exasperated parent. Will you just hurry up and grow up? No, I don't mean that. Jesus cries out to him, Why do I have to put up with you? How long will I bear with you? And then when he's asked by them as to why they were not able in this instance to uh do this, he says, it is because of your unbelief. Immediately after that he goes on To say that faith could move mountains. And right here, I think, is where we see the nature of saving faith in this life. It is nevertheless fallen faith. Because sometimes it is just not up to the job that we face. That means that, brothers and sisters, sometimes our faith is weak Even sometimes it is weak to the point that we deserve the Lord's rebuke. Sometimes it is way it wavers, and sometimes it Because our faith is weak, right at that point It is at that point that often we lose confidence. And when we lose confidence, we lose power in our witness. We lose power In our ability to deal, we lose power in our ministry. As Jesse can bear witness now, and which I found out many years ago, one of the most difficult things to do as as a pastor is to bring hope into the midst of a uh situation in which it appears to be the That death is imminent. To come in and to speak in the face of power that is beyond you, that you can't do anything about this. And to speak comfort into that. And so that's a difficult thing. And what happens then to the pastor or to the elder? or to the friend or to the person in the pew, when they go there and in the face of such horrible things that are going on, they begin Then to doubt whether they believe that there's a God in heaven themselves. Or whether there is power in God or the desire in God to bring about good things In the face of the awful evil that sometimes befalls people that we love. In such a case, doubt emasculates our witness. It causes us to hesitate with what we say. To not speak confidently into the lives of people. Why? Because they're just worried about it. They seem to us just to be words. Sometimes we lose confidence, we lose power We see that here in these disciples, brothers and sisters. With the exception of Judas, we believe that all of these were true disciples of our Lord Jesus Christ. We know that Thomas doubted Yet in the end the Lord strengthened his faith. We know that Peter denied the Lord three times in our reading today. Yet in the end, he saw and he believed. All of these disciples were like You and me. All of them are fallen sinners saved by grace. And therefore they receive the gift of faith just like you and me. But we see in them, brothers and sisters, that this faith Faith is fallen, and therefore it's subject to the roller coaster ride that sometimes faith can take us on. This teaches us something important. I think. It teaches us that it is by grace that we are saved and not by the strength of our faith. It is by grace that we are saved and not by the strength of our faith. Do you believe that? It was by grace, God's loving kindness, that they had hope of salvation. It was not because their faith was always strong It was not because salvation was a reward for how strong their faith was. Our salvation does not change when the strength of our faith goes up and down. The measure of our faith does not determine the measure of our salvation, nor even the measure of our reward. That is limited to our works. The presence of faith, period, signals that God has extended His grace to us. And when our strength our faith is strong, brothers and sisters, it means we We have been saved by grace. When our faith is weak, brothers and sisters, it means that we have been saved by grace. There's a sense in which those times when our faith is weak actually works for us. Because it is right then when our faith is weak. When we find ourselves plagued by doubt in the face of some awful difficulty we have to face, and we're wondering if there really is a God in heaven after all, even though that It is right there that the truth that God's love for us is greater than our faith in Him really begins to hit home It's in the presence of faith, period, that we see God's grace extended to us, even when that faith is the size of a mustard. So when the spiritual struggle in your life is really raging, when Satan's beaten up on you and you know he's beaten up on you, And he keeps pointing to the weakness of your faith and the doubt that is plaguing your mind when your only hope in the face of the weakness of in the faith face of the weakness of your faith its of faith itself is that Jesus Christ died for your sin. That's the only hope you have that because your faith is so weak that if he didn't die for your sins, you got nothing. Then take comfort in this. Saving faith in this life is false And every Christian discovers that. Because it is fallen, does not mean it is no longer saving faith. Justification Before God is now, always has been, and ever will be, by grace, through faith, so that no man can faith, can boast. We have all sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. And it is by grace, and only by grace, that we have any hope at all. Be comforted in this. Be comforted. Comforted, but don't be complacent. Our Lord Christ calls us in moments of weakness to repent, to grow in faith, to be encouraged in faith, and to become stronger in our There are moments of weakness, and he encourages us in those to continue the battle that our strength may our weak our faith may be strengthened. So saving faith is nevertheless fallen faith. Now secondly, saving faith, because it is fallen faith, is limited. We could not do this. Why could we not do this? The disciples asked Jesus. He didn't beat around the Bush. He didn't seek to uh as we say uh uh dress them uh with tenderness so that he might uh not offend them too much. He says because of your unbelief. Flat out. You stop believing. You faced a tough situation, and in your heart of hearts you began to think that this was something more than even God Himself could handle Brothers and sisters, if you've been around more than ten minutes, you know what Jesus is talking about here. We've all faced that nagging doubt at one time or another in the face of something really terrible, as I mentioned. And that we waver in the face of it. That's unbelief. Now let's define it more clearly. Unbelief is always stopping short of truly believing that God is What he says he is. Unbelief is stopping short of believing that God really is what he says he is. It is hesitant And losing confidence in God Himself. Can God do all things? You betcha. Will God do all things? Is God really trustworthy? Can God's power actually be dependent upon here on earth? Will God's power be demonstrated Does he really care what happens to me or not? In the face of all the evil, all the hurt, all the suffering, all the perversity that we see in the world around us, is it possible to trust that God is good and that in the end all of this stuff will be dealt with one way or the other. This is unbelief. And the effects is, as I said earlier, it stops us in our tracks. Because we do not believe, we don't step out in faith. We shrink away from putting ourselves at risk. Think about it. I'm sure you've been there. You're right there at the test of your faith, and you've got to you've got to step out in faith, and in the back of your mind, what's it going to what's it going to mean if If I step out in faith here and it doesn't turn out the way I want it to, what does that mean about me? What does that mean about God? What if I pray and I pray and I pray and I pray and he dies? Where does that lead Me. Am I fooling myself? Does God really care? I pray and ask God to fix something and He doesn't. Does that mean God is not ready Real. How can I step out in faith boldly and put myself at risk? Because I don't want to face that. So I'm going to hedge my bets. I'm not going to be bold in my faith. I'm going to say Well, you know, if it's the Lord's will. Yes. Now that's a true statement, but what we're really doing is that we're finding a backdoor rather than cutting Confidently addressing our Lord as we should. Now, this is unbelief, and in our fallen state it is always present to some extent. And to the extent that it is present, we are limited in what God will do. Through us. Jesus told the people of Nazareth at one point, the reason why I'm not doing any great works here is because of your unbelief. So unbelief is a hindrance to God's work. I don't know. I'll ask him one day. I encourage you to do that too. But here he says that faith even the size of a mustard seed can be used to bring about great results And those great results are not magic tricks. Saving faith is active faith. It is faith which ste takes steps and takes risks. And doubt can rob us. But even here where it says that if we have faith the size of a of a mustard seed, still we must remember that it It is limited. There are things in this life that our faith cannot petition God to make happen Why? Because it is fallen. Jesus says here that casting out this demon could not be cast out except by prayer and fasting. Now it's a disputed text. We understand that. It's not found in all the witnesses of our scripture. But but if it is if it is what he really said at that point, and it fits the other thing Then it's even more clear here what I'm trying to drive at. Jesus wasn't limited in casting out this demon. Jesus didn't have to sit and pray and fast. before the demon was uh was kicked out. He said, come out of there, demon, and the demon hit the road. He was done. Jesus' faith. was not fallen. Jesus' faith as a natural man and his human nature was perfect. But fallen faith will on occasion come Up against problems that are beyond its power to fix. And in such a uh situation, our only recourse is to take it to the Lord and to give it to Him, to submit to whatever He does. But to do so in confidence. You know, that we are bold in our prayer, petitioning the Lord with zeal, even as we're prepared for Him to say no David's son was deathly ill. David had, of course, committed sin, but he prayed and he fasted. Prayer and fasting. He prayed and he fasted. And he did so. He refused all help and everything else until the Lord's will was revealed. But when that child died, He got up, he dressed himself, bathed himself, and sat down to eat. Why? He grieved over his son But the Lord had spoken. And brothers and sisters, we all, in faith, approach things like that in our life, where we are simply at the point where God God's will working through us is beyond our ability to fix. It is in God's hand, and that's okay. That has to be where we are. This is where the rubber meets the road. Our faith has fallen and therefore it is limited. But it doesn't mean we're helpless. It doesn't mean that the Lord is limited. And what he does, when he does not give us the power to accomplish what we want to happen, that means he has reserved that decision for himself. And therefore it is to him that we must direct our faith and our lives in the face of such issues. What we must gather from this is simple. Because there are some problems that are beyond the range of our fallen faith to address, it does not mean that our faith is not real It does not mean that God has deserted us. It seems simply means this. God is in charge. And it is His will that determines us When a person is to be healed and which mountain will be removed. Our faith is fallen, and therefore it is limited. And therefore We begin to think that God exists to do our bidding. In the face of that, when we begin to think that God exists to do our bidding, we will see very soon that such is not the case. Lastly, and though I will have to deal with it relatively briefly, we see that saving faith of fallen is yet nevertheless the pathway to freedom. Freedom. It's the pathway to liberty. Now, this is one of those things where you walk a fine line in what we're going to say because the scripture speaks in several different ways about it. Life in a fallen world means paying taxes. Okay? We don't like it. We don't want to do it. But we gotta do it. The temple tax collectors wanted their pound of flesh. And here's Jesus out there and they Think well we got a shot at this guy. Everybody's supposed to pay taxes, he hasn't paid taxes. So they came with their implied threats. It is like the IRS showing up on your door with a threat of intimidation. guys standing behind them and all of them are lawyers and they're carrying guns. And you know no way you're gonna drive these guys away. So they came with their implied threats and they asked Peter whether Jesus was going to pay up. Now think about that. Here's Jesus, the Lord of the temple. He's the one people go to the temple to worship. He's the glory of Israel. He's the Messiah. He's God's only begotten Son. He is the one who is appropriately to receive our worship. And these brain-dead bureaucrats want to Okay. I think Jesus just kind of smiled, shook his head at this ridiculous thing, and then he turned it to a teacher He says, Peter, do earthly kings ask their sons for taxes? The guys that are living in the palace Do he does he ask them to pay taxes? Or does he charge the people outside, the people who are not elevated to be sons of the king, the strangers? And of course, Peter said. Said, no, it's not the princes that pay taxes, it's the people that pay to keep the princes in in uh their regal robes. Now there's something important here, and like I said, I don't have time to focus on But brothers and sisters, saving faith in Jesus Christ completely frees us from ultimate obligation to any earthly power. Faith in Jesus Christ completely frees us from ultimate obligation to any earthly power. Yes, we have to pay taxes Yes, we have to submit to the authorities that God has placed over us, but only to a point. To the point of where we are serving men rather than serving God. Only to the point where the authorities depart from the legitimate sphere that God has given them to exercise. And then they ask or they seek to require us to serve them rather than serving God. At that point, we are not only free of the obligation to do that, brothers and sisters, we are absolutely Absolutely under the command of Christ Himself to resist it. Now this is not only true of government, it is true of the way that we sometimes give in to the powers that are manifested in social institutions as they seek to domin us dominate us in this life. It is true, young person, when you are Going to school and the peer pressure that you see there puts so much pressure on you to conform to things that are essentially ungodly that you can't see how in the world you could exist under that In that environment without doing as they do. Or from our families, our wider family. Or from our bosses or from our community, where social pressure is brought to bear on us to drive us to conform. When they go beyond the Brothers and sisters, saving faith, though it is limited and though it is fallen, sets us free from those Obligations. Yes, we're to honor our father and mother. That's a command, right? But what if our father and mother stands as an obstacle to serving Christ? What if our friends at school? What if our co-workers? Saving faith, though limited and fallen, sets us free of the obligation to do those things. are under no obligation to follow anyone but Christ. And we obey only obey other people only as an expression of first obeying Now that's the life of freedom. To know my self-worth, to know that my value as a person is Is not determined by whether the government says you're a good citizen, or whether your peers say that you're a nice guy, or whether they even whether you win the admiration of the world. That is an endless chase. That is a dog chasing its tail and never hoping to catch it. But Christ sets us free of all that. If you have saving faith, brothers and sisters, the Lord loves you And he thinks that your value is eternal. And he sees you as redeemed and purified and of infinite worth to him. If you are of infinite worth to the Lord Jesus Christ, why do you care what other people think about you other than as a means of expressing Your love for Christ to them in return. Do you see that? Do you see that it is possible to live a life in this world in which you are free Of the constraints that the world puts on you. Your faith is limited, your faith is fallen, but the mere fact that it is present means this is true. Your value, your importance in life is determined solely and ultimately by the Lord Jesus Christ and by no others. To quote Dr. Martin Luther King, this means, thank God Almighty, I am free at last. There's something scary in that But it's always exciting. It's this very freedom that we have in Christ that gives us room to grow in our faith. As we step out in the world, as we leave here today Today, brothers and sisters, as we begin to take stands for Christ in obedience to his will, as we begin to work in such a way as to build our faltering faith To strengthen it, to step out in it, we will see the Lord Christ vindicate us and encourage us in that. And then perhaps the very things that we hope for we will see forthcoming. But we do so within the absolute limits or within the absolute guarantee that we are free to do that. Beyond the Obligations that any worldly power can put on us. That sounds like good news. Let's pray. Lord and God, thank you for this teaching that is spread out over many verses. And Lord God, we can find encouragement in it because we so can so clearly Quickly identify with it. We ask, Lord and God, that you do, in fact, strengthen our faith, that you build us up and encourage us in it, and that even as we are about to sing That our hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. Grant, Lord God, that any who may be here today and are particularly struggling with issues that I pray, Lord God, that you will through your Holy Spirit work in and through that to convince them one way way or the other of whether they do or not. If saving faith is not present, Lord God, then I pray that you will convict them and bring them that great gift that distinguishes them. all of your children from others. And saving faith is already present, but it's being beaten down by the cares and worries of this world. I pray, Lord God, that you will. Build them up in it, and that you will bring them the comfort that is the freedom of the children of God. We ask this in your name. Amen.