Good morning everyone. If we could find our seats, scooch towards the center, and the ushers can also help you find a seat. I've got some seats up here in the front. It's good to see you all. If you could turn me down just a little bit. Thank you. It's good to see you all. Our lives are filled to the brim. I was hoping that some of your lives would be less filled because some of you are on break. a winter break of some sort, but in speaking with you they sound just as full as ever. And that's not a criticism. It's the way that it is. A lot of the times we are full with all of the various activities that are part of our life. We're very responsible people, and that is excellent. What it can do is it can crowd out any room for thought about God. What I would encourage you to do this morning is to the best of your ability, I know this is super difficult. But set those distractions aside that are waiting for you tomorrow morning or even after this service and focus on worshiping God. I promise you that he is worth your time and your attention. We don't, most of us worship during the week. Here is your opportunity. What we're going to do is we're going to look at different scripture passages in here. I'm going to read some to you You're going to hear a sermon. You're going to hear all these things about God. And there is one appropriate response. Worship. So, please listen closely, pay attention, encourage your children to worship with you, and may God be praised among us. If you find that you go through the worship service and it just seems impossible to you, will you please talk to me afterwards? Let's work on that part of the Christian life We not only need to work on who we are in all of these other ways, but we need to work on ourselves as worshipers too. Let's ask for his help. Because we all need help to worship this morning. So let's go ahead and start with prayer, and then I'll read the call to worship. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Here we are as your people gathered together on this holy day that you've set aside, and we are experts at focusing on a thousand things and not worship. We pray, therefore, that you would send your Holy Spirit to us and you would give us focus. We pray, Lord, that as we go through the scripture. scriptural readings and hear from our elder this morning and as we sing the hymns and as we sing the gloriopatry or the doxology, we pray, Lord, that we would not be tuned into something else, but that we would be Brought into the presence of you, that it would be a reality, that you would be our reality. And that our hearts would overflow with wanting to sing to you and to find hope in you and to no longer be afraid because of you. We ask, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would make our worship meaningful, in other words, that this would feel like the consummate human activity among all activities that humans engage in. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Let's stand for our call to worship from Psalm 57. I will praise you, O Lord, among the peoples. I will sing to you among the nations, for your mercy reaches on to the heavens and your truth into the clouds. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens. Let your glory be above the earth. Let's sing together, Praise the Lord, ye heavens adore him. Son report. Praise the Lord for He has spoken. World is not the voice of a All this neighbor now be broken for never Praise the Lord for he is for us every time we God has made it for us to Praise God Salvation was my problem Words and one and glory, bless me, for we are to free God and all thy praise and mercy. Amen. And let us now confess and behold our Christ from Ephesians 5. 22. Wives, submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is head of the wife, as also Christ is head of the church. And he is the Savior of the body. Therefore, just as the church is subject to Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in everything. Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for her, that he might sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of water by the word, that he might present her to himself a glorious church. Not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she should be holy and without blemish. So husbands ought to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as the Lord does the church For we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones. For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ in the church. Nevertheless, let each one of you in particular so love his own wife as himself, and let the wife see that she respects her husband Behold your Christ. Let us pray. Oh Christ, we thank you for how you love us. We thank you, Lord, that you walk among your churches seeking for justice and that what is due to your created order. And we thank you, Lord, that you mold and shape us, that we too would be just like you. Lord, we ask that you would mold and shape us during this time of confession. I pray that you would convince your people that this is a good time. That it is a time to walk away from darkness and enter into the light more and more. And we pray that you would use our elder this morning to that end. Equip him to do his work. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Good morning. So I I got the worship guide and the worship guide says you know what All the parts the worship are and it says what particular sin is the elder supposed to lead the congregation in repenting of? And uh Jesse had listed Ephesians five, twenty-two through thirty-three, which some of you might remember because we just read it. I thought, Ephesians five, sure, I looked it up and it's like, why I've submitted to you and it's like And uh just once I would like to get a topic like embezzlement. I'd be great at telling everybody not to embezzle. So I I panicked just a little bit, and I started thinking about how to approach this, and I remembered a technique from my childhood. There's a principle. You want to move as a child from great controversy to lesser controversy. So if you want a hamster, you don't say, Mom, can I have a hamster? Because the answer is going to be no. Instead what you say is, Mom, Jimmy got a ball python and it's so cool. And we could get one and I can make it a leash for it and we could let it run around the house. And then when you ask for the hamster, it's going to be very reasonable So I decided I need to pick something a lot more controversial than Ephesians five. And I thought long and hard about it and I came up with cast iron pans. Now I had no idea what I was getting into, but I I bought a cast iron pan a few years ago and I had heard something about something called seasoning or something, and I wasn't sure. Am I supposed to put paprika on it? So I googled how to care for a cast iron pan. I had no idea. People on the internet are passionate about cast iron pans. Well, if you enter into a relationship with a cast iron pan It's like adopting a child, getting married, joining a cult. If you enter in a relationship with a cast iron pan, and if you treat her right, she will form a well-ordered surface. And this is through a process called polymerization. And eggs will not stick. And if you use the pan properly, As you use it properly, the surface becomes more and more orderly. And if you abuse your cast iron pan, The surface becomes disorderly, and eggs will stick to that disorder. And so you do not want to abuse your cast iron pan. Now Cast iron pans are controversial. Ephesians 5 is controversial. I'm skipping over whether or not you should scrub it with salt and lots of other details. smoking points of oils. In the same way I'm skipping over a lot of the application through human relationships. If you think I'm saying something unloving, please come talk to me. Because I'm I had to cut out several hours of disclaimers. In the same way, God created relationships He created marriage, he created parents, he created children, and he created an order for all of these relationships And if we live within this godly order, then our relationships will become as smooth as your great-grandmother's well-seasoned cast-iron pan. And if you don't, your relationships will be rough. Husbands, love your wives. Now It's pretty straightforward when I first got married and then I started looking for footnotes after a while. And I searched all of Scripture, and Paul did not include a footnote that says, Love your wives on the days when they are lovely. Love your wives when they are so perfectly lovable that you can't help but love them. That's not what he says. In fact, he says to love your wife as Christ loves the church. And if you look at how Christ loved the church, from Genesis through Revelation and then today The bride often does not come across in a very good light. And the standard he's setting is not a low standard. It's not he does not just love us when we are the perfect bride. But Paul doesn't stop there. He loves to meddle, so he meddles some more, and he says, wives, submit to your husbands. And again, there's no footnote. Not just when he is loving you the way Christ loves the church. Not just when he is overflowing with the fruits of the Spirits. Fruits of the Spirit. Children, honor your parents. Parents, do not exasperate your children If we conform our relationships to godly order, then we will have relationships that are useful for good. But if we husbands do not love our wives that way, and if wives don't submit to their husbands, then we are abusing what God has given us. It's like putting a cast iron pan in a dishwasher. It's pan abuse. Now there's a whole lot more to be said. Uh so if you have time, read the Westminster Confession of Faith, Larger Catechism on the Fifth Commandment. It gets into in expanding of what it means to honor your father and mother and I admit the first time I read it it was like drinking Tabasco Straight. It was like this there's no this ain't right. And then I looked through all the scripture references and I I grew a lot. It was really painful. I highly recommend it. But let us come together before God and repent of not properly caring for the good relationships that He has given us in the way that He has told us to. Let us pray. Lord God, we confess that we are abusers. We abuse the relationships that you have given us, and we create disorder. In Severn Run, husbands abuse their wives by not loving them And wives abuse their husbands by not submitting to them. And we find this same abuse, this pattern in all of our relationships, as parents As children, as employees, as managers, as citizens As people with authority and people under authority, and even as friends and neighbors. Above all else, we have abused our relationship with you. Lord God, our hearts long for godly order. For well seasoned and smooth relationships. We repent before you Let us learn, Lord God, your word. And let us look to Naomi, to Ruth, and to Boaz. As our grandparents in the faith, and learn to imitate them as they imitated you. Now, Lord God, hear the prayers of your people. As we come before you silently in our hearts, confessing our abuses. In Jesus' name, we hope, we trust, and we pray. Amen. It's a terrible thing to realize how we've treated God and how we've treated our neighbor. But God does not leave us there. Also, from the hand of Paul, God tells us, therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we also have access by faith into this grace in which we stand and rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. And not only that, but we also glory in tribulations, knowing that tribulation produces perseverance. And perseverance Character. And character, hope. Now hope does not disappoint. Because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit, who is given to us. Let us stand and sing the response like a glorious like a river glorious. It's a good thing. Why he does he call us for a girl So I'm gonna go to the house. From the age of a lot of people. We make a thousand I need a department. The Usher, please come forward as we sing the doxology. And all preachers give me all praise Lord God, we bring our tithes and our offerings for you in submission to your word and with love for you. Lord God, you have made many promises attached to this act of worship of bringing you our tithes. And we hope in your promises, and we know that your hope does not disappoint. Lord God, take our tithes and offerings and multiply them. Take our obedience and multiply it. And season our relationship with you and with our neighbor. And may your kingdom come. Amen. And one is now shall we have to be able to do that. Please remain standing for the reading of the word and children through age three are now dismissed to industry. Let's turn together to Ruth chapter three. Beginning in Ruth 3, verse 1. Then Naomi, her mother-in-law, said to her, My daughter, shall I not seek security for you that it may be well with you? Now Boaz, whose young women you were with, is he not our relative? In fact, he is widowing barley tonight at the threshing floor. Therefore, wash yourself and anoint yourself. Put on your best garment and go down to the threshing floor. But do not make yourself known to the man until he has finished eating and drinking. Then it shall be when he lies down that you shall notice the place where he lies, and you shall go in, uncover his feet, and lie down, and he will tell you what you should do. And she said to her, All that I say, and she said to her, All that you say to me, I will do. So she went down to the threshing floor, did according to all her mother-in-law instructed her And after Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was cheerful, he went to lie down at the end of the heap of grain, and she came softly, uncovered his feet, and lay down. Now it happened at midnight that the man was startled and turned to himself. And there a woman was lying at his feet. And he said, Who are you? So she answered, I am Ruth, your maidservant. Take your maidservant under your wing, for you are a close relative. Then he said, Blessed are you of the Lord, my daughter, for you have shown more kindness at the end than at the beginning, and that you did not go after young men, whether poor or rich. And now, my daughter, do not fear. I will do for you all that you request, for all the people of my town know that you are a virtuous woman. Now it is true that I am a close relative. However, there is a relative closer than I Stay this night, and in the morning, and it shall be that if he will perform the duty of a close relative for you, good. Let him do it. But if he does not want to perform the duty for you, then I will perform the duty for you as the Lord lives. Lie down until morning. So she lay at his feet until morning, and she arose before one could recognize another. Then he said, Do not let it be known that the women the woman came to the threshing floor. Also he said, Bring the shawl that is on you and hold it. And when she held it, he measured six ephafs of barley, and laid it on her. Then she went into the city. When she came to her mother in law, she said, Is that you, my daughter? Then she told her all that the man had done for her, and she said, These six ephas of barley he gave me, for he said to me, Do not go away empty handed to your mother in law. Then she said, Sit still, my daughter, until you know how the matter will turn out, for the man will not rest until he has concluded the matter this day. Let's pray. Oh Lord Christ, we are in desperate need of knowing how to relate to each other. Our era is an era of chaos, and that includes our relationships. Please teach us, Lord, may your spirits Bring these things to our very heart, and may me be may we be transformed by you on the spot. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. We ended last week with a few questions. One of which is, what is the work that God will work through you? In what ways are you God's wing to those around you? As we experience emptiness and bitterness within this world, God the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit ordinarily fills and he makes our lives pleasant again. By working through the work of each other. That is how the two fit together Now we continue our story this morning and we learn more about how to make it through the dark days of the judges. And so I'd like to start with just a few observations as normal. And then I believe I have three points of application today. So let's just make a few observations here about the story. The first observation is about verses one through five. The scene begins with Naomi expressing concern for Ruth's security. Oh, what a great sign that is. You remember when she was just kind of bitter and had no real words for anyone? Naomi was bitter due to God's afflictions, but through the loyalty of God, working through the work of Boaz and Ruth, Naomi, as you can see on the pages here, and as the story unfolds, Naomi is recovering and she is becoming pleasant again. What a great thing to see. She, in fact, is now seeking for Ruth to have a pleasant life. She's received so much from the Lord that now Naomi has something to give. What a great sight to see. To that end, Naomi put together a plan for Ruth to hatch. Before we outline the plan, let me just get this out of the way. that if you read the story correctly, there are no romantic innuendos happening here. None that are inappropriate anyway. As Americans, we can turn anything into an inappropriate innuendo. We have a weird ability to do so, but that's not what is happening here within this story. We have seen time and time again that Ruth is not that kind of a woman. That's not who these characters are in the sunrise that is taking place in the book of Ruth. These people are full of nobility and honor. They know how to conduct themselves with their bodies. With that out of the way, I'll just mention that Naomi gives an initial three-step plan. She says, take a bath, put on perfume, wear your best garment. Did you notice that? That's where she starts. I love it. I think that the most likely explanation for this is that Naomi is moving Ruth out of her working garments and morning garments. She's wearing something, I think, to show that she was in mourning for her husband. And Naomi is saying, it's time to put on something different. Because there's a new season entering into your life where we're done mourning for your late husband, and it's time to be with someone new. And Ruth, for whatever various reasons in God's providence, is ready for this. So she makes herself available again for marriage. Now Naomi continues explaining to Ruth that she should visit Boaz, she should wait till he is asleep, she should uncover his feet while he is lying down in the same area, and all of that is a bit of a mystery. for us, but which will be explained here in a minute. So this brings us to verses 6 through 9 in the second observation. Ruth puts Naomi's plan into effect. Boaz returns from a full day's work. He ends up having a full meal. He has some wine. His heart is cheerful. I think what he's doing is he has looked out at this full harvest He's got food on the table, wine in the cup. He's just living the good life. So he goes to bed fat and happy, basically. Which was to be expected. And you can see there in the passage that he falls asleep at the end of a pile of grain. That's his grain. Ruth sneaks into the room. Now this is very interesting. I didn't know if I was going to mention it, but apparently I am This is the same verb that is used of JL when she snuck into the tent to put a tent peg in that guy's head. So I think if you were reading this in the Hebrew, you'd be like, well, wait a second, what's she getting ready to do here? What's Naomi's plan? But there's no tent peg. This is a romantic comedy. And so at uh she l she uncovers uh actually the whole all of his legs. Okay, she uncovers his legs. She lays down at his feet. And at midnight, when it's pitch black, there's a chill that enters into the air, I believe. And Boaz catches that chill from his exposed legs. He sits up. It's dark. He doesn't know who it is, but there's a figure at his feet, and he can see that it's a woman. So he says, Who are you? And Ruth replies, I am Ruth, your maidservant. Take your maidservant under your wing, for you are a close relative. This is very bold. She has officially just proposed to Boaz. But that's actually not the focus here. The focus is, let me read it to you again, take your maidservant under your wing. We have seen that word before. The wing is the focus. It's the focus of understanding all that's going on within the passage and really the book. It is a marvelously ambiguous word. If you were to look it up in a dictionary or a some kind of lexicon dealing with the Hebrew language, you know it could mean the wing of a bird. We talked about that last time, especially a motherly wing of a bird. over her chicks. But it can also mean a garment or it can mean a blanket or a skirt of some sort or cloak. Those kinds of things. So what you end up having here, when you see the scene and you see how she's playing with the word by asking for marriage, but he's also no longer has his cloak over top of his legs. is that she is engaging in a marvelously staged living metaphor in what she's seeking to frame in terms of how he she wants him to move forward with life Here's the basic meaning or message that she's given to him if you take all the symbolism involved. Boaz, just as you felt cold and startled and you could not sleep because you have no covering. so too am I uncovered. I am cold, and I ask that you would be my covering or wing by marrying me. When you cover your legs again to stay warm, cover me too, so that I am no longer exposed. She's brilliant. She got the idea from Naomi. What a pleasant idea. What a pleasant plan. That's the second thing I wanted you to notice. Now you can really understand what's going there in the threshing floor. Here's the third thing, and this is verses 12 or 10 through 15. Boaz responds with a blessing in verse 10, understanding Ruth's actions not as illicit, but in line with the reports all over town. Look at verse 11. We all know that you are a virtuous or a noble woman. Now, this is really interesting also This phrase here, virtuous woman, is only mentioned in two other places in Scripture, and they are both in Proverbs. I'm going to read them to you. The very first one is Proverbs 12, verse 4. An excellent wife is the crown of her husband. That's the first one. And here is the second one, and this should be surprising to you. I get all giddy about this one. This one is from Proverbs 31, and it refers to the Proverbs 31 woman. Who can find a virtuous wife, for her worth is far above rubies And this is one of the reasons, we see this language here, this is one of the reasons why in some Bibles you will find the book of Ruth arranged right after the book of Proverbs. Because what they're essentially saying by that arrangement is, do you want to know what the Proverbs 31 woman looks like? Do you want to know what wisdom looks like? The book of Ruth. And there it is. Anyway, Boaz loves the idea, but he needs to straighten out a legal matter. And what you should be hearing at this point, if this were put together by an American filmmaker, would be dun dun dun There would be all of this suspense. There's another relative that's actually closer in line. Will they be kept from their magnificent love? He needs to consult with him. And in the meantime, Boaz makes a vow in verse 13 because he's really serious about this. He wants this to happen. So he confirms the vow by giving Ruth much grain. And then in the rest of the verses, the scene closes with Ruth reporting to Naomi. Everyone is on the edge of their seats, and now they're just waiting for the successful completion of the plan, and Naomi is quite thrilled. She's becoming more and more pleasant as the story goes on, changing as a character. Now here we are with this beautiful story. And it's meant to start to answer for us these various questions that have arisen in the course of the story. Let me remind you of a couple. How does the church make it through emptiness and bitterness? When we enter into an era that's like the era of the judges, how will we make it through, whether you're a church or an individual? How can we become pleasant again? Well, we've already answered in earlier sermons. Number one, it will be through God's loyalty to you. That's always going to be the answer Number two, it is also going to be our loyalty to each other. That's also the answer. And then in the last sermon, we asked the question, well, aren't those two things Don't they have tensions with each other? Sure, that's fine, but there's no tensions for God. God is loyal by way of working through your loyalty. God works through our work God does not destroy free will, but rather upholds it. That's what our confession says. Now here's another question. That's really what we're answering this morning. What does that loyalty to each other look like? We've talked about it generally speaking. We're all on board with the virtue of loyalty. But what does it look like specifically? Here you go. Here's your model. And that leads us to our doctrine this morning. When you see someone exposed to the harsh elements of the world, you cover them so that they can flourish again. So that they can be pleasant. That's what it looks like. It's not even loyalty for its own sake. It's loyalty It's what I'm saying is that virtue is toward an end. And the end is human goodness and happiness, defined by God. How does uh uh when you see people exposed to the harsh elements of the world, you cover them so that they can flourish. You cover them so that they can flourish. Now, what I'd like to do is I'd like to talk about that under three main points of application. And I was able to use the same first letter in all of them. Flowers, families, and fathers. So that'll be the structure for this portion. Flowers, families, and fathers. When you see someone exposed to the harsh elements of the world, you cover them so that they can flourish. What a beautiful image Now that word flourish, let's start with the main point or the first application, which is flowers. That word flourish is derived from the word flower. The idea is that the flower is able to move from just being a plant with a bud to a bud opening into a beautiful flower. And what is it that it takes in order for that to be able to happen? That little moment right there, when they're just opened up in beauty toward the world. This ends up providing an excellent illustration for us that we should use as a model in all of our relationships. And it reminds me of a further illustration of my adventures with peach trees in Maryland. A few seasons ago the trees formed buds. They were about to bloom. It was going to be glorious. I had visions of peaches dancing in my head. and all the things I was going to do with do do with them. But then I heard the weather guy say, a deep frost is anticipated in the do-do-do region. And so I called the local farm store and I asked, are you worried about your fruit trees over there at the farm store? And what should we do? And they said, we're not worried about our trees because we put them by the front road, which has a microclimate And it keeps them warm, but we don't know about you. You're probably gonna lose everything. Thanks so much. They did tell me that I needed to cover those peach trees with a frost covering, or all of the buds are going to fall off and I'm going to lose all of my dreams. So that's what I did. I went out when it was really windy and I tried to cover all these trees and the plan was successful too. The frost came and went, the buds bloomed, and the peaches grew. And I will talk about this another time, but the squirrels and the birds ate all of them. Except except for the two. Except for the two. My friend keeps them off with an electric blanket. Let's call it an electric blanket It keeps and that's a different sermon. But for this sermon they grew. I did get a chance to eat a couple of them. They were delicious. And it provides, most importantly, for us this morning, a clear picture. When someone may be exposed to the deep frosts of this world, we cover them with a frost blanket And you have just got to think through what is God calling you to use as a frost blanket in that particular situation. And the assumption there is that you are actually paying attention to the people around you. The question though is what is the frost blanket in real life? The frost blanket What we end up seeing primarily within this passage, and actually throughout much of the scriptures, the frost blanket ends up being something That may surprise you and is largely under attack today. And that is the various families to which we belong in our life. And that brings me to the second point of application, moving from flowers to families. What is the primary blanket or who's going to do it? And it's going to end up being the different families of which were apart. When I say family, I don't just mean the nuclear family. I include not only that, but the church family and our civic family. They are all kinds of societies which God has built into the created order as a kind of frost blanket so that we can bloom. And here's the main point about this. We talked earlier in uh in sermons that a primary part of Hasid or loyalty is that we obligate ourselves to each other when technically there's no obligation that actually exists. We're righteous in the way that Proverbs talks about it in that we see something wrong, and though we are not necessarily the person to do anything about it. We love goodness and righteousness and we want to see people flourish, so we obligate ourselves into the relationship, and that's called loyalty. Here, what I'm pointing out, especially because of the way this is unfolding in Ruth, is that there are some relationships that God has already given you an obligation, and I'm calling those families. You have an obligation to those who share your last name, for example. You have an obligation to those who are here together because we've all taken vows to that end. God has chosen you to be here. And then there's one more, as citizens, we have a kind of uh obligation to each other. uh in this nation and in this county. And that's what I mean by family is that there's this obligation, this created order or created structure that God does not want to see go away. That is meant to be the frost blanket when we're exposed at various levels. Now I want you to consider Proverbs 31 as a picture. I want you to remember that when Boaz calls Ruth a virtuous or noble woman, the only other time we see this word is in Proverbs, and that is especially true in the consummation of Proverbs. in chapter 31. In that proverb, King Lemuel's mother is concerned that her son marries a noble woman. And then starting in verse 10 and ending in verse 31, the proverb portrays a small businesswoman, actually. Now I ended up witnessing an excellent picture of this small business idea among the family when my family when Holly and I visited New York City and we visited what is called the tenement section, I believe. We toured old apartments of a Jewish community who came to America and located in New York City. And each home was set up not like a man cave, but as a small business. The home that I visited, they had a tailor's uh a tailor's shop. They tailored clothes and they also made clothes right there in the living room. The whole thing was set up to where the whole family was working in order to provide clothes for the to be able to sell to that particular community. The proverb is showing the same kind of picture here. It continues showing That this noble woman's home is so well run that she not only helps her immediate family, but is able to help those who are needy in other families. That could even just be the general community. If you look at Proverbs 31, it mentions that she helps the needy The noble woman is like a kind of tree. And the tree has grown up. It has been nurtured. It's in an environment where she can thrive. And she's bearing all this fruit. to where her children and her husband can eat from her. But there's so much left over that the community has to be invited in to enjoy the fruit also. That's the picture. From her, the whole family is filled. There's so much fruit left over that she ends up being a nurturer and a bearer of life for her nation in a sense. Now, the real question becomes: okay, we can see the woman as a frost blanket. She is related to Eve, who is the mother of the living, and so it's right that she would from her would come forth life, not just in giving birth, but all through her life. She's a life-giver. But where's the man? What about the man? Well, Proverbs 31, 10 through 31, I've mentioned this to you before, is the kind of a poem that has a center. It starts out on two ends and it comes to a point. And guess who is at the center? It is her husband. It says this, Proverbs chapter 31, verse 23. Her husband is known in the gates when he sits among the elders of the land. Now usually when we read that as a modern person, we immediately think, oh great, she's doing all the work, and he gets to sit in the center. But you're missing the picture. That is not what is going on here. Number one, of course the husband works in the small business too, but here in the gates, in addition to the regular work that he would have at his hands, the husband works with the elders. to make sure that the church and the civic society and all of the families that are around him remain just and good. He is a protector of the interests of the Commonwealth. And that is needed because let me ask you this question. What would you do if you were a husband that had a small business and you watched how hard your wife worked? And then there were thieves in the city who just took everything from her. Or what if she couldn't even walk the streets to be able to sell the goods that you have made because of the corrupt people that were in the town who never received any penalties? What you end up seeing here at the center, along with the elders, is the husband making sure that everyone around him can flourish. That they're not eating each other alive in the pursuit of what God has given to them in dominion If thieves prevailed, or if people were murdering each other, or if they allowed bad business practices, or if they allowed heresy to spread like gang green, then no matter how hard people worked They would be cheated and there would be no progress. The orchards of human society would have blight and be diseased, and there would be no more fruit. And so God established various levels of society into the created order so that we can bloom as God intends. And those various levels in society I'm calling families. That is what we're seeing here on the pages of the book of Ruth. And it brings me to my final point, which is fathers It would be wrong to not pay attention to the specificity of Ruth. Ruth does not go to the threshing floor And find another woman and uncover her legs and say, Will you be my wing? She finds a man and does that. It is important that we acknowledge the specificity. of the structure of Proverbs 31, at the center of Proverbs 31, making sure that everyone else can flourish is a man. Now that scares some of you terribly. And that brings us to our next point here, which I have titled Fathers I want to point out the obvious and what many find frightening fact. Fathers are at the center of the pictures that are given to you today in the scriptures Now, when I say father, I'm meaning that to be a broad inclusion of people. A father in the scriptures is not just a man with children It refers to those who are responsible for various societies, including elders, for example. They are placed in the center Because God gave them responsibility to make sure that with all of their being and with all of their might and with all of their strength And with all of their wisdom, those societies would remain healthy and they would remain good. That's why they're in the center, all the way through the scriptures. Well, Jesse, what about the New Testament era? Doesn't all this shift? There's no more male nor female in Christ. Look at our passage, Ephesians chapter 5 and 6 on your own time, and look at who is receiving the bulk of the responsibility. with their name being called forth over and over and over and over again, it is the man who is at the center. The husband is addressed over and over and over again. The father is addressed over and over and over again in Ephesians. That, I'm here to tell you this morning, is the created order. It is what God's intends. God intends. Men By nature, they are meant to work diligently to make sure that everyone around them is able to flourish. That's our job. If I ever have the guts, perhaps the stupidity, of preaching the Song of Solomon from the pulpit, you will find the same thing present. The man stands in the center of the community like a mighty oak, and the children and women gather underneath of him. And that stands for multiple things. In the created order, men by nature are meant to work diligently to make sure that everyone around them is able to flourish. And this is why Ruth went into the threshing room and he exposed she exposed Boaz's legs. She, through a symbolic gesture, alerts him to the fact that she is exposed to the harsh realities of life and she needs him to act so that she and Naomi can thrive. And being a good man, he does intend to act. Now let me ask you a question. Are you afraid for Ruth that a man is at the center of her life? Are you afraid? Is Ruth a picture of an outdated and primitive kind of woman And we're more sophisticated than that now? Are you afraid that she has Boaz at the center of her life? That's a major question because this is a romantic comedy. You don't get to the end of the comedy and you hate the that the couple's together. You need to answer that seriously. I would say that largely your first impulse, because of the great work that the narrator has done is that you're not afraid that she's marrying Boaz and that Boaz is at the center. But let me ask you why. Because he's good. He's going, he's not going to take advantage of her. She will truly be able to flourish when he has responsibility He is righteous. I've told you in one of the earlier sermons that he is Torah living. He is the Ten Commandments embodied. That's who he is in this story. What is frightening for us, what is frightening and what frightens women and children is when unrighteous men are in the Center. And let me tell you, I get scared too when that's the case. Unrighteous men are still in the center, but they use center in the sense of life revolves around me. Unrighteous men use everyone around them or most people around them to get what they selfishly want. That's not the picture here. That's not what it means to be in the center. If you want to act that way as a man, then at a certain point God in his righteousness who is at the center, Christ Himself will remove you from the center. You will lose your responsibilities because you were faithless even in little. The scriptures speak about the shepherds, for example, in the prophets, and the problem with the shepherds who are kings and priests is that they eat the sheep. And so what does Jesus do when he shows up? He removes them from the center. And he replaces them. These are the kinds of men, and they mainly acknowledge that they rule and they are the head of the house. But they do so when it suits them for their selfish ambitions and not when other people need to be served. If you want to find a real head of the house, You look for someone who steps out in front first, to take care of everyone. They have officially taken on themselves what it means to be ahead May that poor picture of the unrighteous man never be present among us in any form of a family. Or if they are, may they be led to repentance. Instead, may husbands and fathers and officers be like Christ, who nurtures and cares. for various political bodies of which they are the center. Now, let me ask a couple questions. Let me address this first to the men. Let me make a clarification. Just because you're a man doesn't mean you're in charge of everybody. Listen, unless it's a very special situation, I don't need you telling my wife what to do. Okay? I got this. And it's the same thing with my children. I largely got that too. There are moments where I'm fine for them to receive correction from you. But you need to have good boundaries. Just because you're a man doesn't mean you get to tell everybody what to do. And if you try to cross the boundary, I'll let you know. There are certain places within your life, however, that God has ordained that you do have a responsibility. That's another word for headship. Responsibility. I like that word better. Those to whom you are responsible, are they exposed and struggling right now? I want you, maybe think of yourself as a father, for example. Look at your family. What is going on in your family? Do they look like they need some help? What are you doing with all of your heart and with all of your strength and all of your might to make sure that they have a good life in Christ? What are you sacrificing to make sure that it happens? What patience are you demonstrating? What forbearance are you giving? When are you getting up and rising and acting? What are all the means and tools that you're using at your disposal? What are the resources? What wise counsel have you sought How much time are you spending to be able to solve it? Those are the kind of questions that you should be asking. Let's say that you're a son. Let's say that you're a son that has moved outside of the home. Do you know that when we look at the scriptures, that, for example, if your mother and uh your let's say your dad passed away and your mom is a widow now, Do you know that she is your primary responsibility, children? Take a look at the letters to Timothy. The time that the church steps in is when the family cannot do so or is unwilling. Then the church comes in. You see how all this is organized? What responsibility are you taking for the well-being of those around you? Let's talk about how we raise up our young men. Are our young men in our homes and in our Christian schools, are the classes that they are taking and the relationships that they have formed, are they leading to men who can judge justly Allowing the people who will be with them to flourish. Or are they a joke? Let me ask this question. How much are you allowing our current culture to infect the work that men are supposed to do? Let me ask you this. What disordered woman or disordered man is actually taking away the God-given responsibilities to men? And how are you allowing them to do so through your compassion? Do you not realize that we're not just talking about one thing going wrong here? that it is possible that you are joining a group of people that are undermining the very foundations of society itself? When you take away from a man his responsibility to make sure that people flourish? It says in Proverbs That the virtuous woman is a crown to her husband's head. Right after that verse, in the same proverb, it says, A wicked woman is a woman who rots out his bones. Are there people in our society today that are seeking to rot out the God-given structures to society? And are you enabling them? Because you want more nuance. Who around you is exposed to the harsh realities of life? Now you can start to broaden out because We're supposed to learn from everybody's example. Whether you are a man or you are a woman, what blanket or wing has God given to you in order to be able to cover them? And I'll just end with this. Oh Christian, have you not been covered by Christ? Why has he given you such strength? Did he not cover you so that you might have strength to cover each other? Not so that you can have more toys. Here's the truth. When you see someone exposed to the harsh elements of the world, you should cover them so that they can flourish. May this be so among us, and may it be in accordance with God's created order. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Lord God, I pray that you would make Severn Run a congregation that speaks the truth. And that lives the truth. Lord, the church, your church and your name has been drugged through the mud. Lord, this world is claiming that the way that you have set things up is abhorrent. And that you are stupid, that you lack wisdom That society should be set up a different way And Lord, we understand in part why they're saying that, because there have been so many unrighteous men in the center. O Lord Jesus Christ, I pray that you would raise up a church that fights for justice. I pray that you would bring back honor and dignity. Lord, when we look back at old newscasts, we see people who were serious. Lord, would you make us serious again? Would you give us gravitas Lord, give us the courage to be able to do so. And I pray, Lord, by that movement of your spirit among us, that our relationships would flourish. That our children would thrive, that our women would be happy That men would find significance and meaning in their life through the hard responsibilities of life. And I pray, Lord, that a watching world would look at us and say, we want to be with Christ too. because we see how good your life is. Oh Lord God, that's a big prayer, but I pray that you would bring it about. Ask these things. In your name. Amen. Let's stand and prepare for the supper. More love to thee, O Christ. And I'd ask it all of you to prepare the table. This is my love Christ. Sweet on my husband, sweet Yes, we are Amen. You may be see them. Let us give thanks for this table. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for sending your only begotten Son. We thanked you, Christ, for taking upon yourself human nature and doing your good work. Lord, here we find you at the center And I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would use these elements that you've provided to us to nurture and to tend to your bride, the church. I ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. This is the table of the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the one who determines who shall sup with him from this table, and it's in accordance with its main meaning. The main meaning is that he's given to us this table so that we as Christians, as we await for his return and keep working diligently, to follow him by the power of his spirit, that we would not feel like we have been left to fend for ourselves. That we would not feel like orphans. This is to strengthen us and to remind us of all of the benefits of the covenant of grace. Of which we are part because we have been by the Spirit united to Christ. And here Christ communes with us. I want you to notice, whether you're a Christian or a non-Christian this morning, that at the center of the room here Is one who has been broken that the whole world could flourish. This is what it means to be a man And this is what it means to be his bride, the church. We also, of course, learn this is what it means to be a woman. It means loyalty to each other. Today we just focused on one aspect of that loyalty, focusing in on the role of men within the created order. But here we see that all of those things, whether we're talking about men or women or the created order, that they all derive their meaning from someone who is above them all. And it is Jesus Christ. Paul really meant it when we read in Ephesians. He says, I tell you, this is a mystery, but I'm talking about Christ in the church. Well, here he is, your Savior. Jesus Christ does not want non-Christians to eat from this table. You have not committed yourself to him. You have not believed in him. But his call goes forth every day. For you to find your rest in him. Now here, I guarantee this. If you are living in life without Christ, you are exposed. I know that you are. And that can show up in a lot of different ways. You can be confused, and then there's a thousand other things that are a problem. I encourage you, I plead with you, come to Christ. Let him be your covering. Or may he be your covering. Our Christ gives us, by way of the Apostle Paul, a warning about his table. Designating this table just for his followers. Therefore, whoever eats this bread or drinks this cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to himself, not discerning the Lord's body For this reason many are weak and sick among you, and many die. And so when the plates go around, if you're not a follower of Christ, please do not partake of the bread and the wine or the grape Jews. But if you are Christ's follower, then this supper is for you. It is to strengthen you. And I'm going to just move away from human relationships and announce to you again, look at what Christ has done. Look at how he is like a tree planted in the center of the world. And every nation is eating from his fruits. Every nation is becoming healthy. Because of the work and the sacrifice that He has done. I understand the sin that you have wrestled with this past week. I wrestled with my own sin Do you know what we get to do here today because of Jesus Christ? We get to say that we are not condemned and that our consciences are clear because He has paid for our sins. And it's not just sins that he wipes away, he is transforming you to be glorious. C. S. Lewis said that if the angels could see you the way that you will be when Christ is done with you, they would be tempted to worship you. That is how glorious Christ shall make you. Thank God that He is at the center. And as we take the sacrament, may we remember that His order is is the best possible order. And may we just follow him. We're going to distribute the bread first. The distribution is also a sign that you are not just hearing about the covenant, but that you are a member of this covenant and you receive all of the blessings. So as you receive this, may you be blessed. The brothers are going to pass the bread out. The small cup is gluten-free. And after the words of institution, we'll eat together. Thanks, brothers. So Uh first, first, third, third, five. For I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you. That the Lord Jesus, on the same night in which he was betrayed, he took bread. And when he had given thanks, he broke it. And he said, Take, eat. This is my body which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me Okay. Let us take and eat. Oh Lord Jesus Christ. Without your brokenness, there would be no liberty for us, male or female. Lord, we are all one in you, in our salvation. We thank you, Christ, for being the life giver that you are. You saw that the human race needed a wing. And you have done all that is necessary to cover us. We thank you, Lord Jesus Christ, for being our kinsman Redeemer. We thank you for pointing us to you by way of Boaz. And Lord among the world, since we are one with you and one with each other. May we show the world that we are the noble bride and virtuous. And Lord, may we be fruitful. In the name of Christ, Amen. We also have the cup. The outer rings are wine and the clear glasses. The colored glasses are grape juice. And we'll take this together after the words of institution as a family. Five plus I gotta do this Maybe we see that In the same manner, he also took the cup after supper. saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. This do as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Let us take and drink. O Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for your great work. We are thrilled that you are at the right hand of the Father and all authority in heaven and earth has been given to you. We are exalted in joy that you have sent your Holy Spirit to us. We pray, Lord Jesus Christ. That you would bring blessing to this earth as we as your people exercise dominion according to the order that you have established. We pray especially, Lord, that you would make our women happy. We pray, Lord, that we would have among the church the happiest women in the world. And that men and children would rise up and call them blessed for all of the life that they bring. And we ask, Lord, that you would allow that to happen. By making men real men. Restore your world, Christ. Bring us your created order, even with temporary intrusions. We long to see you face to face. In the name of Christ, Amen. Let us stand and praise our Lord. I'm gonna roll the world I have made. I see a straw, I hear the rolling brother. I don't know how you never. Proper thou, break thou, let's make twice all my name to me. The power rate of all the power. When we call and glory I wonder and dear wonder things we can treat. When I look down on the city, I'm not sure. And we love and we have praise. Lens my soul, I saved your life to me. And where I play, thy brightest sun must have read, spending to die, I spare. I was able by burning blackly where we stay away by sleep. There's been thy soul might be And since my soul might say the rise to me, I'll break the When Christoph is now the back blood made and take me home, what joy shall will I want? But then I shall thou in humble high glory and their wrong thing My God and since my soul take your love to me I'll break down, I'll break down all things like so. Amen. And now receive the Lord's benediction. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God the Father and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all. Amen. Amen.