Actually, you know what, I'm just gonna read all of it. I won't skip I won't skip that part in the section. We'll just read the whole thing, but starting in verse 21. Now when Jesus had crossed over again by boat to the other side, a great multitude gathered to him, and he was by the sea. And behold, one of the rulers of the synagogue came, Jairus by name And when he saw him, he fell at his feet and begged him earnestly, saying, My little daughter lies at the point of death. Come and lay your hands on her that she may be healed And she will live. So Jesus went with him, and a great multitude followed him and thronged him. Now a certain woman had a flow of blood for twelve years, and had suffered many things from many physicians She had spent all that she had, and was no better, but rather grew worse. When she heard about Jesus, she came behind him in the crowd and touched his garment. For she said, If only I may touch his clothes, I shall be made well. Immediately the fountain of her blood was dried up, and she felt in her body that she was healed of the affliction And Jesus, immediately knowing in himself that power had gone out of him, turned around in the crowd and said, Who touched my clothes? But his disciples said to him, You see the multitude thronging you, and you say, Who touched me? And he looked around to see her who had done this thing But the woman, fearing and trembling, knowing what had happened to her, came and fell down before him, and told him the whole truth. And he said to her, Daughter, your faith has made you well. Go in peace and be healed of your affliction. While he was still speaking, some came from the ruler of the synagogue's house, who said, Your daughter is dead. Why trouble the teacher any further As soon as Jesus heard the word that was spoken, he said to the ruler of the synagogue, Do not be afraid, only believe. And he permitted no one to follow him except Peter, James, and John, the brother of James. Then he came to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and saw a tumult, and those who wept and wailed loudly. When he came in, he said to them, Why make this commotion and weep? The child is not dead, but sleeping. And they ridiculed him. But when he had put them all outside, he took the father and the mother of the child and those who were with him and entered where the child was lying. Then he took the child by the hand and said to her, Talitha, kumi, which is translated, Little girl, I say to you, arise. Immediately the girl arose and walked, for she was twelve years of age, and they were overcome with great amazement. But he commanded them strictly that no one should know it, and said that something should be given her to eat God's holy word for God's holy people. Let us pray. Oh Lord, thank you for this word. Thank you for preserving it for us. Thank you for giving us this account of the faith of these people. Lord, I cannot wait to meet Jairus and this unnamed woman in heaven. To hear from them all the details of what you did after this account. And let yet, Lord, we we have plenty here. To give us great encouragement in you, and to give us joy in who you are and what you are doing. I pray, Lord, that you will open up these words, this your word to us tonight by your Holy Spirit. And Lord, I pray, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. We come to you in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. I don't know if anybody uses this term anymore. Kids, have you ever heard the phrase rain on your parade? Yeah. Does it feel good when somebody comes and reigns on your parade? Oh, I get some shaking heads. No, that means that you're you know you're really excited about something. That's your parade. And somebody like me comes along and Mr. Buzzkill. tells you how that's not that exciting or it's not really that great or yeah well that book was was disapproved by the treaties in nineteen ninety three. Something like that. It makes sense to us that someone would say rain on your parade, because the parade is a wonderful thing and then rain comes along and it ruins it. But it makes sense to us. Makes sense to us that this would become a phrase, because this happens all the time. Has it ever happened to you that you were really excited about something and then someone came along and I don't know, maybe it was a band. You were real excited about this band. Oh gosh, I just love Weezer. Weezer's the best band ever. And then you tell somebody about it and they come along and they go, oh, that's a pretty dumb band. And then you go, well like I kinda like 'em. They're well, they're not that great. It happens. And we'd have to ask ourselves if one person's opinion changes ours, do we really have an opinion? To put it into the context of the passage we just read, if you believe something, and someone comes along and says something else that's different. And immediately you change what you believed. Did you ever actually believe that first thing? In other words, if your faith can be shaken by someone who's telling you that they don't think it's that great, do you have real faith? Well, Mark has been giving us these snapshots, pictures, episodes in Jesus' life and ministry to show us clearly that He is the Christ, the Son of God. He does what only God can do. You remember what's happened so far in Mark. He's cleansed lepers. He forgave a man's sins, and to prove that he had that power, he healed him from his paralysis. Restored his legs. Jesus has been teaching with great authority and great wisdom, authority and wisdom that no one had ever witnessed before. Even the wind and the waves obey this man, Jesus. A storm was calmed at his command. He says, be silent, and the wind and the waves are silent. In chapter 5, we are seeing Christ's power to reverse the effects of the fall. I know it was with a little while now, but we had looked at the episode of the Gathering Demoniac and we saw that Jesus has the power to conquer depravity. He liberated that poor demon-possessed man. And he restored him to humanity. And a few weeks ago we saw Jesus conquer the suffering and the misery. That comes from the fall. And we saw this in the episode of this woman who had the twelve-year flow of blood. That's why I decided to read it again. This is all one unit here in the passage. Though we've already addressed that particular account. Jesus not only healed her body, but if you look there at verse 34, he cleansed her. He calls her daughter, indicating that she belongs to him and that she is part of his household. Literally, the Greek there says that her faith saved her. And we see that she was indeed saved. She left at peace with God. And tonight in this passage before us, we will see again. Christ Jesus conquering the saddest and most calamitous effect of the fall. What is that? It's death. Jesus Christ can conquer death. And so we will see in this episode, in this passage tonight, that faith in Jesus Christ can drive away the believers' hopelessness and fear, revealing the reality of his awesome power. Christian, faith in Jesus Christ can drive away your hopelessness and your fear. Revealing to you the reality of his awesome power. We're going to look at this under three headings tonight. We'll look first at verses 21 to 24, in which we explore the faith in Jesus Christ. And then we'll go to verses 35 to 37. We'll explore hopelessness and fear. And then in verses 38 through 43, we will encounter God's awesome. So let's together look first at verses 21 to 24 and see the faith in Jesus Christ. And the first thing that we notice is we notice a generic sense of faith. There's a whole lot of believing going on. Look at verse 21. When Jesus crossed over again, he came over by boat, he comes back to the side, and there's another great multitude gathered to him. It's not clear what the multitudes believe about Jesus, but what is clear is they gather to him. And he can't seem to escape these great crowds. At the very least, they realize that there is something special about Jesus. They may not know exactly what it is, but they are willing to gather in these great numbers. Some of them may be following and hope that they will receive something miraculous. There might be others in this crowd that simply just want to see what will this man do next. They've seen him do these amazing things. And so we first see that generic sense, the great multitude that follows Jesus. But then we see a second sense of faith, don't we? A very particular and specific sense, and this is the faith of Jairus. And we see that that specific faith is faith in Jesus Christ. It says, Behold, one of the rulers of the synagogue came, Jairus by name. There was another great multitude that gathered to him, and here we have, as Mark has given us before, another desperate human being who comes to Jesus for the solution that he needs. He's desperate like the woman who would interrupt the journey to his house. The unrestrained effects of sin We're destroying these people's lives, unrestrained depravity, destroying the demoniac, unrestrained suffering, destroying this poor woman's life. And here we see the unrestrained power of death. Would destroy the life of Jairus and his family. Now it's interesting, Jairus is the Greek transliteration of a Hebrew name, Jair, which means Jehovah enlightens. It's interesting that this is the name of the synagogue ruler because he is going to receive some serious enlightenment at the end of this account. He's a synagogue ruler. Do you guys know what that is? Right? He he's basically a church man. He works at the church. He may not have been a rabbi, but he works there. He works at the synagogue. He has some authority. He's got a position of great respect in the community. Whatever he would would uh command to be done, there were people who worked in the synagogue, they would have done those things. He spent his whole life Working in the synagogue and keeping it. Now, presumably he'd have been very familiar with the scriptures, spending a lot of time being taught in the synagogue and learning what God had said. He'd have known what God promised for his people He would have known what God commanded for his people. He would have specifically known what God forbade his people to do But we see something really interesting about Jairus' faith, and I hope that you notice it too. Jairus' faith did not stay a mental exercise. It was not something that he told himself to make him feel better about what was going on around him. Jairus' faith led to action. What he did is starting to become a common scene in Jesus' ministry, isn't it? It says there, and when he saw him, he fell at his feet and he begged him earnestly, saying, My little daughter lies at the point of death. People coming and throwing themselves at the mercy of Jesus is starting to become a common occurrence. And yet this still would have been very uncommon. The people would never have seen anything like this from someone of such high status. They would never have seen a synagogue ruler act in the way that Jairus did. But you know what? Giants didn't care. What else could he do? Where else could he go? If you don't understand the desperate nature of his situation, I'll tell you that in the Greek it literally says that his daughter has her last. It's the same word from which we get the word eschatology, the study of the last thing. She is in her end. It's over. There's nothing else to be expected. No suddenly she's gonna wake up. He has only one hope, only one choice. And so he is not hopeless. He doesn't do what hopeless men do. Hopeless men sit around, don't they? Hopeless men and women stew in their circumstances and cry out about the unfairness of it all. How unfair it is that God should do this and allow this to happen. That's not what we see in gyrus. We see faith. He truly believes. And he truly believes in Jesus. And so he goes to him and he begs him earnestly and says, Come, come. Let your hands be laid on her, that she might be healed, that she would live. We can imagine Jairus' thought process. This man Jesus is a holy man, and if if only if only he would come, he's obviously got some connection to God that is unique and different. If only he would come, this healer, this teacher. If only I could convince him to come. How might I convince him? But it doesn't matter. I have to do this. I need this man, Jesus, to touch my daughter so she would live Think about the risk for him. You know Jesus was already making a name for himself as somebody Not quite on the side of the Pharisees and the rulers of the temple in Jerusalem. In Mark chapter 3, verse 6, the Pharisees and the Herodians, they go out and they are already plotting how they might destroy him. In this one act of faith, Jairus could be ending his career. He could be abandoning his calling as a synagogue ruler simply by falling down at Jesus' feet. But what else could he do? Where else would he go? His only hope is in Jesus Christ. And Jesus does not fail Jairus' faith, does he? He does not disappoint. He goes with him. And the crowd follows. And at this point, Mark gives the account of the woman that we learned and uh we studied a few weeks ago. That other person in desperate need of Christ and Christ the Savior to intervene as a savior. Oh, imagine Imagine what that would have done for the faith in Jairus to see that happen on the way to his house. Yet Even while that event is wrapping up, it says while Jesus is still speaking, Satan throws an attack at Jairus' faith. He's attacked with hopelessness and with fear. And so let's look now at verses 35 to 37. Jairus receives a hopeless message, doesn't he? Look at verse 35. While he was still speaking, Jesus, some came from the ruler of the synagogue's house who said, Your daughter is dead. Why trouble the teacher any further? They come and they tell her that she's gone. It's over. There's there's nothing to try. There's there's no reason to keep going. Just give into the the grief. Give in to the mourning. We can understand this. We can relate to this kind of hopelessness, can't we? If there's nothing else to be done, what can you do except maybe mourn? But in the words from those messengers, there's a common message that the world throws at us. There's a very common lie that the enemy uses to attack our faith in an attempt to drive us off the cliff of hopelessness. Did you catch that lie? Jesus is just a man. He's just another man. What can he really do? What what could he have done in the first place? Just stop bothering this teacher. But there's another lie in there also. The first lie, Jesus is just a man. And there's another lie in there that I think I think only Christians would detect. Did you see it there? That other lie, death is the end. Death is final. Look at how Jesus responds. He gives Jairus a command, and it's a very hopeful command. It's a command of hope that we ourselves must hear. And brothers and sisters. Hear it. Hear it as though Jesus is speaking it directly to you tonight. It is the word of Christ. It's the message of our Savior. He says, do not be afraid. Only believe. Jesus heard the same hopeless message. He heard the message from those people. There's no point in trying, there's nothing to be done. The girl is dead But that did not stop him. I love that I had to preach this passage. Because now I have a new mantra for my life. In the literal translation of that command from Jesus, I I don't know what it is about it, it just sticks in my brain more than what the New King James has there. Literally, in the Greek, it reads this way No fearing, only believing. And I couldn't help but imagine that while they're still giving that message, Jesus turns around and grabs Jairus by his shoulders. And looks him square in the eyes and says, No fearing, only believing, and then whiffs right around again and heads back toward the house. No fearing, only believing Brothers and sisters, this is the message for us. Faith in Jesus Christ is the only faith that will never disappoint you. And no matter what you may hear, no matter what someone may say, no matter what the circumstances around you, no fearing, Christian. Only believing. I want to point out something else to you. Jesus keeps going. He heard that message. He heard that the girl had died. And he keeps going to the house. So there's a good lesson for all of us. If Jesus keeps going, you better keep following. Rather than believing the messenger, the messenger of God, he would have missed something spectacular. Faith in Jesus Christ led Jairus to act, to seek out Jesus, and to beg him for help. And when hopelessness attacked his faith, the command of Jesus drove him onward as it drove away his fear. From this point on, if you notice in the passage, the crowd is gone. There is no more crowd. Jesus doesn't allow them to come. In fact, not even all of the twelve. Get to come and see what happens next. It's just Jesus, it's just Jairus and his wife, and it's the Apostolic Subcommittee, Peter, James, and John. Only these five individuals with Jesus are given the great opportunity to see with their own eyes God's awesome Power. And I'm so glad, so very glad that Peter was included in this, because Peter relayed this to Mark. Mark writes it down, and for thousands of years Christians can be encouraged because we too can witness God's awesome power. Let's look at verses 38 through 43. They see God's power, Christ's power, as he reveals the truth about reality Looking at verse 38. Then he came to the house of the ruler of the synagogue and saw a tumult, and those who wept and wailed loudly. When he came in, he said to them, Why make this commotion and weep? The child is not dead, but sleeping. And they ridiculed him. But when he had put them all outside, he took the father and the mother of the child and those who were with him and entered where the child was lying. The tumult, the commotion, the loud wailing and the weeping, all of this was happening for one simple fact. Do you know what that fact was? That girl was dead. Really actually dead. These people were professionals. They didn't make this kind of mistake. They didn't start their job until there was a dead person. And it really was their job. It was part of the Jewish code. It required that there was this official mourning group. There was at least two wailers and one flautist. A lot of work to be done. Now, I wonder if you can recall from when we were talking about this in in in the sermon about the woman with the flow of blood, do you remember One of the things I brought up there was her uncleanness, how lonely it would have been to be unclean. Well, there's something else that would make the people in the Jewish community unclean, and it was a dead body. In fact, you couldn't go near where someone had died. And so a big part of these professional wailers, these professional mourners, was to notify everyone else: someone here is dead. You might want to cross over to the other side of the street so you're not made unclean by this house that has a dead person in it. As I said before, these people were professionals. This was their job. They had seen many, many, many dead bodies. They knew what a dead little girl looked like. And this is why it says that they ridiculed Jesus. They know what a dead body is. They think he's crazy. He's being ridiculous. And so they ridicule him. Literally, they're laughing at him. It's incredulous. They just really? Not dead? We've done this before. They are basically saying that the time for healing is over. Whatever hope Jairus might have had, it's a false hope. She's gone. She's dead. It's now our time. He should have been calling us. He should have been going to get us and not to go get you. But Jesus reveals that that is not the case. Though she has died, her death is not the end. It is not final. Death is not the only future for those who are beloved by the Son of God. And so Jesus, he puts out the doubters, he puts out the death propheters, and he goes in to where the child was lying. And it's at this point. That the small group witnesses Jesus' power to restore life to the lifeless. He gives new life to the dead. Look at verse 41. Then he took the child by the hand and he said to her, Talita kumi, which is translated, Little girl, I say to you, arise. And immediately the girl arose and walked, for she was twelve years of age. At his mighty command, do you see what death does? It retreats. Death fled her. By his awesome power, Jesus conquered the death in that little girl. And just as there was no mistaking that she had been dead, there was no mistaking that now she was alive. She's up and she's about, she's moving. If you've ever been around a twelve-year-old girl, I I think you might agree with what my imagination did in this. She's twirling, she never stops moving, she's just spinning, hopping, bouncing, joyful. She's alive. I wonder if she even realized how close she had come to the end, or if she realized that she had indeed died. And her father and her mother, they just stare as she dances around the room and they just blink their tears away, not fully grasping what was going on. And to seal the deal, Jesus tells them, Go get her some food. You know why he does this? The dead don't eat. And this will resurface when Jesus, after his resurrection When he asks for food to prove that he indeed is alive. The last thing I want to point out is that the power of God produces a tremendous result. in that small group who was able to watch Jesus heal this girl, lift her out of death and into life. It is the same result in all of us who have witnessed Jesus' awesome power. And it says it right there. They were overcome with great amazement. Like the disciples in the boat when Jesus calmed the storm. Great amazement. Like the people who came and saw the dangerous demon-possessed man clothed and seated in his right hand, in his in his right mind. Great amazement. And this great amazement is difficult for us. It doesn't really compute. It doesn't make sense, and yet it is the reality. The girl was dead, but she is now alive. Jairus had faith in Jesus Christ, his faith led to action, and that action was to seek Jesus Christ to resolve his desperate situation. Despite the attack of hopelessness and fear. Christ strengthened his faith, drove away his fear, and ultimately displayed God's awesome power to him. Brothers and sisters, faith in Jesus Christ drives away hopelessness and fear Revealing the reality that God is amazing, that God's awesome power is amazing And it is stronger even than death. And so I'd leave you with just a few applications tonight. Brothers and sisters, be like Gyres. Go to Jesus. Don't listen to the naysayers and to the doubters. Go to Jesus. Believe what you've heard about him. Believe what is said about Jesus in his word. Believe that there is nothing beyond his power, absolutely nothing, that can stop him. From bringing about his purpose, his saving powerful purpose and will. And so be like Jairus, risk it all, hold nothing back. Don't care what people think about you. Don't care who will look down at you or ridicule you or laugh at you because you are 100% sold out that God is good and loving and has the power to save. Don't be afraid of what anyone will say or how they will treat you. Know that you do not need to live in hopelessness, no matter what your condition, no matter your situation or circumstance. Jesus Christ has the power to save. He conquers depravity. He conquers misery and suffering. He even conquers death. And yet, brothers and sisters, be like Jairus, but at the same time, don't be like gyrus. Don't wait to the very end. Don't wait until your daughter is in her last moments to then reach out to Christ. Go to him now. Go to him tonight. In just a few minutes, we're gonna have a prayer time. I encourage you, if you have not, if you have not gone to Christ to cleanse you of all the wickedness that's in you. To cleanse you of the sins that dominate you. Go to him tonight. Throw yourself at his feet. Submit to Jesus' power. Whatever it is you're dealing with, God can help He is with you. Believe. Have faith. No fearing. Only believing. No matter what anyone says, no matter their level of expertise, it doesn't matter if they're professionals, it doesn't matter what the problem is. Nothing is beyond the awesome power of God. And He alone knows what He has planned for you. And He alone knows why you have had to endure all that you are enduring. He is the one who knows how much you struggle with that sin in your heart. He knows it better than you do. It's not as if God didn't know the demoniac in Ghidara was tortured by unclean spirits, or that the woman with the flow of blood was in tremendous suffering. God also knew. That Jairus' daughter was ill and that she was going to die. Go to Jesus because he is the answer. He was the answer to the demoniac's depravity. Brothers and sisters, he's the answer to your depravity. He is the answer to your wickedness and to your sin. Are you suffering? He is the answer to your suffering. He is the answer to your death. Our Our task in this is it's so much easier than Gyrus's, if you think about it. Jairus had no cross to look to, did he? He couldn't remind himself that all the sins that he had ever committed were nailed to that cross. He had no sacrament to feed upon. He had no explanation of the gospel and the saving work of Jesus Christ as we have in the New Testament. Yet Jairus' faith Led him to action. Brothers and sisters, take advantage of your blessed position. You have this great privilege of being born and alive in this time. You have all of God's word at your fingertips You have the body of Christ here. The church is established. You're not even part of the fledgling church. You don't have to worry about being killed because you're on the way to gather with us. Trust what God is doing and that He has planned for you to live now. Trust that He has planned every single moment of your life, and even what you meant for evil, He means for good. And he can spare you and drive away your hopelessness and fear. No fearing, only believing. Christ is in control. He has the power to save. May God give all of us. A faith that acts, that seeks Jesus Christ alone as our salvation, and by believing in him, that he would drive out our hopelessness, our fear. And show us his awesome power at work. Please pray with me