Mark chapter 5, starting verse 21. Now when Jesus had crossed over again by boat to the other side, a great multitude gathered to him. And he was by the sea. And behold, one of the rulers of the synagogue came, Jairus by name. And when he saw him, he fell at his feet. and begged him earnestly, saying, My little daughter lies at the point of death. Come and lay your hands on her that she may be healed and she will live. So Jesus went with him And a great multitude followed him and thronged him. Now a certain woman had a flow of blood for twelve years And had suffered many things from many physicians. She had spent all that she had, and was no better, but rather grew worse. When she heard about Jesus, she came behind him, in the crowd, touched his garment For she said, If only I may touch his clothes, I shall be made well. Immediately the fountain of her blood was dried up, and she felt in her body that she was healed of the affection. And Jesus, immediately knowing in himself the power had gone out of him, turned around in the crowd and said, Who touched my clothes? But his disciples said to him, You see the multitude thronging you, and you say, Who touched me? And he looked around to see her who had done this thing. But the woman, fearing and trembling, knowing what had happened to her, came and fell down before him, and told him the whole truth And he said to her, daughter, your faith has made you well. Go in peace and be healed of your affliction. Please pray with me. Gracious God in heaven, thank you for your word. Thank you for keeping it whole and entire. Thank you for preserving it in truth for us. We know it is infallible, and so we pray to you. That it would not fail. Your purpose is tonight. That you would, by the power of your spirit, use this word to transform us and make us more like your Son, the Lord. Lord Jesus Christ. And I pray, God, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock, my strength, my redeemer. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. We had to start at verse 21 because that's where the whole episode begins. And you notice that this is. This is really two accounts and smack dab just sandwiched in the middle there is this account of this poor woman But something struck me as as I was reading, and even just now as I was reading it, we get the name of the synagogue ruler, Jairus, but we don't get the name of this poor woman. And I was wondering to myself, why? Why are there times in the scriptures where this wonderful thing happens and we don't receive the name of who it is? And uh If you know me, you know that I'm a nerd. And I take that title with joy. Because it means that I love stories. I love fantasy. I love novels. And I couldn't help but start fantasizing and imagining, well why why don't we get her name? Maybe it's because we don't ever need to know her name. And I started thinking, maybe it's because she's actually one of the greeters in heaven. She's one of the first people that we'll see when we get there. And we don't need to know her name because she's gonna come up to us and she's gonna say, Hey, I see you're here. What did Jesus do for you? What did Jesus heal in you? Because I can't wait to tell you what Jesus has done for me. Maybe that's why we don't get her name because we won't need to seek her out. She'll be there ready for us. Well, I know that's not scripture. That's just my imagination, but it it helped me see the joy that would be present in this woman, and the joy that should be present in all of us who receive healing from our faith in Jesus Christ. Well we've been going through Mark, we've gone through the first four chapters, we've seen many wonderful pictures. Maybe even snapshots, almost like photos in an album, of what Jesus has done, of his life and his ministry. We've seen him do many times already what only God can do. Do you recall those things that we've seen? He's healed a leper, cleansed a leper from leprosy. No one could do that. Even miracle-working men couldn't do that. Only God can do that He's forgiven sins. Who can forgive sins? No one but God, Almighty. And to prove that He is that God who can forgive sins, do you remember what He did? He told the paralyzed man that he should get up, take his bed, and walk away, and it happened. So this man, Jesus, is something else. He is something special. In fact, Mark has been giving us these sh pictures to prove to us that he is indeed the Son of the Living God. In chapter four, he gave us parables. He was teaching us that what we see with our eyes in this world It doesn't always correspond with the reality. Things aren't always what they seem. He gave us the parable of the soil so we would know that when it seems like God's word is not powerful and working, we know. That there's only one kind of soil which can receive the seed of God's Word. He gave us the parable of the lamps so that we would know why He saved us. He saved us that we would be a light unto the world, taking the fire of Christ and sharing it out there. Now a few weeks ago we were engaged in exploring the incident with the storm. And you may recall from that incident that we learned a very valuable lesson. The followers of Christ do not need to be afraid, no matter what you're facing, because God cares about you. And he cares about your life, and he will bring you peace. Into your life through his mighty power. Just a few weeks ago, two weeks ago, we were engaged in exploring the episode with the Gathering Demoniac, the beginning verses of chapter five, and we learned That the power of Jesus Christ conquers our depravity. He conquers our sin. And he restores us to being true human beings made in the image and likeness. Well tonight we have another event from Jesus' life and ministry, another snapshot proving that he is the Son of God. And from our passage tonight, focusing on verses twenty-five through thirty-four, we learn that faith in Jesus Christ transforms a life of lonely suffering into one of love and peace. Beloved Christians, faith in Jesus Christ can transform your life of lonely suffering. into a life of love and peace. And we're going to look at this under three headings tonight. We're going to look first at verses 25 to 26 and we'll see lonely suffering. We'll look at verses 27 through 33, in which we see faith in Jesus. And then we'll look at the last verse together and see. A life of love and peace. So the first thing we see, turning together our attention to verse 25 and 26, we see an account of lonely suffering. Look there with me. It says, Now a certain woman had a flow of blood for twelve years and had suffered many things from many physicians. She'd spent all that she had and was no better, but rather grew worse. So first let's extreme, let's let's explore together her extreme loneliness. We're told that she had a flow of blood We don't get any more specific details than that. But it is probably, based on how it's phrased, related to the regular monthly bleeding that all women of child-bearing capacity endure. And so from that, we can tell from Leviticus chapter 15 that this would have done more than just be a nuisance or even a painful affliction. This would have been a very lonely affliction because in the Levitical laws, someone who is unclean like this is not to be part of the fellowship. In fact, whatever she touches is then itself made unclean. And if anyone touches something she touches, they then have been made ceremonially and ritually unclean. Keep that in mind when you think of what she touched and whose it was that she touched. No one could go to her. No one could go to her house to give her company. No one could go to her house to relieve any of her struggles. Perhaps her her pain made it difficult for her to keep home. Nobody could come there and touch anything. they would have been made unclean. We're also told that she's a certain woman. Did that strike you that it says a certain woman? Wouldn't give us her name, but it says she's a certain woman. Well, Mark identifies her in this way to show us that she wasn't a stranger. She wasn't unknown to this village in this town. They knew who she was. She was that woman. That certain woman. That certain unclean woman. They would have known her. They had to know her, because they had to avoid her. So they may not have really understood her suffering, but they knew. That they couldn't go around her. And I had wondered, perhaps she had had encounters with people that were very unpleasant. Boy, we we know ourselves, don't we? At times we can be real mean. At times we can be downright unmerciful. And we can start to imagine in our own hearts why somebody is dealing with what they're dealing. Or maybe maybe it was uh an encounter like Job's friends, huh? Maybe some people were saying, look, certain woman, you wouldn't have this difficulty if you hadn't done XYZ. Maybe she was the object of gossip. Maybe people had said, oh, you know, she has that flow of blood. You know what that means. What did she do with who? Why is she being punished? She dealt with this. This known woman. And she had dealt with it. Look at what it says for twelve years. Twelve years is a long time. Twelve years is longer than some of you have been alive. Twelve years is about as long as most people will spend in school before they go to college. That's a long time. From first grade to senior year. Does that feel like a long time? We can understand why she might have lost hope. Dealing with this for that long. It wasn't just that she was alone or that she was cut off from her people, although that was terrible. No, she was truly suffering And we know this was a physical suffering as well, because it tells us in verse twenty six that she didn't just suffer from the affliction She was suffering from all of the different cures that she had sought. She was suffering from these physicians and their help. She suffered many things at their hands. What were these? Experimental treatments? Maybe they were just ridiculous treatments? If you know anything about the history of medicine, there's two things you'll discover. One Ancient people were a lot smarter than we give them credit for. There's evidence that they were ancient peoples doing brain surgery, drilling holes in people's skulls from thousands of years ago. But if you know anything else about medical history, you also know that it was just 60 years ago that they were doing some really weird stuff. And so medical professionals, while they can do a lot of good sometimes in their ignorance, if they are unwilling to recognize that they don't have the power to give the solution that a person needs. They can actually end up doing more harm than good. Maybe you've heard that phrase sometimes the cure is worse than the disease. It sounds like this poor woman, this certain woman. was completely at the mercy of those physicians and they did not give her any relief whatsoever. Her life was one of lonely suffering. Do you see that? Twelve years of dealing with this issue. Twelve years of experiments on her body by doctors and physicians. Twelve years of Boy, I can't describe it in any other way than hopelessness. That wasn't enough, she spent all she had. After all of this hopeless, lonely suffering, she was poor. She had not. She was in a desperate condition. But then something happens. Something marvelous happens. And Mark, he tells us all about her. He tells us all about her faith in Jesus. So look with me now at verse 27. And we'll look at the faith in Jesus. The Bible tells us that faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Mark tells us that she hadn't seen Jesus. Do you see what it says there in verse 27? What does it say? It says, When she heard about Jesus. She didn't know him. She hadn't seen him at work. It would have been really hard for him for her to see Jesus at work, right? We've t been told by Mark that what he did was in the synagogues. Or it was out amongst these crowds. She wouldn't have gone to the crowds because she didn't want to make them unclean. She would have been barred from the synagogues And yet she heard about Jesus. She heard what he had done. She heard of his teachings and of his authority. And I imagine that she heard people clamoring. Maybe she just heard it. Wherever she was, she heard a crowd rushing, and she said, What's happening there? And somebody just shouted, Oh, it's Jesus. It's Jesus of Nazareth moving toward Jairus' house. And something came over her. Faith came over her. And she believed. She believed that twelve years of no help, and yet at this moment, she could receive what she needed. And so it tells us, Mark tells us what she did. She came behind Jesus in the crowd and she touched his garment. Essentially, she snuck up on him. And she had to. People would have noticed her. They would have would have tried to keep her away from this holy man, this miracle worker. She had to sneak up to him. She knew that if she bumped into just one person, she would have made them unclean. And I couldn't help again in my nerd mind just imagining as she's hustling to get there, to get close to Jesus, that she was telling herself. It's okay. I only have to worry about bumping into somebody on the way there, because once I get there, I'm clean, and it won't matter. Once I get there, he will cleanse me, and I won't have to worry about touching people. Verse 28, right there is where we clearly see her faith. You see what she says to herself? If only I may touch his clothes. I shall be made well. I I've heard others preach on this, and I've read commentators who said that this is a sign of her superstition. I started to think that way, and then I said, No, no, uh It doesn't seem like superstition on her behalf that she was just looking for a miracle from Jesus. I don't see that in this poor woman. She'd heard what Jesus can do. He can do what no one else can do. And in her desperation, she said, This is what I need. I have been looking for a solution elsewhere, but now the true solution for my ailment, Jesus Christ, is here. She believed it was true And based on her belief only. She risked it all. She risked everything. She could have been thrown into jail if somebody had noticed she was there. And she risked it just to touch Jesus' clothes. She didn't just have faith, just believing she could be healed. She had faith in Jesus. She believed that Jesus himself could heal her. We know that she believed she could be healed. She spent all she had trying to get that healing. But she believed that Jesus was the solution. It is not enough that we just believe in something. No matter what someone tells you, every path does not lead to salvation. Every path does not lead to God. Faith is a transitive verb. It requires an object. You must have faith in Jesus Christ if you are to be healed What you believe about Jesus matters. In whom you believe truly matters. And Pastor Jesse gave us a great reminder this morning. You must have the content of your faith. It must come from the Word of God. It must come from the Scriptures. We must have faith in Jesus Christ, the only begotten Son of God, the second person of the Triune Godhead. Look at verse 30. Verse 30 shows us that Jesus is God. It says, And Jesus, immediately knowing in himself the power had gone out of him, turned around in the crowd and said, Who touched my clothes? He knows what happened. No one else in the crowd knows, but he knows. He turns around. Remember she came up from behind. She snuck up to him. And he knew that someone had done that and had just touched his clothes. And so he asks the crowd, who touched my clothes? In verse 31, the disciples they show just how amazing this knowledge is. And I again, some people might say, oh, the disciples, look at how they're being cynical, they're being flippant. They don't trust what's going on. I don't see that. I see that they're just being logical. I almost hear them in a panic. Right? Jesus is saying, Who touched my clothes? And they're thinking to themselves, how many dozens of people, how many hundreds of people may have touched Jesus since the crowd gathered and we're on our way to Jairus' house? Perhaps they were wondering that Jesus was going to have them do something special for everyone who touched him, maybe maybe follow up with them, and they're saying to themselves, how could we do this? How could we possibly know who touched him? People have been touching you since we started. But instead, Jesus is the one who knows, and I believe He knows Exactly who it was that he healed. He says in verse 32, and he looked around to see her who had done this thing. Again in my mind, in my imagination, I was watching Jesus looking around at the crowd, looking in faces, looking in each eye in in the eyes of these people who were likely just looking to him, how many people had touched him? Maybe other people had touched him and were saying, is he talking about me? Is he talking about me? There was only one person in that crowd who knew that Jesus was talking directly to them. Something important was coming. This crowd knew that something important was happening and was about to happen, and they were giving Jesus his attention. And I imagine his gaze resting on her. And as he looks her in the eye, do you see what happens to her? She falls down. She can't keep up the secret any longer. Her secret mission. It's it's it's out in the open now, and with fear, with trembling. She holds nothing back. You see what it says? She tells him the whole truth. She confesses it all to him, what she had been dealing with, what she planned in her heart to do, and what she did. She might have been expecting to be arrested right then and there. This holy man has gotten the truth out of her, and now the rest of her life is going to be lived in jail. All these people, once she was clearly seen, they knew who she was. And they knew what she had just done. She had just touched Jesus' clothes. Had she just made Jesus unclean? Remember, they're going to Jairus' house so that he could heal his daughter. Are they now no longer able to do that? Is that whole mission gone? She learned that very moment, and the whole crowd did also, that nothing can keep Jesus from tending to his beloved sheep. Nothing could make him unclean. Nothing can hinder his power. Nothing can get in the way of Jesus' grace and Jesus' mercy. This poor woman, living a life of lonely suffering, took a leap of faith, believing what she'd heard about Jesus and risking everything just to touch his clothes And so now we come to this last verse, verse 34, and we see the ultimate result. Her life of lonely suffering was in that very instant transformed into a life of love. And peace. I hope you can see the love there. Because it's right there in one word. Jesus calls her daughter. What an amazing thing for him to say. This woman who was unclean, this woman who was unable to be part of the worship of the people of God. He calls her daughter. It's a term of love. And it's a term which defined her. It identified her To Jesus, she was not an unclean outcast. She was not a hopelessly unrighteous sinner who needed to isolate herself from all these holy and righteous people. She wasn't someone who needed to just find some way to keep going on her own. She is someone precious to him. His beloved daughter. And it's why we started reading in verse 21, so you can see what's going on. Jairus loved his daughter, didn't he? How much did Jairus love his daughter? So much that he would go to this man and beg him to come to his house to heal her. Jesus surely loves this daughter, at least that much. In that one word, Christ renewed her sense of self Her self-understanding. She was not someone to be pitied. She was not someone to be shunned. She is the daughter of the King of Kings. She's a beloved daughter of the ruler of all the universe. Jesus then tells her something that we must not miss. He doesn't say, My power has made you well, does he? He doesn't say, the touching of my garment is what made you well. It wasn't anything her hands had done. What does he say? He says, your faith. Your faith has made you well. And that word well is literally the Greek verb to save. Her faith has saved her. She's saved through faith in Jesus Christ. And then he commands her: go in peace. Be healed of your affliction. Are you familiar with the Hebrew concept of peace? It's the word shalom. And it means more than just peace, as though you were at war and now you are in peace. It's far more than that. It means completion. It means fullness. It means fulfillment. Her life of lonely suffering by her faith in Jesus Christ. Had been transformed now into a life of love and peace. As it was for this certain woman, brothers and sisters, it can be for you. Can you relate to this woman? Is your life sometimes dominated by loneliness Do you feel alone? Do you feel as though there's no one else who cares about you? No matter what, I can't speak for anyone else in your life, but I can tell you with 100% certainty, Jesus Christ cares for you. Jesus Christ loves you. And he loves you so much that he gave his only life that you could be with him and be part of his family. And so you must believe in him. You must believe in his care for you and in his love. Do you feel sometimes maybe you're abandoned by the Christian community? Is it Christians that leave you alone to yourself to just suffer? Like I said, I can't speak for any other Christian who's interacted with you, but I can tell you with absolute certainty that you who have faith in Jesus, you are not left to be alone. You are not an object of ridicule or pity, no matter how lonely you might feel. You can't be more lonely than this poor woman, could you? Well, maybe you can. She was only dealing with this for twelve years. Have you realized that there are some among us in this community who have been suffering? For a very, very long time. They've been suffering with loneliness, suffering with physical affliction. And we can learn a lot from those who are suffering, as we've learned from this woman. We can learn what Jesus expects us to do for those who are suffering. We can be one who reaches out to them. We can be one who learns from them. The fact that they just keep going, putting one foot in front of the other, is a lesson for us. Their dependence on Christ is sometimes greater than ours because of their loneliness. And because of their suffering. Are you suffering yourself? Do you see in this passage what Jesus can do for you? The Holy Spirit has included this for you, so that you would know, so that your faith would be strengthened, so that you would turn to Christ, that you would risk everything. You would be willing to give up everything just so you could be near him and touch him and receive the power of healing that he has. You must believe, brothers and sisters. Trust in Jesus. Have faith. And I say that even knowing That you may not receive the physical healing that you were hoping for. You may not, all of a sudden, in that instant, be liberated from your misery. But we know, because of God's holy word, and because it rests not on what we've done, but what Christ has done, that it is accomplished Your healing is done. It stands as having been completed in Christ. And when that final day comes, you will experience it. You will receive the new body that has no issues and has no suffering. In Christ you can receive that true and perfect final healing. We know that the fall brought mankind into an estate of sin and misery. When we were looking at the Gathering Demoniac, do you remember what we were looking at? We were looking at an example. Of sin to the extreme, unrestrained depravity, everything about him. He was wicked and strong and terrifying. And yet what did Christ do? He restored him to humanity. He brought him to the point where he was sitting clothed and in his right mind. Christ conquered sin. Well, here tonight we see this example of misery in the extreme, unrestrained misery and suffering. And yet what do we see? Who conquers sin is the same who conquers misery. It is Christ Jesus the Lord. He can restrain your depravity and your sin, and he can restrain your You're suffering. Brothers and sisters, are you suffering? And you don't quite know why? Perhaps it's because of sin. We know that ultimately all the suffering that exists in this world is because of sin. In other passages of scripture, we're told that it's not necessarily a direct one-to-one relationship, your sin and your suffering. But I can't tell you how glad I am that this poor certain woman had this suffering. Because it allowed this occasion for her to go to Christ in faith. And for all of us, you and me, to see what faith in Jesus can do. May all of our faith in Christ be so strengthened by his Spirit That we would trust him with all of our heart, knowing without doubt, that he will transform your life of loneliness and suffering into an eternal life of love. And peace, please pray with me