Let us turn now to the word preached. This morning we'll be hearing from Christ and His Spirit through Psalm 22. God asks that you turn there now. Now I'll be reading the psalm in its entirety. Shh. This is Psalm 22 to the chief musician set to the deer of the dawn, a psalm of David. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from helping me and from the words of my groaning Oh my God, I cry in the daytime, but you do not hear, and in the night season, and am not silent. But you are holy, enthroned in the praises of Israel. Our fathers trusted in you. They trusted in you, delivered them. They cried to you and were delivered. They trusted in you and were not ashamed. But I am a worm, and no man, a reproach of men, and despised by the people. All those who see me ridicule me. They shoot out the lip. They shake the head, saying, He trusted in the Lord. Let him rescue him. Let him deliver him, since he delights in him. But you are he who took me out of the womb. You made me trust while on my mother's breasts. I was cast upon you from birth. From my mother's womb you have been my God. Be not far from me. For trouble is near, for there is none to help. Many bulls have surrounded me, strong bulls of Bashan have encircled me They gape at me with their mouths like a raging and roaring lion. I am poured out like water. and all my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. It has melted within me. My strength is dried up like a potsurd, and my tongue clings to my jaws You have brought me to the dust of death. For dogs have surrounded me. The congregation of the wicked has enclosed me. They pierced my hands and my feet. I can count all my bones. They look and stare at me. They divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. But you, O Lord, do not be far from me. O my strength, hasten to help me. Deliver me from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dog. Save me from the lion's mouth and from the horns of the wild oxen. You have answered me. I will declare your name to my brethren. In the midst of the assembly, I will pray Praise you. You who fear the Lord, praise him. All you descendants of Jacob, glorify him, and fear him, all you offspring of Israel, for he has not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted. Nor has he hidden his face from him, but when he cried to him, he heard, My praise shall be of you in the great assembly. I will pay my vows before those who fear him The poor shall eat and be satisfied. Those who seek him will praise the Lord. Let your heart live forever. All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the Lord. And all the families of the nations shall worship before Him, for the kingdom is the Lord's, and He rules over the nations. All the prosperous of the earth shall eat and worship. All those who go down to the dust shall bow before him, and even he who cannot keep himself alive. A posterity shall serve him. It will be recounted of the Lord to the next generation. They will come and declare his righteousness to a people who will be born that he has done thee. This. Amen. Please pray with me. Lord Christ, once again we are not worthy To repeat these words of yours. But in your tenderness, in your faithfulness In this brotherhood that you've created between our souls, you give us this as your church. We pray that we would hear with ears that can hear and eyes that can see. For your for those people in Israel heard this psalm and they did not turn and repent. I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would work with all of your might in everyone in this room. Especially those who have not called on you as Christ the Lord, and that you would cause them to have repentance and faith this very morning. That they would kiss you while there is still time. I ask these things in your name. Amen. In Exodus chapter 3, Moses stared in amazement. Though the bush was engulfed in flames, it didn't burn up. You remember this story? This is amazing, Moses said to himself. Why isn't that bush burning up? I must go see it. When the Lord saw Moses coming to take a look God called to him from the middle of the bush, Moses, Moses, here I am. Moses replied. Don't come any closer, the Lord warned. Take off your sandals, for you are standing on holy ground. I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. When Moses heard this, he covered his face because he was afraid to look at God. And I felt like we should have covered our face when we read this psalm this morning. You are truly on holy ground as we consider this psalm. You do not and I do not deserve Psalm 22. It is purely by grace that is given to us. Jesus spoke this psalm in his last moments. At noon, darkness fell across the whole land until three o'clock. At about three o'clock, Jesus called out with a loud voice, My God, my God, why have you abandoned me? And similarly, we should feel the need to cover our faces and be afraid to look at this psalm because Of where Christ is, as he repeats this, as these are his words. The psalm reveals the intimate thoughts of our Holy Christ. You always wanted to know the mind of Christ. Here it is. The most intimate thoughts he could have before his father. Christ has chosen in his wisdom to publish these thoughts between him and his father for his church. Those of you reading the front porch and the front door of the Psalms who have entered into this through faith in Christ, this Psalm is yours by the grace of Jesus Christ. What does it mean to you that Jesus lets you into his life like this? Do you take it for granted? Could you just read the words and not pay any attention to them? Do you know we're not like this in our life? When things this intimate are a part of our life, we tell people it's none of their business and they shouldn't be reading our mail anyway If you were to ask me what I told my wife on the evening of Valentine's Day, I'd say, none of your business And if you asked me, in the audacity of our culture, you could picture someone asking me what I said to my wife on our wedding night, and I'd say, none of your business Or when I'm with someone, a loved one here, one of your loved ones, and I'm with them bedside as they're dying And they tell me their final words and what they think about God and Christ and what their life meant. And then you want me to tell it publicly or to tell you at another time? so that it can become a type of voyeurism for you? I would say none of your business. The same level of intimacy is here, and yet Jesus doesn't say this is none of your business. He says that he will share with you the most intimate thoughts in his dying moments. That he had with his Heavenly Father. Because He wants you to be intimate with Him. And the way to be intimate with Him is to recognize two main things from this Psalm, that our Heavenly Father, his Father is faithful, and that Jesus Christ is faithful. And how dare we think otherwise. And how glorious that we think so. Jesus is faithful to his faithful Father Now, this psalm could be divided up in different ways. There's actually a great deal of poetry that's going on here. I hope that you heard some of it as I was trying to read according to how it's structured. But I'd just like, for the sake of our time and not to be confusing, I just want to look at this into three parts. Three groups of ten, basically: turmoil, torment, and triumph. And so turmoil is in the first ten verses. And then we'll get to the torment of Christ in the second stanza in 11 through 21, and then his triumph in 22 through 31. Let's consider how Jesus is faithful to his faithful. Father. First, we see in the first ten verses the turmoil penned in these stanzas. Let me let you know that you should know, you should have heard the lament This is a lament psalm, and you know, and you can listen to the sermons in the past to hear all the details that I gave you on that kind of poetry because it follows it in detail. The turmoil penned in these stanzas is counterbalanced by that kind of poetry. Did you hear the passion that's present in this psalm? At the same time, there is a rational order of the poetics that are given. There's this counterbalance to where we can see that Christ is voluntarily and in his mind. Mind going forward with this great passion. Now, you're familiar with this type of poetry. This is alternating parallelism. Let me point out this basic structure to you before I get into the details of the verses. There's alternate parallelism, which we know that there's one structure where there's a wave that comes up on the beach and the wave that comes behind it pushes up further. That's intensification Here, there's a wave that comes up on the beach, and you think there's going to be one, but there's no wave, and then there's a second one that comes up. There's alternating. There's something that's going to be in the gap between the two of the same thing And you can see this in the first two verses. Here you see a lament, Christ crying out to his father. Then in 3 through 5, he's going to express his confidence in his father. And why he believes that his father will be faithful. And then in six through eight, he's going to go back into the lament. It's like waves rolling on the sea, up and down. And then nine through eleven, he's going to express his confidence again. Then he's going to move into a deeper kind of lament. And that's the whole structure of the Psalm, going back and forth like this, like wave. The lawsuit complaint in 1 and 2, confidence in 3 through 5, lawsuit complaint in 6 through 8, confidence in 9 through 11 The turmoil begins in verses 1 through 2. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from helping me in the words of my groaning? Oh my God, I cry in the daytime, but you do not hear, and in the night season, and I'm not silent. The specifics of the turmoil is that God the Father Is silent as Christ calls out. He's not acting. It's not just that he wants to hear a voice, he wants the Father to act To Jesus, God the Father felt far away. 1B. Why are you so far from helping me? He speaks about it in terms of spatial distance. And it's peculiar that he's not helping him because anyone in the world could hear the groans that he's letting out. Everyone knows what's going on. The word groaning means the kind of roaring you would hear from a wounded lion or animal. Cries of pain. You could, even if it weren't an animal, if it were a kid, just down the street and be able to hear cries Cries of pain, wouldn't you? Just the other day I heard the neighbor mowing his lawn and the lawnmower stopped. And then I heard a child down the street scream. Come to find out he had touched the hot burner on the lawnmower. Christ's groans are louder and deeper than that, and the and the father isn't isn't there to act. There's no bandage going over the wounds that he's being inflicted with at this moment. This is not a one-time groaning in verse 2. Jesus had been groaning all day and all night. It should remind you of Psalm 19. The moon and the stars cry. They sing of God's glory. 24-7. Jesus cries out in turmoil all of the time. Something new is taking place within the creation. The birth pangs. Jesus has on the cross at this moment an asphyxiating death under the weight of his own sagging body He cries out to God the Father for help, but his father is not acting. The silence of God the Father is filled in in 6 through 8. Chilling how the poet David has put this together. We don't hear from the Father. So there's silence. But then the mockers in verses six through eight fill the void with their despising of him. I'm going to begin in seven and eight so that you can get the context of six. All those who see me ridicule me. They shoot out the lip. They shake the head, saying, He trusted in the Lord. Let him rescue him. Let him deliver him since he delights in him. Making fun of him in the very place where it hurts most. They step in where God is silent, they ridicule him in words and body language And the ridicule strikes at the heart. You know our saying, putting salt in the wound? That's what's going on here. You remember a couple of weeks ago when uh Elder Donovan walked in here with his black eye And you know how much that hurt as he was hit here and it drained into his eye. Several days later, while leaning over a grandchild, the grandchild popped up and hit him in the same spot. And I can see some of you wincing now, but that's what's going on here. They're rubbing salt in the wound of Christ because at the heart of Christ is his love of the Father. Relying on the Father and knowing that the Father will save him from death. He'll preserve him from the grave, as we've seen in another psalm. But they're calling on the fact of the silence of God. They're saying You've got this all wrong. Rubbing salt in the wound. Banging Christ in the same spot in which it already hurts. Now, I started in verses 7 and 8 so that you could read back into verse 6 what's going on. Christ doesn't actually think he is a worm, and that he is not a man. He is repeating for you what the entire community thinks of him. The ridicule and the scorn. This is his social esteem, to put it in the words of Proverbs. The just one in Proverbs is promised social esteem, and yet here we find the just one with no social esteem. It's actually quite embarrassing what they're saying to him. You know, when it says here in the worm, the worm here, because it's a plague to society, you might want to think of like the tapeworm or the ring worm. Do you know what you think when you see ringworm on someone? Is it that do you want to start rubbing that place? Or leprosy or any of those kind of things. Or if you find out uh someone's child has lice, you immediately pull the child to the other side. Imagine having the social esteem like that. An entire society, even your disciples that you had been with for three years, have deserted you because of the pressure of that society. That's what Christ is going through here. A plague and a threat to the community, and he's better off dead. And yet. In the midst of his turmoil, Jesus continues to express alternating confidence in his God. That's what we see back and forth between the lament and the confidence. One theologian read these sections where he is crying out and says, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And this theologian concluded that Jesus lost his faith in an untrustworthy God. But one of our theologians, John Calvin, says the long duration of calamities could neither overthrow Jesus' faith. nor interrupt its exercise as he continued to pray to his father. That's exactly what we see here in this torment. These alternating confidences are the exercises of Jesus' faith, not evidences of failed expectations. True trust in God the Father is not a robotic trust like we see here. True trust leaves room for dialogue with the Father in the midst of turmoil. Dialogue of lawsuit, complaint, and statements of confidence. And here we see this confidence in verses 3 through 5. But you are holy, enthroned in the praises of Israel. Our fathers trusted in you, and he continues. Our fathers trusted in you. Do you see what he's doing here? In the first song that you sang this morning, we said the same thing. You helped our fathers while in distress. That's what we were singing. We were Raising up confidence within our hearts, remembering all that God has done. And that's what Christ is doing here. They trusted and you delivered them, he says. They cried out to you and were delivered. They trusted in you and they were not ashamed. I'm in the same covenantal relationship with you. I am Israel. Eve cried out as her boys argued and one murdered the other. Noah cried out as evil encompassed the earth. Abraham cried out as he set out to sacrifice his son Isaac. And what more shall I say? For time would fail to tell of Gideon, Barak, Samphon, Jephthah, of David, and Samuel and the prophets Who through faith conquered kingdoms, enforced justice, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, were made strong out of weakness, became mighty in war Put foreign armies to flight, women receive back their dead by resurrection. This is all one example after another of the faithfulness of the Father in heaven, being faithful to the fathers on earth throughout every generation. That's the list we see in Hebrews, and Christ must be recalling it in his distress, seeing that he's the faithful one. God the Father's faithfulness, in addition, was not only to the Father's, it's it was to Christ intimately from the womb. This is the confidence we see in 9 through 11. See the alternating that's going on? But you are he who took me out of the womb. And I just want you to notice here in 9B and 10, notice the structure of these poetics. You made me trust while on my mother's breasts. Now listen to this. I was cast upon you from birth. That's poetic parallelism. And then he goes back to the womb, from my mother's womb. Do you see that? Starts with womb, ends with womb, and those those verses cast upon you, being with his mother That's how he's structuring this psalm. Jesus did not gain confidence or lean on God simply because of his knowledge of Israel's history. He knew God from the womb. And verses 9 and 10 are poetically arranged. You who took me out of the womb, from my mother's womb, you have been my God. Do you know what that does? I wonder if David was thinking this. The outlying verses become They create a womb for the inner verses to reside. Enclosed is Jesus nursing upon the life of his mother, and I assume her faith. And analogously, gaining life and grace from the life of his father from the very beginning. From the time of his birth to elementary school, through time as a teenager and young adult, his heavenly father was always present, always a delight, always faithful. And he recalls all of those moments to restore his confidence or to keep it going, knowing that he doesn't wane. This is not the cry of a faithless man that is so typical of men and women today. Jesus is in his turmoil is doing something quite profound. In his compliments and confidences, Jesus is interpreting his pain through the lens of who God the Father is. Instead of interpreting who God the Father is through the lens of his turmoil. That is the second time I've said that in this service, and I'm going to say it again. Let me just read the words to you Jesus is interpreting his pain through the lens of who God the Father is instead of interpreting who God the Father is through the lens of his turmoil. Is that what you do? Or is he a great God when things are going well, and he's not such a great God when things are going poorly for you? Because his character remains the same forever. The Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh away, but blessed be the Lord. Now remember, turmoil has a voice that must be countered by the voice of God's word. That's what Jesus is doing here, just like we learned in Psalm 19. The voice of God's word and providence saturated the silence of God and the loud voice of the mockers. Behold your Christ and his faithfulness to the faithfulness of God the Father. And of course, this is just the beginning. Verse 11, if you take a look, is a trans transition verse, and that's how I read it when I was reading it to you. He's speaking of his confidence, but then he's starting to move. It's as if like he's going over into another reality or awakening to another reality As trouble starts to enter. He was meditating upon his life with the Father, and then there's this piercing scream in his ear that moves us into 11 through 21, which is his torment. The poetic images fade back and forth between snapshots of animals and to the realistic portrayal of the actual humans. Many bulls have surrounded me And I'm poured out like water. For dogs have surrounded me. That's where he moves into now with his torment. Notice it's not just bulls, it's the bulls of Bishon. It's it The Bishon was known for breeding and raising the strongest and the fiercest bulls or oxen in all of the land. If you were to go down to Fort Worth and you see one of those longhorns, that's what you'll see. Raging and roaring lions, he mentions, as he continues this zoomorphic imagery or these animals. We don't really have experience of such threats as these animals living in an agricultural like this, agricultural culture like this, they would have it would have connected with them the power. of what Jesus is saying when he's thinking about those who have surrounded him, particularly the Roman soldiers, one of the ways that we might be able to catch Some of this is that we've seen on YouTube or on Facebook where someone has caught on their phone when a young child about five or seven or eight has fallen into a domain of a zoo animal. Do you remember the the one where the young child fell into the gorilla cage? And you see those gorillas and they're just kind of sitting down all the time eating leaves and they're vegetarians, so they must be wimps. But when you saw the gorilla grab the child that you would have had trouble lifting and move around like it was just a maple leaf in his hand You began to see the raw power of the animal. And that is what Christ is relaying here. This is how he feels and how he views the situation of what has been going on. Verse 15 gives us the developing aftermath of time with bulls and lions. Jesus could not escape. They had their way with him. The description is actually accurate to the crucifixion. If you were to read books and study the crucifixion, they have studies now that show how the actual death would take place. You die by slow asphyxiation under your own weight. Your bones go out of joint and your body sags and closes off your lungs, and you can't lift yourself anymore to be able to breathe. Notice the progression in the verses. Bones out of joint, heart begins to fail, tongue sticks to the roof of his mouth. His heart is bursting as he searched for breath in the dryness of death. The animal images change from power, such as the bull and the lion. They now move in verse 16 to scavengers. Do you see that? I mean if you have a bull and you have a lion and then a dog shows up, you're not really worried about that. But the point here is that he's unable to move, that he has basically become carrying for dogs and men. And so the dogs can scavenge off of him. These dogs are not like the dogs that we have. They're not like a golden retriever. you'd spend five hundred dollars a month on them or whatever you do. These are dogs that eat trash. They scaven they get what they can. And that's what Jesus is pro Portraying here. He is on public display. The dogs have surrounded him. Notice how even human beings are scavenging. They've pierced my hands and my feet. I can count all my bones. They divide my garments among them and For my clothing, they cast lots, just as it was anticipated. They have no remorse for him, but they truly mock him by dividing his garments to take up It's like finding a dead bum on a park and taking his jacket. No, no respect for his life. And now notice verses 19 through 21. Because we're going to arrive at the same place that we've already been doing as he moves back into confidence, but this time with Tapit. this petition. Notice how he reverses all of the images. We began with wild oxen and now we're going to end with it in verse 21. In the midst of all the torment, all the animals, asphyxiation, and the very dust of death, Jesus is still faithfully petitioning the faithful one. He is still praying the petition. Jesus works backward, deliver me from the sword which pierced, the dog which scabbed, the lions which roared, the bulls and the oxen. It's working back in a rational, poetic structure as he voluntarily submits to death. But all is a faith petition from the faith of Jesus to his faithful Father You know, some, when they look at this, they can say, How can you say that God is faithful? And I wonder if you were thinking this, how can you say that God is faithful after all of these first two points, turmoil and torment? But I believe, just in looking at the heart of Christ, that even that question is from a distorted heart The question presumes that God may not be faithful, which may not be presumed, and it proceeds from extreme arrogance in thinking that you may ask questions Of God. But that's how our heart is, but not the heart of Christ. Not once do we see Christ fluctuate on who God the Father is. Jesus always listens to the right voice. Out of all of the voices that were saying something to him, he always listened to the voice of the Father, the one that is faithful. The question is, at this point in the psalm, the question becomes, which voice will win? Because we know, as we've read in the Gospels already, he will take his last breath He will say his last words, and it will look like those who crucified him have won. Are the mockers right? This question is posed to you almost every minute of the day. Is it worth following the Christ? Is it worth being a follower of Jesus? Will you be proven right? Will God be proven right and everyone else a liar? That is the question that must be asked in relation to every voice in our world. And here in the last stanza in 22 through 31, the answer is given. Notice how the scene dramatically changes. You have answered me. Now I believe that this is the resurrection. The scene changes as dramatically as the mind of the women on Easter morning. They came looking for a corpse, but instead they found an empty tomb and angels. And here we've moved from the crucifixion to the resurrection of Christ, who now calls all of his brothers and sisters. Verse 22 to praise his God and Father for His faithfulness. He says, do you see, even though they were mocking me, he was faithful to me. He heard the voice of the afflicted one That's what he's saying. The Father has been faithful all along, and I remained faithful to him. The Father has answered the Son specifically in verse 24. He has not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted. He did not hide his face from me. When you first read the Psalm, would you have said that God hid his face from Jesus? Because that's not true. He didn't hide his face from him. And his foreordination of his plan, as we read from Peter, this is exactly in accordance with what the God the Father had planned before the foundations of the earth, that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer. And for him to be raised again on the third day. That's the gospel message. And here we see the gospel. Notice that in 22, this is very interesting. In 22, he moves on in twenty-three to speak of all you offspring of Israel, and then he moves in twenty-seven to all the ends of the world The salvation will not only be to his own people of Israel first, but it will move from Jerusalem to Judea to Samaria and to all the other ends of the world as to what this Christ has done. To the glory of God the Father in raising him by the Spirit. The triumph of praise is established tangibly by a feast in verse 26. The poor shall eat and shall be satisfied. He speaks about taking his vows and enjoying it with festivity. I cannot help but to think of the Israelites' delivery From the death of Egypt and the celebration of their salvation through songs of praise and the accompanying sacrament of Passover. Which has now become the Lord's Supper, where we can now experience by faith and proclaim the same deliverance that we see within this Psalm. The deliverance of Christ And thus the deliverance of his people, which is why in Jerusalem there was praise to God the Father, and to all the earth, even in An Ronald County, there is praise to God the Father because of what has been done. The whole world, people from every nation will turn and kiss the Son and relate to God the Father through Christ Jesus the King. And thus, we are here this morning lamenting and praising through the Lord's Supper. We shall celebrate the faithfulness of our Christ and the faithfulness of God our Father, who gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believes in him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. Now I know I didn't look at every single verse. I can't do that with Psalm 22 and not keep you here for four hours. But you can see that I have summarized each of the stanzas And showed you the poetic structures so that you could see that there is turmoil, that there is torment, and that there is triumph, all pointing to that Jesus is faithful to his faithful Father. The one thread running through this is the faithfulness of our God. Now you can ask, so we go back to the beginning: why does Jesus share his intimate thoughts? There's an interplay and dialogue of faith and faithfulness that we see between the Son and the Father. Why does he share that with you? Let me just give you a couple reasons. One, it's to remember that he cleanses us from our sins and reunites us to the Father This is the necessity of the death of the Christ. As the Lord's Supper will testify, the Father permitted the death of his Son And Jesus, the suffering servant, remained faithful to the point of death, so that the just would be for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but made alive by the the Spirit. He is revealing the intimate thoughts that he has with the Father because He is doing this for you, His church The just for the unjust. He also is sharing these most intimate thoughts that he has with the Father so that you can see true human life During pressure and pain. This is what human life should look like before God when there is pressure and pain. The false human way in pressure and pain is to speak. It is to cry out, and it is to question God from a posture of pride, unbelief, accusation, and hatred. Here you have before you, as he shares with you his intimate thoughts, he shows you how to suffer, and how he, through his spirit, is helping you to learn how to suffer That you might imitate him. The true human way in pressure and pain is to speak to cry out and to raise questions to God from faith and a desire for Him to help and to be close to You. In your pain, you don't have to go into a zen moment. In your pain, you long for him to be close. The true human trusts God, but feels overwhelmed by the pain and isolation and knows that they must share the pain with the only one who can save. That's what it means to go through suffering. And here's the last. It's to correct a fundamental error. What is that? Excuse me. Here's the last one. It is to correct a fundamental error. When we look at this psalm We see the difference of going through suffering that Christ has as the true human versus the false suffering that we see in the old humanity. This is one of the most important points that I want you to gain. Our problems are not solved through psychological solutions, but through relationship. Jesus does not comfort himself in this psalm by going to his happy place or learning some new way to restructure his thoughts or to go with the flow. Just focus with me. Stick with me. Jesus' only hope and comfort is God. It is not a psychological recalibration. Do you have a relationship with God like that? Do you have a relationship with God like that? Not figuring out how you need to psychologically restructure your mind. Learning new ways to think about things. God may teach you new ways, but first and foremost, like Christ, we turn to God as our hope and as our salvation. In other words, the main point is the relationship. That's what we see here coming out in Psalm 22. The relationship between Christ and his Father. is meant to be the relationship that you would have between you and your Heavenly Father as you cry out You know what ends up happening to us, though, is that we say, do we have a relationship with God like that? And then we say, no, because He doesn't come through for me. And so we end up finding something or someone else that works for us. That's exactly what happens every single time God takes too long to solve our problems. To relieve us from the stress, and so we turn to something else. And we do it over and over again, not realizing that we're giving up the actual faith that we are meant to have in God the Father. We must wait upon him. Did you know that God delays purposefully? When you ask in request for your prayer, and then he answers, he leaves a gap. so that you will not use him like a heavenly Santa Claus for all of your problems, but instead that you would truly have faith and love for him. That's the point. He wants you to intimately relate to him. How are you relating to God in the midst of your situations right now? What does he say that is relevant to your situation? What does he promise? Does God act in our lives? How is he acting in your life right now? How is he relating to you right now in your pressure and your pain. Please join me in prayer and then us let us go to the Lord's Supper. Father, we ask that you would remove whatever that distraction is. It is a sign to us of the distractions that are constantly a part of our lives that keep us from actually hearing your voice and what the Christ is accomplishing. Father, it gives us a realistic taste of what it's like to actually live life. We do not celebrate your death without other voices. And other noises and distractions calling in. Lord, as you sought to focus on the voice of your faithful Father, and yet were distracted by mockers, so too do we find that distraction. morning. We pray that you would give us the faith, that you would keep us going back to you as we are distracted by this dumb noise. That you would be celebrated. We thank you for that noise to remind us something that pales in comparison that what you, Christ, went through. We ask that you go before us now and that you would give us faith to take up your supper in the name of Christ. Christ Amen