God's holy word for you, God's holy people. Now they came to Jericho. As he went out of Jericho with his disciples and the great multitude, blind Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, sat by the road begging. And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. Then many warned him to be quiet, but he cried out all the more, Son of David, have mercy on me. So Jesus stood still. And commanded him to be called. Then they called the blind man, saying to him, Be of good cheer. Rise, he is calling you. And throwing aside his garment, he rose and came to Jesus So Jesus answered and said to him, What do you want me to do for you? The blind man said to him, Raboni, that I may receive my sight. Then Jesus said to him, Go your way. Your faith has made you well. And immediately he received his sight and followed Jesus on the road. Please pray with me. O Lord Christ, O Father in heaven, O Holy Spirit, thank you for this your word. Thank you for preserving it through the ages, that it is reliable, that it is infallible, that it will not fail to accomplish your purposes. We love you, God. And we do love your holy word. Please impress it upon our hearts tonight. Move within us, Holy Spirit. Transform us by the truth that you have preserved for us. And I pray, O Lord, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock, my strength, and my redeemer. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Blind Artemis, son of Timaeus. Some of you may recognize the name Timaeus. If you're interested in the Socratic dialogues of Plato, Timaeus is one of those people that Plato uses And there's a dialogue between Socrates and Timaeus. And it's interesting because in the Greek, do you know what Timaeus means? Anybody? In the Greek, Timaeus means honored one. It means dear one. It means valued one. But if if Bartimaeus is a Hebrew, Timaeus has a very different meaning. In Hebrew, Timaeus means unclean one. It means defiled one. I love the creativity of our God. Because the man that we encounter in this story tonight is both. He is unclean. He is defiled by sin. But in the sight of his good God, he is valued. He is honored. He is special. We've been looking at Mark, this whole gospel, and we've been going just in order, one right after another. And I hope that you've seen with me that Mark is giving us these snapshots, these photographs. of events in Jesus' ministry so that we would see without shadow of a doubt that Jesus of Nazareth is not just a man who at some point in his childhood grew up in Nazareth. That he is indeed the Son of God. He is the Messiah, the promised one. He is the Son of David. We've seen this in his power. He has the power of God. He can do what only God can do. He can cleanse lepers. He can heal the paralyzed. He can stop a twelve-year flow of blood that all the physicians in Judea and in Samaria could not have stopped for a poor woman. We've seen it. He has the wisdom of God in his teaching. He's taught like no one has ever taught before. He teaches with authority. And when he teaches, what he teaches is truth. It is applicable to all. In these snapshots, Mark has shown us a very compassionate Jesus, hasn't he? He loves his people. He cares for his people. He cares for their infirmities. And he cares for the struggles that they have because of sin, because of the effects of sin. And we have seen that he is the Son of God in his own self-disclosure. He has revealed himself to be the Messiah. And he has prophesied accurately about what will happen to him because he is the promised one of God. And again tonight, Mark records for us an event in the life of Jesus. This is actually the final event in Jesus' journey toward Jerusalem. This is the last thing that we hear about Jesus doing before he enters the city of David to fulfill the plan of God for your redemption. In essence, this is the very last thing that Jesus is going to do before he ascends the mountain of the Holy God. before he ascends Mount Zion to prove himself to be the righteous one. And so I have been praying this week as I've been Preparing this sermon, that through this event and this account, all of us would see that the cry of faith is answered by the God of mercy. Brothers and sisters, your cry of faith will be answered by the God of mercy. We're going to look at this in two ways tonight. We're going to first examine verses 46 through 48 and see the cry of faith. And then we'll look together at verses 49 through 52 and see the God of mercy. So let's jump right into examining the cry of faith in verses 46 through 48. Verse 46. Now they came to Jericho. As he went out of Jericho with his disciples and a great multitude, blind Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, sat by the road. Baking. The first thing we notice is that the cry of faith in this instance is made by one who is very, very helpless. The cry of faith is made by one who is helpless. We see here that he is the son of Timaeus. And his name, Bartimaeus, literally means the son of Timaeus. And there are some commentators who who suspect that the reason it's said this way is so that we would know that Timaeus was someone who was known to the people of Jericho. Some even surmise that Timaeus himself was blind, and that his son, the son of Timaeus, was also blind. And they support that because the way that it's written in the Greek Because it is Bartimaeus the Blind, as though it's a common name that people would have known him as. Oh, there goes Bartimaeus the Blind. He's slowly making his way to his spot beside the road. We're also told that Bartimaeus the blind, it's not just that he can't see. You know, if if he were blind but he lived in a castle and he had servants waiting on him hand and foot, might be a pretty good life, even though he couldn't see. But Bartimaeus is also a beggar. Do you know what that means to be a beggar? Children, do you realize what that means? It means that for everything that you would have, for your subsistence, For your ability to survive, someone else has to provide it. And we can see how this would be for a blind man. There's not a lot of jobs out there for someone who can't see. Can't even go into a field and responsibly glean the corners of the field because He just can't see. It would be too dangerous. Might even be a sixth commandment violation for a blind man to go wandering in the fields. Bartimaeus. He's a blind man. He has desperate needs. And up to this point God has been fulfilling those needs through the mercy of others, through the provision of others. And we learn something by this. We learn something. That the cry of faith comes from one who is helpless. And what we learn is that you don't need it to have it all figured out before you cry out to Jesus. You don't need to know what's going on in your life and why everything is falling apart. You don't have to understand it to cry out to Jesus. You don't have to have anything in yourself. You don't need to bring anything with you. Go to Jesus. Go to Jesus in your helpless state. You can't help yourself. And so you don't need to help yourself before God will help you. Now looking at verse 47. And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. We see that the cry of faith is made in response to gospel testimony This is good news that is coming to Bartimaeus as he sits in his perhaps well-worn spot by the road. He knows that there's a great crowd coming. He's blind. He's not deaf. He knows there's a lot of people on the way. And he's probably well aware of why there's such a great crowd. We're leading into the Passover. People are coming from all around, all the countryside to Jerusalem. To witness the Passover, to participate in the Passover, to worship God. And even they are worshiping God because of his great mercy. The Passover is a sign of God's mercy. He did not kill those who were protected by the blood of the Lamb. He showed his mercy to them. And so he heard that Jesus was there. It wasn't just the normal crowd that was going every year to Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover. This is a very special crowd because in the crowd is Jesus the Nazarene. Now it's interesting here because Jesus the Nazarene is a title that is given to Jesus And it it could simply mean, oh yeah, he's the Jesus who was from Nazareth. But even saying it's the Jesus from Nazareth is uh in a way an insult to Jesus Remember those who said, there's no prophet who comes out of Nazareth? Where in the scriptures is there a prophet who's going to come from Nazareth? Jesus is the prophet from Nazareth. He is the Nazarene. And though some may say, oh look, here's Jesus the Nazarene, they might say that in a In an insulting manner, we see that Bartimaeus, having heard that Jesus is there, then cries out in faith. And he cries out, not with the title that could be an insult, but with the true title of Jesus, Son of David. There's so much wrapped up in just calling him the son of David. He recognizes that he is the one that God promised would always sit on the throne of David. He recognizes that he is the king. Though he has such humble origins as coming from the town of Nazareth. And so I'd ask you, when you hear That Jesus is near. When you hear that you can go to Jesus, how do you respond? Do you respond in faith? Do you believe that good news, that gospel? That there is one who can save? That's literally what his name means. Yeshua. Our God saves. When somebody tells you about Jesus, what does your heart do within you? Does it doubt? Or does your heart leap with joy? Does your heart begin a new way? of living and being in the way that Bartimaeus began a new way of being, he stopped begging and he began crying out. And I love that it said he began to cry out Because sometimes we can be mistaken in saying, oh, it's a one-time thing. I've already cried out to Jesus. It's over. It's done. Now it's on him. Just waiting on God. He began to cry out, and he didn't stop crying out. When you hear gospel testimony, does it begin a new era of your own life? Artemis is crying out and he's crying out in faith. And we know this. Because the cry that he makes is one that is made in faith. He believes. He believes that Jesus can help him. If he didn't, he wouldn't cry out. If you have help or need help with something, for example, if you have some electrical work that you need done at your house. Are you going to cry out to me for help? I'm telling you tonight, don't. I will be of no good to you. And I cannot help you with electrical problems in your house. If I could, there would be no electrical problems in my house. But there are some among us, like our brother Lloyd, who's an electrical engineer, if I have trouble with electrical things, I'm probably gonna reach out to Lloyd. In fact, I probably should, because I do have electrical problems And you cry out believing that the person would be able to help you. Little ones, when you need help with something, who do you cry out to? If you need help reaching something that's too tall for you, do you cry out to someone shorter than you? You cry out to someone that you believe can actually help you. with what it is that you need, and this is what Bartimaeus does. He believes that Jesus is more than just. Some guy. Now he might believe that Jesus is a miracle worker. It's obvious from what we've already gone through and marked that many, in fact, most knew that Jesus was something special. Whether they believed that he really was the Son of God or whether he was just some miracle worker, that remains to be seen. We'll find out in heaven. When we get to ask around and say, oh when when did you encounter Jesus? Maybe we'll come across some who say, Oh, I was there. I was there when he raised that little girl to life. That's when I encountered Jesus. Or maybe they would say, I was there when he helped Bartimaeus, when he helped the son of the unclean one, to be undefiled, to become righteous. Bartimaeus knew that he was a blind man who had nothing to offer. He knew that he was helpless. In achieving what he needed for himself. And yet he cries out to Jesus because he believes, and he believes that he is merciful. And that is his cry. Have mercy on me. In God's sovereignty, in his great Creative wisdom. This cry has been a part of the church for 2,000 years. Have you ever heard The term kirieh ilson, Kriste il exactly what he says. He is saying, illeison, have mercy That's what that word literally means. And this is the cry of the church throughout all her history. Lord have mercy. God have mercy on me. And so I ask you, do you believe that God is merciful? When you are in that situation. Where you need mercy. Is he the one that you cry out to? The cry of faith. It's made by the helpless. It's made in response to the gospel, and it is made in faith, believing that God can and does help those who need his help. And the last thing that we see about the cry of faith is right there for us in verse 48. Then many warned him to be quiet, but he cried out all the more. Son of David, have mercy on me. The cry of faith is undeterred It's interesting, this word warned is actually the word rebuked. And so the people aren't just warning him, like, ooh, be careful You you might not want to be crying out. They're not. They're saying, you shouldn't be crying out. You should not be crying out to him. And there there could be many reasons for this. The crowd, you know, who knows what crowds think Perhaps they're thinking, look, we are already behind schedule on the way to Jerusalem for the Passover, and Jesus keeps stopping to help people. We need him to keep going. Could you just not bother him so that we can keep going? Or perhaps they have a mentality saying, look, Bartimaeus, you don't have anything to take to this miracle worker. You don't have anything to give to him. You have nothing to offer him. Why would you cry out to him? Why would you bother him? Why would you waste his precious time? And I love the way that it's recorded for us, that Mark records this, but he cried out all the more. He doesn't even slow down in his cries. He doesn't even diminish them at all. In fact, he ramps it up. Does that describe you? Many of us struggle with unanswered prayer, don't we? Begging God to do. Something that we we believe we desperately need. And he delays. He doesn't answer our prayer right away. Does that deter you? Or do you just cry out all the more? Do you somehow think that because he hasn't answered you yet, that that's an indication that he will never answer you? True faith is not shaken by the doubts of others. And though that crowd may have doubted that Jesus would have helped Bartimaeus, it does not change what he is doing. It does not stop him from what he is doing. And he cries out. Son of David, have mercy on me. Bartimaeus's cry of faith is there for us, and it helps us understand that our cry of faith Though we are helpless, we cry out in faith in response to the gospel, in response to the good news that God is merciful and that He spares us and saves us. We respond to the good news that Jesus is near. And he comes near to those who seek him. If you ask, the door will be opened. Bartimaeus cries out in faith, and so you and I should cry out in faith and be undeterred, no matter what the world around us is saying. Pastor Jesse has been hitting on this for months. The world will tell you that it's foolishness to find your hope and your answer in Christ. And they have all kinds of reasons for this. Jesus is just a man. The Bible's not reliable. You can't trust him. Or perhaps he does save, perhaps Jesus is God. But he's not going to save you. He knows all the terrible thoughts you have. He knows all the terrible things you said. He knows all the terrible ways you have wasted your time. Why would he help someone like you? That's what Satan wants us to think. But praise God that he has included for us this cry of faith from Bartimaeus to show us. That we must never stop crying out to God. Why? Because our God is the God of mercy. Amen. And so let's look at that now in verses forty-nine to fifty-two. So Jesus stood still and commanded him to be called. Then they called the blind man, saying to him, Be of good cheer, rise, he's calling you. The God of mercy, the Lord Jesus Christ, responds to Bartimaeus. And do you see the first thing he does by responding? He stops. Jesus stops. The king of the cosmos, the king of the universe, stops what he's doing to respond to the cry of one who believes in him. He responds through others. Do you notice that? He commands. He commands those that are around him to call Bartimaeus. I find this interesting. We don't know who it was that he was commanding. Was it the people that were telling him, hey, keep your mouth shut? Or were these his disciples? We're not given that detail. But what we do know is that it is Jesus' will. That the helpless one, the unclean one, the defiled one, would draw near to him, would come to him. And in that command that Bartimaeus would be called. Do you see what happens? As the God of mercy responds to him, that response cheers him, comforts him in the very literal sense. Comforte with strength. It gives him strength. It encourages him. And it's amazing. This is the very same thing that Jesus says in chapter 9 to that woman who had the flow of blood. Do you remember? If you have your Bible open, just turn real quick, two pages. Chapter nine, verse twenty-two. Oh no, that's the wrong one. I'm so sorry. I recorded the wrong verse. Forgive me. We're all fallible. It is the same thing that Jesus says to her. He says, be of good cheer. And if I had better eyesight, I could find it very quickly right now. But I can't It's what he says. Be of good cheer. The Savior is near. The Savior cares. The Savior can save you. The mercy of God shuts down those doubters because they're the ones who are saying this to Bartimaeus. Be of good cheer. He is calling you. And I love that this term calling has been with the church. For her whole life. This is our calling. God calls you to himself. He is the shepherd. You know his voice. And when he calls, you respond. And that call, that summons, is to come to where he is, to be with him, to seek him. And the next thing that we notice is what Bartimaeus does. The God of mercy responds to Bartimaeus, and now Bartamaeus responds to the God of mercy. He responds to the calling of God. And what does he do in verse fifty? And throwing aside his garments, he rose and came to Jesus. I couldn't help but think of this as like a you know like in a cartoon when somebody's running so fast that the the whole world seems to be unable to catch up to him Do-do-do-do-do-do-do! He is just fleeing to Christ. Fleeing to Jesus. There is nothing that's going to slow him down. He throws off that garment. Like Paul says, cut away those things that will hinder you running the race. It strikes me because as a poor blind beggar It's very likely this is his only earthly possession. And he's willing to lose it. He's willing for it to be tossed into the dirt and trampled by the crowd so that it would not hamper his getting to where Jesus is. He sacrifices to draw near to him. What are you willing to sacrifice? To draw near to Jesus. What are you willing to lay aside? Most of us are willing to lay aside things that are already bad for us, aren't we? That's our mindset. I will stop sinning in that way. I'm gonna do my best to stop. I oh, I'm gonna I'm not gonna have a smartphone. I'm just gonna get a flip phone so that I can not have that temptation. These are things that are obvious to us we should cut aside. Are there any things in your life That are not obvious bad things. Things that may be precious to you and have been precious to you for so very long in your life. We don't know how old Bartimaeus is We don't know how long he had that garment, but is there something that you're unwilling to part with so you can draw near to Christ? Is it a self-conception? Do you think of yourself as, you know, I've already I've already got this kind of figured out. I became a Christian when I was seven. Okay? Now I need God to just start helping me make the bills. Are you willing to give up your self-conception and say to yourself I know that I thought I believed. But do I really believe The God of mercy responds to Bartimaeus, responds to the unclean one, who's the son of unclean ones. It occurs to me now that's all of us. Every one of us is unclean, the son of one who was unclean. And Bartimaeus responds to the God of mercy who calls him to himself. And the last thing that we see, I'm sorry, the next thing that we see is that Jesus cares about Bartimaeus. He is the God of mercy. Look at verse 51. So Jesus answered and said to him, What do you want me to do for you? This should sound kind of familiar to us. It was just last Sunday we looked at the the previous account where Jesus asks a very similar question. Not the exact same question, but very similar. to James and John. Do you remember that? In that instance he says, What do you desire me to do for you? It's in the infinitive. What do you want me to do for you? But what he says here to Bartimaeus is slightly different. And this is why I really believe in what's what we call the verbal plenary inspiration. That means every word and all the words of Scripture are inspired by God. even in the form that they take in these other languages. Because when he says to Bartimaeus, what he says, it literally is translated, what do you desire that I might do for you? The merciful God. He comes to Bartimaeus and he says, What is it that you need? That I might do it for you. It's a compassionate and a caring and a merciful God who wants to do good for his people. And so Bartimaeus response again. The second half of verse fifty one. And in his response, he is confessing his great need to the God of mercy. Do you see what he says there? The blind man said to him, Raboni, that I may receive my sight. He doesn't make demands of Jesus. Give me my eyes back. He doesn't put a whole lot of let's call it angst into it. You've made me blind. Could you make me not blind? How many of us have had prayers to God like that? You've made me this way. Why won't you change me? You're the one who gives me this pain that I deal with every day. Why won't you take it away? That's not what Bartimaeus does. Bartimaeus. Now there's an interesting thing that's going on here. Raboni and rabbi are two different words. I didn't realize that until preparing this sermon. And I'm very glad that I found out because there's something really special happening here. Rabbi is a term. It's just a term of in uh of honor. It's an honorific. Rabbi, it means honored one. If you've ever seen Fiddler on the roof, they call him Reb Tevia. It's just a it's just a a uh uh a shortened version of Rabbi. But rabbi has come to mean the teacher, the honored teacher in a Jewish synagogue. But what he says here, Rabboni, is different. It is saying honored one, honored teacher. But he has a possessive ending. My teacher. My honored teacher. It's a confession. Bartimaeus is confessing. You are my teacher. And then he requests mercy. He doesn't demand it, he requests that that I might receive my sight. And the very last thing we see in verse fifty-two is that the God of mercy saves. The God of mercy saves. Then Jesus said to him, Go your way. Your faith has made you well. And immediately he received his sight and followed Jesus on the road. Once again, it's the same as when he was dealing with that woman with the flow of blood. He says Your faith has made you well, which literally means your faith has saved you. Saved by faith. By believing in the Son of God, by believing that God is merciful, and crying out in faith. His sight is restored. That desperate need that drove him to cry out in the first place is filled. It's a little misleading. The new New King James says go your way. It doesn't say go your way in the Greek. It just says go. In essence, he's saying I'm with you. You don't have to be physically right here with me. You can go. Your faith has made you well. Your faith has saved you. You will be with me in eternity. Forever and ever and ever. Where I am going, you will be. His sight's restored, his desperate need is fulfilled, but that's not all that happens to him, is it? It's not just his eyes that are transformed. What does he do? And immediately he received his sight and followed Jesus on the road. He is transformed entirely. He's transformed completely from an unclean one to an honored one, a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I love it because this Follow Jesus on the road could also be translated, follow Jesus in the way. Did you know that's what they used to call Christianity at the very early days, followers of the way He is transformed into a disciple, one who follows Christ in Christ's way. Your cry of faith, brothers and sisters, will be answered by a God of mercy. And it's not new. In case you're wondering, is this only is God He's not merciful in the Old Testament, but he's merciful in the New Testament? Let's turn to Isaiah chapter 35. If you ha turn there with me, I'm gonna read from verse three through verse ten. Isaiah thirty-five. Strengthen the weak hands. And make firm the feeble knees. Say to those who are fearful hearted, be strong. Do not fear. Be of good cheer. Take courage. Behold, your God will come with vengeance. With the recompense of God, he will come and save you. Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened. And the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped. Then the lame shall leap like a deer, and the tongue of the dumb sing, for waters shall burst forth in the wilderness, and streams in the desert. The parched ground shall become a pool, and the thirsty land springs of water, in the habitation of jackals, where each lay there shall be grass with reeds and rushes. A highway shall be there, and a road. Away. And it shall be called the highway of holiness. The unclean Shall not pass over it, but it shall be for others. Whoever walks the road, although a fool, shall not go astray. No lion shall be there, nor shall any ravenous beast go up on it. It shall not be found there. But the redeemed shall walk there. And the ransom of the Lord shall return, and come to Zion with singing, with everlasting joy on their heads, they shall obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away. This is not new. This is God's plan. And when John the Baptist was in prison Do you recall that he sent disciples of his to Jesus asking, Are you the one or is another one coming? Do you know what Jesus said to him in answer? He quoted this. Tell John that the blind receive their sight. Tell John that the ears of the deaf are opened. This is the God of mercy. This is your God. The God who calls you to Himself, though you are helpless, though you can do nothing to change your situation, though you can do nothing to cleanse yourself of your uncleanness, or to fix yourself. From the results of sin that are in this world, he calls you to himself. So brothers and sisters, I encourage you, I exhort you, draw near to God, cry out in faith, believing that God is a merciful God. And he will hear your cry and save you. That is the promise of God, and at the very end of Mark, chapter 16, verse 16. It is reiterated for us that he who believes in Jesus Christ, what will happen to them? He will be saved. Believe in Christ, and you will be saved. Please pray with me