If you have a copy of your word, of God's word, which is yours, He's given it to you, if you have a copy of it, I ask that you would open to Numbers chapter five, where we will be hearing from the Lord this morning. It's quite a long passage, so I'm not going to ask you to say anything But remember that this is God's word, and out of respect we should give him all of our attention, especially to this. If there's only one part of this sermon that you pay attention to, I beg that it would be this one. Numbers chapter 5, starting in verse 11, reading through verse 31, the end of the chapter. And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, If any man's wife goes astray and behaves unfaithfully toward him, And a man lies with her carnally, and it is hidden from the eyes of her husband, and it is concealed, that she has defiled herself, and there was no witness against her, nor was she caught If the spirit of jealousy comes upon him and he becomes jealous of his wife, who has defiled herself, or if the spirit of jealousy comes upon him and he becomes jealous of his wife, although she has not defiled herself, then the man shall bring his wife to the priest. He shall bring the offering required for her, one tenth of an epha of barley meal. He shall pour no oil on it, and put no frankincense on it Because it is a grain offering of jealousy, an offering for mer remembering, for bringing iniquity to remembrance. And the priest shall bring her near and set her before the Lord. The priest shall take holy water in an earthen vessel, and take some of the dust that is on the floor of the tabernacle, and put it into the water. Then the priest shall stand the woman before the Lord Jehovah. Uncover the woman's head, and put the offering for remembering in her hands, which is the grain offering of jealousy. And the priest shall have in his hand the bitter water that brings a curse And the priest shall put her under oath, and say to the woman, If no man has lain with you, and if you have not gone astray to uncleanness, while under your husband's authority, be free from this bitter water that brings a curse. But if you have gone astray while under your husband's authority, and if you have defiled yourself, and some man other than your husband has lain with you Then the priest shall put the woman under the oath of the curse, and he shall say to the woman, The Lord make you a curse and an oath among your people. When the Lord makes your thigh rot, and your belly swell, and may this water that causes the curse go into your stomach and make your belly swell, and your thigh rot. Then the woman shall say, Amen. So be it. Then the priest shall write these curses in a book, and he shall scrape them off into the bitter water, and he shall make the woman drink the bitter water that brings a curse. And the water that brings the curse shall enter her to become bitter. Then the priest shall take the grain offering of jealousy from the woman's hand Shall wave the offering before the Lord and bring it to the altar. And the priest shall take a handful of the offering, as its memorial portion, burn it on the altar, and afterward make the woman drink the water. When he has made her drink the water, then it shall be, if she has defiled herself and behaved unfaithfully toward her husband, that the water that brings a curse will enter her and become bitter, and her belly will swell, and her thigh will rot And the woman will become a curse among her people. But if the woman has not defiled herself and is clean, then she shall be free, and may conceive children This is the law of jealousy, when a wife, while under her husband's authority, goes astray and defiles herself. Or when the spirit of jealousy comes upon a man and he becomes jealous of his wife. Then he shall stand the woman before the Lord, and the priest shall execute all this law upon her. Then the man shall be free from iniquity, but the woman shall bear her guilt. Let us pray again. Father, this is your word given to your people. Let us be edified by it Let us see from it what you would have us see, that we can go forth from this place, glorifying you and enjoying you more. what we have learned from this passage. We thank you for it. We thank you for your blessing. In Christ's name. Amen. It is a great privilege and pleasure to be able to exhort to you from God's Word this morning. Every part of the Holy Scriptures is a gift for you from your God. Even parts of it that may seem boring, or that may seem confusing, or perhaps even just downright strange. Now I've heard people say that they have a hard time getting excited about the book of Numbers. After all, who wants to read just a bunch of lists of names and sacrifices? and where people have to camp and what they do and the order they leave. And to an extent, I might agree with some of that. It can be difficult. But we have to remember that numbers is only the title of the book in English. In Hebrew, it's Bamidbar, which means in the wilderness. It's all about the wilderness journey of the Israelites before they enter the land, Jehovah promised to Abraham. Each of our lives can be like a wilderness journey. We don't exactly know what's coming next, and there are dangers and challenges that we will face before our journeys end Now, prior to the passage that's in focus this morning, we see the intimate knowledge and great care God has for his people in his numbering them and ordering them and in assigning to them certain duties Immediately preceding this passage in chapter 5, we are taught the vital importance for God's people to be pure as they traverse the wilderness. Purification is by God's mercy alone. And it's shown as He mercifully allows the unclean to leave the camp and prevent the defilement of all the people. He doesn't get rid of them. Rather, God provides for the eventuality of his people's uncleanness and gives ways for them to be cleansed. God knows what we need most. He knows how important our relationships are for helping us get through this wilderness journey. And in the first part of this chapter, God provides a way for the Israelites to deal with sins committed against each other. He gives them confession and restitution. And this now brings us to our passage. And one of the challenges of preaching a passage as difficult and somewhat strange as this one is the cultural climate in which we live. This kind of ritual that we're going to examine can easily trigger some defensive emotions in some people, some opponents of Christianity even try to use passages like this as evidence of toxic masculinity or just female, systemic female oppression in the Bible I hope that after studying this together, you would agree that such a characterization is nowhere close to the truth. The ritual is not about evil women. And it's not about how to deal with evil women. It's about relationships and how God's people must deal with challenges to their relationships throughout their wilderness journey From our passage this morning, we learn one of the most important things we must understand about walking in the wilderness as children of God, and that is faithful submission. Despite the strangeness of this ritual, I think you will find that this passage has relevance for all of our lives. And my prayer has been that as we study this passage together this morning, we will see that when faced with seemingly impossible situations. Faithful submission to God's words reveals the truth. When faced with seemingly impossible situations, faithful submission to God's words Reveals the truth. We're going to look at this in three ways. We'll first look at verses 12 to 14 and we'll see an impossible situation. Then we'll look at verses 15 to 26 and we'll see faithful submission. And we'll finally look at verses 27 to 31, and we'll see the truth revealed. Now, before we examine this passage in depth, we must first realize something vitally important, which is verse 11. And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, What we have before us is not a man-made ritual, but a God-given one. It is from God. And God is a spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in his being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth. Now that's a lot of lofty ideas about God. But this ritual is not distant or lofty or removed from us It is marvelously grounded in the human condition, showing us yet again that God knows us better than we know ourselves. The Lord knows that because of sin, his people will find themselves in seemingly impossible situations. So let's look now at verses 12 through the first part of 15 at this impossible situation. Starting in verse twelve. Speak to the children of Israel and say to them, If any man's wife goes astray and behaves unfaithfully toward him, and a man lies with her carnally, and it is hidden from the eyes of Israel, If the spirit of jealousy comes upon him, and he becomes jealous of his wife, who has defiled herself Or, if the spirit of jealousy comes upon him and he becomes jealous of his wife, although she has not defiled herself, then the man shall bring his wife to the priest. The first thing we notice is that there is an obviously damaged relationship If the woman is guilty, then the damage is that she committed adultery. She broke the covenant between her and her husband, and she needs to face the reality of her choices. Yet, even if she is guilty, the Lord has given her a way forward, confession She needs to confess her sin, thus showing her husband's spirit of jealousy to be warranted and resolving, however painfully, their situation. Only through confession of sin can forgiveness and reconciliation begin. The relationship will remain irreparably damaged until a confession is made And after that, it's only by God's grace that it might be mended. Now, if she's not guilty. Then the damage is evident in that the husband has some reason to think that she is. The spirit of jealousy is upon him. He does not trust his wife. And that's evidence enough of a damaged relationship, regardless of who's at fault. If she's not guilty, then the husband is being attacked by his own imagination. The stress and the anxiety of wondering if his wife has treated him unfaithfully is hindering his ability to love his wife. His jealousy leads him to sin. Whatever the case, be the woman guilty or not, something is not right between them. And that's a hard place in which to live It seems impossible, this scenario, because it seems like a no-win scenario. What can a mere man do in this situation? It's a he shed, he said, she said circumstance. You know what those are? There's no witnesses. And that's typically how it happens in our private relationships, because especially in marriage It's usually just one-on-one. It's private, and we don't involve anyone else. But this is not how God instructs his people to administer justice, is it? It is never on the word of a single person. It's never on the basis of one witness. In Deuteronomy 19, 15 or Matthew 18:16, it says, By the mouth of two or three witnesses, the matter shall be established. And neither the husband nor the wife feels like they can trust each other's witness. What are they to do? Who can go on like this? It must feel like there's no way out. There's no way forward. There's no way for them to find the truth. It's like there's no witness for the truth. Or is there? What can God do in this situation? Well, there is nothing hidden from the Lord Jehovah. He sees all things He knows the innermost thoughts and secrets of every person's heart. He knows the truth, even in this seemingly impossible situation. And he not only knows the truth. But he has the power to reveal it. So God gives this ritual to Moses. He commands it for the benefit of his people. The entire scenario demonstrates that God knows what we need while we are in the wilderness. We cannot survive without relationship. With fellow journeyers. And the deepest relationship that humans can enter into is also one of the most difficult to maintain. It's that relationship of covenant marriage. When a man and a woman vow before God and before man to lifelong faithfulness and exclusive sexual intimacy When the trials of the wilderness rear up and threaten our relationships, even when as important as marriage, what can we as God's people do? What must we do? We must faithfully submit to God. And look now at verses 15 to 26, and we will see faithful submission. First, let's look at the faithful submission required of the husband in this impossible situation. Then the man shall bring his wife to the priest. He shall bring the offering required for her, one tenth of an epha of barley meal. He shall pour no oil on it, put no frankincense on it, because it is a grain offering of jealousy. An offering for remembering, for bringing iniquity to remembrance. It's not a joyful offering. It's an offering to remember sin. To beseech the Lord for his wisdom. He takes his wife to the priest. He brings the appropriate offering to the Lord Almighty. This is not easy. For a man to do. There is a finality in this ritual that God has given. At the end of this path, there is the truth, and the truth can often be hard to deal with. Either way, life is not going to be the same for this man. He will either find out that he's been cheated on and his marriage is broken, which means he'll need to go on, perhaps for quite some time in the wilderness all alone. Or he'll find out that his wife has been innocent, despite his suspicions, and he'll have to deal with that, and the significant ramifications of that. Yet he faithfully submits to God. He submits to the command and he brings the impossible situation to the Lord. Well, the man's not the only one faithfully submitting, is he? Let's look at the faithful submission that's required of the woman, required of the wife. And the priest shall bring her near, and set her before the Lord, not the man. She's set before the Lord. Then the priest shall stand the woman before the Lord, uncover the woman's head, and put the offering for remembering in her hands. And the priest shall put her under oath. Then the woman shall say, Amen. So be it. Think about the innocent woman involved in this event. This is a true test of her faith in Jehovah. Does she really believe that He knows her heart? Does she really believe that God knows her secrets? Does she really believe, as we read in the call to worship, that God vindicates the strangers? Will He actually vindicate her before her husband and the priests and the entire camp of people? The whole ritual is carried out inside the tabernacle. The woman is placed before the Lord. It says that her hair is loose. That's a big deal if you know anything about Hebrew culture. She is essentially laid bare before God's righteous gaze. And it's designed to humble her. It's designed to humble the guilty. Giving her every impetus and every opportunity to confess freely if she has committed this unfaithfulness. But it's not just the husband and the wife who are faithful and submitting to God, is it? There's a third party. And that's the priest And he too must submit in faithfulness to the Lord God. It says in verses 23 to 26, then the priest shall write these curses in a book, and he shall scrape them off into the bitter water. And he shall make the woman drink the bitter water that brings a curse, and the water that brings the curse shall enter her to become bitter. Then the priest shall take the grain offering of jealousy from the woman's hand, shall wave the offering before the Lord, and bring it to the altar. And the priest shall take a handful of the offering as its memorial portion, burn it on the altar, and afterward make the woman drink the water. Now, there isn't time to go into great detail about all of the parts of this ritual. What we must notice is that the priest faithfully carries them out, regardless of how strange they may seem. Dust from the tabernacle floor. The mixture itself begins with holy water, and that could be a reference to later on in the book of Numbers in chapter 19 when they're talking about the water of purification. The priest administers this oath, this solemn oath to the woman. He writes it down, and then in some way he puts those words, either shaping or blotting, into the very water she's going to drink. The priest's duty is not to try to understand why God has commanded all of these parts His duty is to submit in faithfulness and obey, fulfilling the ritual's demands. We should pay very close attention To this important aspect of the ritual and the priest's involvement. Notice that he is not called by God to make the decision regarding the woman's guilt or innocence. Did you see that? It isn't the priest's piety or his personal holiness that is called upon to reveal the truth. He isn't relying on divine intuition to assess the situation and declare the hidden truth. He must submit to God's will, God's judgment. His role in all this is as a facilitator of the Lord's command His thoughts on the couple's seemingly impossible situation are of no consequence in the outcome of this event. And the last thing I want to point out about this ritual is that all of it, the oath The writing, the swearing, the drinking, the mixture. It all hinges on the offering. Everything is prepared, but nothing is administered until the offering has been made to the Lord. It is at this point that the priest gives the water that brings the curse to the woman. All parties show their faithful submission to God, and then the priest carries out his decrees. This is what must be done if they are to know the truth about this impossible situation. And that is exactly why the Lord has given this to his people. Through obedience to God's command, the truth is revealed. Look at verse 27. When he has made her drink the water. Then it shall be, if she has defiled herself and behaved unfaithfully toward her husband, that the water that brings a curse will enter her and become bitter, and her belly will swell, her sigh will rot, and the woman will become a curse among her people. But if the woman has not defiled herself and is clean, then she shall be free and may conceive children. This is the law of jealousy. When a wife, while under her husband's authority, goes astray and defiles herself, or when the spirit of jealousy comes upon a man and he becomes jealous of his wife. Then he shall stand the woman before the Lord, and the priest shall execute all this law upon her. Then the man shall be free from iniquity, but that woman shall bear her guilt. At the end of this ritual, the truth is revealed, and it is revealed conspicuously. There's no secret as to the outcome. The woman will either have the swollen belly and her thigh will fall or rot. Or she will not. There's no escaping the curse that the water brings for the guilty party. She's obviously an adulteress based on God's judgment And it will affect her. In the very same parts she used for her unfaithfulness, in her womb, she will be barren. God's truth is the whole point. God commands this law of jealousy because he knows how crucial it is. For the marriage relationship to be pure and free from even the hint of evil. The Lord often compares the covenant relationship he has with his people to the covenant relationship of marriage. Idolatry is seen as adultery against God, turning from Him to give what is His alone, by right and by vow and oath, to any other thing. The truth is so vital It's so important. Yet God knows that it is elusive to us because we're fallible and we're feeble and most of the time we're foolish. But our Lord does not leave us to guess at His truth. He gives us His Word. He gives us His Spirit of truth to interpret it. The Holy Spirit uses God's word to. Guide us into all truth. John 17, 17, Jesus prays to the Father, sanctify them, his disciples, by your truth. Your word is truth. Though we are not under this law of jealousy any longer, and the priesthood has been abrogated, and this ritual is no longer commanded, we may still find ourselves. In seemingly impossible situations, situations in which we need to know the truth. Situations where the truth is clouded by emotions and feelings. Situations that involve human beings whose natural bent is toward dishonesty and self-preservation. How can we find the truth in seemingly impossible situations? Well, perhaps you found yourself in the situation of the woman. Someone makes a claim about you, accusing you of sin. Or perhaps someone treats you as though you're guilty of that sin already. Guilty of something you haven't committed. Will arguing and shouting and screaming until you're blue in the face ever convince the other person that they were wrong and they should simply drop the accusation? If that's worked for anyone in this room, I want to know. So we can get together, write a book, start a new phase of therapy. But it doesn't work that way. What can we do when only God knows the truth? Faithfully submit, just as the woman described in this passage does. Humble yourself. Submit to God's word. Examine the claim the person's making. Beg your God to show you your sin. Share your situation with your elders. Bring it out into the open and submit it to God. Submit to Jehovah's judgment Care only about his opinion of you and not about anyone else's opinion. God knows the truth. He vindicates the innocent. When you forget it, go to Psalm 146. Remind yourself. That is your God In this wilderness, we may find ourselves in the situation of the man. Have you ever thought someone wronged you, though you knew you couldn't prove it? Maybe you think you see signs of it all the time. There's a tone in the voice or a look in the eye. There's body language that communicates contempt or intentional slighting. So and so never invites me over yet they always have Mrs. Sweetems over. It's not fair Or everyone's having such a good time with everybody else. They're all friends. Everybody's friends, but not me. I'm left all by myself because nobody cares about me Or Mr. Man is always talking down to me because he thinks I'm stupid. He thinks I can't understand anything. Do you allow yourself to treat others, to treat this person you think is condemning you, as though everything you think is true? In other words, do you condemn them based solely on one witness? Yourself We must do as the man in this passage does, we must faithfully submit to God. We know what God commands us to do. In John 13, he commands us to love one another as he has. Coincidentally, he commands it also in John 14 and John 15 and John, basically the whole gospel of John. But think about Jesus' example in John chapter 8. When a person is caught in the very act of adultery, does he turn his face from them? Does he treat them as an outcast and let them suffer the just consequences of their sin and behavior? No. He doesn't Should we then condemn a person not caught in the act, but only caught in our mind? In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus teaches us to love our enemies. To pray for those who persecute us. Even if the person has done these terrible things that we imagine they've done, all of the things that an enemy does, are we as Christians allowed to hate them? Are you allowed to sin and treat someone poorly because they have sinned and treated you poorly? If you find yourself in a situation where you think you've been wronged, talk to the elders. Faithfully submit to God's word. Bring it out into the open. Follow what they will counsel you. And I know in this church. We will counsel you to follow Matthew 18 and to faithfully submit to God's word. Now at times, God may call upon you to serve In the midst of a seemingly impossible situation like this one. Perhaps it'll be between relatives or friends. And if you're called to serve in ministry or called to be an officer in God's church, you may find yourself in this situation more often than you would think. So, what are you to do? If there's no way to know the truth, there's no witnesses, there's no clear evidence of guilt, how can you possibly make the right judgment? Even more than that, is God requiring you to decide based solely on what you see and know. Is God dependent on your understanding of the facts and events? Is God dependent on your cleverness? Does God need you to bring about his justice? One of the most valuable things that God has taught me in my training for ministry is that every human situation, every human situation is seemingly impossible. It doesn't matter who you are. An introvert or an extrovert, a gentle spirit, or a bull in the china shop, you have trouble relating to other human beings. You have trouble communicating with other human beings. We're so bad at treating each other well and loving each other well. We have great difficulty anytime that we have to be in the same room as another human being. Does this mean that we just give up? When called on to help our brother or sister work through the difficulties of their relationships, do you just give up? No. We do as the priest does. We don't give up. We show up. We just show up and we do our duty We show up and we trust the Lord to be the Lord. We show up to serve Him however he commands. We trust our God to know all things. We trust our God who controls all things to reveal the truth, bring himself the most glory. Even through such a seemingly impossible situation as that of suspected adultery, every one of us, if we were brought before our jealous God, And we were accused of our adultery against him. Accused of following after our own will and our own way. Accused of giving our worship to anything other than him Every single person on this planet, if we had to drink this bitter cup, we would be cursed. Because we are guilty. But praise be to God. Praise be to our Lord Repent of your sin and believe in the gospel the good news that there is reconciliation with the Father through Jesus Christ. Our Lord Jesus Christ has taken all of your guilt and all of your curse When he drank the bitter cup of God's wrath against your sins at Calvary. The curse was put upon him, that we could be forgiven of our sins and purified to be a holy dwelling for the Spirit of God. In your own lives, brothers and sisters, trust in Christ and know that you will encounter seemingly impossible situations Or perhaps you will be involved in someone else's seemingly impossible situation. And when this happens, submit in faithfulness. To your God and to his word, and to his revealed will, and he will lead you into the truth. Please pray with me Our God in heaven, we are so grateful that you know all things. We are grateful that your power is not limited and that you can reveal the truth. And we are, above all else, grateful. That all which you have commanded of us, and all that we need to live a life that's pleasing to you, And to not be condemned for our sin. You have provided. It has nothing to do with us. It's not by works that we can boast. It's not by our birth It's not even by the things we've done, any of the quote-unquote good that we have done. It is only by your grace and mercy that we are spared the wrath that we deserve. We pray, Father, that you would solidify this in our hearts. You would make it true for us that we would never, ever, ever For the rest of our lives, try to come to the truth on our own. That we would not try to make a judgment on our own, but that we would constantly be on our knees before you Begging you to reveal your truth, begging your spirit to guide us into the truth through your word. And Father, we beg you to preserve and protect your church. Your officers and leaders that you have given to her. Protect us, Father, that we may be a good witness, a witness to you, to all the world, until you return. And bring us home. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.