Let's now turn to Psalm forty-four as we hear from the Lord from his word for our lives. This is Psalm forty four. It is a contemplation of the sons of Korah. We have heard with our ears, O God. Our fathers have told us the deeds you did in their days. In days of old, you drove out the nations with your hand, but you planted, but them you planted. You afflicted the peoples and cast Them out. For they did not gain possession of the land by their own sword, nor did their own arm save them. But it was your right hand, your arm, and the light of your countenance, because you favored them. You are my king, O God. Command victories for Jacob. Through you we will push down our enemies. Through your name, we will trample those who rise up against us. For I will not trust in my bow, nor shall my sword save me. But you have saved us from our enemies, and have put to shame those who hated us. In God we boast all day long and praise your name forever. But you have cast us off and put us to shame. And you do not go out with our armies. You make us turn back from the enemy And those who hate us have taken spoil for themselves. You have given us up like sheep intended for food, and have scattered us among the nations. You sell your people for next to nothing. And are not enriched by selling them. You make us a reproach to our neighbors, a scorn and a derision to those all around us. You make us a byword among the nations. A shaking of the head among the peoples. My dishonor is continually before me, and the shame of my face has covered me because of the voice of him who reproaches and reviles, because of the enemy and the avenger. And this has come upon us. But we have not forgotten you, nor have we dealt falsely with your covenant. Our heart has not turned back, nor have our steps departed from your way. But you have severely broken us in the place of jackals and covered us with the shadow of death. If we had forgotten the name of our God, or stretched out our hands to a foreign God, would not God search this out? For he knows the secrets of the heart, yet for your sake we are killed all day long. We are accounted as sheep for the slaughter. Awake! Why do you sleep, O Lord? Arise! Do not cast us off forever. Why do you hide your face and forget our affliction and our oppression? For our soul is bowed down to the dust. Our body clings to the ground. Arise for our help And redeem us for your mercy's sake. Let's pray. Father, we thank you again for the sons of Korah here and how through your Holy Spirit you have given us the words of Psalm 44, which are more than than words, this is a relationship with you and in the world around us. We pray, Lord, that you would give us faith Help us in our unbelief. When we can't see our way, when we don't understand your ways, give us faith. We ask these things in the name of Christ. Amen. Old Testament professor Bruce Waltke argues that Psalm 44 poses a most Timely and timeless question for everyone. When you have been knocking on the door of prayer until your knuckles are bloodied, And no one answers. And then you step back from the front door to look at the second-story windows, and all the lights are out in God's house. What do you do? do? What should you do when you feel and perceive that God is asleep to your situation? And you will have to ask that for many different situations in your life. It is a human experience, and what are you supposed to do with that experience? This is what Psalm 44 wrestles with. Psalm 44 takes us on a journey to answer that question. Structurally, the psalm is fascinating. In the Hebrew texts, the scholars argue that the psalm moves from ten poetic lines, to eight poetic lines, to six poetic lines, to four poetic lines. And they claim furthermore that this 10864 is the structure of a ancient ziggurat. I have included it in the sermon notes. Take a look, you can see how some are arguing this to be structured. Even if you don't buy that it's structured as an ancient ziggurat, this structure will help you through the whole sermon as just a device. You can see here, we're going to go through this psalm, and we're going to start with the first ten verses, then we'll move to the eight, we'll go to the six, we'll move, and we'll end at the four, and the poet ascends the stairs through them all. In a final climax of prayer and pleading with God. That's how this psalm is structured. And this morning, then, we as a congregation will ascend with the psalmist. To his place of prayer through these four tiers are levels. And so let's just go right into it. And begin with the first level in verses one through eight. On the first level, in verses one through eight, the king rehearses his confidence and the confidence of the nation within God. Now you should be familiar with that word confidence. This is a lament psalm, and that's part of a lament psalm you've learned in past sermons. Here he is expressing his confidence in God. We have heard with our ears, O God. Our fathers have told us the deeds you did in their days, in the days of old. And then in my translation, there's a colon. And the colon is there so that you could see a list afterwards of the deeds of God from of old. Verse 1 states that clearly. Verse 2 also makes it clear that the deeds of God from the days of old refer to the conquest of Canaan under the leadership of Joshua. We're thinking of the Battle of Jericho. Jericho, for example. Joshua led the Israelites to drive out the nations. You drove out the nations with your hand, but them you planted. You afflicted the peoples and casted them out. For they did not gain possession of the land by their own sword. Again, thinking of Jericho and how obvious it was that Joshua was not conquering the city Joshua led the Israelites to drive out the nations. And just as we can see very easily from the story, it was God who gave the victory. And the community recognizes this in verse 3. After pondering God's deeds, it goes into him as the mighty warrior and him as the accomplisher. of those deeds. The community recognizes in verse three God is the mighty warrior. The king expresses, in fact, his individual confidence After verse 3 in verses 4 through 8, notice how it shifts from a whole community having confidence to now a king. Obviously, perhaps back at his tent. While they're in the midst of a battle. He, as the king, goes before God and he says, You are my king, O God. Command victories for Jacob. And the king expresses his individual confidence in these verses. Note the intentional contrast in 4 through 8 between you and me and my. Notice the intentional contrast between the king or the nation and what God does. Through you we will push down our enemies. Through your name we will trample those who rise up against us. For I will not trust in my bow, nor shall my sword save me, but you have saved us from our enemies. This is a continuation of his confidence. Verse 7, you saved and put to shame. And then that therefore makes sense of verse 8. If you think of the situation from the lens where God is claiming the victory and he's the one that is giving the power, then verse 8 makes sense, given that God is the mighty warrior, and it is only by him that any victory is won We boast in God all day long, and we praise his name forever. Not the name of Joshua, but the name of God. Now here, this is interesting. Joshua's conquest took place around 1200 BC. That's very early in the history of human. This psalm was written around 600 BC. That's later than that battle. And this is a significant fact as we look at this psalm. That means that 600 years later God's people were gaining confidence in the acts of their God from 600 years prior. And this is a template and example for us today. It buttresses why we look to the scriptures, which happened so long ago, for present-day confidence in our God. Just as those before the exile look back to past events for a present strength So too must we as Christians. And of course, the only way for this to be able to take place, just as in this Psalm 44, verses 1 and 2 does, God's great deeds must be communicated from one generation to the next. It is your job And your generation to pass on your faith in who God is and your confidence in Him to the next generation. That means not only His deeds of old, but the manner in which you would communicate those deeds. That you would do so in faith and in confidence yourself with life experience of God delivering you from your battles? Do you inspire the children here with God's deeds of old? Do you volunteer to teach Sunday school, which is an obvious place for that to happen? Do you lead family worship? Do you speak to the little children and call them to gather around you like Jesus did right here in our Narthik? This is the purpose of those two ministries: family worship and Sunday school. To pass on to the next generation our confidence in God by sharing God's great works. that we have personal experience of. We know our God. Now that's the first level. The first level begins with this confidence. And if you want to make a note next to your ziggurat and your bulletin, when else in your life will you ever have the chance to do that? I don't think I'll ever put a ziggurat in a bulletin again. Oh, you never know. But that's that first layer, the ten lines in the Hebrew, and now we're moving on to the eight, and this is this the second level or tier. The psalm now moves to the second level of the poetic temple, and the level is the level of lament. So we're moving from confidence now into lament. Whatever battle was taking place in 9 through 16. God had cast off his people and put them to open shame. But you have cast us off and put us to shame. Verse 9 is actually stating two things that summarize all the way down to 16. Casting off and putting to shame. The ESV says that God rejected and disgraced them. That's what casting off means here. to be rejected by someone. Whatever the translation, verse 9, is stating the two main parts of this complaint, this lament, rejection and humiliation. Now we have different images of rejection within our culture. Your college application may have been rejected. Your resume may have been rejected. Your offer to a young lady to take her to Chipotle for a date may have been rejected. Choose a different restaurant. Rejection, however, in this psalm and in this context is the rejection amidst warfare and far more serious than a date. In the past, as we saw within the confidence portion, God fought for his people. He trampled enemies underfoot. Now, look at verse 10. You make us turn back from the enemy. Can you see it? Can you see the the call going out from the front line and the bugle being blown? Retreat! They hadn't heard that call before. And now they're hearing it. In the past, God fought for them. He trampled enemies underfoot, and now they are retreating from their enemies Worse than running in retreat, the soldiers have been captured, if you notice. You have And those who hate us have taken spoil for themselves. You have given us up like sheep intended for food, and have scattered us among the nations. You sell your people for next to none. Nothing. The picture the Psalmist paints is of a dominating army that hardly has to work to defeat God's people. He uses the metaphor of selling livestock, and like sheep, they are easily gathered to be slaughtered. That's the picture. This is the real deal here. You could perhaps think of the movie The Patriot. There's where the humiliation sets in We move from being rejected to humiliation. They are so weak that they become, in what this passage says, a shaking of the head amongst the nations. That's how despised they are. The army is so weak, and the word has spread. They have become a joke to the neighboring countries. The king himself, in verses 15 and 16, his face is covered with shame. He puts his head in his hands and he hangs his head in shame based on what's going on in the battle. The whole picture actually reminds me of how the Polish nation was humiliated by the Nazis. The Battle of Wizna, I think is how you pronounce it, was fought between September 7 and September 10, 1939, between the forces of Poland and Germany during the initial stages of invasion of Poland Poland fielded 350 men, and Germany pressed against them with 40,000 soldiers. The Germans used this moment not only to crush them physically, but to demoralize them amongst all nations that they sought to also crush. And I wonder if perhaps this was a At least, maybe not the origin, but the development of Polak jokes. There is some theory, actually, that is behind that, as I've read Elsewhere. The Polish nation was humiliated. Whether rejection or humiliation, the astounding pattern in 9 through 16 is the repetition of you. Did you notice that? I tried to bring it out in the initial reading. That's what makes this section so difficult and yet so honest and helpful. But you have cast us off. And put us to shame. And you do not go down with our armies. You make us turn back from the enemy. Enemy. You have given us up like sheep. You sell your people. You make us a reproach. You make us a byword. Do you see the implication of that? The honesty of who is in charge and who is sovereign? The Psalmist interprets all of the pain as the direct actions of God. Do not mistake this as a figure of speech. God did not distantly permit their loss. God cast off and disgraced them. That's how he puts it. In verse 1 Verses 9, in verse 10, in verse 11, and in verse 12. That's the great complication. That's the great lament of this psalm. And this is where some people would say, oh, well, that is how God dealt with people in the Old Testament, but he doesn't deal with them that way any longer. But the difficulty with splitting up the testament that way is that verse eleven here, take a look at verse eleven, you have given us like sheep intended for food, and then verse twenty-two, following up on the same imagery, yet for your sake we are killed all day long, we are accounted as sheep. For the slaughter is quoted by Paul in Romans 8:36. And so it continues. Paul wrote this to describe the murder and beating of Christians. That Paul witnessed. Paul inspired some of it after his conversion. He did not, but he continued to witness Christians As early as 64 A. D. , Nero would cover Christians with freshly killed animal skins and make them fight with dogs or lions. Recently I went to a sweet 16 birthday party, isn't that And they put up tiki torches all around, which is really cool for a 16-year-old to have tiki torches at their party. If you were to look back in history, thinking about our context now, when Nero had a garden party, he put Christians on poles and lit them on fire to provide tiki torches for his guests. That's the kind of suffering that Christians have fallen under. And this is still happening today. On August 6th, Authorities entered a house where ten members of a church group were staying and confiscated passports, phones, Christian literature, and DVDs. They pressured and threatened the five men and five women before detaining them. In May, authorities in Zanzibar interrupted a church service before arresting the pastor and closing the church. Pastor Daniel, I can't pronounce his name. last name, was in mid-sermon when police officers entered the church and took him by the arm. And the pastor's daughter protested his arrest, so she also was arrested and taken to the police station with her father. Another pastor in Uzbekistan, the police broke into his apartment and stopped the illegal Christian meeting. There was a local police diffused a bomb placed in an evangelical church in eastern Kenya. Lately, recently. And you could read many, many, many, many, many more on persecution. com for Voice of the Martyrs. Why is God permitting Why is God permitting governments who have such power to persecute his people? This is the great mystery that we're struggling with. We know God cannot be held accountable for any kind of sin, he is perfectly righteous. And yet why does he permit this? This is where the clouds start to block out the sun, isn't it? If we're honest, we ask, why does he permit it? You begin to lose rational connection Because your assumption or foundation is that God is perfectly righteous and faithful, and yet we see this, and we can't figure out how to bring the two together. We know this to be true, but how could this happen? That's our struggle. But actually, here, when we move to the third level, it gets worse. On the first level, the king expressed confidence in God. In level two, that's the level of lament and complaint. God is rejecting and humiliating his people or permitting it to happen. And this happens today. We saw that in voices of the morning. Now on our third level, he complicates the problem. In the third level, the king protests against God stating that they are innocent and that they do not deserve the way that God is treating them in verses seven. That really complicates the situation. It breaks off all rational connection with why things are happening. Look at verse 16 17. All this has come upon us, but you have forgotten us. And then look at this next word. Notice you have a comma there, and now he's going to get into his pleading part. 17 V through 19 provides all of the reasons for the protest. We have not forgotten you. We have not broken your covenant. Our hearts have not turned back. Our lifestyle is lived with integrity. But you've made us a broken down city. That's what Jackal's word jackal is. That's the idea. But you have broken us. You have covered us with the shadow of death. And he becomes more specific in 20 through 22. They did not forget the name of their God. They did not stretch out their hands to another God. And that was the temptation, as we've seen in other Psalms during droughts. You've witnessed that. When times got tough, when the king kept praying that the drought would end, and when God's people gathered for prayer meetings, and yet the drought wouldn't end. Some of the leadership would start to pray to other gods because this God was not coming through for them. Starvation makes you do crazy things. But here they're saying we never did that. Here it didn't happen. They didn't have secret idolatry in their hearts, verse 21. Wouldn't God have known? Nevertheless, as Paul quotes, God gives them up to slaughter. And that's the difficulty. That's the complaint made worse. This is actually a very unique section in this psalm. It's called a protest, and it really doesn't show This is the supreme mystery. When you suffer, when you are under misery or persecution and you are able to attach it To some sinful part of who you are, you understand why you're suffering. But what if you lose rational connection with why you are suffering? Suffering? What if you can't connect it to a sin? It's not always possible to do that. So now what do you do? What do you do when you lose rational connection and reasons for your misery and your suffering? And now we move. The poet has ascended through all of the levels and he moves into his time of prayer. And the answer is given. Level 4 gives one answer. If it is anticlimactic to you, you are the problem. You pray relying on relying on God's faithfulness. It is as simple as As that. And if you can think of all of the Old Testament stories that are seeking to teach us, do not fear your God as fear. faithful. That one lesson that is so hard to get to drop down into our hearts. When you have reached the top of the temple, The psalmist has ascended to the peak and he finally pleads with God. Why do you sleep? Awake. Arise. Don't hide your face. The psalmist knocks on the door of prayer until his knuckles are bloodied. He steps back, and although the lights are out upstairs, and it looks like God is sleeping, He starts to throw rocks at the windows and he yells at the top of his lung, wake up, save us. And this is the key to the section. The key to this section is the fact that the psalmist is actually praying. That at level three, he didn't collapse and start walking down the stairs. He kept going because he knows that his God is faithful. He ascends to prayer. It's worth it to cry out to your God because he's faithful. And verse 26 nails that. Redeem us for your mercy's sake. Mercy is Hasid. It goes throughout all of the scriptures. Chesed, it refers to God's covenant faithfulness in his people. Now let me try to communicate the significance. Of this Hasid and what this psalm is teaching. You have been led in this poetic ziggurat from ten poetic lines of confidence. You have been led in eight poetic lines of lament. You have had six poetic lines of protest, and here we are with four poetic lines of prayer, seeming somewhat anticlimactic that what we must must do is have faith in God. But it really is the answer. The psalmist continues to pray because he assumes. He assumes and takes for granted. That God is faithful. He does not doubt that. That is the given. That is the axiomatic premise. Those are the things that we do not question. Just like the definition of a line in geometry. This is what can be trusted. Trust in who God is. Sometimes all you have, when you cannot see, when you cannot make a rational connection, the one thing that you have. is to remember that my God is faithful. And that is what he is doing. One Old Testament professor brilliantly compares this to flying a plane. As a pilot, when you I don't know, I'm not a pilot, but this is what pilots say. As a pilot, when you lose a visual connection with the runway, all you have are your flight controls. That's what the Old Testament professor. Said. So I know a few pilots and I decided to call one, a friend of mine who flew a C-130 four-engine transport for a long time. I asked him if he ever flew on instruments, and he laughed at me Thinking uh his in his mind he was like, When did I not fly on instruments? That's a pilot joke, I guess. He said all the time, and here's one story that he gave me, amongst others, that I don't have One day the fog was so thick that there was hardly no visibility. They could not see the runway. To take off, he had, and please forgive me if any of the details are wrong here if you're a pilot. He had to compare the runway heading printed out in the flight information to his compass heading. You see that gives a degrees of a compass, the plane has to be on the degrees of a compass, and now he's just going to follow that heading. And this was to ensure because the l the s the uh visibility was so limited it was to ensure that he was as roll as he was rolling down the runway, he wasn't rolling off the runway. He had to keep those headings. He had to just look at his instrument. To make sure that he was continuing to head in that direction. In addition, the fog was so thick that he could not tell by sight if he was on the ground or if he was flying. Now that might sound strange to you, but pilots tell me you cannot tell if you're on the ground or if you're flying. You cannot tell if you're upside down or right side up. You cannot tell if your wings are level if you lose a visual connection. with a reference point. And so, well as he's is as he's lifting off, he had to rely on another instrument panel, which is the autometer. And actually, as I just mentioned, come to find out when a visual reference point is lost, pilots are lost. And therefore they must use their instrument panel. In fact, my friend here, whose name is Lance. He said that over his career, the Air Force made him simulate instrument panel flight thousands of times. That's not hyperbole. Lance stated that actually, before you can fly by sight, you are only permitted to fly by instrument, at least in his day And Saint Augustine, our church father, trained the early church in the same way when he declared, faith in God comes before your rational understanding. When you lose sight or mental understanding as to what God is doing, you must turn to the instrument panel of faith in who God is. The fog can be that thick, brothers and sisters. Sisters. And this is exactly what Paul did in Romans 8. Whether it was sin or suffering, you can see both there in that passage. If God is for us, who can be against us? How does Paul know in the midst of such early Christian persecution that God is faithful to his people? Paul couldn't see it visually. He had lost sight of the runway. The lights were out. Christians were being killed and flogged in every city. Even Paul himself in each city was flogged. Sin was blooming in each of Paul's congregations where he had to write them letters. How did Paul know? Why didn't he doubt? Paul turned to his instrument panel in the midst of such evil that had descended on Jerusalem and in their surrounding cities. He looked to his instrument panel. He knew that God the Father was faithful because God the Father sacrificed his only Son, Jesus Christ. It was a demonstration of his faithfulness, even in the resurrection of Jesus Christ. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? How do we know he's for us? He who did not spare his own son. But delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? And that is said in the middle of a Christian battle that Paul was fighting. Yet in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor principalities, nor powers nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any created thing shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. That's what the psalmist is trying to say there at the final level in the ziggurat. In prayer, there is nothing that shall separate us from the faithfulness of our God. And Paul saw that more clearly than Psalm 44 did. Because in Jesus Christ it is made clear. Christian, are you in a fog? Have you lost sight of the runway lights of your life Do you know if you're upside down or right side up? Are your wings kicked? Are they tilted? Are you on the ground or are you in flight? Have you lost visual and mental connection with God's ways due to your sin and your suffering? Turn to the instrument panel of faith. In the faithfulness and love of God the Father through Jesus Christ. Let me tell you something. There is story after story online of pilots that did not pay attention to their instruments. panel. And do you know what happened to them? They crashed into the side of mountains. They didn't know their nose was down and they ran it right into the earth. They died because they refused to go to the instrument panel when they couldn't see and they lost rational connection. The stories are too many to recount. I'll just remind you of Clark Gable's wife But those who exercise faith shall never be ashamed. That's what the scriptures say. Do you believe him? That those who exercise faith shall never be ashamed. When you have been knocking on the door of prayer until your knuckles are bloody, when you step back from the door and you look up at God's second-story windows and the lights are out, what do you do? What should you do when it seems like God is asleep to your situation? Christian, you must have faith in the faithfulness of the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Please pray with me. Oh Lord God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. This is the most difficult way to relate to you. To trust you when we can't see. It is so natural for us to trust in our sight, to trust in our brains. in systems of understanding and rational connection. But Lord, sometimes you wipe those things away from us. And we must turn to the things that are left. This we know, Lord, that you are faithful. And you're faithful is demonstrated in this. That you gave your only begotten Son, our Lord Jesus Christ. And your faithfulness is known in this, Lord Jesus Christ, that you obeyed the Father fully, and you reign on high in your ascension, always faithful to your people. And we thank you, Holy Spirit, for your faithfulness to us, stirring us up. We thank you for your faithful envy. And we ask that you would help us in our unbelief. In the name of Christ, amen.