Beginning in verse twenty-eight. When he had said this, he went on ahead, going up to Jerusalem, and it came to pass when he drew near to Bethage and Bethany. at the mound called Alavet, that he sent two of his disciples, saying, Go into the village opposite you, where as you enter you will find a colt tied on which no one has ever sat Loose it and bring it here. And if anyone asks you, why are you losing it? Thus you shall say to him, Because the Lord has need of it So those who were sent went their way and found it just as he had said to them. But as they were loosing the colt, the owners of it said to them, Why are you losing the colt? And they said, The Lord has need of him. Then they brought him to Jesus. And they threw their clothes on the colt, and they set Jesus on him. And as he went, many spread their clothes on the road Then, as he was now drawing near the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of disciples began to rejoice and praise God. with a loud voice for all the mighty works they had se seen, saying, Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven and glory in the highest. And some of the Pharisees called to him from the crowd, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. But he answered and said to them, I tell you that if these should keep silent, the stones would immediately cry out. Now as he drew near, he saw the city and wept over it, saying, If you had known even you, especially in this your day, the things that make for your peace But now they are hidden from your eyes, for days will come upon you when your enemies will build an embankment around you, surround you and close you in on every side, and level you and your children within you to the ground. They will not leave in you one stone upon another, because you did not know the time of your visitation. Amen. Please pray with me. O Lord Christ, you have laid before us you as our King. The King of the Cosmos. Oh Lord Christ, I pray that you would lead the preaching of this word, that you would make it effectual, that you would give us ears to hear, that you would awaken those who have had not had eyes to see. I pray, Lord, that you would give us quite the time of self-examination. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. We are moving into a very short uh series on Luke. Which will end on Easter Sunday, and then we will move into a sermon series on the book of Titus. This series here is coming on the heels of our series on Ruth. And it's interesting to see how Ruth and Luke fit together like interlocking puzzle pieces. If you remember, In our series on Ruth, we began to see how the church will make it through the dark days of this world. There were a number of answers that can be summarized into two. We make it through the dark days by our loving loyalty to each other by the power of the Holy Spirit And we make it through the dark days by all authority in heaven and earth being granted to Jesus of Nazareth, who is loyal to his creation. Those two are not in uh they're not contradictory. Christ works one through the other. Now, over the next few sermons, we will look closely at this Davidic Messiah, Jesus of Nazareth, here in Luke, and especially how people respond to him. The Spirit, by way of Luke, is asking us to do that. That's the invitation throughout the Gospel of Luke, as we saw even in the Advent series, which Chase reminded us of. If you remember, this is the approach we took earlier in the Gospel of Luke with the Christmas story. Luke wants us to continue with that approach in this passage. So with that being said, let's make a few observations here. I want you to notice first verses 28 through 34. In verses 28 through 34 Jesus is staging a reenactment or a living parable, if you will, on the Mount of Olives. And he is creating an event which taps into the known messianic or kingship narratives of this group of people. We've brought up a couple within our bulletin so that you could see what Jesus is evoking in sending his disciples, planning the cult, sending his disciples to get the cult, what they're going to do with the cult. You can see, for example, in 2 Kings 9. 13, that was within your bulletin, when Jehu is to become king, they put their garments on top of the steps, very similar to what's going on here. But there's another uh uh prophetic vision here from Zechariah 9. 9 Which I believe is also in our bulletin. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, your king is coming. He is just in having salvation. How would we ever know that? Well, here's the rest of Zechariah. Lowly and riding on a donkey, a colt, the foal of a donkey. The message was not lost on the people. Jesus knew that the people knew Scripture. They knew it well enough to where he does these things. And how do they respond? They respond with singing Psalm 118, picking up the exact same theme of him being a king, riding in the stone which everyone stumbled over, which will be the cornerstone of the world. They perceive that Jesus, without saying a word, is identifying himself as king. And so they naturally sing to their king. Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord, peace in heaven and glory in the highest. That's the first thing I want you to notice in those verses 28 through 34. Now, I want you to notice something else too, because there are a number of different people that are in these crowds. That has been the case all the way through Luke. You're always supposed to pay attention to the different people in the scenes and how they respond. Did you notice a different kind of response in our passage? The Pharisees are also in attendance, and it sounds to me from the text that they're at a little bit of a distance, maybe standing in the back of the crowd, so that people don't think they're committed being in the front. cheering him on. They stand in the back, or maybe in the middle, they're hiding. And they say to Jesus in verse 39, That they that he should rebuke his disciples for ever saying such a thing about him. Jesus, however, does not rebuke his disciples, but rebukes them. Because of their blindness, and goes on to say that this attitude that they have and this mindset and this heart will lead to their destruction in verses 43 through 44. For days will come upon you when your enemies will build an embankment around you. It's referring to the Roman military here. Surround you and close you in on every side and level you. and your children within you to the ground, and they will not leave in you one stone upon another, because you did not know the time of your visitation. I am here. Everyone in this crowd is singing to me in recognition of my kingship, and you're the only ones that are missing it because you are blind. You are missing your visitation, and this is where it's going to go. They will build an embankment, and you and your children will be judged for continuing in your evil. If you jump down, do me a favor and look in your scriptures again. We didn't read this, but jump down to verse 47. And look at the response of all of the leaders of the day to Jesus' pronouncement there about the visitation and about judgment. They are really stuck. But the chief priests, the scribes, and the leaders of the people sought to destroy Jesus. There's the response. It carries all the way through Luke, and here you're starting to see it in spades because the drama is really ramping up, because you know we're getting ready to head into Jerusalem, and you know what that means. Now, what we have here are two responses to Jesus with those observations. There are those who worship him as king, and there are those who reject his kingship, seeking to destroy him. And you could really divide the whole human race into those two halves. What I want to do this morning, instead of uh stating an explicit doctrine, although that could be the doctrine just fine, I want to give you a set of doctrinal questions Because this section of Luke is really seeking, the Spirit is really seeking for you to do as a Christian, or non-Christian even, some self-examination. And self-examination is best done often with questions. So I want to give you, instead of just a doctrinal declaration, I want to give you some doctrinal questions here this morning that you really should be continuing through this whole Easter season. Here they are. I want you to picture yourself in that crowd that's there with Jesus on the top of the Mount of Olives. And I want you to think about your place in that crowd and your place in your own life. And I want you to ask, which person are you in the crowd? What did you do with your garments? What did you do with the palms if you were reading in a different gospel? Are you his disciple? Do people know that? Are you his enemy? Are you for him? Are you against him? Are you indifferent to him? Did the crowds form and he was getting ready to head down that mountain and you heard the singing and you thought, I don't know what's going on over there, but I got better things to do. Is that who you were in the crowd? I'm sure there's some other questions that could arise here, but those are the kinds of things I want you to think about as we go through the rest of this sermon. Which person are you? That's what you must be asking today. Are you the one who worships him as king? Or are you among those who reject his kingship even in indifference is a kind of rejection, seeking to destroy him Now I want to develop this under a list of responses and then the second application will be our responses. So a list of responses and then our responses. Let's begin with the list of responses What I mean by the list of responses is I just want to look throughout the rest of the Gospel of Luke, and I'm going to kind of cherry pick. some particular responses that we see. And I'm going to do this because I want to show you the responses, but I also want you to see what you should be doing, especially during this whole season. You want to go back to the beginning of Luke, maybe uh instead start in chapter 5, which starts all the discipleship discourse, and then look at all of the people That Jesus commends by way of example who are his disciples. And ask yourself: Am I that kind of disciple? And this puts us into a glorious time of self-examination. And how gracious is it of Jesus Christ to get us to do this instead of just leaving us in the mud? And so let's begin. Let's begin in chapter 5, because that's where the discipleship starts. And he's really asking the question over and over again: who are my true disciples? And the interesting thing is he's not going to answer this primarily through philosophical abstract teaching. He gives proverbs, he gives parables, and he gives examples He gives the kind of stuff to where no matter who you are, you can get your head around this. And so I want you to consider the first disciple. This is from Luke chapter 7. I'll read these to you. If you're a real fast Bible flipper, go for it. But I'm going to move along whether you're flipping or not. So Luke 7, 43 through 48, here's disciple number one. Then he turned to the woman and said to Simon, Do you see this woman? I entered your house. You gave me no water for my feet. But she has washed my feet with her tears and wiped them with the hair of her head. You gave me no kiss, but this woman has not ceased to kiss my feet since the time I came in. Now, how many books of philosophy would you have to write to capture that message? That is beautiful. Do you see the contrast and the two responses where Jesus is showing you what it means to be his follower That's disciple number one in our list of responses. There's disciple number two from Luke 9, verse 26. And this is going to be him speaking to the crowds, and he's going to state this a little bit more as a teaching. And he says, whoever is ashamed of me and my words, Of him the Son of Man will be ashamed when he comes in his own glory, and in his fathers, and of the holy angels There were people in that crowd who were ashamed of the things that Jesus was saying and the life that Jesus led. Does Jesus Christ and his positions on things embarrass you? Disciple number three, I won't go into this because you're supposed to know this story anyway, and it's the story of the Good Samaritan. There's uh that's also in Luke a little bit later from 9 and chapter 9. And you can see there the contrasts in the characters and what the true disciple looks like. The most pressing issue, if you were a person of that day, is that you'd have to take away, even though my grandfather and my grandmother and my mother and my father taught me I was supposed to hate Samaritans because they're worthless dogs, Jesus says that's not the case. He's going to be saving everyone. And nations will respect nations who are united to him. Disciple number four. This is one of my favorites, and this you could really do some meditation on this one. It's very interesting. It's also easy to get this one wrong. So if you want to talk with me about it, that's great. This is from Luke chapter 10, 39 through 42. Does anybody know what example this is? Mary and Martha. Right? There it is again. It's the two contrasting examples that Jesus brings out as to what it means to be his follower Here's Disciple 4. And she had a sister called Mary who also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word. You see that emphasis through everything? Heard his word. But Martha was distracted with much serving. And she approached him and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Can't you picture it? Listen, I've been smoking this pork For eight hours, here I am pulling it, and my sisters over there just sitting listening to your word. What's the deal, Lord? I handmade this coleslaw But Jesus is by the Spirit telling us here that she is distracted. with much serving. And she approached him and she says, Do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? And therefore tell her to get off her lazy butt and to help me. And Jesus answered and said to her, Martha, Martha, you are worried and troubled about a lot of things. But one thing is needed, and Mary has chosen that good part, which will not be taken away from her Now there's a lot of ways to take that wrong, but what's the right way to take that? That needs some meditation as to when is it time to stop doing the work and to sit there and to listen to the instruction and word of our Lord. Lord, even if there are things still to be done. There's also a time to get up and do work. But Jesus is pointing out something very important here about his disciples and the priority that they give to listening to him. and the timing that they have. Think, for example, of Mary and Martha in light of Luke chapter 8, which happened just a little bit earlier. Now the ones that fell among the thorns, the seeds, the seeds that fell among the thorns, are those who, when they heard, they go out and they are choked with the cares, the riches, and pleasures of life and they bring no fruit to maturity. That definitely is supposed to be connected. Now that's disciple 4. Here's Disciple 5. This is from Luke chapter 18, verse 16. And this one is used for all kinds of reasons, but here's an untwisted vision of the word here from Luke 18 through 16. But Jesus called to them and said, because they were keeping the little children away from him, let the children come to me, and do not forbid them, for of such is the kingdom of God. Somehow and in some way, when you get the chance to meditate on these things, Jesus is saying, My disciples look like these little children that run up to me and accept my words. Do not keep them away from me. And then disciple number six is Zacchaeus, which was a surprise to everyone because of how much a sinner he was. But notice what if you remember his story, remember what he had to do because he was of short stature. He's just a little guy, probably a big personality and a bad attitude. But he climbs that tree in order to be able to hear the word of the Lord. And Christ points him out And Luke records it by the Spirit, showing again that he is a picture of what it means to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. In fact, it says this of Zacchaeus: Zacchaeus welcomed Christ into his home. And it says this of Zacchaeus, that Zacchaeus, once Christ showed him his sin, sought repentance. Not only with God, but restoration with his neighbor, restoring fourfold what he had cheated people on And then Jesus says of him in 19 verse 9, Zacchaeus, you are a true son of Abraham. Confirming once again the vision of what his disciples look like. Now this list could be much longer. It actually could take up all of Luke. And seeing these responses. It's one way to get it what Luke is trying to do. At each point, Christ reveals himself and people respond. And their response reveals the mark of a true disciple, or it reveals the mark of those who do not really know Christ and do not care to know him. You in fact could go back and you could see the leaders in each one of those same scenarios present throughout those teachings They perceived that they had no need of forgiveness, unlike the woman with the tears. And so they had no love or gratitude or need for Jesus the Christ. They were in fact ashamed of Jesus' words. They tried to get him to shut up. They hated the Samaritans and called them dogs. They were distracted and choked by the cares of this world, and so they brought no fruit for the kingdom. They did not approach Christ with a childlike spirit. They approached Christ with cynicism, and they held Christ with a constant hermeneutic of suspicion. They did not welcome Christ into their homes. They did not seek any kind of restoration with their neighbors. They were willing to not admit any wrong. They were the one that knew the law, and everyone else was a fool. But Jesus says, you're blind, and the people that follow you are blind, and you're both going into the ditch. They were hypocrites And even the ones who were trained in the law, all they did was bring death and burdens instead of life. Those are the things that Christ says about all of them. And they are not his disciples. And that was earth-shattering. And it still is today. Then we arrive back at our passage. After all of this effort that Lucas put in, you can begin to see the contrast is there again. Some have accepted Christ's enactment and what it says about him being the king, and they adore him, which is the only appropriate response And they worship him with Psalm 118 as God in the flesh, right there before them. And then right by their side in the same crowd are others who rebuke and say, Tell your disciples to stop saying that. And then they go off and they seek his destruction. There it is, all the way through. Now that is a list of responses. Now what about your response, which is our second main application point? Where do you stand with Jesus? Do you ignore him? Do you seek to destroy him? Or do you adore him? Now Presumably, since you are sitting here in church instead of doing a million other things that you could be doing today, I assume that you are saying inside of your head, I adore him. No question about it. But I really want you to think hard about that. I'm sure that you do. But this is a time for you to do some self-examination to make sure that you are not pulling the wool over your own eyes And if you have if you did confess, yeah, I have no real interest in him, you now get the opportunity to really second guess that decision you have made. We don't get off that easy in being able to answer that way because I want to point out something to you, which is a dominant question throughout the rest of this sermon series. I want you to look at Luke chapter 18, verse 8. In the beginning of Luke, in a prophetic moment, while Jesus is still a baby. It is said that he will be a sword that pierces and divides. I want you to see that played out here in Luke 18. 8, because this question pierces. It's all the same people in the crowds, the same that will lay down their garments. He raises this question in 18 verse 8. He says. Will I find faith on the earth when I return as the Son of Man? Man. That's a paraphrase I just gave you, but you can look at it in your own version. As the Son of Man, when the Son of Man comes, will he really find faith on the earth? You, based on my question, answer inside your head, Yes he will, because I adore him. But Jesus' question still sits there for every generation where you are to do some self-examination. To make sure you're not fooling yourself. Jesus did not see it as so clear-cut that you did not need that question in your life. And so we try to give it to you at least once a season. Will he really find faith at seven run upon his return? Will the Son of Man find faith among you? Now think about this. Think about the people that were just right there in this passage. They all had names. They were all wearing clothes. They came from different families. Jesus said these questions to them, and they all, especially the religious leaders, said, Yes. Or at least they thought that they were worshiping God. Maybe they did not uh answer his question directly yes because they did not think he was God. But whoever it was, let me ask you this. When Christ returned for that partial judgment on Jerusalem in 70 A. D. , when he talks about the embankments, That partial in judgment, that city was known as the city of God. In their mind, they thought of it as the center of the cosmos where God dwelled. And what does Jesus say about what he will find there at the end of our passage? They're blind and they have missed their visitation, and you and your children will die. Now those are hard words. And it just tells you how easy it is to be blinded to your own condition. And so there is a need for self-examination. Those questions, however, those kinds of questions that stay in the air where Jesus is saying, Will I really find faith upon my return? Those make a lot more sense if you were to review all of those stories and just make a notice of how offensive Jesus is to people. And you will see that it can be very hard to actually have faith in him when you find out who he is and what he believes and what he stands for. That's always the problem in every age. Let me put it this way. If you think conservatives are offensive They got nothing on Jesus. If you think liberals are offensive, they pale in comparison to Jesus and the offense that he creates Look at the response of even those people that laid down their garments at the words and the actions of Jesus. Look at them over this next week. What do they want done with him? Crucify him. Crucify him. Shut his mouth. I don't want my children hearing what he has to say. I have seen liberals and conservatives crucified in the media, but not literally like this. I have seen them flogged on social media, but not literally flogged like this. Jesus is a different level of offense. And so it is good for us to do self-examination. One of the main reasons I think he is so offensive is because he relentlessly preaches. That all things should be according to the created order of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. And you, as a human being, even though you don't know your place, he reminds you of it. You are not permitted to innovate. You are not permitted to define yourself or decide the way the world should be That was what he has done in his decrees and his execution of his decrees. And we find that perpetually offensive. In every generation, it seems like there's a new offense that arises, and those are called fads. Think of the fads today. How would people be offended of Christ today? You can take Jesus, if you were another time, take a look at him appealing to the created order in Matthew 19. He evokes the creation account when he talks about marriage and divorce. Our world is filled with divorce. They would hate him for his teachings on it. But he turns everyone's attention back to the way it was supposed to be, as a good paraphrase of what he says, in Genesis. And he shows that he has always intended marriage to be between male and female, and that the marriage may not be untied except for very limited circumstances. And just those phrases, if you had the guts to unpack them in front of the world, it would say something like this: There is an established order between the sexes, and you don't get to decide. I don't care how you identify. An established order for the bond of marriage and the breaking of it. There is an established order and not a formless world wherein humans get to define and determine everything. And all three parts are just that issue, and they would offend most of the world. Let me ask you a question, with just that teaching that I gave you right here. Would they allow Jesus in public schools? Is Jesus allowed in a university? Nope. Is Jesus even being removed from Christian colleges with just that teaching? Is Jesus even among your friends being removed from their families on that teaching? What if he expressed that teaching at a dinner that you had of your friends coming over? It would not go well You would be furious with him. What if they said other things like, well, you know, I mean, what's cool is to just be spiritual. I mean Buddhism has its benefits, right? And then Jesus spoke up at dinner table and said, hmm. Let me tell you where Buddha is. You see the account the kind of offense that he can create And this is why we being made to be ascended or being having fallen, we become offended quite quickly at Christ, we have to do self-examination. You've got to do self-examination as an individual. You have got to do self-examination in your place where you work. You may work for a Christian institution, for example. Are you watching your institution become embarrassed about what Jesus Christ actually says people need? There's a lot of self-examination that should happen during this time. No matter who you are, Jesus has the potential to offend you. Which means that if you remain religious but offended, you will just be a hypocrite. And now's the time to do a little heart check. And that is why the question is so real. When the Son of Man returns, will he find faith at Severn Run? What a question! Will you be shown to be his disciple? Now, knowing Christ, he asks that question out of grace for you. He's not interested that any should perish. He is interested that you would have life. So let's take this self-examination and these questions as the grace that it is. I want you to picture yourself in the crowd. Which person are you? Are you his disciple? Are you his enemy? Are you for him? Are you against him? I beg you during this short sermon series, which will continue Thursday and Friday and end on Sunday, to keep up the self-examination. And let us resolve in the power of the Holy Spirit to be those in the crowd that take the garments and the palms of our lives and lay them down in continual adoration of our King Jesus. Even in the face of persecution or death, may his name always begin honor on our lips. Amen. Amen. Please join me in prayer.