Please follow along with me. It's uh just a short paragraph. We're now in a section dealing with faith, starting in verse 14, and you'll notice that continues all the way to the end of the chapter, but there's different examples and the some of the examples require some explanation and so I've divided the text out to where we have some time to understand the the particular Instead of just doing 14 through the end of the chapter, which is verse 26, we're just going to do 14 through 17 tonight and pick up the rest. What does it profit, my brethren, if someone says he has faith but does not have works, can faith save him? And one of you says to them, Depart in peace, be warmed and filled. But you do not give them the things which are needed for the body, what does it profit? Thus also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the diamonds that we find within your word, showing us how to walk with you. This is our new life. We pray, Lord, that through your spirit we would embrace these truths, that they would would not just bounce off of us, that they would not just scratch our surface, but that they would go deeply into our souls, and that we would become like you. And we ask these things you need your name. Amen. If you're a gardener, now don't hold me to garden information, because I just envy good gardeners. I would like to be one. But if you are a gardener and you choose to start your plants by yourself, there are a couple options, one of which is that you'll plant the seeds and then you're going to nurture each fragile plant, usually on your back porch. in a protected area, even inside your home, which is even more protected and temperature controlled. And at this stage, Um there's a great deal of protection that is given to them. However, there is a time that arrives that makes every gardener nervous when you take these tenter tender plants plantings and they have to be transplanted into the garden, which opens it to a world, a world of sometimes disaster It exposes plants to dangers such as pests, disease, environmental issues, mineral problems, unnaturally There are a number of things that can go wrong. In other words, it's difficult at this point for a plant to be constantly healthy. A good gardener will watch, a good gardener will remedy the maladies discovered if able. This gardening analogy is similar to what's happening here within the letter of James. That's why I'm saying it to you. James instructs us that God brought us forth, verse eighteen of chapter one, if you want to look there. That God brought us forth like plants coming forth from Seeds by the preaching of the word to be tender plants or first fruits in God's garden. We are exposed to many dangers It is not pests and disease that James lists, but wanderings from the true life of faith God intends for his people. I know I beat this in Please don't forget this as you seek to teach yourself and your children and your friends. James, I'm sorry, you have James 519. Brethren, if anyone among you wanders from the truth and someone turns I think that's the very task of what James is doing. We are exposed to many dangers. We are exposed, in other words, to wanderings from the true life of faith that God intends for his people You see there in 118 that God has brought us into a new life, but we can wander. And so here James and the Holy Spirit through James seeks To keep us on the path. The first, you know, there are many examples that we've seen of the kind of wandering that we can do as Christians. Let me remind you of the last two weeks. In chapter 1, verses 21 through 27, James addresses how Christians like us can wander away from the purposes of biblical and The Bible was never meant to just be heard. That is the great disaster, perhaps, amongst Christian is thinking that you're just Of course that's a step, but listening is a means to an end. It mentions, James, in verse 27 of chapter 1, that pure and undefiled religion is this. Just just some of the things, to visit orphans and widows in their trouble, and to keep yourself unspotted from the world. In other words, it's to result in fruit. Well, there's another example which was from two weeks ago since I wasn't here last week. The last James sermon developed undefiled religion even further. This began our When it comes to ethical decisions or judgments amongst Christians, we are not to use the standards of the world. To determine who's right and who's wrong, or who will receive your favor. The world will also determine who is prestigious or wealthy, and they'll receive your favor. Christians don't do that. Christians, in other words, are not favoritists. They are fair-minded. The Christian uses the law of God as a standard to judge. amongst God's people or to judge any ethical issue in life. Now this week, we're still plants in God's garden. And there are still many things that can attack our root structure, or that could cause us, or we could follow and be misled into wandering. It's really, here it is, false piety. False piety is something that we can wander into as Christians. You are wondering if you are falsely pious, would be James' message. And now I want to do two things as we look at false piety. I want to define and illustrate false piety because I That's what James does pr mostly this is what he's doing. He's defining and illustrating. You can see the little story that he tells there. And then I also want to draw attention that this is in fact a warning for Christians, not really a test to figure out if you are So let's take a look first at a definition and the illustration of false piety. I really ask that you'd pay close attention to this. This passage has really struck me. I I'm searching, trying to search my whole life uh relative to this passage. It's and I'm fallen short quite a bit with this one. And I actually am refreshed by it because the Lord is teaching me how To walk with him, and he'll teach you how to walk with him tonight, also. So please pay attention. This is a very important message for us. So here's the here's the first question. What is false piety, or what's an illustration of it? The Oxford English Dictionary, I mean I mean who really cares what it says? But it can be helpful. It can be a good start. The Oxford English Diction Dictionary defines piety as unswerving religious devotion. Fair, fair enough. And then, so therefore, if we said false piety, piety being unswerving religious devotion, false piety then is someone who looks religiously devoted, but who actually is not. And there are different ways that that can happen. You can do that on purpose, or you can be misled into a false piety, and I'll talk about that later. This is exactly what James is illustrating in verses 14 through 13. 16. So take a look at those verses with me. What does it profit, my brethren, if someone says he has faith but does not have works, can faith save him? And now here's the little uh case example. If a brother or sister is naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you says to them, Depart in peace, be warmed and filled, but you do not give them the things which are needed for the body, what does it profit? And then it'll draw a conclusion about this kind of faith, that thus also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. So the picture is plain and obvious. A member of the Christian community and remember, this is talking about Now the Greek word represented without clothes or naked, depending on on the translation that you have is from gymnos. We've talked about this word before. We have that same word in our language. It's a gymnasium. And it was so we've got this idea from athletics. Greek men used to compete naked in sporting events. And that's how this came about. The word can, of course, denote complete lack of clothing. I'm going through this because when it comes to helping out the poor, we come through all kinds we go through So I want to define the terms. Okay? It can mean a complete lack of clothing. I think that sounds a little silly that people would be showing up to your house naked. I think we get the picture though. It can also designate a person wearing only an inner layer of clothing. For example, in John 21, 7. I just want you to be aware of this. So if you'd like to turn there with me real quick, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. 21, verse 7. This is after Christ has risen, and he is making himself known to the disciples who are stones throw off of the beach. And Peter realizes that it is the Lord on the beach, right before the Lord makes them breakfast And so it says in verse seven, Therefore that disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter Peter, It is the Lord. Now when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment, for and it literally in the Greek it says for he was Alright, well that's not that important, but I do want you to be aware of that because when when you're looking at this verse in commentaries or whatever, it's gonna So it can be either a person lacking completely in clothing or a person who's only wearing the inner layer of clothing instead of also having the outer layer, which would what be what they would need in order to remote So here's my conclusion. Probably then we're into envision a person inadequately dressed for the conditions that are going on at that present time. He or she is in rags is how one translation puts it, or in need of clothing is how a whole host of other translations put it. The believer is not only in rags, but also in need of food for the day. And here the word might mean that the believer lacked food for that particular day, but it probably means That they were habitually underfed, constantly falling short of the daily supply of food required to sustain life and health. The picture James paints comes to life if you were to just think for us of the homeless in our society. That's basically the picture that he paints. But I don't think that James would want us to exclude many other less desperate needs. I think we're to err on the side of generosity. So shockingly, if we continue now in this ver in these verses, in verse 16, the story goes on. You have the person who's lacking in food. And shockingly in verse 16, the Christian does not clothe or feed. the poor, but excuses the poor with a blessing. Now you have categorized this kind of person in your mind before, and I think you might have gotten it wrong. This is far more applicable to you than you might read. Realize. You have got to read this really carefully and see what James is saying. The Christian in this picture, what does he sound like when he dismisses the poor person from their home? Is he pompous? Is he dismissive and uncaring? That is not what is happening here within this Picture. This is a picture of the person of faith, a person of religious devotion and of piety. They think that they are exercising the very faith that the Lord Jesus has given to them. That's what's happening. The farewell, depart in peace, be warmed and filled. If you were to look through the Old Testament, was a well-intentioned and hospitable Jewish saying. It's what you would say if you actually loved and cared for the person. There's a lot of misleading that's going on here. The person who's dealing with this false piety may not know what's happening. Or they may be using it as a cloak to cover some wickedness with in their own life. The man in this illustration, confronted with a case of need, this is what they're doing. This is the painting of the picture. They're committing it to prayer before God. God is the one who takes care of the needy. It is God who clothes the naked and feeds the hungry. And therefore, this one, this man, this man of faith, sends away his fellow believer with expressions of confidence that God will take care of them. Sayings of Jesus. Jesus says, For consider the lilies of the field. How much more greatly dressed are you than they? Won't God take care of you? And this man of faith has that same kind of confidence as he looks out to the poor. He will turn the case of the poor. He would probably pray for them nightly and daily while driving in his And he may even check on them to see if God has answered his prayer See, that's the picture of the person here in this illustration. The person is not dismissive or rude. That's not what that farewell greeting means. within Jewish life. So interestingly, this religious practice, James condemns James considers it to be a false religion or a false piety. And now we have to ask the question: why? What's really going on here? Now, if you look throughout all the scriptures, this is actually quite a regular example and problem amongst the people of God. Here's the assumption. The assumption is that if this Christian had the resources to be able to help the poor at that moment, then they ought to have relieved the need and not just prayed for the need. That God had already answered the request in His providence by providing the resources for this person without them even knowing, and they could have already, in some sense, had the prayer answered. But they haven't been looking at the situation. that way. They've fallen into some kind of false religious devotion, thinking that they're because they're looking at it this way, that they're they're more connected with the life of God. And that's That's not how God works. I think that's real eye-opening. That has been eye-opening for me. So here it is. Through this illustration, we've arrived at a definition of false piety that is specifically for from this example and you might want to write it down and put it on your refrigerator and keep comparing yourself to it and see if you're wandering in any way, whether you do it intentionally or not. I'm not I'm not saying I'm just saying, put this on your fridge. The falsely pious person commits to God for action what God commits to them for action. That is the picture that's going on here in James. Now that is striking. That's striking, thinking of how many resources we have. The falsely pious person commits to God for action what God has committed to them for action. Now I have a fascinating example to show show you. Jesus really hits the mark on this. Always, right? I love him very much. Let me show you how Jesus does this. I want you to turn to Mark chapter 5 verse 41. Matthew, Mark. And let me read this for you. Mark chapter 5. And I'm going to start in verse 40. This is where Jesus brings me. back to life a little girl. Which is just lovely all over again. And they ridiculed him Because he said the child is dead, not the child is not dead, she's sleeping. And they ridiculed him, but when he had put them all outside, he took the father and the mother of the child and those who were with him, and entered where the child was lying Then he took the child by the hand and said to her, Kalifach Kumi, which is translated, Little girl, I say to you, arise. Immediately the girl arose and walked. For she was twelve years of age. And they were overcome with great amazement. But he commanded them strictly that no one should know it. And then take a look at this. And said that something should be given her to eat. He's really in control of what God is supposed to be doing and then what people are supposed to be doing with their resources. Isn't he? God, uh Jesus certainly could have raised this young lady with a full stomach, but he didn't need to do that because whoever was around already had food in the pantry. And so he turned to them and he said, God has done what God is going to do. Now you you have things that are committed to your action also. God has already given you resources. Help this girl What a great example for us to be able to to mimic our Lord. This is exactly what he's talking about here in James. participate. Although the fact that we can participate is an example of his power because he's given us all these resources. You have to work that out in your mind on how God has worked these things. So, what is false piety? Under the guise of religious devotion, we shirk our responsibility to help those in need. And sometimes that's done intentionally. With intentional deceit, and other times you may just be misled. Now I think James, of course, I don't just think, James wants us to take this seriously, and therefore he adds to this illustration some warnings against wandering into this condition. So what is the warning against wandering into false piety? This is the second point, and then we'll go ahead and close the circuit. Sermon. The warning is stated in verses fourteen and seventeen of chapter two. What does it profit, my brethren, if someone says he has faith but does not have work, can faith save him? And then Again, you'll see a similar warning in seventeen. Thus also by faith itself, if it does not have works, is dead. He begins by saying, What profit does your faith have if your faith is not producing fruit? Now you have to ask the question, profitable for who? You would expect it to mean it's not profitable for the poor. But that's not how verse 14 ends. It focuses on the end times judgment and salvation. In other words, a faith that uses religious devotion to shirk responsibility is a faith that will be condemned when Jesus returns. Now I want you to remember as I say that that this was written to Christians. If you flip back to chapter 1, you can see that James says that he's a bondservant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, and he's writing to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, and then in verse 2 he says, My brethren. He is not trying to convince this congregation that they're not Christians. He's not providing them with a series of tests to determine if they're Christians or not. He knows that they are his brothers and his sisters. He refers to them that way throughout this letter. James is not condemning this congregation. He's saying do not be misled in thinking that this is the real thing. That's not real faith. You may have seen role models throughout the Jewish community that actually this way but let me tell you something it's not piety it's false piety he doesn't want them to wander remember that's the theme The implicit rhetorical question is, do you really want to keep pretending that that kind of piety is the real thing? No, that will never stand up. That's not the kind of faith that the Lord Jesus Christ produces. You can notice if you look in chapter 2, verse 1, this is the Topic. My brethren, do not hold the faith of our Lord Jesus, the Lord of glory, with partiality. It's all about how he holds his faith. Don't hold it in a way that's not really the right way to hold it. Don't wander off into this kind of thinking It's not really religious devotion. The same is repeated in verse 17. Faith that is by itself and does not have works, especially towards the poor, is dead. And this is what he's saying by that. It is an imposter. It's not real. That's not the authentic way to be a Christian. Don't go down that road. It leads to death, not life. If you have wandered into this kind of thing, it could be through self-deception. You could have been confused up to this point. You might have thought you were doing a great thing by committing everything to prayer and leaving all your resources in your hand. house. He's saying, stop. It's false. Move out of that. Repent. Or if you see others wandering in this way, help them. Call them back. Help them to understand. And true religious devotion that is that is made in us through the Holy Spirit. If any among you wanders from the truth and someone turns back, let him know that he who turns a sinner from the error of his way will save a soul from death and cover a multitude of sins. That's James's purpose. That's what he's seeking here. So here's the conclusion. Here's the point in case you've missed it. If you've slept all the way up to this point, this is what I have been saying. Christians don't live a life of false piety. Christians don't use their religion as a way to neglect their responsibilities to the poor. Be warned. People that use Christianity as a mask to cover their laziness and small hearts Are truly irreligious. Let me end with a very just commonplace example Throughout once I started caring about life, I began being anxious. And I've had to be very careful in watching my stress levels I went through a period of time where I had many panic attacks. You all know that story. It's not so bad any longer. But someone in this congregation found out that I struggle with anxiety. And do you know what she did? She prayed for me. But that's not all that she did. She had medicinal things within her home that she thought could be helpful in the reduction of Stress. So she would bring me bunches of lavender and she would hang them in my office, or she would give me things that I would drop under my tongue that it were just an herbal flower. And they actually helped me with my stress. I think that's a great example, a very practical example of what James is talking about here. She didn't say, well, Jesse, anxiety must be really difficult. I'll make sure I Commit you to prayer during my prayer time. I'm sure that she did do that, but she also had resources in her home that she knew helped her with her stress And she brought them in for me. Think of how the examples multiply with the resources that you have. A person says, you know, I'm feeling kind of lonely. I don't feel very connected Do you have any time that you could share? Could you take someone to Starbucks and be their conversation partner? Because that's what Jesus, and that's what the Holy Spirit through James has said. You don't just say, I'll pray for them that they would have a friend. Let's all have a prayer meeting as a church to where we can be more connected. James would say, Do you have resources of time and do you have a dollar thirty to get a cup of coffee? Because if you do, then you need to stop demonstrating false piety and show true religion, where you give up your life for the sake of others. Here is a quote from 1 John, and I'll end it with this But whoever has this world's goods and sees his brother or sister in need and shuts up his heart from him, how does the love of God abide in you? Let's pray. Father, these truths are so important that you've given to us. I think they're so important, Father, because your church has been misled in thinking of this falsely pious life and and have moved into a a church really of inaction. Lord, I don't know who here might be guilty of that, but I pray that you would work within all of us, that we would become people who Lord, you have summarized wisdom as uh fear of you, and you've summarized the book of Proverbs as looking out for the advantage of others to your own disadvantage. And so therefore I pray that we would become wise, that we would learn to walk with you, that we would no longer wander into errors such as this. as to what the true religious life is. What does it really mean to hold the faith of Jesus Christ? I pray that you, through your Holy Spirit, would make us people That do not cover over our laziness or confusion through false religious devotion. Father, would you help us to see where our resources of time or property Property could meet needs starting now. And we ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen.