Does not consent to wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which accords with godliness, he is proud, knowing nothing. but is obsessed with disputes and arguments over words, from which come envy, strife, reviling, evil suspicions, useless wranglings, of men of corrupt minds, and destitute of the truth Who suppose that godliness is a means of gain from such withdrawal yourself. Let us pray. Christ, we are always pleased with the instruction that you give to us. You always give us everything that we need. Your word is sufficient We pray, Lord Christ, that your Spirit would be with us this morning, that we would not just hear, but that we would do. Your passage here, your scriptures call us difficult decisions. And we pray that you would give us the courage to make those decisions. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. We ended last week with me pleading with you. I pled with you that if there is any gratitude in your hearts, that you would honor the name of God by how you honor each other. Our doctrine, which is the reason why I was pleading to begin with, our doctrine was that a healthy church relates to others in a way that honors God's name. and his doctor. Now we'll continue on in this same passage and by making some observations and then I have a few applications for you this morning. So let's be attentive to his word. Let's open our scriptures and take a look. The first thing that I want you to notice Is that Paul is returning to give a final indictment against the false teachers? We've dealt with these people before. We've seen them in Titus. We've seen them even in the beginning of 1 Timothy. And Paul is returning here. to confront them. The false teachers in this context, you can see in verse 3, if anyone teaches It doesn't say if anyone, if anyone teaches, and then the language he's going to use will remind us of those who were misusing the lull in the beginning of this letter. Those false teachers in this context are defined as those, if you take a look at the continuation of that verse 3 There's some definition that's given here, which is nice, because you always wonder, you know, what's the criteria for determining if this is a false teacher or not? They are those who reject the wholesome words. This means words that bring health. They don't poison you, they give you true medicine. Even, he says, the words or the teaching of Jesus, who is the Christ. And we want to make sure that whoever these teachers are, that they would teach a true doctrine of godliness or piety. That's that piety word that we talked about a few sermons ago. Not that they are teachers. We don't want those guides or false teachers to be ones that promote a false piety or godlessness. We want a teacher that has honorable, that show us honorable practices towards God and neighbor So that's where we're returning. There's this final indictment on these false teachers. That's the first thing I want you to notice. Now, notice secondly the character of these false teachers. They are proud or conceited, and they know nothing This is another way of them talking about them being blind. Paul will talk about this in other parts of his letters to Timothy about those whose minds have been blinded by the God of this world, lowercase g, of this world, and that's these people. They are blind in fact with desire. But it's not a good desire. It's a kind of morbid desire. There's a continual craving towards things that are not helpful for anybody. Do you see that there in those verses? They are obsessed, it says in verse number four, with disputes and arguments over words. When you spend time with them and they're teaching, you don't go away feeling refreshed. You go away feeling confused and frustrated. Maybe that you need to take a shower. So that's the character of these folks. And then the third thing I want you to notice is the results of these characters in this church, these false teachers. Christ did say, you'll know them by their fruit. So take a look at this fruit in verse 4. He supplies really a bunch of things that are rotten. Envy. Strife, reviling, evil suspicions. Do you know what would happen if those things gained ground among us as a congregation If someone visited and said, this is a people who are full of envy, of striving with each other, or strife, of reviling, and having evil suspicions of each other Do you know how well it would go around here? Those are the kinds of things that tear apart families and churches. Those are the seeds that grow up into church splits. And that is the fruit of the false teacher. I'll also ask you to observe something else here, and that is perhaps shocking to you. This is going to be very difficult for you to do as an American. But I'm hoping that we'll gain some clarity on just what ethical action he's calling us to. Paul tells us that we need to have a response to such people. Timothy, he speaks to Timothy specifically, but I'll go over some other examples that were it's addressed to the whole congregation. But Timothy needs to withdraw himself from them. That's a very serious action. Based on the letters to Timothy at large, this has a couple different meanings, and will can mean a couple different things depending on the context, and I'll go over those. But I think we need to keep in mind, that might be surprising to you, that based on the letters to Timothy at large, this Is a reference to the rebellion of Korah in Numbers 16, wherein the Lord tells Moses to separate himself from rebels. And in that context, they are to separate themselves from the rebels so that they too are not swallowed up in judgment of the earthquake. So this is another way of talking to specifically Timothy in particular that do not put yourself in this group or you will receive the same reward that they will. And that should help him and give him some motivation to make sure that he's not complicit in what they're accomplishing, no matter what the pressure is. If you remember, there can be some pressures that can happen to teachers. Think of Peter, for example. He withdrew himself from the Gentiles because there was this pressure going on with his fellow Jews. And Paul had to rebuke him in that moment. Now, to motivate Timothy to make sure he doesn't receive the same kind of pressure, I think there's an appeal here to Korah, as well as other things, but he needs to make sure that he separates himself out. The general point really is for Timothy to make sure that he is not a part of a group which is under the curse and judgment of God. If someone is cursed, you really want to move away from them. So that you're not cursed with them. And so we have a very simple doctrine this morning that may be surprising to you, nevertheless, and it is this: a healthy church withdraws from false guides. I use the word guides there. I think I could use a little bit of explanation. I use the word guides there because I'm not talking about someone who just stands and writes stuff on a whiteboard. Like a teacher. You would want to probably withdraw yourself from that person too, depending on the situation. But this is a guide. This is a person who's going to help you to walk down the path of life unto eternal salvation in Jesus Christ. It's one who gives you counsel for your family and for your church. It's a shepherd, if you will, specifically And so our doctrine this morning is a healthy church which withdraws from false guides. Now I would like to unfold this a bit with uh uh uh a few applications. The titles of these are The Third Command The example of Christ and the Question. The third command, the example of Christ, and the Question. Children, if you have trouble getting that that quickly, make sure you speak to an adult who can write faster than you. The third command, the example of Christ, and the question. I want to begin with the third command because that really frames this whole section of the letter. And that shouldn't surprise you because last week the third command framed this section of the letter. This is a really serious doctrine. To withdraw from another human being is a serious action. So we want to make sure we have good grounding and a good foundation for doing so. So let's make sure that we really understand. And the way to do that is to notice that Paul is operating by way of the third command. This is an ultimate North Star that's guiding him in his ethical instruction to this congregation. Now, last week we discovered that the third command is about much more than just speech theology. It's m about much more than how we use God's name in our speech. It includes that, but it is more. At the heart of the command God is concerned with how we bear or how we carry his name as witnesses before the world. Well, as an extension of this, if we were to search out the scriptures and to look at this bearing of the name, As an extension of this, there are those who carried or bore the name of Yahweh in an authorized fashion, and they were known as prophets. They bore or carried his name in a slightly different sense. It wasn't just about how they acted, it was that they bore his name in that they were authorized to speak on his behalf. So, for example, and you can write these references down and look at them or talk about them over lunch. It's a great way to spend your Lord's day. Ezekiel 2, verse 4, or Amos chapter 3, verse 1. When Yahweh commissioned prophets, he authorized them to bear his name, and they would say things like, Thus has the Lord Yahweh declared. Ezekiel 2. 4. Or hear the word of the Lord. Amos 3. 1. I know that you've seen that throughout your scriptures, but this is the theology and the meaning behind it is that they're authorized to bear his name. As an official messenger. This is a prophetic expression, the declaration of the Lord Yahweh And what it did was it functioned like the stamp of a king's official bearing the name of that king. That they're an official messenger authorized to say that these are in fact the words that are given to me from the king himself. I bear the seal showing you that I'm authorized to do so. The prophet, in essence, was saying the words he was delivering were the Lord's words. And in this way he carried his name. Now, there's no problem so far. But there does there is a problem that arises, however When someone who is not authorized to bear the name of God as a prophet claims that they have his name written upon him as an authorized messenger That's a real problem. And we can see that throughout the scriptures, particularly in Ezekiel chapter 13, beginning in verse 6. And I encourage you to look at this over lunch This is what the Lord Himself says about those who bear his name in vain, as prophets. He says, they have envisioned futility. And false divinations, saying, thus says the Lord. See how they're bearing his name, thinking, they're thinking they're an official messenger. But here's the thing: this is what Ezekiel says. But the Lord has not sent them. Yet they hope that the word may be confirmed. Verse 7, have you not seen a futile vision? And have you not spoken false divination? You say the Lord says, but I have not spoken. Here they claim to bear the name of God in the way that a prophet bears the name of God, but they are false. The Lord has in fact not spoken what they said. They seek to guide God's people, but they are false guides. And that is the context and the right framework for you to understand what's going on here with Paul this morning. When we say that a healthy church withdraws from false guides, we are talking about those who set themselves up as authorized shepherds. authorized counselors, authorized pastors, authorized teachers, but they have no such authorization from God Himself, and they do not say the words that God says. They furthermore, because of that, mislead God's people not into happiness but into destruction. They promised to feed souls, but they actually poisoned the people. Now, this has happened throughout all of history. And here Paul is bringing up another warning for the people of God to make sure that you are a group of people that in certain situations can withdraw from certain people. Because these people will rise up, as Paul says in Ephesians, even from among you sometimes. And you have got to be careful. Later he'll talk about them as wolves. I think I said that right. I'm working hard. They promise to feed souls, but they really poison. Now I think When we look at the third command and we see not only bearing or carrying the name, but also how a prophet would bear or carry the name in authorization to speak on behalf of God as an official messenger. I think there's some basic clarity that we have in framing our passage and how Paul is operating. But I think we can gain even more clarity if we look at the example of Jesus Christ in confronting these kinds of people and pulling people away from them. And so we move into our second point, which is the example of Jesus Christ. Christ continually confronted those who said that they bore the name of God as a guide. But they weren't really God's guides. And he pulled large crowds away from those teachers because those teachers were leading them into a ditch. And leading them towards death. Now, all I really want to do at this point is I just want to revisit Matthew 23. This is another section that you could really look over yourselves. You want to revisit Matthew 23 with the woe sections especially, but you really could look at all of the Gospels. Let me just provide you a few snapshots here of the kind of people that he was dealing with that you may have to deal with and what withdrawal from. He says this in Matthew 23, verse 15. He says, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. Now, scribes and Pharisees, these are the guides of the nation of Israel. If you want to know what God thinks about something, you would go talk to them. If you want to know a decision for your life, you would ask them over to the house. to discuss what you should do, and they would lead you into righteousness and truth. At least that's what was supposed to happen. But here Jesus confronts them calling them hypocrites. For you travel land and see to win one proselyte. Think of a convert And when he is one, you make him twice as much a son of hell as yourselves. Now those are pretty strong words. What is Jesus Christ confronting there? What's he getting at with what these people specifically are doing? This is an example of those who claim to be guides for God, leading them into the kingdom of heaven. for eternal salvation. But the thing is that they don't know the way to salvation themselves. They have in fact rejected the one who is sent to bring salvation in this particular case. And so Christ confronts them. They therefore lead people into hell, and they blind people to the grace of God through Jesus Christ. Things have become so twisted and their desires so wrong that instead of being a guide, bringing people into eternal happiness. They bring people into eternal torment. Now that's verse fifteen. If we were to jump to verse twenty-three of Matthew twenty-three, here's Christ confending confronting these same guides again. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you pay tithe of mint. And anise and cumin and have neglected the weightier matters of the law, justice and mercy and faith These you ought to have done without leaving the others undone. And then he says, in the same kind of language as Paul, you are blind guides. You strain out a gnat and you swallow a camel. Now, this is an example of those who claim to know true piety. They claim to know what really pleases God. They claim to know how to live in devotion to God, but they don't really know God's heart. If they did, they wouldn't have been over there preoccupied with cumin while devouring a widow's house, which is another example in this same section And so they lead people away from the most weightiest matters of justice and mercy and faith. There's another example that Christ gives where They're encouraging people to religiously devote their finances to the temple so much so that they can no longer take care of their parents, so their parents are ending up in destitution. All in the name of God. That's the kind of confrontation that Jesus Christ had with those who were meant to be guides, guides. Paul would later in Romans chapter 2 say that you claim to be guides, but you are the ones That caused the name of our God to be blasphemed among all of the nations with how you conduct yourselves. Now, I'd encourage you to read all of the Gospels looking for Christ's interaction with the Pharisees and the Sadducees. They claimed to be the guides of God's people, but they were not. Their words did not bring health. Their words brought sickness. They rejected even the words of the Lord Jesus Christ. They neglected the doctrine which accords with godliness, not knowing true piety. And that's the same criteria that we see within Paul. I think Paul is reflecting on the work that Christ did among all of those false teachers, confronting the false shepherds and removing them of their position. Now, this brings us to a question. We have that example of Christ, which I hope helps you to see. What's going on here? It wasn't just anybody that Christ confronted. It was a specific group who had leadership responsibilities over that nation. And he needed to confront a guide. That is a very technical term in the way that I'm using it here. Not just any old person. And I bring that up because I think with this final point that there is a question that arises within our minds and in our hearts when we're confronted with a doctrine that a healthy church withdraws itself from false guides. I think we can ask the question: does God really expect us to draw away from other people? To even shun them, perhaps. And my answer, of course, is yes, because I just told you what the doctrine is, but you have to understand that properly so that you're not withdrawing from people you shouldn't be withdrawing from. The apostles are not saying that you can never be near anyone who is false. The Corinthians made that mistake, and Paul said to them, if you were to adopt that philosophy, you would have to leave the earth because there's false people all over the place. I mean do you do you what do you do if you know there's a heretic in Harris Teeter? You just like wait for them to leave and then you can go grocery shopping? That's not what he's getting at. That's not the ethic that he is giving to you here. That's not the situation or the case that is in front of them. If you were to take that kind of response, you would have to leave this world and you would have to live on Mars. Paul, as a good guide, gives you principles to consider in wisdom When you are acting in different situations. They're in a specific situation. Timothy needs to make sure that he withdraws himself from those who are claiming to be authoritative teachers. And he needs to make sure that the congregation does not give them authority. They cannot become the pastors of that church in Ephesus. That would lead to death. Let me suppose let's uh let us suppose for a moment that at the pig roast, five different Jehovah's Witnesses show up. Trying to convince you that they should become the new leaders of this church. Here is my command to you: withdraw yourself from them and let them be withdrawal from the property. You see what I'm saying? We're not talking about being in the grocery store with a Jehovah's Witness. In our passage, the command to withdraw is particularly given to Timothy. And I and that that's meaningful. It means that Timothy needs to make sure that he is not part of that group. He must separate himself as an approved workman. Later, Paul will say that. You can't, you're not on that key. You need to separate yourself. In Romans 16, this is another situation, just so you can get the sense of the different situations where we would want to withdraw for different reasons. I hope you can see why Timothy would need to withdraw. What about some another another situation? In Romans sixteen, Paul instructs them to withdraw the congregation. from certain people so that they are not deceived by them. If there's someone who's gaining grounds in their false arguments, it would be a good idea to tell people to get away from them So that they don't gain any more ground. In 2 John, John tells the congregation not to house heretics. He's not talking about like Uncle Buck who's visiting for Christmas. He's talking about those who are seeking to gain a kind of authorization over the congregation and to take over as teachers. Now, what do you think it would be like for me if those Jehovah's Witnesses trying to take over our church I found out That you decided to house them and feed them and let them stay in town and provide opportunities. You called a small group to your house of the congregation to give them an opportunity to share with people their perspective. I'm telling you right now, I would be hot. Don't do it. Withdraw from them. Don't even let them into your home if those are their intentions. Now that makes sense, right? You can see why John would say that. Heretics who seek to lead the congregation as a pastor should be leading a congregation. Now I want to shore this up even more, and I wonder if we could do so through an analogy that perhaps uh it will help. I'm hoping that this is self-evident, and that you can see that this self-evident case is analogous to what I'm saying to you, and then you don't really have any bones or a mixed-up conscience about withdrawing from false guides. We recognize the line of thought that I'm giving to you in areas of medicine Let's call doctors, for example, guides of our health. I want you to imagine discovering that these guides That your doctor was making you more and more and more sick. I want to ask you: would you refer them to others? Would you stay under their care? Would you, with a knife in their hand, let them put you to sleep? Let me ask you that if you were a doctor, would you join their practice? See, that's the point of Timothy. Do not join the quacks. You'll end up losing your own practice I hope that that helps. That was greatly helpful to me. There's no way I would stick around if there was a doctor who was making me sick. And there's no way I would refer them to other people. And if I were a doctor, there's no way I would lose my own reputation by associating with them in practice. I would create a distance. I would withdraw from them. And I would go to a doctor that is good, a doctor who brings life and healing. And that's really the whole point of this passage. That's what Paul wants for the church. We could state everything that I've been saying to you positively. The Holy Spirit's goal in this passage is to make sure that you as a church are not poisoned. It is to make sure that you don't become victims of malpractice by quacks. The Holy Spirit says this The Lord has given me the tongue of the learned, that I should know how to speak a word in season to him who is weary. Have you heard that before? It's from Isaiah. I'll say it again. It is nice. The Lord God has given me the tongue of the learned. That I should know how to speak a word in season to him who is weary That is the promise of the Father sending the Spirit to the Son, that finally we would have a shepherd who knows exactly the kind of medicine that we need. And this was one of the reasons why Christ is known as the great physician. But here's the insight that we need now. Christ is not here with us in the flesh today. Christ has decided to not leave us as orphans, however. He has sent his spirit to us. And one of the ways in which he has sent his spirit is to individuals who are set aside to be your guides. who know how to bring a word in season to you when you are weary or a thousand other conditions that you will face And that is the ministry of Christ through his pastors here on earth while he remains in heaven until his return. That's what the Holy Spirit is getting at in that vision with Isaiah. That's how it will unfold. He equips his guides. To be like good doctors bringing health through healthy words. That's what he wants for you as a congregation. He doesn't want for you, as a congregation, someone who graduated seminary, who who says they have this long list of books that they've read. But every time they talk to you, you're just confused. Or they could explain some vast system of theology But they have no idea whether you should keep the machine on for your mom or turn the machine off so she stops breathing. They don't know how to lead you into eternal salvation. Christ doesn't want that for you. He wants you to have good guides. He doesn't want you to have some woke guide leading you into terrible decisions with your marriage. Or how you view men, or how you view women. He has sent his spirit to this earth so that you would have good guides. And if there are bad guys, if there are bad doctors in our lives, he is telling you here that you need to withdraw from them. We do not listen to them. We listen to those who are a part of the ministry of our living Christ. So let me ask you: who are your guides? For your personal life, for your married life, for your church life For civic decisions that you have to make, perhaps when you're voting, or other things. Who are your guides? Are you relying on guides who are filled with the Holy Spirit? Another question I'll ask before I get into some specific criteria on guides. Is there anything that we need to do now to make sure that our children and our grandchildren have good guides in the future? Is God working specifically in certain seminaries and we need to make sure that we're supporting those seminaries? Do we need to make sure we're bringing reports to seminaries and letting them know the work that they need to make sure they're doing? because the people they're graduating are falling far short of a guide that we actually need. That's something to turn over. Are you relying on guides who are filled with the Holy Spirit? If so, then they meet a few criteria. I'm going to give you a little bit of a vision here for a good guide. This is another way of talking about a good pastor. When they speak, it is like medicine for your wounds. And your wounds are sin and misery. They are not primarily confusing. They don't just speculate about things, but they apply the Word of God to you. Like a doctor finally bringing relief to a terrible disease you've had. That is the work of Christ. They are in line with the words of Christ. They do not contradict the words of our Savior. They teach you what true godliness or piety is. That is a vision of a real guide. Now, the main point this morning is that those are the guides that you want. And this is just another way of saying our doctrine this morning. And that is that a healthy church withdraws from false guides. Let us pray.