But someone will say, you have faith and I have works. Show me your faith without your works, and I'll show you my faith by my works. You believe that there is one God, you do well. Even the demons believe and tremble. But do you want to know, O foolish man, that faith without works is dead? Was not Abraham our father justified by works? Do you see that faith was working together with his works, and by works faith was made perfect? counted to him for righteousness. And he was called the friend of God. You see then that a man is justified by works and not by faith only. Likewise was not Rahab the harlot or prostitute also Justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them out another way? So faith without works is dead also. Please pray with me. Father, we ask, Lord Jesus Christ, we ask that your Spirit would be with us tonight as we We ask that these things would simply not be heard, but that they would be done for your glory and for the There's a general rule within our lives. I think it is true unless there's some strange smoke. And the reason being is is because the one accompanies the other. And of course the smoke going This is really the ja this the point that James has been making throughout his letter here. James has been making the same point since the End of chapter one, that there are some things that always have company. And you're really wondering if you forget the two things are meant to be paired or brought together. Apparently, some Christians have tried to separate things that always belong together. For example, in verse 22 of chapter 1, some Christians have tried to separate hearing from doing. Notice how it says that in verse 22 of chapter 1, but you are deceiving yourself. The same can be said about religion and the tongue. Woe are we, as seen in verse Verse twenty six. The one who is religious should also be the one who bridles their tongue. Furthermore, the one who is religious should be visiting orphans and widows in their trouble and keeping themselves unspotted from the world. Religion has much common In chapter two, James continues to show us pairs of things that belong together. And just in your own study, if you were to read through and see what What pairs of things belong together that are what are married what are things are married together in James would be worth your time. The main topic is faith, and now he's showing us what belongs to faith. Faith is meant to be paired, like perhaps a steak and a nice wine or something like that. In chapter 2, verse 1 through 13, faith is meant to be paired with justice as determined by the standards of God's law. And at the end in verse 13, Mercy. Last Sunday, James taught us that faith must be paired with responsible generosity to the poor. Praying for the poor is a fine thing to do, brothers and sisters But if you pray and you and yet you have a bunch of resources in your house that could help them, then you've really misunderstood what's supposed to be paired with them. If you have the resources to help someone in need, you should not only pray, but generously give those resources to alleviate the need. This Sunday, James continues to speak of faith and to prove that faith, true faith, holds hands with active loyalty to Jesus. Faith should never be sitting on its bottom. It should always be up and doing good. As Reformed Christians, you know and have been taught, perhaps from childhood, that you are Are saved by faith alone. The great late R. C. Sproull, and we know of his passing, that was his number one teaching to uphold the doctrine of justification, and of course, James agrees Yet he clarifies a point which many have s from which many have wandered, and it's this. We are in fact saved by faith alone, but saving faith is never alone. Is always accompanied by the good works created in you by the Spirit. The faith that the Holy Spirit gives is a faith that produces the fruits of the Holy Spirit. That is one way to say what the main lesson is in 18 to the end of the chapter. And so let me repeat it for you, although I'll say it in different ways throughout the sermon. We are saved by faith alone, but saving faith is never alone. The faith that the Holy Spirit gives is the faith that produces the fruits of the Holy Spirit. Now, before I get into the main teaching tonight, I want to share what I think is happening among the congregations to whom James is writing. I tried to clarify a little bit in the last sermon, but I want to say it again because it's a little bit of an odd situation. For us, I think. I have found it a little unfamiliar. Some have wandered or are in danger of wandering from a true understanding of faith, and this is what they've done, and it went along with Jewish public religion Some have separated the life of faith from the life of love. And I can only wonder if they misunderstood the teaching of Paul from 1 Corinthians. So if you would turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 12, beginning in verse 7, the context of this chapter is one of spiritual gifts So he's going to get into showing how it's one spirit giving all the gifts, but there are many gifts. There's a diversity amongst the unity. And he gives a list of different gifts, and that we shouldn't be envying someone who has Has that gift, for all the gifts are needed in order for edification of the body to take place. Well, if we take a look at verse 7 in chapter 12, notice what's going on here Let me begin in six, and there are diversities of activities, but it is the same God who works all in all. But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to each one for the profit of all And then he's going to list some of the gifts. For to one is given the word of wisdom through the Spirit, to another, the word of knowledge through the same Spirit. To another, faith by the same Spirit. And then he's going to go on and talk about gifts of healing by the same Spirit, of helping those who may be sick or oppressed. are poor. And I can't help but to wonder if some of these congregations had read this and thought that the gift of faith could stand on its own and didn't need to accompany The other activities that are meant to hold the hand of faith. The gift of faith, in other words, is in a list of other gifts And I wonder if they've misunderstood it that way. It seems that some within James congregations were claiming that they had the gift of faith, and they did not have the gift of helping the poor. I wonder if you ever claimed the same I have the gift to become a Christian, saving faith, but not the gift of going to Africa. I think some of us have said that, or at least we've hoped not to be sent to Africa. Africa. Therefore, in their own minds, the congregations were not trying to neglect their responsibility. They were trying to have a responsible division of labor. Labor as taught by Paul. This is my hypothesis to make sense of the words that James says here, some of the details if we were present in the historical situation. may have been different. The life of faith would have meant for these folks that they spent their time praying for those that needed help because it's God who helps the poor or those who have the gift of helping the poor. So whether this is the exact situation or not, James does in fact seek to correct this misunderstanding. Faith may and is a gift from the Holy Spirit, but it always produces the fruits of the Holy Spirit. That's his point to them who would have wandered away into this kind of thinking. Now James will make this truth quite clear, and he's going to do so through multiple examples. The key to understanding what James is saying here, and I've already given you the main lesson, is to see that each example throughout this passage is just saying the same thing over and over and over again. It's the same lesson from different characters, including demons. And here you can see the examples, taking a look throughout this passage beginning in 18. The first thing he's going to do is he's going to reduce the position to absurdity. That's not a character in the story, but he is going to do a reductio ad absurdum. He then will consider the demons. Next, he will observe the example of Abraham the F. Father of faith. And he finally will turn to Rahab for further instruction. And so you can guess what we're going to do tonight. We're just going to look at each of the examples showing how James proves that faith must always hold hands with good. works. So let's begin with the absurdity. Separating faith from works is absurd, is what he He says here. When it starts in verse 18. And the first thing I want you to notice as we seek to to see see that lesson is the quotation marks. You see those? You really have to pay attention to those because here he's working with someone who's giving a counter-argument. But someone will say, in quotes, You have faith, I have works. And now the quotes are removed and we get back to what James is saying, although there is a little debate about how far The quote continues. Show me your faith without your works, and I will show you my faith by my works. Now to most that is pretty confusing what James is seeking to do here, but it's far more simple than it is complex. And that's the key to understanding. it. The thought here in the reducing them to absurdity is the exact same thought that I gave you from 1 Corinthians chapter 12. In verses 14 through 17, James has stated that faith and works are inseparable. However, some amongst the churches were asking: is this true? Might it not be objected that there are different gifts for different people, including faith? Faith is one among many gifts, as is healing. Not all have the same gifts Therefore, can't faith be alone? Now you'd think it's just one passage in 1 Corinthians 12 that they could have used to support this argument, but actually there's a couple There's a couple passages that could be read wrongly to this end. The line of reasoning could also be supported by the distribution of food amongst the widows, could it not? In Acts chapter 6, verses 2 through 4, a group of men said, Let's elect and call them deacons, and they'll do the work of helping the poor. We're going to pray and preach. You see? They could have started having a division of labor that way and worked themselves into this wandering. Now, why would the apostles do this? Because their task is to preach the word and to pray, and therefore the division of labor had become clear. And for them, the ambiguity led them into this wrong view. Some are devoted to prayer and preaching, and others to the helping of the poor and the widow. And James responds to this To counter that counters this argument by reducing it to absurdity. This is simply what he's asking here. This is what I think is happening. James asks a simple question: Is it even possible for you to show me your faith? without showing me your works. Think about that. How would you show me your faith If it weren't through works. That's really his whole point. And it's actually it's so simple and and uh but deadly It's lovely. The common sense nature of it. How is it that a person's faith is seen? How would we even know that a person has faith if it truly could be alone? James' point in the latter part of 18 is That faith is always known by works. That's what he says. I'll show you my faith by my works. That's his point there. So that's the first part of what he's doing here, showing that faith must always hold hand The second thing he'll do now is he'll prove this from the demons. And this is kind of an argument from the greater or the lesser. To further proof his point, James cites the example of demons. Take a look here with me. 19. You believe that there's one God. You do well. Even the demons believe and tremble. Now what is he doing here? I'm sure you've heard this example. I mean how many, don't raise your hand, but how many have heard this example? And usually when you hear this example, this is the argument That those who are only intellectually gaining their faith are no better than the demons. It's an argument against just having an orthodoxy and not having an orthopraxy. A life of the mind and not a life of the heart. is usually how this verse is used. You have a knowledge of God, great. So too do the demons. Knowledge isn't enough. That's not exactly what he's saying here. James is teaching something a bit different. Interpreting James that way of just reducing this to saying you shouldn't have an intellectual faith, it forgets the whole last word of the sentence of verse 19. He says, you believe that there is one God you do well, even the demons believe. If it stops there, then sure, it's an argument against an intellectual faith of just knowing. But it doesn't stop there. There's a dash, and it says, and they tremble If you think about that, in light of the overall argument that he's trying to make, that faith and works always are together. He's making an argument from a lesser, and he's saying, even demons who have some kind of belief also have some kind of work. They tremble. And how much more are you than a demon? That's his point. That's what he's saying. His point is that even the demons who have some level of faith, although not saving faith, produce faith of produce fruit. In other words, even the faith of demons is not alone They tremble. You begin to see the point of what he's doing here, and he's just going through each example, showing you the same thing. Now we move on to Abraham. This is the premier argument for him And you can see that by the way that he set it up in verse 20. But do you r you can hear it this way, but do you really want to know You really want to know if what I'm saying is true? And now he actually calls them blockheads. That's a pretty good translation. Blockheads? He says, oh foolish man. I mean you really could translate it idiots, but I'm not going to say that. But do you want to know, O foolish man, that faith without works is dead? Was not Abraham, our father, justified by works when he offered Isaac his son on the altar? Verse 20 shows that James considers the Abrahamic example as the most serious with the way that he sets it up. Foolish man, and he considers this to be the example of all examples. Notice how he says, our father. Now Abraham is considered the father of the faithful or those who have faith. So if anyone is going to demonstrate to us the nature of faith, It will be Abraham. And here he exemplifies the same thing that we've learned in the absurdity and from the demons. Abraham is the father of the faithful. Now, before I go into specifically how he was faithful, I do want to mention, I know that you know, that this verse is highly debated. Did you know that because of this verse Martin Luther did not believe that James should be in the canon? True. He didn't think that this book should belong he didn't think it belongs in the Bible. He I'm sure he said Something absurd and profane about it, because he was a loudmouth, no disrespect meant. But that's what Martin Luther believed. being justified by gr by uh grace through faith. Now Paul says that justification is by faith alone and not works. You can see that in Romans 4 when you get a chance. And James seems to be saying, with the same example of Abraham and Isaac, the opposite, which was the problem. And of course, we know that James and Paul do not contradict one another. The thing that we have to remember is that James has a very different purpose and a very different audience to whom he's writing than what Paul had. And when we know that, we can realize they're dealing with different issues and they're not contradicting one another. The Apostle Paul's audience was seeking to be justified or made righteous through the works of the law, particularly the ceremonial law, particularly circumcision. And we know, as Paul says, that righteousness is not obtained through our efforts, but through the imputation of the efforts of Jesus the Messiah. James, on the other hand, is not addressing self-righteous Pharisees in this passage. He's writing to his congregations. He says, brothers and sisters, and to the twelve tribes scattered abroad. He's not writing to self-righteous Pharisees. Pharisees. It's not even the issue here of wandering. In this passage, James is addressing those who have separated their faith from the fruits of that faith. James is not trying to establish how one becomes righteous for God Before God. James is seeking to establish that those who have been made righteous will not be barren in their service to God, but will glorify their Father who is in heaven. That's the difference. And they're not mutually exclusive. Those two things go together. Paul and James are friends. The best of friends. Friends. This is clearly what is happening in the passage from James. James is simply pointing out that Abraham, the father of faith, never had a faith that was a Alone. Notice the emphasis in the passage. You have the absurdity of thinking that you could see faith without works. You have the demons who even tremble. Notice that faith and then the response. And now you would expect the same thing if the pattern continues. The faith of Abraham, and then what do we see? The deed of offering his most precious son on the earth. He fits with the same pattern that we've seen throughout all the passage. Faith isn't alone. That's the whole point. Even the Father of the faithful teaches us this It is issued forth his faith in a particular deed for which he was known, the offering of his son Isaac on the altar. Can faith stand alone? Well, James says, let's take a look at the Father of faith and of the faithful. Your possession. By this time you know the end of the story. So you know exactly what's going to happen when I talk about Rahab. It's going to say she had faith, and it's going to show that she had works that accompanied it. Because we're James' final example is Rahab, and the example here though is quite curious to me, and it's curious to me in Hebrews 11. I don't. You just wouldn't expect the harlot to become exemplary for the Christian church And yet she does. And I wonder, I wonder what James is seeking to do and the author of Hebrews. I wonder why they commend her, what is the point? I wonder why James includes the example of the prostitute. This is just wondering out loud, but I wonder if he's saying that no matter who you are, this is what authentic faith looks like. No matter what your background and what you struggle with, this is what God will accomplish in you through faith. You may be the father of the faithful. Like Abraham, you may be the epitome of religious example, or you may be a former prostitute. No matter, the Christian faith is the same. Faith is eminently useful and loyal to the will of our God. I think that might be what he's saying. But the example I don't need to spend much time on it because we've already announced the principle multiple times. It's obvious in verse 25. Take a look with me. Likewise, was not Rahab the harlot also justified by works? And now you see that her faith is accompanied by works. How? Because she received the message of the And she sent them out another way. It was the great act demonstrating her faith. We see the same thing within Hebrews 11. The connection is simple. Just as in all the other examples, authentic faith is issued forth in action. She received the messengers and sent them away. Faith is proven by So in each of these several examples in conclusion, then, James convinces us the church of the true nature of faith. We are justified by faith alone, but authentic faith is never alone. It is always productive and useful and loyal to God. Now, I ask you to remember, this is really Important for us. Please remember that as you're hearing these examples, and for the rest of James, that these were not written as a test, first and foremost, in the mind of James, to figure out out if you are a Christian or not. Maybe you could do that. I don't know. But that's not James' original intent. And I really don't want to stray from that. He is acknowledging throughout his letter that he is writing to Christians I don't believe that he's trying to unnerve them or make them have a lack of assurance in their faith. This is not a test. James's original intent. He did not question the Christianity of these congregations. Rather, as a pastor, he sees Christians either in error or he wants them to avoid the error of misunderstanding. And I've given you some examples of how that can happen from 1 Corinthians and from Acts chapter 6. six. What have you believed, Christian, about your faith? What have you believed that allows you to rationalize perhaps spiritual laziness Or miserliness in your own life or towards your neighbor? That's the kind of question that James does want you to ask. Are you spiritually lazy? Is your faith not producing much? What have you believed? Where have you wandered where that uh that is causing that? Are there others in your life that could benefit from these explanations? and arguments of James. Can you think of someone that really needs to hear this message? And could you give it to them? The truth is that we are, as Christians, prone to wander. And it's the whole purpose of the letter to James. However, through this instruction from James, we can stay on the path of true and authentic Christian faith. Now if you haven't heard anything the whole time, if you've been thinking about whether someone replied to your Facebook post before you got here, or if you don't use Facebook, Instagram. Or whatever. Here it is. This is what James wants you to know. Where there is fire, there is smoke. And where there is faith, there is fruitfulness. Please pray with me. Father, this is a bit of an unfamiliar situation. It's at least not culturally prevalent as it would have been for James. But nevertheless, we thank you for these truths that you've given to us that we can understand The nature of the gift that you've given to us. Father, we pray that we would take these examples to heart by the power of your Spirit, that we would gain these examples. And not just know about them. We pray, Father, that we would fear you and therefore gain wisdom, and that our wisdom would be manifested in a true understanding and embracing We pray, Father, that if we have been neglecting this and if something has put a cap or a stop on the exercise Of true faith, we pray that these examples would motivate us forward to be like a tree planted near a stream. Giving forth fruit in its season. We ask these things in your name. Amen