Good evening everyone. All right. I'm gonna wait for just one more second. But I used to get in trouble for waiting. All right, let's open our our service with prayer. Please join me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that You've given us this Lord's day, and we thank you that you've given us the sense to know that you're the one that calls us to worship. And having that as a primary framework and principle by which we can conduct ourselves leads us in so many good places. We thank you, Lord, and we thank you that you are bringing uh the gospels to us during this season, or we can acknowledge your incarnation and the great work in coming and being sent. And we look forward to your return. We pray that as our great head and king the one who is responsible for us, that you would lead us in worship now. Help us to sing these songs in a way that's meaningful. Help us to be attentive. to the words and to apply them specifically to us and to sing in our ourselves and to sing in faith and lead us even in our time of prayer. In the name of Christ. Amen. Let's stand for our call to worship from Psalm 150, verses 1 through 2. Praise the Lord. Praise God in His sanctuary. Praise Him in His mighty firmament. Praise Him for His mighty acts. Praise him according to his excellent greatness. Amen. Let's sing together for the beauty of the earth For God is eating our wear, for God for we got the skies, for the work There's our handful praise. Hill and he went three and four and stars for not to be great. It is not here for grateful praise. For alone your mind. Because our love is there, God me games dance to our bee. Frent Lord and God was for all and all God Santa For It's our new brace, for each or make it wild to our race so green. Amen. Our reading this evening is from Ephesians 6. This will lead us into a time of confession. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor your father and mother, which is the first commandment with promise, that it may be well with you, and you may live long on the earth. And you, fathers, do not provoke your children to wrath, but bring them up in the training and admonition of the Lord. Amen. You may be see them. Please join me for a time of confession. Oh Lord, you give us clear instruction here first to uh us that our children, uh as we think about our parents and that we are to honor our mother and our father And also as parents to child, and Lord, that we would not provoke our children to wrath, but bring them up in the training and admonition of the Lord. We thank you that You give us these this kind of direction and wisdom for how we are to relate to each other in these this family estate. Lord, I pray that you would bring to mind, these commands are clear enough, pray that you would bring to mind the ways in which we related poorly to each other this past week and perhaps even today. I pray, Lord, that you would bring to mind certain attitudes that we have, thoughts that we have, words that we have said, body language we've exhibited. that are contrary to your intent and transgressive of your will for us as family And I pray, Lord, that that these things would even be confessed by your saints, even now in the quiet of their heart. Oh, that would be a good one. Lord, we thank you for the grace that you have given to us and even being able to acknowledge our sins before you. And we thank you for the freedom that you've given to us, knowing that even in the acknowledgement of our sin, that you intend to use such an acknowledgement for salvation, pure and complete. We thank you, Lord, in the name of Christ. Amen. Your assurance of pardon tonight is from Ephesians 2, 14 through 18. For he himself is our peace, who has made both one, and has broken down the middle wall of separation, having abolished in his flesh the enmity, that is, the law of commandments contained in ordinances so as to create in himself one new man from the two, thus making peace, and that he might reconcile them both to God and one body through the cross, thereby putting to death the enmity And he came and preached peace to you who were afar off and to those who were near. For through him we both have access by one Spirit to the Father. Amen. Let's stand and respond to this concise statement of the gospel by singing How Deep the Father's love for us. The ball and turned breaks away at a food which water are chosen water. Our strange I knew the life of people's daughters give the blessings Welcome there, the ones who is the holy bottle of the woman is why. If one starts to in the Amen. Let's turn together to Proverbs chapter ten, and our reading this evening is verse one. Chapter ten The Proverbs of Solomon A wise son makes a glad father, but a foolish son is the grief of his mother. Let's pray. Lord, we pray that as you take us down the path of your Proverbs proper and past the introductory lessons, That this would be a time that by your spirit you would build us up in wisdom. Not in general, but for our time in our place. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated Well, last week we ended the introductory lectures by looking at the consummation of them all in chapter nine. And we concluded with Solomon. Blessed are those who attend the banquet of woman wisdom. And here we are this evening. with our first dish and uh at her feast in Proverbs ten, verse one, and we'll focus on one B. I want to make a few uh observations and then a a couple applications this evening. The first thing I want you to notice is that you can see here in 10 with the mentioning of the mother and the father that we have a continuation from chapters 1 through 9. We've seen the mother and father all the way through instructing the covenant child. They were mentors from the beginning, and they remain mentors throughout the rest of this Proverb collection. They are the great motivators of the next generation of the church. Now you can expand this and abstract it from mother and father to teacher or pastor and even to governor. There are different ways in which they take on that role of teacher for the next generation. Now this may surprise you We're not exactly used to this all the time, even in our conversations, but the main motivation from verse 1 is a little different. Take a look there in verse one. A wise son makes a glad father and a foolish son is the grief of his mother. This is meant to be an introductory uh an introduction and it's supposed to supply the motivation, what would you say the motivation is here? Well the motivation is actually psychological. It's affectional. It's emotional. He's drawing upon your love for your mother, your affections for your father. And you can reverse it with no problem and see our love for our children. And that is going to be behind why we want to listen and receive and be attentive and do. In the name of Christ, the things we see in the rest of the lesson. Solomon actually appeals to the son or daughter's desire to please their parents. Now it's quite different. It's technically not a biblical argument in one sense. It's a natural argument in a sense of looking and seeing. this kind of this innate thing that God has given to children and to parents. That's the first thing I want you to notice. That's a little different than we're used to, but it sure is good to see. And it's good to acknowledge that reality. God made it. So observation number two. Since these are the parents from chapters one through nine, we know that what makes either the mother or the father glad or grieved is how their children carry forward the faith and the practice of the church. Now the church under Christ, of course. If you want, you can imagine a scene. Imagine a candle lit to provide light to the world. Imagine further a husband and wife placed in charge of the candle. The couple knows that one day they will die, and so they raise up their children to carry forward the light, and what a grief it will be. If the children end up blowing out the candle. What a rejoicing it will be if the child receives their holy vocation with conviction and joy, carry for carrying forward the most important inheritance that the family has to keep passing down, the faith. And that leads to our teaching tonight. Just those two basic observations, the familial affection and the the And what it's used for, that the children would be motivated to keep carrying forward the kingdom of God. the inheritance of faith, we can say this as our doctrine this evening. Family affections are for the sake of advancing the kingdom of God. Family affections are for the sake of advancing the kingdom of God. It's a primary means and motivator to keep things moving. So I'd like to give just as our application two main lessons, lessons to the lesson to the youth and lesson to parents, just as we we see it. in that verse. Okay, so I want to start with a lesson to youth. You could think, you know, if you're a student or a young adult even, really I'll take lessons myself from this because I Still I'm seeking to relate to my mother and my father. But one thing I wanted to mention to you under this first point of application is just thinking through this by way of Ephesians chapter 6. Which might seem a little odd at first, but it produces fruit. Ephesians 6 holds a passage that is often titled The Armor of God, and it's a pretty familiar passage among this community. In that passage, there's more than just the armour of God. That's actually a a kind of conclusion that he draws for a uh an action that we should take is to put on the armor of God. And the reason why he says that is something that he says beforehand that I'm sure you're familiar with. He said Paul says this. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places. Now, I think it's an interesting question to say, okay, fine, we accept the apostolic testimony, but what in the world does that look like? What does it look like for that to be happening? Well, undoubtedly it can look differently in different places in history, even Throughout redemptive history, especially. What does it look like for Paul or for us to wrestle against the rulers of darkness and spiritual hosts of wickedness? Does it look like what we would see on TV? Some kind of demonic activity, ghosts and demons, an exorcism where you need someone with a collar to cast them out. You may be surprised, as we seek to try to answer that question, that this discussion about principalities and powers and uh spiritual darkness This is a continuation of Paul's teaching, which is just prior in Ephesians, that has to do with the family. I don't think we should separate the discussion on the family and the discussion of spiritual warfare or the armor of God. It's to mislocate the armor into irrelevancy. Listen to Paul's words just prior to principalities and powers. Children, obey your parents in the Lord. For this is right. Honor your father and mother, which is the first commandment with promise, that it may be well with you, and you may live long on the earth. Now, when you put those two observations together, when you see the proximity of these teachings within Ephesians, you see that the rulers of darkness try to exert influence right here on earth in our normal everyday lives. And they do that for society and culture and institutions and all kinds of means. But they nevertheless have some kind of primary agency in the matter. They seek not only to break families apart, But to disorder families, or the idea of family, period. To rearrange it, to make it in their own image, to try to be the creator of it. It is obvious that this is happening around us, wouldn't you say? The family has been under attack for a long time, actually. You see family redefined every day. Two dads, two moms, transsexual families have become commonplace among us. They're on our TV shows almost every one now. And yet what is interesting, despite the fact that we see that and the grievous nature of that, What is interesting is that we often don't give another example of where there is an influence of a very evil spirit among us today, besides in those manifestations. There is a very evil spirit among us when children despise their parents. It is the example of children despising the former generations, thinking that all that matters and all that is right is only what is taking place now. Now that is a major movement that is across Western civilization, where anything that happened before now is to be criticized and thrown away, especially if it had to do with white males. And that is from an evil spirit. I'll say this to you, students, or youth You, your parents are not perfect, but I know them to be followers of Jesus Christ. They would actually acknowledge to you that they're not perfect. God has arranged for you to be disciple by them and to carry forward their faith into the future. Perhaps a good question for you to ask student or youth would be this. What is it about your parents' faith that you love? Each of you, I know all your parents, and I see how they are unique from the other parents I see how they're unique specifically in the kind of faith that God has given to them. The kind of way in which it's all the same faith because it's from the same spirit. There's kind of a like a a unique hue to it. What is their unique hue and what do you love about that? And do you love it enough to where you would want to carry that forward? I think that you do. I wonder if that's your relationship to them. Let me put it this way to reconnect with our proverb. I want you to think about early childhood. I've actually seen pictures of most of you in your early childhood. And I think this is true of all of you, as I've seen it in the pictures. Didn't you love the approval of your mother and your father? Wasn't that just the best? I still remember longing for it. Didn't it make you happy when they noticed a piece of artwork that you did? And though you didn't color inside the lines, your mother's heart was still taken by your artistic expression. Or when you could see them out in the crowd watching you as you did your little Christmas program or your history fair or whatever it is. Remember making eye contact with them and just feeling so proud that they were there for you and that they were noticing you. When you got scared or when you were hurt, didn't you run to them? And that's the interesting thing, right? Because let me ask you, who taught you to do that? That's the point, one of the points of this proverb, is that you did not have to be taught to do that. It happens naturally As natural as it is for a puppy to find its mother and nurse, it was as natural for you to look and to follow your parents. Let me ask you a question. Why is it that God made you that way? Why do you have that family instinct? Why does the baby not have to be taught to know how to nurse in some sense? Doubtless there are many reasons, but one is that when you got a little older and other communities filled with a secret and hidden evil spirit Would try to get you to despise your parents, God is giving you an advantage of familial affection so you would not desert the goodness that God is giving you in them. It is another way to keep you on the path. Especially, you know Proverbs as we We've been learning here. This is a Proverbs is about a time in your life when you're riding the fence on a lot of issues. You're not hardened in your commitment to God just yet. You have a lot of questions. What's going to get you through that? Well, the answer in part is familial affection. Still longing to please your parents. Now that's, of course, I'm assuming that your parents are parents of faith, and if they're not, we have a more complicated discussion. But that's the interesting thing, is this is a kind of natural law that we're witnessing here from the pages of Scripture, which is the way that it's supposed to be done. The hope, in other words, is that your feelings for your parents would keep you loyal so as to stay faithful to your vocation and to carry forward the faith. That your feelings for your faithful parents would be there as you make the transition into a seasoned and mature follower of Jesus. Christ. I wonder if you have buried your feelings for your mom and your dad. That can happen. When you get to a certain stage, you think, I need to disconnect here a little bit or something. And there's a way in which that can happen in a healthy way. But here you're seeing there's a way in which it should not happen. I think we have a lot to learn from other cultures. Where the son greets the dad with a kiss on the cheek, even when he's 45 years old. I love that. How have you justified ignoring your parents? What if your actions are not innocent and the evil spirit of this age is working on you? And one of the strategies that that evil spirit has is to disconnect you. and your familial affections so that you're unmoored and floating in the vast wilderness so they can take advantage of you. Make you a part of a different community. A community whose destiny is destruction. I'd encourage you to pay attention to how you're to feel about your mom and your dad. Now let me give you one more example before we move on to the lesson of parents. This has been a bit general. Let me give you a really specific example of how this happened not too long ago in a conversation that I had. It was a drawing and it was a decision-making time and a drawing upon family affection in making the r the right decision and it's beautiful. And it just happened super fast and casually. Listen to this. This is a conversation that I had. I was speaking to a young adult. They were considering heading down the wrong path. They stopped in the conversation with me as we were working this over, and then the deciding factor hit them. And they haven't turned back. Still walking with the Lord. They said this. I was tempted, but then I thought, what would that do to my mom and my dad? And I'm telling you, that might sound cheap to you, but that's exactly what this proverb is teaching. What would that do to my mom and my dad. That's all we needed to stay on the path as the maturation process could continue and you could be more confident in Christ. That's quite beautiful. It's exactly how it's to look. That family affection is at work for Christ and his kingdom. Well that's a lesson to the youth, and now there is also lessons to parents, and this will be uh far more brief. Parents in a mysterious way, this is a uh kind of a dreadful thought, honestly, we have, in a mysterious way, uh have passed down sinful nature to our children. Congratulations. But by God's grace, we have been born again And what a privilege it is that we can now, by the power of the Holy Spirit, help them by the grace of Christ away from that nature that we passed down. We can work with our children to defeat the sinful nature which we have handed on. What a privilege. One major way in which this is accomplished is by cultivating the affection built into your children for you as their mother and as their father. As parents, this proverb leads to this implication that we too must be aware of another way in which an evil spirit is at work in this age. You know, Paul's always asking, he's saying, test the spirits. What's the spirit of this age? Well, we're looking at it. The evil one anyway. It is the other side of the coin from which of Paul's words, which I quoted about children honoring mother and father. It's right there after that in Ephesians 6. 4. And you, fathers, do not provoke your children to wrath, but bring them up in the training and admonition of the Lord. And I love the phrasing in Colossians 3. 21, which is a repetition of the thought, but just a little more tender. It says, Fathers, do not provoke your children lest they become discouraged. That's quite sweet. Look at those verses again from the wisdom of Christ's Spirit in the proverb that is before us, chapter 10, verse 1. The general exhortation is to keep up the family affection, not provoking them to anger and anger separating. That's what anger does. It narrows and pushes away. It makes you enemies. It draws lines in the sand. And he's encouraging you away from that. He's encouraging you to keep the familial affection alive the best you can in some of those difficult circumstances. Even when times are tough, do your best to keep the relationship intact. Work with the family instincts which God gave the child for you. And if it collapses, the tragedy is not just unbiblical. The argument here from Proverbs 10:1 is that it is unnatural. Do you know what I mean by that? Has it dawned on you that there is an argument here from nature? That it is unnatural. Think about things that are unnatural. It is unnatural to step out of your home. To go to Chick-fil-A for lunch at 1145 so that you can get there by 12, and for a foaming-mouthed raccoon to attack you. That is unnatural. They're supposed to be out at night. They're meant to be nocturnal. There's something wrong with them. What about a rabbit that sees the fox but never hides? That's unnatural. And so is it unnatural for there not to be familial affection? It is supposed to be a bond of three chords. If you notice a major tear, this is not just unbiblical, this is unnatural. And it must be remedied with all you've got. Now, undoubtedly God has given us other tools to help Children honor their parents and parents strengthen their children. We're just looking at a single verse tonight. There's so many tools that are given to us, so many means, so much wisdom that is needed to know which Which tool to take out of the toolbox, which ones to put away for a while. Sometimes we bring the law to their conscience, for example. Other times the situation is so extraordinary that the path is difficult to see. Don't even start talking about how to walk it. You can't even see it. Other times children know about familial affections and they work it in manipulation. And sometimes parents do that too. But in line with our wisdom tonight, whether old or young, Christ is calling us to remember the affections that God gives the family for each other and the place of those affections. Now they ask the question, what is the place of those affections? And that's our doctrine tonight, the answer. Family affections are for the sake of advancing the kingdom of God. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for showing how you have created us and what the created order is meant to be. It is always lovely to have those realities placed before us. I pray that you would help us to carry this conversation forward. to gain wisdom with this kind of psychological motivation, which can feel a bit different than what we're used to. But I pray, Lord, that it wouldn't remain wisdom that is out there. But that it would go into us and we would know how to use it for the sake of your glory, even in the the order of our families and even our church family, and even as a manifestation of those things, our civil order. In the name of Christ, amen. Amen Let's stand and wow you're quick. How'd you get over there that fast? Let's stand and sing together, oh worship the king. And darkness is death on time. It's great with me, sends a conway, translation. And we all as prayer, and do we cross for my winter? Merci on a clean de And I'll receive the Lord's benediction. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God the Father and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all.