Chapter three. We'll go from the preached word directly into prayer tonight. Hopefully praying concerning the matters that you hear from his word. And tonight we move into a different section in Colossians 3. We move from church life to family life. I'll just cover husbands and wives tonight. And um I feel a great burden on that subject. I might continue next week and then eventually go to fathers and children. And then we'll go to the workplace in 22 with bond servants, and then we'll go to our conduct before outsiders in chapter 4 four. Let's uh hear from uh God's Word, and I'll begin in verse twelve of chapter three Therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, put on tender mercies, kindness, humility, meekness, long-suffering, bearing with one another and forgiving one another. If anyone has a complaint against another, even as Christ forgave you, so you also must do. But above all these things, put on love, which is the bond of perfection And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also you were called in one body, and be thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom. Teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. And whatever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. Wives, submit to your own husbands as is fitting in the Lord. Husbands, love your wives and do not be bitter toward them Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing to the Lord. Fathers, do not provoke your children, lest they become discouraged. Let's pray. Lord, we are speaking of your new creation when we read this. And Therefore, I ask that you would be honored tonight. You will not be honored if we hear these words and do nothing I pray that we would not just be hearers of your word, but doers. That whether we are single or married or a child or courting or dating or a widow, No matter where we are, that we would hear of your design, of two people being together, husband and wife. I pray that it would first drive us to have a healthy relationship with you. Of repentance and faith. I pray, Father, that, in addition, that you would give us humility And that we would serve one another by serving you. And I ask these things in your name. Amen. In carpentry, they have a saying, measure twice and cut once. It's a wise thing. It saves a lot of material and money If you follow this saying, the meaning is that one should take or get the right measurement so that when they cut the board it's not too long or too short. For you to cut it again and never really making any progress in your work because you're just cutting the same thing over and over again. And so we measure twice, but we cut once. It's a general saying Depending on what field you are in, it doesn't just apply to carpentry. You can broaden it out and apply it to thousands of situations. Measure tile twice, cut once. Measure two by fours twice, cut once. Measure the one you want to marry twice, cut once. So to speak, you can extend it out that way. It's talking about being cautious and being careful. That's the beauty of a general law or principle, it is applicable to many different situations. It gives you the freedom and the creativity within God's rule to apply it to your situations. This is what Paul has been doing all through chapter 3. He's been giving you general principles and laws to live life specifically in the church. He has not unfolded every single possible situation that you will meet in the church. It's for you to be able to follow an algebraic formula. He has not allowed you to solve for X. Instead, He gives you general laws or principles that you are to work out over time in wisdom as you walk with the Lord in His Spirit. on how to live amongst your brothers and your sisters. He mentioned right off, as the elect, we have received a calling to put on tender mercies, kindness, humility, meekness, long suffering. Bearing with one another and forgiving one another. If anyone has a complaint against another, even as Christ forgave you, so you also must do. There are no specifics mentioned in any of those things. He expects us through wisdom and diligence And the Spirit of Christ to work those things out amongst ourselves. That we are to, above all these things, put on love, which is the bond of perfection, and we're to let the peace of God rule in our hearts That's what we were called to in one body, and that we are to be thankful. We're to let the Word of Christ dwell in us richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Singing with grace in our hearts to the Lord, and whatever we do, in word or deed, doing it all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. yourselves here at Severn Run. I wonder how you've already started to work those things out and your specific situations here. What personalities have you had to deal with in a Applying these principles. What situations? We gained a more specific understanding of how to live life in the church by considering Jesus as our model of love. That started to put some flesh on the bones or the skeleton. of the general laws, it ends up looking like a footwashing and service, bond service, to other people. Giving up our own interests. This week, you have to retain that concept of servanthood. It trickles down into the next section of the passage as we move into family life. We move into a different sphere of this family, but we remain the same as servants. And I would just like to cover wives and husbands, and I may do so again next week. There's a lot on my mind about this. and I'm barely even scratching the surface tonight. And so let's look at these commands, these general laws that he gives us about lives. than about husbands. He says in verse 18, wives, submit to your own husbands as is fitting in the Lord. And in verse 19, husbands, love your wives and do not be bitter toward them. So the first is directed towards wives. Paul addresses wives in this particular congregation, and then it is a timeless command to all wives afterward. The word submit We all want to know what that means. The word submit is actually used throughout the scriptures and is applied to more than just the wife's relationship to the the husband. In most cases, it means to voluntarily put oneself under. The etymology of the word, if you were to literally break down the word, it's to put yourself under To put yourself under. To put yourself under the authority or the direction of someone else. All believers are to put themselves under or submit to God. Hebrews 12, 9. in Romans 10. 3, humans to governing authority in Romans 13, Christians to their leaders, 1 Corinthians 16 Slaves to their masters, Titus two nine, young men to older men, first Peter five five, children to their parents, Luke two fifty-one, and wives to their husbands In Ephesians 5. 22, Colossians 3. 18, Titus 2. 5, 1 Peter 3. 1, and 5. If you study Ephesians 5, Which is great to study alongside of this passage. There's many similarities. You find that Paul gives one main reason for a wife to submit to her husband. And it is this. God has established an order for our relationships. Husbands are the heads of their wives Thus, the duty of a wife to her husband is derived from a much larger truth that is still actually retained in large part in our culture, whether Christian or not Christian. And this is it. God has given us different responsibilities in our different relationships. Based on the relationship that we have with another person, we relate differently to them depending on the relationship. So, for example, we acknowledge this same kind of thing in several areas. Young children should respect and honor and obey their grandparents. Why? Because God has established an order for relationships where the young should relate to their elders in a specific way. Even when I go to my community, who is not filled with Christians, it's filled with non-Christians, They insist that their children call me Mr. Crutchley or at the least Mr. Jesse. Something has been retained that there is an order or a way in which should be we should relate to specific people and that of course comes From God. God is the one that has established that order. We're just seeing one example of it here in how a wife is supposed to relate to her husband. This is what God says. That's the point of right there in that same verse. It says, as is fitting in the Lord, this is how God has structured his kingdom. It has been so from the beginning. Christ the Creator and the Christ the recreator has remained continuous and And consistent throughout all ages. Now, really, this is a bit general. What would be a specific example of a wife submitting? You are not going to believe the example that I chose. Here is an example of a wife submitting from 1 Peter 3:1 through 6. I think it's a lovely example. Wives, likewise, be submissive to your own husbands. That even if some do not obey the word, they without a word may be won by the conduct of their wives when they observe your chaste conduct accompanied by fear. Do not let your adornment be merely outward, arranging your hair, wearing gold, or putting on fine clothes. Rather, let it be the hidden person of the heart. with the incorruptible beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is very precious in the sight of God. For in this manner, in former times, the holy women who trusted in God also adorned themselves being submissive to their husbands, as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord, whose daughters you are if you do good, and are not afraid with any terror. Now, Peter is referring to a passage that took place in Genesis 18, 10 through 12. And he said, I will certainly return to you according to the time of life, and behold, Sarah, your wife, will have a son. Sarah was listening in the tent door which was behind him. Now Abraham and Sarah were old, well advanced in age, and Sarah had passed the age of childbearing. Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I have grown old, shall I have pleasure My Lord being old also and so she does there in that specific passage, call her husband Lord. And this is an example, according to Peter, in chapter three, one through six, as I just read, of a submissiveness of a wife to a husband. I would say to most people this sounds absolutely ridiculous, running around calling your husband Lord. That's not actually what's going on here. I'd ask that you would paint the picture more accurately. Is Sarah in that Genesis passage in chains? Are her feet bound? By an overbearing husband? Has she been braidwashed in some cult so that she can only hear the voice of oppression in a good light? That her husband is abusing her all day long, making her serve him and his friends. Is that the picture of Abraham and Sarah's relationship? Does Peter actually command you in his passage to call your husband Lord? He doesn't. He doesn't say you must call your husband Lord He gives it as an example. Review Peter's context, and you will find that wives submit like Sarah by showing a due appreciation and honor to their husbands in a very specific way. By their mouth, by the way that they would choose to speak about him in company. Sarah did that by speaking about her husband in a certain way. She addressed him out of her heart. in a way that showed she had great endearing respect for him. Now we don't express that in our culture by calling our husbands Lord. That would just Sound weird. It would sound like we're a part of a costume party or something. I don't know. It would be strange. Colossians 3. 18 is a general principle encouraging us to do things like that. One way that you could begin to apply what he says here in wives, submit to your husbands as is fitting in the Lord, is that whenever you speak about your husband, do so in a way that would Honor him. Don't degrade your husband with your mouth. That's a common courtesy you would offer to anyone made in the image of God, much less your husband. So how you will do this, there's about a thousand ways, besides how you would use your mouth, how you would speak about your husband There's so many other ways to submit in the way that's being spoken of here, but I think you get a bit of the flavor of it as Peter speaks of the kind of woman that you would want to be as a new creation in Jesus Christ. Christ. It's going to be up to you and your God how you'll work out all of the details of your relationship with your husband. This isn't a formula. That's the thing. I can't just say to you, well, if you call your husband Lord from this day forth, everything is going great. You're doing the submissive thing. That's not the case. It's not the case in our culture. And there are so many different situations that a that a woman will have to navigate. There is an abusive husband, there is a there is a a very different calling that you have. There is no formula, it's a general principle that you must work out in your life with the guidance of Christ's Spirit. But this is a beginning, a flavor for you to figure out how to live with Christ and his calling to you as a woman Well, that's verse 18. Wives, submit to your own husbands as is fitting in the Lord. And now we have verse 19. Husbands, love your wives and do not be bitter toward them. This is exceptionally difficult for me to preach on. I find myself reading this and thinking of all of my failings. I would say that the very first thing that we need to do, brothers, is repent. Because I see within this verse my own flaws, and I have eyes, so I see yours too. The same love here. That is mentioned in this verse is the love that Christ gave in giving himself up for the church. And so we were right back to the sermon that you heard on life in the church. That's the word love. You know what's interesting is that the word bitter here has to do not only within Scripture, but in secondary literature during that time period, being a person who leads harshly and in a domineering manner Do you know where those two things show up together in the scriptures? Where you are to love like Christ through service and not be harsh and domineering in your leadership? If you put this kind of love together with harshness and domineering, then you have the teaching of Jesus to the disciples from Matthew 20, 24 through 28. Both elements are present in the passage, brother. And when the ten heard it, they were greatly displeased with the two brothers, who were arguing about who should be first in the kingdom. But Jesus called them to himself and said You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lorded over them, and that those who are great exercise authority over them, yet it shall not be so among you. But whoever desires to become great among you, let him be your servant. And whoever desires to be first among you, let him be your slave. Just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life a ransom for many. The exact context is the same context that we're dealing with. And when you look at it this way, the same lesson we learned before is placed squarely upon the shoulders of the husband. It's as if being taught how to conduct yourself in the church, husbands cannot escape because the responsibility trickles down for how they are to conduct themselves behind the walls of their house. Or at all times with their families. As a husband, you are a servant to your wife. A slave, that word Used in the scriptures means you are the one not who does what his wife tells him to do. You are the one who will do things that no one else is willing to do. For the love, the nourishment, and to be able to cherish your wife. As Christ does the church. That is the exact Example that is set before you in Ephesians chapter five, twenty two, and following that you would love your wife as Christ has loved the church. As a husband, you will have, as we said before, the mind of John Calvin, but you will serve her with a service like the service of Mother Teresa You know, there's a story of a bishop that I heard. I don't know if he was a bishop in the Anglican Church, Episcopal, or Roman Catholic. But the story goes that he was traveling across the countryside and I believe it was about a twelve-hour train ride and he was going with his assistant when they arrived at their coach. I think that's what it's called. On a train, a coach. There was only one seat available. The bishop made the assistant stand for the entire ride. That is the way that the husband can have their mind structured in a marriage. They can act like a bishop. It's often the picture of the husband and the wife. The husband sits and the wife stands. The husband rests and the wife continues in unending work. In fact, um well never mind, I'll talk about that later. That is not a picture that we see within scriptures of a servant husband giving up their life that the life of the wife would thrive. Here's the picture from Ephesians 5:25-29. Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for her, that he might, and now this is a in order that, this is a purpose statement. Why did he do these things? Why was there a sacrifice that Christ made? In order that he might sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of water by the Word. In order that he might present her to himself a glorious church, not having a spot, not even a wrinkle, or any such thing But in order that she would be holy and without blemish. And so husbands also love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as the Lord does the church. Do you see the focus here? You don't become a servant to the whims of any woman. The purpose is that you would become a servant so that your wife would be nourished, that she would be cherished in the Lord, that she would be growing at every chance in her relationship with Jesus Christ, being able to love others and God more purely. You are an agent in that. And so those are the questions for you. Do you give yourself for your wife? Every man here has a different way in which they will need to do that because they have a different wife. We all have different relationships, different situations, different personalities, and you will need to work out what does your specific calling look like? With your specific wife, do you give yourself up for her? Do you nourish her? Do you cherish her in order for her to be healthy in Jesus Christ? Would you be willing to die for her? That is the first mistake that the human race made in terms of a man. The woman ate of the fruit, she then offered it to the husband And the husband followed likewise. When the husband should have said, I will not eat, but I'll die for you, so that you don't have to die. But the first Adam failed in that regard, and so a second Adam had to be sent. One who would not eat of the fruit, and yet would die for those who did. And that is what you are called to also. This is what it's like to be a husband, to cherish. And in order to be able to do that, the way that God has designed this universe is that you will have to give up your own interests You will have to sacrifice your own life because you are meant to be an image of Christ. And think about that, especially if you're married, but think about that if you're thinking about marriage. Think about that. How could you possibly do this if you yourself are not crazy about Jesus Christ? How could you marry a man who is not crazy about Jesus Christ? you would never be able to even approach such an image that we see here. How you will do this, how you will do this will be a thousand different ways Just as I said to the wives, there's a thousand different ways to obey verse 19, and it's up to you and God. This isn't a formula. There's specifics that have to be worked out. It's a general principle that you must work out in your life with the guidance of Christ's Spirit. Whether you are a wife Or you're a husband, or if you're single here, or if you're a widow. One of the points that you should see here is the beauty of Jesus Christ's design for one subset of human relationships. And this is what he expects in his recreated church. You know, in most cultures, what you will end up seeing, it shows up in America in one way, and it shows up in other cultures in other ways. There will be one person who receives, and there'll be one person that gives. It'll be a one-sided relationship, really. But do you see the beauty of this? You know, I see a lot of um I think uh Ellie was making one perhaps, but I've seen a lot of the teens making um these bracelets That I used to make at summer camp when I was your same age, are they still called friendship bracelets? Basically. And if you we used to take a a a closed pin, hook it on one end, and then we could hook it Or hook it onto our own shirt under over. You could basically work on the bracelet where And that ends up being a great picture for what we're taught here within the scriptures of what a Christian relationship looks like. Design is not that one person receives and the other person gives. It's that both are receiving and both are giving The picture between a husband and wife is like the crafting of one of those bracelets. The wife places herself in humility and submissiveness under her husband And the husband places himself under her in love, weaving a tapestry of Christ's new creation. And in the end, what we have is a picture. Of Jesus Christ and his church, a picture of the gospel itself for all of mankind to see and to witness the love of God the Father through Jesus Christ the Son and the communion of the Holy Spirit. Now let's go into a time of prayer together. I don't have the statistics here, but as we go into prayer and you hear about Jesus Christ's vision, I hope that there are statistics banging around inside your head of the divorce rate. amongst Christians, of horrible Christian marriages that you hear about, of young people who are naively entering into relationship with another who don't have a strong relationship with the Lord. All of these things need to be our concerns as we go into prayer. Brothers, I expect you to be praying For your servanthood and for our young men to go into marriages and not make the same mistakes that we made. But to be able to go in strong in the Lord. And I'm sure there's a lot of other things that are on your mind that the Lord has taught you through this passage. So let's go before Him. Prayer, which means you'll pray for others and their needs. So let's go before him now at a time of prayer.