Let's now pay careful attention to the word read and preached. We're looking at Colossians chapter 3. This evening, verses twenty and twenty-one. Just to make sure we're not forgetting the context, I'll begin in verse one. If then you were raised with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth, for you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Therefore, put to death your members which are on the earth. Fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. Because of these things the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience, in which you yourselves once walked when you lived in them. But now you yourselves are to put off all these anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy language out of your mouth. Do not lie to one another, since you have put off the old man with his deeds, and put on the new man who is renewed in the knowledge according to the image of him who created him Where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcised nor uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave nor free, but Christ is all, and in all Therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, put on tender mercies, kindness, humility, meekness, long-suffering, bearing with one another, and forgiving one another If any one has a complaint against another, even as Christ forgave you, so you also must do. But above all these things, put on love, which is the bond of perfection. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which you also were called in one body, and be thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom Teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. And whatever you do, in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus. Giving thanks to God the Father through him. Wives, submit to your own husbands as is fitting in the Lord. Husbands, love your wives and do not be bitter toward them or harsh Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing to the Lord. Fathers, do not provoke your children, lest they become discouraged. Let's pray Father, we thank you. We look at our track record by way of biblical history and we see that we do not know how to relate to one another. We don't know how to have a society. And so we thank you, Lord Jesus Christ, as the re-creator, that you re-establish, that you are re-establishing us, that you are instructing us through the apostle as he has learned from you on how we are to relate to one another. We thank you for teaching children how to relate to their parents and parents to their children tonight. I pray that we would not just be hearers of your word, but that we would be doers. I ask these things in your name. Amen. Ever since the sin of Adam and Eve, the human race has not related as intended, as I just mentioned in my prayer, and I think the Tower of Babel illustrates this. Review that story. God broke, because of how broken their relationships were with each other and with God, he broke all of their relationships, sending them in different directions by way of changing all their languages and their geographical location. That, however, was not the end of the story. When you get to Pentecost in the book of Acts, we witness Jesus the Christ bringing all of those tongues and tribes back together, all languages, underneath of his headship. And he intends to bring them back to their intended purposes. And it shouldn't surprise us, especially since in the morning we've been going through the Gospel of John. It really picks up on the creator-recreator theme. of Jesus himself, the Christ. The Apostle John taught that Jesus the Christ is the Son of God who was present at creation. And thus the creator of the world has taken on flesh to be the recreator of the world. And so you have to ask the question: well, what does it look like for him to recreate? Is it a lot of molten? Is it lava and what does it look like for him to recreate? What if you were to have to answer that, what would you have to say? If it were on a quiz that somebody came up with and you had to answer it, what would you say Well, here in the text, the answer is given to us: the restoration of relationships. That's part of the recreation of the world. It's the beginning of heaven coming to earth, the new Jerusalem descending from the sky. If you will, relating to God and each other. Last week we looked briefly at some of these relationships. Weeks prior to that, we looked how we were to relate together as a church family Last week we looked at how husbands and wives are supposed to relate to each other. It was very general, big, big picture, and it is in many ways taking this general principle and working it out in specifics that we have to do from week to Week to week. This week we have a relationship between children and parents. Last week it was like a friendship bracelet where we the wife would weave her life beneath the authority of her husband in submission, and the husband in love would Weave himself beneath her in love. And this week we have a relationship between children and their parents. So I've just divided this up into two parts: children, parents. And that's twenty and twenty-one. It should be easy to follow that structure. So let's begin in verse twenty of chapter three. Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing to the Lord. Okay, now let's move on to twenty-one. Right. Yeah, it's really right out there, isn't it? I mean there's not too much to explain, but let's talk about it for a little bit. I think uh the Lord has written on our hearts what it means to obey our parents Uh but let's talk about it just for a moment. Paul uses the word child, referring to those still under the heavy influence of their parents. I believe in this culture you could even be married and still living within your your parents' home and in some sense you were you would be under his authority. Uh it would have waned from w when you were younger. But here his primary emphasis and this This is an argument based on Ephesians chapter 6, when he says, bring your children, it's the same word, up in the training and the admonition of the Lord. I think he's thinking of younger children that are still under the under the the parents roof, probably not married yet. That's kind of the idea. uh d giving a d a specific age I can't do, but you get the picture. Uh we have a picture in 2 Timothy 3. 15 of this uh kind of relationship and and the duty that that spread across the different uh Christian communities. 2 Timothy 3. 15 says about Timothy, and that from childhood you have known the holy scriptures which are able to make you wise for salvation Through faith which is in Christ Jesus. If you were to go to chapter 1, you'd see that Timothy was raised by his grandmother Lois and his mother Eunice. So as he was a young man, growing up under the household of his family. It was his responsibility to obey his parents. In this case, it'd be include, of course, his grandparents. So as a general rule, we can just say it's those who are still living with their parents. Those of you who are still living with your parents, this verse is for you. Verse 20 is yours. You should write it down and have it memorized. Now here's um just to hopefully give you a picture of what's going on here that uh amazes me. Have you ever imagined Jesus showing up in your life? Those of you Have you ever imagined Jesus just showing up in your life? Have you ever said to yourself, well, everything would be uh I wouldn't be confused any longer if Jesus were just here to tell me what he wants to do. If I just knew God's will for my life, if he would just show up and he would tell me like he told the apostles when he was walking with them face to face. Have you ever thought that? Well, if he were to show up, do you know what he would say He would say, obey your parents in all things. That's really what he would say, and that's what he's telling you here in this verse: that it is pleasing to the Lord. For you to obey your parents in all things. That you, as a child of this congregation, have a relationship with the Lord and King. Of the universe. He is directly speaking to you. Oftentimes you can think of the this church and what goes on here as your parents' thing, but this verse lets you know That God knows you by name and is thinking of you, those of you for whom this is your verse. So it is the pleasing to the Lord. It is how really He has designed your role. In a much larger picture. I was mentioning earlier the idea of creation. We've all heard the creation story: God made man. Do you remember why God made woman? If you look at the text, it because it was not good for man to be alone, but then you can ask, why wasn't it good for man to be alone? Would it just be emotionally traumatic for him To be able to complete that. And so he gave him woman, and the man and woman were able to then have children. And through the family, the whole creation was to be brought under the rule and glory of God. That was the original picture, and that would have been your place and still is your place as one who's a part of a family And that means that you with your parents are a team. You're a team that has one purpose, to bring glory to God on this earth. And it is through your obedience that the family team functions better and can accomplish good things for you. God's kingdom. Through your obedience, you can bless the neighbors that are in your neighborhood. You can bless your country. You can bless your church. You can bless your school. end up putting that in a an interesting analogy. In Psalm 127, it pictures this work of yours and the family as of mighty warriors. Listen to this. Jesus, Behold, children are a heritage from the Lord. The fruit of the womb is a reward. Like arrows in the hand of a warrior, so are the children of one's youth. And so I want you to picture your parents as male and female warriors. Just you can do that for fun real quick. They're warriors here in this picture. You are the arrows that they will fire into the world to stop evil and bring love, perpetuate the gospel, have peace in this world through Jesus. Jesus Christ. That's the picture that's given. It's actually quite the responsibility. The first rule, however, of shooting any arrow Is that before you knock it, you have to make sure that it does not have cracks or splinters. Did you know that? We learned that I learned that with Jack in a Hunter Safety course, that before you shoot any arrow, you must thoroughly inspect it to make sure there's not cracks or splinters. Do you know what will happen if there's a splinter running down the side of an arrow? Have you ever shot one that is splintered or that is cracked? With the power of our bows today, if you pull that bow back, specifically a compound one, and it does have a splinter, it will shatter right there, and the fiberglass will shoot back and stab you or the the shooter In the hand, perhaps fly up into the face and into the eyes. And I think it's an analogy that works well for us too, in the same way. If you are constantly splintered and cracked as children who are disobedient You will bring harm and hurt to your family, shame on their heads instead of being a help to your family, instead of being a blessing to the world for God's glory. In addition to your team contributions, your parents want you to be personally healthy in the Lord. And they are therefore preparing you to break off on your own team, perhaps. And so all of this, the Lord instructs us, begins with honoring your parents. Obeying your parents, in other words, being an arrow that is straight and that is true. Now, if you want to read a lot about this, you can just start reading The book of Proverbs, and it talks a lot about the importance of obedience. The command for children to obey parents is clear. But it must also come with some instructions for parents, shouldn't it? Can you think of yourself now when Paul was writing this, he's writing to a Roman culture. The father, raised in a Roman culture, would have thought of his children as basically slaves. Can you imagine Paul writing a letter to a male that has the mentality that his children are his slaves? What do you think the danger is of children actually listening to this letter and the male actually listening? It's for abuse, isn't it? For him to take advantage of those who aren't as strong as him, whom the Lord of the universe just said you're supposed to obey everything that he says? And same with your mother, do whatever they say. And that's why we have this next instruction. It comes within some instructions because although children are meant to be a constant help to their parents, sort of like servants Servants can be abused, and so Paul warns parents to be careful in how they are treating their children. And that's our next section. Moves us into the parent section on 21. The command is actually directed toward fathers. It could be both, though. If you look at Hebrews 11, chapter 23, the word is used for both parents and fathers. And he gives a command and he gives a reason here in verse 21. Fathers, do not provoke your children lest they become discouraged. It's noteworthy and humbling, since I am a male, that in both examples with males It is telling us: do not be harsh and do not be discouraging. There's something that runs in a man's blood where he's able to crush their children or their wife. And that's scary to me Now there is a difference in the words. You notice it says here, husbands love your wives and do not be bitter toward them. That's one word. And here it says, Fathers do not provoke your children, lest they become discouraged. That's a different word. And so I do want to give honor to each of the different words. The second word that we're seeing here in relationship to children is prevoke. Let's try to give that some meaning. It is intended negatively, obviously, in the passage, and so I one way that we see this within the scriptures in Proverbs 25, 23. The north wind brings forth rain. And a backbiting tongue and angry countenance. Do you see what's going on there? Let me read it again because it's a proverb, it's so concise. The north wind brings forth rain. And a backed biting tongue provokes an angry countenance. See, you could put it to the word cause in there too. But that's the kind of idea there's a provocation that can happen from a backbiting tongue. And so then the point is That fathers, and parents both are included, would not interact with their children in a way that provokes them into an unhealthy place. And I was intentionally broad by saying an unhealthy place. Because there's a lot of unhealthy places. If you pour a glass of milk and then you squirt lemon juice into it, the milk curdles and it is good for nothing. And something similar is being said here. If you interact with a child in an unwise and an unkind way, then they can curdle and they can begin to That's the emphasis of the passage. There's a thousand ways to do this to another person. There's a thousand, perhaps ten thousand ways to do this to a child. Feeling good for nothing goes with the second main part of the verse where he says, Because, or in order that they would not become discouraged. Fathers, do not provoke your children, lest they become discouraged. That's the main purpose. Paul does not want discouraged children. Discouragement here literally means without passion. If you were to do a word study on it and just look at the pieces of the word, it means to have no passion. It's essentially saying you've done something where the child has lost their will to continue. It couldn't be continue in life in general, it could be continue in a percentage. Particular pursuit, but you have snuffed them out. You've broken the weak read. I remember coming back from school to school from summer vacation, we had football practice starting in August, and there were were two a days and it was exhausting. But the coach just made us run mile after mile and when we got to uh college it got worse. Sprint after sprint, mile after mile, and after a while I literally had no will to continue. Sometimes I did have a will. My legs did not, though. But that's the same picture here. The same may happen to a child. As a father or parent, you can take their will away. We have a popular saying in our culture, you can take the wind out of their sails. That's what's being said here. In a word where we see this word elsewhere within Scripture, and so it's helpful, you can make them faint of heart. It's the same kind of idea. That's what I mean by no passion. You can make them faint-hearted. Have you ever thought of that Have you ever thought I'd I don't when I listen to conversation that goes on in this church or just in our culture in general, I don't usually hear people talking about children. as faint-hearted or struggling with faint-heartedness. Have you ever thought of your children that way? You know what I usually hear is those little sinners. That could be one category. There's enough sin to go around in everybody's life. But I don't ever hear the category faint-hearted, which is a shame because it's present here, and Paul is aware of it. Look at uh if you can in another time, I'll just read it to you now. 1 Thessalonians 5:14 has several categories that Paul thinks of. He says, Now we exhort you, brethren, warn those who are unruly Comfort those who are faint-hearted, and uphold the weak. But whoever they are, be patient with every single one of them. That's what Paul says in 1 Thessalonians. And most of the children that I have met are a mix of these, as Paul points out within this passage. They're like a three-layer cake. You children are like a three-layer cake. Just like I'm a three-layer cake. You are unruly. You are also faint-hearted, and you are also weak. I see all three mixed up in you all the time. And actually, when I first begin a conversation with any child, and most of the time with adults also, I am thinking first and foremost of faint And most often is the ruling category within a person's life that is causing or contributing to all of the other behavior. If I find out you're faint-hearted, then it is not surprising to me that you are also rebellious, angry, depressed, using substances like weed to take off some of the anxiety. You have poor relationships. It's all part of being faint-hearted. I don't want to continue anymore. I need some kind of escape. I need a break. I need uh something to give. That's faint-heartedness. And now the question is that Paul is asking us: how did you become so faint-hearted and have your parents contributed to it? Parents, have you contributed to it? That's what Paul wants to bring to our attention. In these two verses, as he looks at how fathers are not to provoke their children lest they become discouraged. And children are to obey their parents in all things, because it's well pleasing to the Lord. This is the picture of relationships in the new era, of the new heaven and new earth that has already begun amongst heavenly colonies Christ is establishing, even among Gentiles like us, his long-standing intentions for families and human relationships. Children, you are to obey your parents in all things. Things that honor the Lord. Let's not be ridiculous. But you are to obey your parents in all things. An arrow, straight and true. It pleases the Lord. And parents, especially fathers, don't provoke your children lest they become discouraged Now remember that these verses are not all Paul has in his mind or was taught by the Lord Jesus Christ himself on parenting. He's giving general principles. to this church. In fact, if you look at the same principles in Ephesians, he works them out a little bit differently with more specificity. He could have done so here, but he chose not to. But that means that we have to receive them as general principles, and principles need to be worked out in specifics. And so I just want to end by giving you more specifics. This is still general. What I'm going to Tell you, you need to start working these things out, and I'm going to direct these to the parents. Here, let me just let me just say a few statements. These statements uh I benefited from a guy named Wayne Mack. He's a longtime respected biblical counselor. And if you want more of these, this is just the tip of the iceberg. If you want more of these statements and the article as a whole, let me know after the service. Here they are. Some biblical principles that Wayne Mack brings out as we seek to become more specific in how to fulfill, especially 21: Fathers do not provoke your children Lest they become discouraged. We must not expect more of them, our children, than they are capable of giving. or doing. Proverbs twenty-two, six, first Corinthians thirteen eleven, and there's many other verses. In other words, do not underestimate, but do not overestimate their capabilities. And especially take a look Look at Romans chapter 12, verse 3. Number two, we need to be careful about the way that we reprimand or correct our children. There's a host of verses that talk about how we are to be respectful and courteous in the way that we deal with children as well as adults. Yet how frequently we talk to children in a tone of voice or in a way we would never C. S. Lewis actually brought that out. One man told me that when he was a child, his father made a habit of him calling him dumb or stupid. And to this day, though he is a very intelligent man with a very responsible position, he still thinks of himself as dumb or stupid. We should seek to have many good times with our children. Amen. Building up a memory bank of happy experiences will engender a good attitude toward you and provide the needed cement in your relationship when you must also correct. I have a feeling that a lot of our children think of us as fathers as sour pusses and no time for fun. That needs to end. End. We should freely communicate love and appreciation to them. I have a bunch of verses for that also I can give you later. We can do this in a lot of different ways. Maybe it is a kiss. Maybe it's a pat on the shoulder. Maybe it's words. Maybe it's a note. Maybe it's a gift. Maybe it's playing with them I would say respecting their opinions, even if you disagree And perhaps above all, just listening and actually taking an interest in what they have to say. Because it's them and they love them. We ought to allow them to fail, to make mistakes, to have faults without jumping all over them and giving them the impression that they are not accepted unless they are absolutely true. Perfect. What a tragedy. The home for the child must be a safe place, a place where you will be understood and helped. A place where you will where people do not mock you. Or make fun of your faults and your weaknesses. A place where people may disagree with you but still welcome and respect you. A place where people will encourage you and bind up your wounds. A place where people really care about you And they know you know that they are for you. We need to make it easy and desirable for our children to approach us with their problems, difficulties, and concerns. This will require us becoming good listeners when our children want to talk. Be available to them as much as possible. Give them your undivided attention unless it is infeasible And this perhaps is going to be very difficult for me. When they do decide to confide in you, would you please avoid being a Mind reader? Would you please not interrupt them? And would you please not be overly critical? That's just gonna shut everything down. You don't like it when somebody does that to you And they don't like that either. These are just some of the ways. There's all kinds of ways for you to begin to start working these things out. And this is the kind of thing that Jesus Christ intends in his new heaven and his new earth. spirit for a purpose. And parents, one of those purposes is for us to encourage our children and not discourage them. And children, he has given you his spirit that you might obey your parents, an arrow straight and true, that the Lord's work could be done. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this. We thank you for these words. We have a lot to think about, a lot of work to work through, a lot of tail. To do to our specific situations. We pray that you would work with us as individual families and individuals that have grandchildren. The same thing applies Or our next door neighbors' children, whatever. Pray that you help us to work out the specifics of these things for us. We know that it's well pleasing for you, to you. We know, Lord, that you intend for us to equip and encourage, not to discourage. We ask that you'd make this possible. Teach us through your Spirit. Let our relationships be different. In the name of Christ. Amen.