And so tonight we'll read the first part of the lecture, verses one through nine of chapter four. The first part of Proverbs, all the way into just as a reminder, All the way till chapter 10 are a series of lectures from the parents to the youth, encouraging them to receive what they're giving them. This is 4, 1 through 9. Hear, my children, the instruction of a father, and give attention to no understanding. For I give you good doctrine. Do not forsake my law. When I was my father's son, tender and the only one in the sight of my mother, he also taught me And said to me, Let your heart retain my words. Keep my commands and live. Get wisdom. Get understanding. Do not forget nor turn away from the words of my mouth. Do not forsake her, and she will preserve you. Love her, and she will keep you. Wisdom is the principal thing. Therefore, get wisdom. And in all you're getting, get understanding. Exalt her, and she will promote you. She will bring you honor when you embrace her. She will place on your head an ornament of grace, a crown of glory. She will deliver to you. Amen. Father, we pray that you would be our instructor through your son and by his spirit. Pray that you would teach your congregation and that you would do so in such a way to where they are not just hearing your word, but doing it, all by your grace, in the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Well, uh this evening we're only going to focus on the first part of the passage. I want to do it that way so that we can be more specific when we start to lay hold of the actual lesson of the grandfather. I want to make just a few observations with you in chapter 4. And I'm sure you've already noticed, just in the reading of it, what is most important and what is emphasized. And that is that wisdom is passed down from one generation to the next. Notice first chapter 4, verse 1. Here we begin, just like all of the other lectures, instruction that is going to come from the Father. Sometimes, for example, if you go back to the earlier chapters, you'll see that the instruction comes from the mother and the father. It's assumed that in the household both are doing the work of instruction in wisdom. The father encourages two main things here in these first couple of verses. One is that the youth will give attention and to know the understanding that he wants to deliver to them. That we would be attentive. That's a positive view of what it means to interact with a mentor or your parents. and the receiving of wisdom. He'll repeat this again by saying the negative portion of it, which is, and do not forsake my law. And that's in verse 2. So what we see here is receive and give attention to the understanding that I give you, and don't go down another path and forsake the things that I have given to you. You. A path is going to become very important here shortly in chapter four. We're going to see a divergence of paths and the encouragement to stay on the path of the Father. Now What's interesting about this proverb are many things, but one thing I want to just point out to you, I really don't want you to miss, is verse 3. It's just delightful to see what's going on Here we see the father going to the youth, encouraging his son, and this includes daughters, to receive wisdom. His instruction, don't forsake the family path. And then we see in verse 3 that this is not a newly invented path or a newly invented wisdom But wisdom that has been passed down from generation to generation. Take a look at verse 3. It really just brings joy to my heart to read it. So I'll read it to you. When I was my father's son Tender and the only one in the sight of my mother. He's not an only child. It just has to do with her paying close attention to him and his moral instruction. He also taught me and said to me, and now we have a quotation and what is recorded before us. Thus is this son now hearing the words of his grandfather that was passed down to the father and that is now being passed down to him And this, my friends, is the emphasis that I want to have tonight. And just how Christian wisdom is given in the church from generation to generation. I was reminded of this just the other day. Now this is just an analogy. I'm not talking about the kind of wisdom that you have to pass down. But maybe you've even seen it on social media because I don't know why I posted it, but I did. But we're remodeling our bathroom. And I caught myself as I was going through the remodel explaining to Ellie and Jack what we were doing, why we were doing it, and how we are going to do it. It was mostly demolition and framing, rough framing. I have a lot of experience in that. And as I was telling them, it was occurring to me that I was repeating some of the same The wisdom of construction. And that's what's going on here. But it's not just the wisdom of construction. This is the wisdom of salvation and life. In the eternal Christ, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. What a sweet vision of how we are to relate and live with each other. Now, tonight, therefore, our doctrine obviously has to be be this. We are meant to pass down the wisdom Christ gives to us to the next generation. This is especially, and I'm just trying to pay attention to the emphasis in the book of Proverbs and be genuine with it. This is especially the case with the role of parents and grandparents. So what I'd like to do now is let me repeat that doctrine and then we'll go through a few applications together. We are meant to pass down the wisdom Christ gives to us to the next generation. This is especially the case in the role of parent and grandparent. Now, just to set a couple things straight, sometimes folks don't have parents or grandparents that they should really be listening to. To. And the church can step in, and I'll give you an example of that. The church can step in and be apparent to that person and pass down the wisdom in that way. And Christ Christ has done that for a long time. So for the application tonight, I just want to ask a few questions. What are we to pass down? Who passes it down? I want to look at some examples in the scriptures of how it happens. Because the goal is for you to just see concrete instances of it so that you, by the power of the Spirit, can figure out how this is supposed to work out. in your life. And then I have a few questions for you. So here's the first question. What are we to pass down? Well, I would turn your attention to Jude verse 3, and it reads like this. Beloved, while I was very diligent to write to you concerning our common salvation, I found it necessary to write to you exhorting you to contend earnestly for the faith which was once for all delivered to the saints. All of the ingredients that are baked into Proverbs chapter 4 are also present in Jude verse 3. Because there is a tradition, an apostolic tradition, a prophetic tradition that has authority, that is being passed down from one generation to the next And it says here in Jude verse 3, that they are to contend earnestly for this faith that has been passed down. Now the question that we want to do, and I think since we already went Through Jude together, we know the answer to this is, well, what does he mean by the faith? Sometimes we can think that just means affirmations about who God is. But it's not just that. It's about who God is and what he requires of us. You can see this very clearly from Titus chapter 2, verses 1 through 5. This is the kind of verse that you But then listen, there is a colon, and then listen to how Paul explains what sound doctrine is. This is what is to be passed on. This is the wisdom. That the older men would be sober, reverent, temperate, sound in faith, in love, and in patience. We're getting a list of virtues. That the older women likewise, that they may be reverent in behavior, not slanderers, not given to much wine, teacher of good things, for example, that they would admonish the young women to love their husbands, to love their children. To be discreet, to be chaste, homemakers, good, obedient to their husbands, that the word of God may not be blasphemed. Have you ever thought about that list under the general category of sound doctrine And so what we're seeing here is when we ask the question, what me must be passed down? It is not just propositional statements. This is a way of life built on the reality. Of who God is. That's what we end up seeing when we were to keep combing, even if we were to keep combing through the scriptures. What we're to pass down is the faith, but the faith is not just a head thing. The head has to be connected, the headbone has to be connected to the footbone and the hand bone, and that's what we see within the scriptures. Well that's the first question. What are we to pass down? And it is the way. In fact, Christians used to be called people who belong to the way. way. Second question is who passes it down? And I just want to give you some examples here. This is quite beautiful to reflect on. I'll start with 2 Timothy 3:14 through 15. All of you are familiar with this. Let me go ahead and read it. Who passes it down? Listen to this. But you must continue, he's speaking to Timothy. Paul is, but you must continue in the things which you have learned and been assured of, knowing from whom you have learned them And that from childhood you have known the holy scriptures, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus Did you see the foundation that Paul had laid for why Timothy should believe? The lessons that he had learned? It was this, because you know from whom you learned them. Okay, well then who did he learn them from? Well, that is gleaned from 2 Timothy 1, verse 5. When I call to remembrance the genuine faith that is in you, Timothy. Which dwelt first in your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice, and I am persuaded is in you also. You see it? Isn't that beautiful? Just to see the Lord working from one generation to the next as little Timothy comes up in the house. Home. The mother's busy, so the grandmother's doing this. Then the mother, and there's the father, perhaps. All's mentioned. And Paul says, you know who you learn the Holy Scriptures from. You know. that you can trust your grandmother. That's very sweet. Well we raised earlier, well what do we do if we're not in that kind of situation? What if we have uh the Christ pouring out his spirit on us and then we turn to receive moral wisdom, even the even to understand our salvation better, we turn and then we look and we see there's parents and grandparents that want nothing to do with Jesus Christ. What about that situation? Well, we could turn to Thessalonians for that kind of a situation. 1 Thessalonians 2, 7 through 9. But we were gentle among you, speaking of the apostles. Just listen to the parental language. Just as a nursing mother cherishes her own children He's speaking about the apostles and how they related to the congregation. They, living in a pagan society, didn't have mothers to teach them, to hand down the faith, and so the apostles became mothers that would cherish them. Now listen to this. So affectionately longing for you, we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God, but also our own lives. Because you had become dear to us. For you remember, brethren, our labor and toil, for laboring night and day That we might not be a burden to any of you, we preach to you the gospel of God. What you end up witnessing here is that when someone has not mother or father to pass them the faith Then there are mothers and fathers of the faith that arise in the congregation of God. Well, that's what are we to pass down? It's the faith and it's a way of life. We've seen who passes it down, some of the examples. You can also turn to many other places in scripture. I'd encourage you, for example, to look at Anna and how she grooms her son, the work that she does as a mother. But there's another question I want to ask, and that is, why pass it down? And what I mean by this, there are so many different places you could go with the word why. I'm just looking for the roots of all this stuff. Is there a place where we can see Oh what's back behind it all, what the roots are and how this what it grows out of. Interestingly, I think you can find the roots of this kind of thinking of passing down from generation to generation. of making your children morally like yourself, I think we can find this in the gen in the Genesis account, in the creation account. Listen to the analogous relationship between your relationship to those that you're discipling and the relationship between trees. Then God said, let the earth bring forth grass. The herb that yields seed, and the fruit tree that yields fruit according to its kind whose seed is in itself on the earth. And it was so, and the earth brought forth grass, the herb that yields seed according to its kind. And the tree that yields fruit, whose seed is in itself according to its kind, and God saw that it was good. Here's the analogy for you. I think this is deeply rooted in the way that the eternal Christ works with his creation. Just as plants have seeds that bring forth the same species of plant. Apples have seeds that make more apple seeds, that then make more apple trees. We are meant to raise our seed children, even if they are spiritual children. To be like us in the Lord. And this is where Paul's statement comes in, doesn't it? Imitate me as I am like Christ. That's what a real father says. That's what a real mother says. This is moral education from one generation to the next. I have a couple questions. These are simple questions. These aren't too probing. Grandparents, what has God taught you? How can you take steps to pass that on to your children and your grandchildren? Children. I'm sure that you've already done a thousand things. But I wonder what else you could pass on. What has the Lord taught you over these past two years that you think would be a good idea to pass on to your children and your grandchildren? What do they need to know? What have you found to be significant in this world? You have a very good perspective that you need to give to your children and your grandchildren. Parents, what wisdom do you see in your parents? How can you pass that on to your seed? Whether with plants or with his people, this is how the eternal Christ works. Their seeds produced plants and trees of the same kind. And God saw that it was good. And He sees the same thing in us. Wisdom, in other words, as they saw as you see in the bulletin, wisdom is a family heritage. It is an inheritance received. It is an inheritance maintained. We are meant to pass down the wisdom Christ gives to us to the next generation. Generation. This is especially true in the role of parent and grandparent. And I'll leave you with this, because it goes even deeper than what I've said. If we pay attention to Ephesians chapter 5, verse 1. Imitate God, therefore, in everything you do, because you are his dear children. Goes deep. Amen. Let's pray together. Oh Father We do long to be like you. The more we know of you, we long to be like you. We look forward to putting this body of death completely away. This the influences of the old man. Lord, we look forward to your return. And the in between times, as you gather the nations to yourself and your mercy, We pray, Lord, that one, we would know your will, and two, that you would give us the ability to pass it on to our children and our grandchildren Children and therefore they are going to need to want to obey it. Lord, in our culture, when we grow older our thoughts and our experiences are discounted. They're no longer held valuable. And that'll mean that your church will need to work up Upside down from the culture. And I pray that you would give us the courage to do so. I pray that we here at Severn Run Wood Run would really understand what it means to know Go and to practice, honor your mother and your father. In the name of Christ, Amen