Morning is chapter three, verses twelve through thirty. Beginning of verse twelve. And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of the Lord. So the Lord strengthened Eglon, king of Moab, against Israel, because they had done evil in the sight of the Lord. Then he gathered to himself the people of Amon and Amalek, went and defeated Israel, and took possession of the city of Palms. So the children of Israel served Agon, king of Moab, eighteen years. But when the children of Israel cried out to the Lord, the Lord raised up a deliverer for them, Ehud, the son of Girah, the Benjamite, a left-handed man. By him the children of Israel sent tribute to Eglon, king of Moab. Now Ehud made himself a dagger. It was double-edged and a cubit in length and fastened it under his clothes on his right thigh. So he brought the tribute to Eglon, king of Moab. Now Eglon was a very fat man And when he had finished presenting the tribute, he went away the people who he sent away the people who had carried the tribute. But he himself turned back from the stone images that were at Gilgal and said, I have a secret message for you, O king. He said, Keep silence. And all who attended him went out from him. So Ehud came to him. Now he was sitting upstairs in his cool private chamber. Then Ehud said, I have a message from God for you. So he arose from his seat, then Ehud reached with his left hand, took the dagger from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly Even the hilt went in after the blade, and the fat closed over the blade, for he did not draw the dagger out of his belly, and his entrails came out. Then Ehud went out through the porch and shut the doors of the upper room behind him and locked them. When he had gone out, Iglon's servants came to look, and to their surprise The doors of the upper room were locked. So they said, these are probably tending to his needs in the cool chamber. They guessed that, by the way, because of the smell of the excrement that just came out of them. Just so you're following the this delightful story this morning. So they waited till they were embarrassed, and still he had not opened the doors of the upper room Therefore they took the key and opened them, and there was their master fallen dead on the floor. Sorry, I'm reading to the end of the chapter. But Ehud had escaped while they delayed, and passed beyond the stone images, and escaped to see Rah. And it happened when he arrived that he blew the trumpet in the mountains of Ephraim, and the children of Israel went down with him from the mountains, and he led them. Then he said to them, Follow me, for the Lord has delivered your enemies, the Moabites, into your hand. So they went down after him, seized the force of the Jordan, leading the Moab, and did not allow anyone to cross over And at that time they killed about ten thousand men of Moab, all stout men of valor. Not a man escaped. So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel, and the land had rest for eighty years. Amen. Please pray with me. Father, we finally have arrived to the place where you start by way of your spirit to give us the details. of these deliverers. We pray, Lord, that you would teach us who you are and what you require of us from these stories. We pray, Lord, that in our era we would not be fat and foolish. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Well Judges is turning out to be quite the book. Last week we have a We took the opportunity to focus in on one of the formulaic statements that we see in each of the stories of the deliverers through judges. Did you hear some of the formulaic statements this morning? The land had rest for so many years. The people did evil in the Lord's sight. Then he raised up the deliverer. They groaned. Did you see all those formulaic statements in there? They're a part of those stories. Last week we took the opportunity to focus on the Lord sending his Spirit to the deliverer, ultimately Jesus Christ, and then Christ to his people. The Spirit of the Lord is the way by which God the Father and Son execute their will on earth as it is in heaven. He sent his spirit to Afniel to accomplish his will, like we read last week. And the Son sent his spirit to us for the same general purpose. Being filled with his spirit, we are therefore called in the right understanding of the word, we are called to be spiritual. And we spent a lot of time on that last week. We're moving on this week You can see what we have here before us, and I want to make a few observations and then a few applications. So here's observation number one. This account of Egglon, king of Moab, is a political satire. You have lived with political satires for a long time. Even if you have watched cartoons, you have seen political satires. Raise your hand if you have seen the movie Shrek. King Farquad is a political satire. There are others We would call them buffoons. This has been a a a uh a writing device f for as long as uh we can remember and further. And that's what we have here. This is a satirical description of Eglon the king and his people, the Moabites You can see this first by the name that is given Eglon, and there's actually a play on his name that's going on here between his name and the description of him. If you look at it, it means like a cow or a calf, but it also sounds like a word from Hebrew that means round or rotund. It y you could put the the the words together and it's like fattened for slaughter, which is really the point of the story, right? But the description plays on that satirical word play. And it says, like, for example, in verse 17 of chapter 3, so he brought the tribute to Aglon, king of Moab. Now Aeglon was a very fat man. Now the Spirit doesn't waste his breath. So here you have him bringing it out once again, and it happens again in 21 and 22 Then Ehoth reached with his left hand, took the dagger from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly. He was actually a trained soldier who was ambidextrious. That's that's one of his roles. That's why he was put into that job. Oh he had that he had that description. He reaches over from his left to his right thigh and he thrusts it into his belly. And then notice all the time spent on who Eglon is relative to the dagger. Even the hilt went in after the blade, and the flat fat closed over the blade, for he did not draw out the dagger of his belly, and his entrails came out And then you finally have the description of the soldiers, which is more difficult to detect what's going on with that because of the way this is translated. But if you notice in verse 29 it says this, and at that time they killed about 10,000 men of Moab. All stout men of valor, not a man escaped. Now that word stout there is a basic word that means fat. But in this sense, it is not fat as in like healthy, which is what you see here as a possible translation, they're stout. It's fat in the sense that they are foolish. It's another example of what the Moabites are like. We already know this about the soldiers because what soldier Leaves his king without anyone around him when an enemy is in the room If you were a Secret Service, I'd ask you to stand and say, what would happen to you if you ever did that in your job? And you know what the answer would be: it would be, you're fired. And it's just another demonstration of this political satire, and then it happens again within the battle, is that they are overtaken. What we see are Aeglon and the Moabites, and in the end, we have a picture of a fat and foolish king covered in his own excrement. with guards and soldiers equally dim-witted. Behold Eglon. Now that's the first lovely observation. Good morning to you. Here's the second observation, and this is where it really starts to draw closer to us. Given the purpose of judges that we've been banging on like a drum from the beginning of this Ceres, given the purpose of judges, the primary purpose is not to ridicule Aeglon. But it is for the people of God to reflect on their condition. Far from being the noble people they claim to be, the people of God in their Canaanized state have been reduced to less than the Moabites. And Eglon is a picture, and those Moabite soldiers are God saying, This is really what you want to become? Because that's the path you're headed down. This is what you want to look like? You want to be covered in your own excrement? And their answer should be, no, Lord, that's not what we want. And so this morning's doctrine is really quite simple. We don't need to make it more complicated than it really is. I have a new commandment for you. Thou shalt not be like Eglon. How's that? Thou shalt not be like Eglon. And if you want to unfold that a little bit, thou shalt not, as the church, be fat and foolish. Like a Moabite. That's what's going on here. And that's our doctrine. And so we're starting to see already that these stories are meant to instruct us on what God requires of us in Jesus Christ. Well, I want to unfold this a little bit, and for your pleasure, I want to look at I want to do a study of the scriptures on the understanding of the word fat. This is going to be delightful. And then, so after understanding fat, I want us to look at a point called staying fit. Understanding fat and staying fit. Have any of you here had the privilege of doing a word study on the word fat throughout the scriptures. It's actually quite revelatory. I'm thankful that the Spirit has given this to us. But I did not see any hands go up. There are so many meanings to the word fat. There are so many different situations, but here we're just looking at the word fat and focusing on it. with reference to the moral character of eglon, which we are not to copy. Actually, when you spend some time with this word in this eglon context There is a process or actual stages to becoming morally set. You can witness the first stage in Isaiah 6, verse 10. You've heard this because in our Acts series, right at the end of Acts, Paul quotes this verse about the Jews. He says, Make the heart of this people fat or dull, and their ears heavy, and shut their eyes, lest they see with their eyes, and they hear with their ears, and understand with their hearts, and return and be healed. That word dull there, I've already translated it for you, it means fat. Fat is used therefore in the sense of to become calloused. To become insensitive to God, insensitive to God and to his ways. To have, we talk about it this way sometimes, to have the conscience seared beyond feeling. Put another way, they are so full of someone else's words and someone else's ways that are not the Lord's that they no longer have an appetite for God. That's another way, it's just the other side of the coin of talking about the same thing. They've become dull to God because they've become sharp to someone else. That's the first stage. Here's stage number two. And we can see stage number two in Jeremiah 5, verse 28, where he is also using the word fat. He says this, they have grown fat. They are sleek, means they're shiny with fat rubbed on them. It's like you ate a bunch of ribs and now your face is shiny. That's the picture. That's the picture. Yes, they surpass the deeds of the wicked. They do not plead the cause, the cause of the fatherless, yet they prosper. And the right of the needy they do not defend. Do you catch what's going on here? This progress? They become callous to the Lord, number one. And they embrace other gods. And the first part of the downward spiral is the loss of love for a neighbor. That's what happens. Instead of pleading the cause of the fatherless and the needy, they get fat off of the fatherless and the needy. They take advantage of them Here's another example, and it should remind you of a large part of Jesus' ministry throughout the Gospels. Over and over and over again, Christ was giving the same message that we saw him reveal to Ezekiel. In Ezekiel 34, verses 2 through 4. Woe to the shepherds of Israel who feed themselves. Should not the shepherds feed the flock? You eat the fat and you clothe yourselves with the wool. You slaughter the fatlings, but you don't feed the flock. The weak you have not strengthened, nor have you healed those who are sick, nor have you bound up those who are broken, nor have you brought back what was driven away. Think Matthew 18 here Nor sought what was lost, but with force and cruelty you have ruled over them. That's Jesus' message over and over again to the Pharisees and the Sadducees. And this is a description of someone who has become morally fat off the flesh of those who are helpless. Now, James even develops this, and we read it in the bulletin already, but I'll read it again to you from James chapter 5, verse 3 through 5. Indeed, the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields Which you kept back by fraud, they cry out. And the cries of the reapers have reached the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth. You have lived on earth in pleasure and luxury And you could insert a little paraphrase here if you're local from Maryland. But I tell you what, you have fattened your hearts for the day of slaughter. Just like Eglon. Let's say that we were hired to write a book. And the title of this book, since I'm the publisher and I'm hiring you, I get to choose the title and you have to write about the topic And here it is, I want you to write. How to become like Eglon, King of Moab. That book, what I'm saying here with this point is there I would need to at least include a few steps The first step is that you would have to become insensitive to God and his ways while studying some other way or philosophy by which you will understand the creation and how to conduct yourself. That's the first step. Become numb to God and alive to someone else or something else. And then step number two is that this is going to naturally lead you into a downward spiraling and destructive ethic in life. where you do not love your neighbor, but you kill them, even if you call it love of neighbor, you're still just killing them. Degree by degree. Instead of working to feed them, you will eat them to feed yourself. Instead of giving them life, you will take their life for your own. And this can happen in degrees. There's extreme degrees, and then there's going to be lesser degrees. But the main point is that you become fat off the flesh of your neighbor instead of loving them But we know that since Jesus Christ reigns as King, no one gets away with that forever. As James says, they are fattening themselves up for their own slaughter. Christ, indirectly now or directly later, will pull the knife from his right thigh and he will judge. That's our first point, and that's just a little bit of a visitation through the scriptures of seeing what it means and how to become fat. If you want to see the same process that I just lay uh listed to you. In a single chapter of the Bible, look at Romans chapter 1, beginning in verse 18, and you'll see the same downward spiral with the same set of stages. That's a description in Romans 1. 18 of someone becoming fat in this morally reprehensible way, like the king of Moab. Now, the second thing I want to develop is staying fit. I want to move on a positive note. But I warn you, this point is a bit anticlimactic because it's stuff that you've already heard. But the point is that we would not just be hearers of God's word, but doers of God's word. And there's always more work to be done there in Christ Jesus. First, to stay fit, we must stay attuned and attentive to God and His ways through His Word. And there's no neutral zone. There is either a tide in or a tide out. There's no neutral tide. And so we must with heart stay attuned and attentive to God and his ways through his word, and this is done within community. We must pray that by the Holy Spirit He forms us into people who love him by loving our neighbors. It always ends up there. And rightfully so. And that's really what I want to focus on for the rest of the time. I want us to be able to connect some more dots together on in light of eggline and what we've said already about fat and foolishness. I want us to connect some dots on loving our neighbor. I've begin to notice I've begun to notice that folks are starting To use the doctrine of vocation to better understand what God requires of them. I wonder if you've started to do that. Have you started to think through your vocations as a way to know what God requires of you? We talk about that a lot around here That's actually different than what I was used to when I first became a Christian. When I first became a Christian Vocation was hierarchical. It was a hierarchy of vocations. If you wanted to be a super Christian, then you would become a missionary that goes to Africa. And then there was the rest of us who were just kind of waiting around for Jesus to return. There's like a mid-level, and you could work at a Christian bookshop. And wear weird t-shirts that say sun-kissed or testaments or whatever. But the rest of us were just doing secular jobs. Waiting for the Lord to return. And I think we have tried to blow that vision of reality up over and over again from this pulpit. Now, the teaching on vocation is moving away from that hierarchy, at least among us. The church seems to be realizing that all lawful vocations are meaningful in service to Jesus Christ. Christ calls some to be missionaries, but you know he also calls some to be mechanics. And they are both valuable to Jesus Christ. But here's the question that I want to raise because of a trend that I'm starting to see even among ourselves, even among me. Why are those vocations, whether missionary or mechanic or whatever, why are they valuable? What makes them valuable? Why are vocations and callings valuable? I've been watching an incomplete picture form trying to show why all of these different kinds of vocations, and farming's real hot right now, if you're a homesteader, you know. They're painting this picture of trying to show why all of these different kinds of vocations are valuable We've realized that all the vocations are valuable, and now they're starting to answer the question, why are they valuable? And what are the pictures that we see to explain that? People have been answering that question by saying, because the vocation or the calling or the trade is beautiful and it makes beautiful things. That's the primary answer that I'm seeing amongst God's people right now. Vocations are valuable because they have beautiful things and make beautiful things. For example, I receive a magazine called Mortis and Tenin. I love this magazine. In those pages, they communicate the value of carpentry and woodworking through beautiful pictures of old tools, curly wood shavings that fly off onto your floor Men with beards all oiled up and in flannel. And of course, beautiful furniture from oak we can't even get anymore. The message or the subtext in the magazine, because it's a magazine, is this. The trade is valuable because it's beautiful. And the tools are beautiful, and I want you to see the beauty, and this will help to motivate you to really appreciate carpenters. Here's another example. Any magazine or television show from Joanna Gaines. They make the vocation of real estate agent, carpenter, interior designer, cookie maker, whatever, beautiful and glamorous. The subtext is the same as the Mortis and Tenon magazine. The subtext is that my vocation is valuable because I get to make spaces beautiful by picking out old barn doors. I get to handle tiles in a certain way. When I start a garden, my garden's gonna it looks like this. And we begin to see, because it is beautiful, it is valuable, and there is a real connection there. There's a connection between beauty and value. But without diminishing the importance of beauty, I do want to ask you: is there anything missing in terms of what we hear from the scriptures as to why our vocations are beautiful, or why they're valuable rather? Is there anything that's missing in those pictures? If we only had beauty as a motivation, if we only had beauty for why they're valuable, are we missing something? Our vocations do not find their deepest importance because our tools or products are beautiful. They find their deepest importance because through our vocations, Jesus Christ is ministering to our neighbors. That's where the real motivation comes from. Love for your neighbor, not love for the beauty. Without diminishing beauty, because that's very important to God, obviously. But the primary motivation that he lays before us is love of neighbor, whether your kitchen looks like Joanna Gaines' kitchen or not. I've heard it put that we, my friends, are not looking to create southern hospitality, but Christian hospitality. And Christian hospitality focuses on love of neighbor. That's what makes it valuable. And I don't want to create a false dichotomy Sometimes what our neighbors need are not just baked bread, but beautiful baked bread. When somebody brings me bread, I'm happy But if that bread is woven like this amazing piece of woven bread, not only am I happy to receive the bread, I'm happy to receive beautiful bread, and it lifts my spirit and it lets me know that there is a God. That sometimes goes through my head. But the end or the target still there is not kept just in the beauty of the woven baked bread. It is located within the fact that they wanted to bring joy to their neighbor and not just sustenance. So now they're doubly loving their neighbor and multiple levels with the bread But the end or the target is still the neighbor. It's actually love of God by way of love of neighbor The philosophical way of saying this, because some of you like saying things philosophically, the philosophical way of saying this same thing is that our vocations are not inherently valuable, but they are instrumentally valuable. They are valuable as instruments, a means of grace toward an end, not in and of themselves. Christ gives us callings and vocations so as to be instruments. Christ gives us callings and vocations so as to be instruments. He uses us to bless those around us. And therefore those vocations take on value. I'm going to tell you another thing that they do. They provide you if you start to look at loving your neighbor like this and your vocations and your callings. Remember, we're moving away from King Eglon. He doesn't know how to love his neighbor. So we're talking about how to love our neighbor, and we're saying we do so through our vocations, but the vocations have to be rightfully conceived. That the end is the love of neighbor. We don't want to go down the wrong path. And when we begin to see loving our neighbor this way, we actually start to gain a more sufficient motivational basis for the work that we do. I'm going to tell you a story. When I was younger, there were many reasons why I did things for my father, but most of them had nothing to do with my love for him. Most of the time it was like this. And I wonder if you're like this. I'm a guy, so I'm gonna talk like a guy. Are you ready? I'm not gonna use profanity or anything, but listen Jesse, will you help me with the firewood? Man, I don't want to help. You can use the wood splitter. Yes, I'd like to help. We're gonna clear some brush, Jeff. Jess Anna. I don't feel like cleaning brush, Dan. You can use the chainsaw. Okay. That's cool I want to use the chainsaw. Do you want to help us build the addition, Jesse? No. You can use the nail gun, Jesse. Okay. That sounds great. Jesse, do you want to help build some more? No, not really. I'm tired. I want to play with my friends We'll let you use the circular saw. Okay, yeah, that sounds great. I'd love to use the circular saw. And every time I would be motivated, therefore, you see how he's capitalizing on how I was motivated? I would be motivated to do the work because of my excitement of the technology that was present within the field. Boy can I get excited about a new drill with a lithium-ion battery And I could start a whole edition on the house just because I want to get that drill. But guess what happens when things start to get tough, and that's your motivation. When my father says, you touch the dirt with the chainsaw, now you're going to have to sharpen it. And don't forget, you're going to have to put oil in it When you're done, I don't like to leave fuel in it, so I need you to winterize the chainsaw. All of these things are very demotivational. And you would not continue to the work nor want to be back involved in it. But what if the motivation all along was not the technology? What if the motivation was because you loved your father? How much longer and harder would you work in cutting down brush or building the addition or stacking the firewood or chopping down trees? Today, I could care less about the technology of my father's chainsaws, or his trim guns, or his brand new chop box. I go over to the Eastern Shore and I help my father because I love him. Do you see the difference in the motivational structure from one to the next? And what we are called to do is to have love your neighbor at the center, not love the technology. Not love the beauty. There is a location and place for those things, but it may not interrupt the location and the place of love of the person. If it does, you are already by degree moving towards egg one. And our stated goal this morning is not to be like King Egwan. We therefore must stay attentive to the Lord through his word We must live out his word by loving our neighbor. And the question therefore naturally arises: what are all of the vocations that God has given to you? We've been through this before. Moms and dads and sisters and brothers and elders and deacons and more and more, all of these various callings that make up the kingdom How will you use those vocations as instruments to bring blessing to the people that are actually around you? Not in general, but the people in your life. Who has God placed in your life in particular? There are no such thing as general people. There's the people he's placed in your life, and they all need a tailored kind of love. What good can you bring to those people specifically? I don't mean in some kind of Joanna Gaines glamour. I mean in the day-in and day-out, ordinary and mundane ways of an earthling. Perhaps you want to start with a neighbor audit. Do you know what a neighbor audit is? You look around at all of your possessions and see: are there any there that are for the sake of loving your neighbor? You start to redefine all of your furnishings in accordance with love of neighbor. We don't just create beautiful spaces, we create serving spaces. I got this chair because I know this person is going to be comfortable in this chair when we have a small group and I want to love my neighbor. I got this beanbag because I know my little girl would love this beanbag. You see what I'm saying? Everything starts to be towards people. It is about relationships. It is not just about beautiful things without diminishing that. It is about serving things. Things which serve. And now we're starting to find everything within the creation and the cosmos find its place and order in relationship to Jesus Christ and what he's doing in his kingdom. Now may the Spirit give us the strength to not be fat and foolish, but to be fit May the Spirit give us the strength, as Paul says in Ephesians, to walk worthy of the calling to which we are called, which certainly is love of God by way of love of neighbor. Please pray with me.