Let's turn together to the book of Deuteronomy, chapter sixteen. Deuteronomy chapter sixteen, let's stand for the reading of his word. And I'll read uh To verse fifteen. Observe the month of Abiv and keep the Passover to the Lord your God. For in the month of Aviv the Lord your God brought you out of Egypt by night. Therefore you shall sacrifice the Passover to the Lord your God, from the flock and the herd Morning. You may not sacrifice the Passover within any of your gates which the Lord your God gives you, but at the place where the Lord your God chooses to make his name abide, there you shall sacrifice the Passover at twilight, at the going down of the sun. At the time you came out of Egypt, and you shall roast and eat it in the place which the Lord your God chooses, and in the morning you shall turn and go to your tents. Six days you shall eat unleavened bread, and on the seventh day there shall be a sacred assembly to the Lord your God. You shall do no work on it. You shall count seven weeks for yourself. Begin to count the seven weeks from the time you begin to put the sickle to the grain. Then you can keep the feast of weeks to the Lord your God with the tribute of a free will offering from your hand Which you shall give as the Lord your God blesses you. You shall rejoice before the Lord your God, you and your son and your daughter, your Male servant and your female servant, the Levite who is within your gates, the stranger and the fatherless and the widow who are among you, at the place where the Lord your God chooses to make his name abide. And you shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt, and you shall be careful to observe these statutes. You shall observe the Feast of Tabernacles seven days When you have gathered from your threshing floor and from your wine press, and you shall rejoice in your feast, you and your son and your daughter, your male servants, your female servant, and the Levite. The stranger and the fatherless and the widow who are within your gates. Seven days you shall keep a sacred feast to the Lord your God in the place which the Lord chooses Because the Lord your God will bless you in all your produce and in all the work of your hands, so that you may surely rejoice. And let me read one more. Three times a year all your males shall appear before the Lord your God in the place which he chooses, at the feast of unleavened bread, at the feast of weeks, and at the feast of tabernacles. And they shall not appear before the Lord empty-handed. Every man shall give as he is able, according to the blessing of the Lord your God, which he has given you. Please pray with me. Lord, there is much to learn from these feasts that you lay here for us. Although the feasts themselves abolished the teaching remained And so we ask that the teaching that we do have time for this morning, Lord, that it would run deep into us. I pray, Father, that through Jesus Christ, You would grant this church gratitude and thankfulness for the work that you have done through Jesus Christ and continue to do. We ask these things in your name. Amen. The further away we get from chapter 5 in Deuteronomy, it seems the more unfamiliar these commands become. You've heard of dietary laws and festivals and uh the Ten Commandments for familiar enough with us. I I think even if not a Christian, most people are aware of the Ten Commandments. There are even most nowadays, I assume that you also are aware of the summary of the Ten Commandments that Jesus Himself gives from Deuteronomy. that you love God and that you love your neighbor. What has not been familiar to us and to really most of our culture these days are the specific applications of the Ten Commandments as we find them in the unfolding uh speeches that Moses gives to the rest of Deuteronomy. You do understand that that's what's happening here. The moral law is is unfolded in specific applications in the rest of these And it's very useful to start attaching these specific commands back into where does it fit within the moral law? Specific applications began in especially in chapter 14, just to remind you. If you were to flip back just Just one page in my Bible, I'm not sure what it is in yours, but in fourteen verses one and two, the application is at least, and I brought this out in the sermon, of the fifth commandment. God as the father and and for the good of his household instructed the Israelites in what not to do. Don't mourn improperly like the the pagans around you. Don't eat unclean meat like the pagans around you. And um you know that's uh According to a general principle that we were discovering, accepting the teaching of the New Testament possibles, we set of uh New Testament apostles, we set such dietary laws aside While still keeping that main principle that is behind and stated explicitly within the text, that just as God the Father keeps his children unspotted from the world, Household and the head of the house has the freedom today to be honored in their lawful endeavor to have their family live in the world and to not be of it. That was two sermons ago. Last week, we witnessed Moses specifically applying the eighth commandment. You should not steal. I alluded to that at the very end of the sermon when I brought up Malachi III, the first seven verses. Malachi mentions there that if that the part of the problem that was going on with the Israelites is that they were not tithing, which literally means one tenth or ten percent, and that he called this a stealing from God, which is an obvious application then of the eighth commandment. Remember also that the law, although stated in the negative, the eighth commandment, has positive intentions. Do you remember that about each of the Ten Commandments? It's stated in the negative. But then there is a positive intention that is included. And so you should not steal, therefore, is for the sake of promoting giving and lending freely according to our abilities and the needs of others. And we see that all over The application of that eighth commandment, we see that all over the pages of the New Testament, particularly in the writings of Paul. In chapter 14, 22, Moses worked this out, the eighth commandment, in terms of instructing them to give a 10%. The eighth commandment was to be worked out in other ways. Also, if you take a look at chapter 15, and I only mentioned this briefly in the last sermon, so I want to just bring it to your attention. again. The Eighth Commandment is worked out in 15, 1 through 6 in the release of debts every seven years. And it is also worked out in 15, 7 through 11, in that the general principle is given there, open hearts lead to open hearts. Open hands. It's a great saying. Open hearts lead to open hands. This morning we bounce back to the fifth commandment, really the first table of the law and The fifth commandments. You know what I mean by the first table of the law? The first four commands. And the fifth commandment is included in here within this section that we're looking at that I just read in Deuteronomy. You shall honor your mother and your father. And of course, the first table has to do with the worship that is due to our God. What is the honor that we owe our mothers and our fathers? All due reverence in heart, word, and behavior, and thanksgiving for them is how our catechism responds. From multiple scriptures, all due reverence in heart. All due reverence in word. All due reverence and behavior and thanksgiving for them. And since God is our Father, He deserves that also. In fact, has given us the capacity to give that to Him through His Spirit. What are some of the ways used to promote reverence and thanksgiving in his children's hearts? I bet you you could come up with a lot of different ways. But here in this passage, the answer is the pilgrimage feasts. That reverence and thanksgiving in his children's hearts were accomplished through the pilgrimage feasts, and it continues today with the feast that remains for us. And so I want to look at the three feasts because we do need to understand what our Bibles are saying here in Deuteronomy, and then I want to look at the modern application. of these. Let's wrestle with them. So we have these three feasts. I hope you notice that in my Bible, the title in bold says three appointed feasts. Yours probably says that too. You probably heard the summary at the very end, which is why I read that. It summarizes again the three feasts that the males are to attend at least. And so let's take a look at each one. It begins right there in 16, verse 1, and it is the Passover feast. He first lays out the time. According to 16. 1, this feast is celebrated in the month of Bib. This is the first month, if you go back to Exodus 12 in the Jewish calendar, and you can look up the Jewish calendar. Just be aware that the calendar names change depending on whether or not they're in Babylonian captivity or if they're just going off of their original lunar calendar. You will see different names But here you see the Jewish calendar name. We speculate that it is around April, the springtime. The word Abib is really from agriculture. And should be understood as a kind of phrase that it says something like, the time when the grain starts, something along those lines, marking out quite literally the time In the year that it would start. And this is their first month. This is like their New Year's celebration. This is January for them, so to speak. Whatever the month is, you can see in the text there's specific reasons for this. It was the month that the Lord God brought them out of Egypt by night. Do you see that reference there? And keep the Passovers of the Lord your God for in the month of Abib, the Lord your God brought you out of Egypt by night By night. That's the rest of verse 1. And thus it becomes quite clear that this is the same feast that is detailed in Exodus 12. And there are you uh it's worth going back and reading Exodus 12 because there are a great many more details as to what this feast. feast looks like in turning the the girding up of the clothing uh and many other things. You can see if you when you turn to 16 verse 2 The practices, some of the practices that were associated with this feast, they were to sacrifice from the flock or the herd, verse 2, and in verse 3 they were to abstain from bread with yeast, that is to say, leavened bread. And the explanation, if you go back to Exodus, is that they sacrificed the lamb to put blood on their doorposts that the angel of death would pass over where they would be protected from that by that blood. And then they were to roast that land, not boil it, because they had no time for water to boil. They were heading out of town So it had to be roasted. And it's the same thing with the bread that is leavened. They had to leave Egypt in a hurry, and they did not have time for their bread to rise. That's all part of the ceremony. And so they make unleavened bread, and in each year, the first month of the year, their whole calendar cycle and everything that looks forward to their new year. All of these ceremonies were to be a part and to remind them of that. You can see the duration in verse 8. The feast continued for six days, and like Jeremiah said, God knew how to party. What would it take for us to do a six-day feast? Could we do that? Mark you're on it, Jeremiah. All right. You're on it. You provide the food. Well the feast continues for six days, verse eight, and then it is finalized in a seventh day, coming to completion with a sacred assembly of worship. So that's the first paragraph that we see, first couple paragraphs that we see in the the uh the the pilgrimage feasts and it's the feast of Passover. There's another feast here, and it's called the Feast of Weeks, and this one you may be less familiar with, beginning in verse 9. The time to determine, if you look in verse 9, is that you shall count seven weeks for yourself. This is the second feast. It's called the Feast of Weeks. To determine the date of the feast, it's not the first month of the year now, you count verse 9, it says, seven weeks from the time you bring Uh uh the from the time t that you cut down the grain. Now go ahead and think through that. It's an easy math problem. How many days is seven weeks? Seven days in a week, seven weeks, it's forty-nine days, and then on that day afterward is the feast, and that makes it 50. And this is what you probably know as the feast of Pentecost. In the New Testament, it is called Pentecost. There's multiple references to it. The disciples and all Israel, at least the men from all surrounding areas were present in Jerusalem on that day. You remember? That's what made that day so strategic as they came out of the upper room and began preaching the gospel. in that because the feast day was happening where all of the at least the males had to come to the city for the feast because it was commanded, all of Israel, in a sense, at least the head Heads of the households could hear the good news. What a strategy. They made their annual pilgrimage to Jerusalem for the Feast of Weeks or Pentecost. and heard the good news. You can see the practices that are associated with this. Since the grain was cut, the families were filled with gracious produce of their land. Now, presumably, their hearts were filled with gladness and thanksgiving. And that's when we see verse 10, they keep the feast of weeks with a free will offering. This is a voluntary commitment out of the exuberance and rejoicing of one's own heart. And it is great that God has taken the agricultural calendar of these people. as to when food and wine would be plentiful, as well as his redemptive story, and brings it all together for this awesome celebration to the glory of God and what he is accomplishing Out of a sense of gratitude and a sense of abundance, a cup flowing over, they give. And in verse 11 you can see, they rejoice. You shall rejoice before the Lord your God, you and your son and your daughter, and your male servant and your female servant, the Levite who is within your gates, the stranger, and the fatherless and the widow who are among you He didn't leave anybody out, so that everybody better be rejoicing. I wonder if they had a kind of rejoicing police at the party. Anyone not rejoicing? Are you on the list of rejoicers? Yes, you are. Rejoice. I don't think they had a rejoicer police. I think it probably was the conscience. But then in verse 12, they were to remember again, just as we saw within the first feast. This motif continues through, always going back to the honor of the Father, which is why I said the fifth command, but also that first table. They were to remember that at one time they were slaves in Egypt, but now they are under the fatherhood of Yahweh. They are free and they are full. They are free and full. They are full by the work of God Himself. Now it's the second feast. So you have the feast of Passover, and then you have the feast of weeks. And now we move into the feast of booths or tabernacles. This is our next paragraph in verse 13. You shall observe the Feast of Tabernacles seven days. It was called the Feast of Booths or Tabernacles because they stayed in tents or tabernacles outside of the main area which God chose. I believe that it's supposed to represent their wandering through the wilderness and being nomadic and having all those tents set up. Again, a remembrance of the deliverance that God had given. When we look at verse 13, this feast happens again for seven days. The difference between the first and the second feast, or the third feast, is that this one ends the agricultural year. It brings in the final produce. You can see some of the change of language in verse 13. It says, gathered from your threshing floor. So not only has the grain been sickled But it has also been threshed, which means the agri agricultural products have gotten to the place where they can be stored and consumed by the whole community. But there's an agricultural product that happens, the reaping of it happens in September for them And that is the grape. And so that's what we have in verse 13, an added agricultural product you can see through the wine press. It's a feast that ends that agricultural year, therefore. So you end, or you begin celebrating, and you end celebrating for all that the Lord has given you throughout the entire year. The Passover begins the year, and the Feast of Tabernacles is the final and ends it. All the grain is gathered and threshed and ready for bread. The autumn harvest of grapes are gathered and they are pressed. The Lord has blessed them, and verse 15 will continue to bless them, and they must rejoice. In fact, they have the privilege to rejoice with thanksgiving. These feasts really summarize everything that Moses has taught throughout the book of Deuteronomy so far, and because of that, numbers and exodus. They are feasts to remember everything that the Lord has promised and the promises that have already been fulfilled. If you look in 16 and 17, Moses does give a summary. He says, three times a year your male shall appear before the Lord your God in the place which he chooses, etc. And you can see why these were called therefore pilgrimage feasts. They must appear at a remote location that God chooses. This is not happening in their town. Everyone is leaving their own locality and they're moving to a kind of national site where his where the celebration and the worship will take place. So that's why we have these three feasts that are called pilgrimage feasts. The males are required to go, verse 16, and no one should show up empty-handed, but give as he's able, according to what the Lord gave them. And thus it's really beautiful what the Lord has provided for this particular group of people before the advent of Jesus Christ. You have a yearly progression of living in gratitude and thankfulness. Calvin wrote two hundred sermons on the book of Deuteronomy. It puts me to shame. Because I don't think I'm even approaching half of that. And he says that although these feasts May be abolished. The teaching continues. When we look at these three feasts And the summary of what is going on here, how it is to tenor the whole year, doesn't the teaching continue? That we are to live in gratitude? in thankfulness for the work of our Father amongst us. And we haven't even really gotten to the fulfillment of these things. Yahweh brought them out of a land where they were slaves, into a land with blessing. And it would begin with the budding produce. And it would move into the harvest of the produce, then the packaging of the produce, each festival commemorating that and remembering who God is. You know, Psalm 4 is about this. We've already had a Psalm in our bulletin about just to just to give you a picture of what's going on within this group of people historically at this time. That the main point was always to honor the Father and to give thanks and to be grateful for the redemption that He had given to them. It says this in Psalm 4. There are many who say, who will show us any good? And in this Psalm, you've heard me teach on this Psalm, I think it's referring specifically. Specifically to agricultural providing for people's in their food. And there are people around David saying, Who will show us any good? Who's your God has let you down? You are in the midst of a famine. Your crops are not growing. Who will show you any good? Has anyone here ever felt like they were in the midst of Of a famine? And have there been people around you that said, God's not good? He's not going to save you. Maybe you even said that to yourself. But David continues in that psalm, and he says, Lord, lift up the light of your countenance upon us. You have put gladness in my heart more than in the season that their grain and And their wine increased. Referring to these festivals. I will lie down in peace and I will sleep. For you alone, O Lord, make me dwell in safety. That psalm gives expression to what the to a heart that has understood these festivals. A heart that really uses the festivals to a to as like a ladder, to climb up above them, to see the God for whom the festivals are for. That He is one that lets us sleep. He gives us rest. He helps us or provides for us that we may dwell in safety. That's what they were supposed to get from it. Unthankfulness became pervaded within their midst, and it is not until much later, within the exile itself, where we'll begin to see some Joshua will go over into the promised land and they will immediately celebrate the Passover. But it is far and few between where these festivals are then celebrated. It is in times of reformation amongst God's people that the festivals start to pick up again. You know when it says that that Nehemiah read the Torah to the people? That was at one of the festivals. It was a reformation that was going on among those people For us, Reformation wouldn't look like us adopting these three feasts again. But what would it look like? If you had to answer someone, you say that the scriptures are your foundation and that you stand on them for life. For everything that you need? How would you answer that? What is the applicability of these feasts to you as a Christian after the coming of Jesus Christ? That's the question that we pick up now. Now, having understood the feasts, at least basically, this is kind of a flash introduction, we now move to the modern application. We did this with each one of these things, and we'll continue to To do it because these are unfamiliar with us. Jesus, just as we asked about more uh morning rituals, as in grief, and we asked about dietary regulations and tithing practices, we also have to ask about religious festivals. Much has changed since the advent of Jesus the Christ, and we have to take that into consideration So let me ask you, and just answer in your own head, are we required to celebrate religious feast days? Are we required? Are you required by God to celebrate religious feast days? Paul clearly teaches on this in Colossians 2, verse 16, and we looked at that last week. There are those amongst that congregation that are giving pressure putting pressure on Christians. And judging them because those Christians are not celebrating the Jewish calendar, agricultural calendar and the feast days. And Paul replies and says, Let no one judge you regarding these feast days. And so that clearly puts an abolishment to it, as well as there's other ones. His reference is in relation specifically to those pilgrimage feasts, in particular, because of the language that he has used. And more generally, if you were to go ahead and move forward by many, many years in the history of the church in terms of feast days. Any feast in the honor of men and not God is obviously out of alignment with the whole purpose of a feast. We've already established that it's connected with the Fifth Commandment and is supposed to be in honor of God. But there are plenty of feasts amongst Roman Catholicism that honor men and women. And that obviously doesn't fit the face of a feast. I remember being jealous of that when I was younger because all of my Roman Catholic friends would get like 72 days off of school every year because it seems like every other week there's a Saints holiday. And I was in public school and we didn't celebrate any saints. There were no saints in public school. Let me tell you that. But we are not to do the same. Public school, I guess, in this sense, had it right. is that we are not to have feasts for saints. But it becomes a little more sophisticated than just saying there's no feast days. Because even in our Protestant history, we see some kind of place for a feast. It says this in the Westminster Confession of Faith, Article 21, verse 5. Besides religious oaths and vows, solemn fastings, and here's the phrase I want you to catch, and thanksgivings upon special occasions. occasions which are in their several times and seasons to be used in a holy and religious manner. So it opens the door that there could be a time of thanksgiving a spot upon special occasions And the scripture references that are within the catechism are very interesting. And they quote Psalm 107, and it is, if you were to look at that Psalm, it is giving thanks to God for his redemption of Israel and the exodus out of Egypt. Tying again back into those feasts. But I think their general point is that is good that the church can have special occasions to give thanks to God. But here's the other scripture reference Esther 9, 22 and 23. This is what it says, beginning in verse 22 in Esther. As the days on which the Jews had rest from their enemies, as the month which was turned from sorrow to joy for them, and from mourning to a holiday That they should make them days of feasting and joy, of sending presents to one another and gifts to the poor. And this is verse 3 is key. So the Jews accepted the custom. You see what's happening? It was not a holiday that was commanded by God as the feasts were. It was a custom that they decided to put together to celebrate a day of Thanksgiving where they're remembering something. And our even our own catechism and confession references this. Custom is the key word. And you know, when you begin to look at you begin looking at it like that, we at Severn Run have those same customs. Christmas Eve. Monday Thursday. Good Friday. None of those are commanded within the scriptures. But if we understand the scriptures according to our confession, it is not wrong to have a to have a custom where we would celebrate our God and be thankful to Him for what He has accomplished and certain Certainly we do that on Monday, Thursday, and Good Friday, and Christmas Eve. There are other holidays that happen to fall with on our Sabbath. We always emphasize the Sabbath since it was commanded, the Lord's Day. But we pick up those same themes because they're glorifying to our God. Christmas is glorifying to our God because He sent His Son. Easter is glorifying to our God because He raised His Son from the dead. And so we celebrate those things. But Monday, Thursday, Good Friday, and Christmas Eve, I would not say are mandatory required services. But they are customs of thanksgiving upon special days. occasion. I think that's a more sophisticated view to look more at what the scriptures are saying. But you know scripture says something else here. It does speak even more boldly than just customs About a feast. And that is one that you all know, that Christ has transformed the Passover feast to suit the reality which God has always intended Here, once a month for us, it could be every week if we chose, we pilgrimage, so to speak, from our houses. We leave the isolation of our homes to a central location here at 1624 Millersville Road. And together we take the Lord's Supper. Not in our private homes, but together. The Lord's Supper replaces the imagery and the primary intent of the Exodus from slavery to Egypt and applies it to the ultimate Exodus from the slavery to sin and death and judgment. Can you imagine the power of the moment sitting there celebrating the supper with Christ? You should be able to imagine it because when you celebrate the supper here, you are celebrating it with Jesus. Jesus Christ. Although separate, brought together and united with him by the Spirit and the Supper. I think the supper in this feast, can you imagine how easy it would be back then for those pilgrimage feasts to expand? To your children what God had done, there would be so many tangible things at your disposal to say, look, this is what He has done. And there are these moments in Scripture when God anticipates children asking and they say, When your children ask, what does this mean and why do you do this? You are to say to them, Do we do that with the Lord's Supper? If not, we should. And if we do, we should do it more. I become grieved sometimes when children are in children's church, when the parents are taking it away Lord's Supper. They can't see it. I should probably do something about that. The Lord's Supper replaces Jesus takes that feet. That was so familiar to those people. That New Year's feast, the feast that gives meaning to all of the other feasts. If you took away the Passover feast, there is no land full of produce of grain. There's no wine at the end of the season. They're just slaves in Egypt. They're never going to be a great people. It's that first feast that gives meaning and possibility to any other feast. And Jesus grabs a hold of that first feast and he applies it to himself. You know, in the Exodus, children, and adults. The only reason that the angel of death passed over the Israelite homes was because there was blood on the doorpost from the lamb that was slain. Imagine that, being that with your imagine that dinner with your parents. They said, we're going to have lamb tonight and we're going to sacrifice the lamb, and I want you to to take the hyssop with your with your father and you're going to dip the hyssop in the blood and you're going to sprinkle it or it's actually says smash it up against your doorposts. Imagine that kind of house party. It would be unforgettable. And that's to be passed down to generations. And that blood is a protecting blood that God had ordained. That when that blood, that mark was seen on that house, the angel of death would pass over. But you know the blood wasn't on every house. And the angel of death descended on some of the houses, and the firstborn child was dead. There was a crying across the land of Egypt that had never been heard until that morning, when mothers woke up and they found their children dead in their cribs. And in their beds. You know why they were dead? Because they didn't have, they were not marked by the blood of the Lamb. Do you see the seriousness of this festival? And Jesus takes a hold of that, and he said, I'm the Lamb, and it's my precious blood that must mark you by the Spirit. The only reason that the angel of death passes over us at the final judgment is due to the precious blood of Jesus sprinkled upon us by the Holy Spirit. represented in baptism. But it doesn't just stop with that. When Jesus grabs a hold of the feast that makes all the other feasts make sense, You can see even in the teaching about Jesus and the spirit that he will send, in Zechariah, it talks about the Spirit as a rain that's going to go across the whole earth and make it flourish. And Jesus Christ, the accomplishment of what we call his oblation or the sprinkling of his blood, he rises in his ascension and he sends his spirit down to the earth that there is a produce amongst us of good fruits, his people. It is the great grand design of redemption of the Father that we used to be slaves to this, but he has freed us by the blood of the Lamb into this new land that has already begun. Not full of grain and wine, but full of the Spirit and full of love. Love of God and love of neighbor worked out in all of the specifics. I love the framed picture of a laundry basket with socks hanging over the side. I always picture them as 80s tube socks with the stripes. And it says, serve God. Amen, right? And all of the particulars. It didn't stop with us just being released from judgment. The angel of death passes over that God might bring us through. The Hebrews were delivered from slavery to a new life, and we too, through the eternal Lamb of God, are delivered from slavery of sin to a new life. And we are already producing. We're not required to follow those exact same feasts, right? But in liberty, we may have special days of thanksgiving that are in line with the purposes of the feast, the first table, and the fifth commandment. That is to say, thanks and gratitude to God. But as we've been talking about for the last four or five minutes, we are required to keep a feast as Christians. A feast that Jesus Christ has grabbed a hold of and made into the Lord's Supper, that He has transformed. For indeed it says in 1 Corinthians 5, verse 7 and 8, this. For indeed Christ, our Passover Was sacrificed for us. Paul calls him our Passover, our protection from the angel of death And death that would pervade our bodies in sin. Jesus Christ is our protection too. Paul continues and he says, Therefore, let us keep the feast. Now we know what he means. Not with the old leaven, just as we see within Deuteronomy, nor with the leaven of malice and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth We are protected from judgment by Christ taking our judgment. We are delivered from slavery to serve God in righteousness. That's our story. As it says in 1 Corinthians 6, 9 through 11, do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor homosexuals Nor sodomites, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners will inherit the kingdom of God. And I'll look at you and I'll say this, and such were some of you. But here's the next sentence. But you were washed. But you were sanctified. But you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. It's time to celebrate. It's time to have more of a feast. We can begin that next Sunday when we have our Lord's Supper. Please join me in prayer. Father, we thank you for these truths that have been whispered in the past and are declared loudly now. We thank you, Lord Jesus Christ, for being our Passover Lamb. It is only through your precious blood that we are saved from judgment. It is only your precious blood that delivers us from slavery of sin. To righteous living now. We thank you that you are working out our sanctification progressively, and that one day we shall be glorified. We thank you that you promise us a resurrection body, that we would be fully a part of the new heavens and the new earth in our actuality. We thank you that we already are members being joined to you. We ask, Lord, Lord, would you take the blood of your son and would you apply it to our children? Would you give them the faith to profess his holy name as the Christ? Oh Lord, our children need protection. Would you please protect them Lord, we ask these things with hearts that are sobered by the reality. We know that your mercy is good, and that you choose to have mercy on whom you have mercy. It is not wrong for us to beg for our own children that your mercy would be poured out on them. We ask that you'd give them faith and that we would see this Faith as they are admitted to your supper, that they may become a part of the feast with us as a recognition that they will stand at the last day for the great wedding feast. We ask these things in your holy name. Amen.