We'll continue reading this entire section together, beginning in verse fourteen and going to twenty-three, but my focus will be particularly on eighteen. Beginning in verse fourteen, Philippians. Nevertheless, you have done well that you shared in my distress. Now you Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church shared with me concerning giving and receiving, but you only For even in Thessalonica you sent aid once and again for my necessities. Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that abounds to your account. Indeed, I have all and abound. I am full, having received from Epaphroditus the things sent from you, a sweet smelling aroma, an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God And my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. Now to our God and Father be glory forever and ever. Amen. Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren who are with me greet you. All the saints greet you, but especially those who are of Caesar's household. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, you have chosen to bless your people and empower them for the great commission and tasks that you've given them in this world, through the preached word and through your table here, the Lord's Board. We ask, Lord, that you would work through these means here this morning, that you would make them effective. I pray for your congregation, Lord, that you would build them up through your Through your word and through your sacrament. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. We're coming close to the end of the Philippians series, and I will make you hang on Before uh I'm not gonna tell you this morning what we're going to do next. I like to keep it a surprise. But it's been an enjoyable letter. There's a major theme that runs through this letter, which we're going to be able to touch on today, because of our particular paragraph and passage. But just by way of reminder, it's always good to remember what the Lord has been teaching us, we've been looking at Paul giving us instruction by way of this idea of imitation. We had Paul laid out before us as one who we should imitate. We had Timothy laid out before us and Epaphroditus. before us and he and Paul in his instruction even opened it up to all the the saints, the commendable saints, not just on the pages of scriptures, but those who surround us, that insofar as they follow Christ we can imitate them. That's been the larger picture, and another way that we've been able to talk about that is in terms of citizenship. where we've been recognizing that not only individually are we heavenly citizens, but together as a congregation, which is very important for us to recognize, is that we are a heavenly colony. A heavenly colony. And we've really just been asking the question, okay, well we believe you uh The Apostle Paul. What does that look like to be a heavenly colony? And we've seen different things. The last thing that we we got a chance to meditate on together was fruitfulness. fruitfulness. We looked at the history of fruitfulness. We looked at our responsibility for each one of us to produce fruit. And we looked at the nature of fruitfulness too, that it's that it's largely you helping others to be fruitful. That's what we see. There are many components to that, but that's what we saw on the pages of Scripture last week. And this week, we get to pick up another feature Another feature of heavenly citizenship again, or looking like a heavenly colony, and that is the mark of a holy fellowship I hope that you've already picked up on that this morning just by way of the language and the songs. But the main message that we end up seeing here in this, especially in leading us into verse 18, is that heavenly citizens maintain a holy fellowship. A holy fellowship. So I want to look at that in a few ways. I want us to understand fellowship first because that word is used in different ways. And then let's just take a look at the core of what fellowship looks like among us. Could we get to an essential core of what fellowship would be? so that we can recognize it. So first let's take a look and just understand fellowship. I want you to know just generally speaking That this sermon is really developed not just from our paragraph and from a single sentence, but a concern that the Apostle Paul has been laying down throughout this entire letter. The word fellowship, I might have miscounted, sometimes I can do that, but in terms of my count, the word fellowship ends up showing up in one form or another in the book of Philippians six times. Well, that's a pretty significant amount given that there's only this many chapters here. We have six times and the the first time we end up seeing it It was in chapter one verse five, which I'll get back to. You could see the the the phrase again or the word again in chapter one verse seven. He then continues Being concerned about fellowship and wanting to talk about it in chapter 2, verse 1. He brings it up again in chapter 3, verse 10. And then significantly for our time together here this morning, he does bring it up in verse number 14, which is a part of our overall paragraph, and he brings it up in 15 again. So if you were to just take a look, nevertheless you have done well that you shared, or fellowship, that's what the word is derived from that shared in my distress, or we could go now into fifteen. Now you Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel when I departed from Macedonia, no church shared. So we're seeing uh different forms of this word showing up all the way through this letter, including the paragraph that we're in today. So it's important for us As we understand what it means to be a heavenly colony. When you end up looking at those six examples, you will see that fellowship for Paul. was different from the way that we sometimes use that word. The word fellowship has in a a way uh been a very popular word in the same way that the word gospel has become a very popular word. I I don't know when it happened I'm starting to have been around long enough where I don't know where when things exactly happened. Maybe it happened in the early 2000s when it every book that came out, it was preceded by the adjective gospel. So it's like Gospel corn sowing. Gospel gospel subs if you owned a sub shop. I mean it's And the same ca and so we start when that happens, we start to lose, well what does that word even mean anymore? And the same thing can happen with the word fellowship. I think that sometimes the way that the word fellowship is used among the Christian community, particularly in this area, is closer to the word actually affinity. Affinity, which is different than the way Paul means the word fellowship. Have you ever heard the word affinity or have you ever heard of affinity groups? I'm not saying there's anything necessarily wrong or demonic about affinities. I'm just saying that it's not the same thing as fellowship. Sometimes Affinities will uh affinity groups will be formed among Christian congregations in order to allow relationships to start connecting when they're not connecting at all. And in that way it serves a good purpose But it could be around things like, well, if you like woodworking, I like woodworking, and we can get together and woodwork together or look or share woodworking magazines Or if you like muscle cars, we could have a muscle car affinity group, or if you like knitting, or any of those interesting topics. Basically, it just means do we have some of the same hobbies that we voluntarily became interested in so that we could start to share those together? That has a place, but that's not what Paul means by fellowship Especially here within the letter to the Philippians. Fellowship, according to Paul, when we study this letter, and I'll work on showing you some of the particulars here in a minute, fellowship is a bond. That we have to each other. There are many components to this, but I'm going to focus on one. Fellowship is a bond that we have with each other in the common cause of the gospel. And it is not a bond that you came up with, and it's not a bond that you even formed primarily. It is a common cause of building God's kingdom for his glory. Now let me just flip a couple pages with me so that you can see this idea of fellowship. It's very important For you know what fellowship is if God expects it from you and actually is very pleased with it, like a sweet smelling aroma. So take a look at Philippians chapter 1 verse 5. Here it's stated explicitly the way that Paul ends up framing this, these are not just voluntary hobbies or affinities. But in chapter 1, verse 5, he says, for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now And in our passage you get to begin to see, well, what did it look like for them to fellowship with him from the first day until now, and that Once and again you kept giving to me. You see that? There was a certain bond that is created there, and that there is a fellowship in the gospel, this common cause of the gospel. And not just an affinity. If you were to comb through the rest of the letter, you would find that this fellowship has certain features. The bond, for example, is not exactly voluntary. It's not exactly voluntary. It's actually more, it's better pictured. It's better pictured as a draft. As in like the military drafting you into service. We see this within the language in chapter 2 of Philippians, where he says, you have been called. Or do you remember this phrase? Walk worthy of your calling. If you're to walk worthy of your calling, it means that you have been called. That's an aspect of fellowship. It's not just you happen to like muscle cars and now you get together. There's a divine movement, there is a divine choice, there's a divine decree, there's a divine execution, and it comes down on you, choosing you for particular service. And now let me bring one to mind in particular. If you'd like to see this most clearly from the letter of Philippians, that that fellowship is a divine calling. Think of the uh uh Think of the biography of Paul that we went through in chapter three. Does everyone remember that? I hope that you do. In chapter three, when we were going through Paul's biography, does everyone here remember Paul on the road to Damascus. I just want you to keep that story in mind as you look at how the Lord related to him. Did the Lord go to Paul and say, Paul, if it's your desire, you could be in my service now? That's not how it unfolded. Was there a holy persuasion of Paul's will where he went forward gladly? Of course. I'm not talking about that I'm just saying that the Lord is the commander and the king, and he has called Paul into a particular service, not into a voluntary Elk Slodge affinity group. That's not what's happening here. And that's important for you to be able to see before we get to our paragraph particularly is just think of That you must walk worthy of your calling. Think of the implications of that for fellowship. And then think of Paul's biography for the implications of the features of fellowship. Another is that it's not just around shared hobbies. Number one, it's not just a voluntary if you want to you can serve the Lord. The Lord has called you to serve Him and to serve Him with a congregation. And then number two, it's not just around shared hobbies like muscle cars. If you were to take a look in 127, the common cause of the faith, it says, of the gospel, in 215, it's the common cause that we would be lights in the world. In 320, it's the common cause of establishing heavenly colonies on earth in anticipation of Christ bringing heaven and earth together. These are major movements that God has called you to act together in a holy bond or fellowship as a congregation. I think we have little analogies of this throughout our life that we could benefit from in understanding what our fellowship is supposed to look like as a church. I grew up in a very tight family, and we tried to accomplish common causes together. particularly if someone needed housework. And by that I don't mean sweeping the floor. I mean like adding a second story We call it the Crutchley Barn Raising. And we would call out to all of the relatives for some reason in my Family, if you turn left in my family, there's a carpenter. And if you look straight ahead in my family, there's a carpenter. And if you look right in my family, there's a carpenter. We're all carpenters for some reason. And we would send out the word. We'd say, Uncle Frank bought a house in Admiral Heights. It's too small, and we need to add a second story. I need you to show up on Friday night and all day Saturday, and we're going to add the second story before the rain comes. And that's what we would do. Some of my uncles, having not swung the hammer for a long time, they would just bring a cooler full of beverages and t-shirts Crutchley barn raising, whatever the year, for Uncle Frank, and some of the cousins that didn't know exactly what they were doing would be carrying two by fours or two by sixes or or sheet goods up the steps. Once we got the deck down, those of us who knew a little bit about what we were doing would be laying out and framing the walls. And together as a family, we would build a second story, add the roof. We entered into a common cause with each other. And it was important. Do you see why we would show up? Do you know that even if it did start raining we would keep working? Do you know why? Do you know that we wouldn't just show up on Friday, but we'd show up all day Saturday? And you know that we would return the Saturdays after that too? Why? What is motivating us? Is it just so that he could have more square footage? There was a holy familial bond. Where we have the common cause of making sure that each of our lives together in a family, that we can support each other in those endeavors which are good. We have an uncle who's trying to supply space for his children. You see that? Now that's that's a kind of a civil or familial cause. Which is fine. That's under the kingdom of heaven also. But it's an image for you on how you're supposed to be working together in a holy fellowship toward a common cause That is so important that you would know it's worth dying for. And that's really where we need to start moving now on to the second point. The second point is we get to ask the question, besides just understanding, I've given you a picture of, I'm trying to give you a picture of fellowship as opposed to affinity. And now I want to look at it even more particularly of, well, what does that really look like? Is there a core to it? Is there a core to our fellowship? And there is. It's by God's grace that the Holy Spirit has preserved for us here the church at Philippi, showing us what it looks like to be a church that knows how to fellowship. And we have the preserved words of the Apostle Paul here, showing us, giving us someone who knows exactly what fellowship looks like. And so we get to look and see. What is the description that they end up giving within our particular paragraph so that we can imitate them, which has been a major part of this series. And the thing I want to point out most to you, here's the core, okay? Here this ends up being the core. This is the thing that you can really take home and keep talking about. Fellowship requires being like Jesus Christ for each other. That's the main point. It's that simple in some ways. To say it, it's that simple. Fellowship requires being like Christ for each other by the power of Christ. Let's take a look now at our, now that we've been oriented, take a look at verse number 18. It might be a little funny that I'm saying that, and then I'm going to say we learn this from verse 18, but you don't see those exact words there. Fellowship requires being like Christ for each other. 418 it says, indeed, I have all and abound. I am full, having received from Epaphroditus the thing sent from you, a sweet-smelling aroma, an acceptable sacrifice well pleasing to God. What's important for us to recognize is that Paul is connecting a couple dots here on why he thinks This particular fellowship that the Philippians are demonstrating and that he is demonstrating with them, giving and receiving, is the way that he puts it. that this in particular is a sweet-smelling aroma to God. What is it about this fellowship that makes it imitable? And there's two clues for us. Number one, there is a clue that does anyone r recognize that within the phrase an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling aroma that this is very much the same language that we see within Ephesians chapter 5. Now if you want to, you can go ahead and take a look in your bulletin. That's why we ended up including that for you. Take a look at the language again. Therefore be imitators of God as dear children and walk in love as Christ has also loved us and given himself for us. And then notice the last, right after the comma, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling aroma. There's something going on in the fellowship that has taken up the Christ pattern that we have seen from the beginning of the letter, especially within chapter number two. The Christ pattern is being picked up by an entire congregation in the way that they're relating to Paul and the way that Paul is relating to them. Do you see any other hint within our passage, verse 18, that shows a supreme Christ pattern? besides the illusion or the echo over into Ephesians. Do you see another part there? It's a Paphroditus, isn't it? Wasn't he given to you in the letter to the Ephesians or the Philippians as a Christ pattern? Take a look at chapter two. And look at beginning verse number 25. I just want to read this to you again, and I want you to really pay close attention to the language that Paul chooses. Paul has lots of language he could choose. But listen to the way he talks about Epaphroditus and the Philippians sending him, which is exactly what we're talking about in our passage in 18. Yet I considered it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, fellow worker, and fellow soldier. Notice the fellowship there. But your messenger, so he's sending apaphroditis back, but your messenger and the one who ministered to my need, that's what we're talking about in our passage. Since he was longing for you all and was distressed because you had heard that he was sick, and this is really where we get to the core of the Christ pattern. For indeed he was sick almost unto death. You're starting to hear echoes of chapter two, even death onto the cross, right? So Paphyrditus is carrying some kind of cross here We could keep going, but God had mercy on him, and not only on him, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow. Therefore I sent him the more eagerly, that when you see him again you may rejoice, and I may be less sorrowful. Receive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness, and hold such men in esteem. Why? Why hold him in esteem? Why is he the fragrant offering? Because for the work of Christ he came close to death. Not regarding his life To supply what was lacking in service toward me. There it is. That ends up being at the heart of fellowship. The heart of fellowship is when the congregation of God who has been called by God are seeking the common common cause of God, which is the gospel, and they're doing so even with the mindset of being willing to die for each other, that the mission would be completed. They did not hear a letter from Paul that Paul had sad feelings, and so they sent him a paphroditus. Maybe that was a part of the picture, but overarchingly the Philippians were fellowshipped with him in the gospel. There was a higher cause and more ultimate aim than even Paul himself, and they, by the grace of God, partnered with him in it. close to the death of one of those who had lived in the city with them. And that ends up being the heart of what fellowship should look like. That's how we could imitate Paul. That's how we could imitate the Philippians as taking up the Christ pattern ourselves in having a holy fellowship among us. And then this can be fleshed out even more in verses 15 and 16. Take a look with me of the kind of faithfulness that is given, which is the image of Christ. I'm sorry, in vr in chapter number four and fifteen and sixteen. Now you Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church Shared with me concerning giving and receiving, but you only. For even in Thessalonica you sent aid once and again for my necessities. Those who are in a holy fellowship, who take up the Christ's pattern, they're there for each other Once no. Once and again. Once and again, and again, and again, and again. Oh, I think of the prop the proverbist who says something like, oh, I can find brothers and sisters, but who a faithful friend can find? That's a part of our condition that we're being called beyond by the power of Christ here, a kind of faithfulness that's not just once But it's once and again. Or in verse number 19, he says, this is a little hint here in verse number 19, which we'll get you next week, and my God shall supply your need. So here we could just see the implication, perhaps, is that the Philippians don't have a storehouse of gold. And they're just taking 10% and giving it to Paul. They're giving to a degree where Paul needs to comfort them in return. That though you're giving from your poverty, God will become your abundance, and he'll make sure that you have what you need. There's another example of the Christ pattern where we're giving even when we ourselves are in need Or in verse number 18, as I already pointed out to you and we went through, was Epaphroditus, who almost died in ministering to Paul. Let me just put this another way for you. This is this is so important. This is one of those things that you want to not lose. This lesson here. The way that Paul put this earlier was that we are to have the mind of Jesus Christ. There are a number of you who raise questions and you ask, How can I have a healthy mindset? Paul is answering the question. The mindset results in fruit that specifically looks like Timothy, though he was young, he gave up his life. Close to death. The Apostle Paul gave up his freedoms that you might have freedom in the glory of the gospel. This is the mindset of Christ. For when we read, particularly in verse 8, it says, And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. And if you reread that section, that's the core, is that you as an individual and we together as a congregation take up the Christ pattern. like like a smaller fractal that forms together and makes larger fractals, if you catch that analogy. And let me give you just one more image. of what it looks like to fellowship with each other and not just have affinities. I think that that I gave my first sermon in the year 2009, and I'm just so pleased that there's hardly anybody here that has heard it. God is truly gracious No, but I told a story in two thousand nine in that sermon that has still stuck with me and I believe it was true, the story. I found it actually in a newspaper. And I wonder if you'll remember the story. But there was uh two brothers who were playing uh swords or something And they were running around in a field and in the corner of that field they lived on the the water. In the corner of that field they had formed, do you remember this? They formed a uh it's unforgettable They the local marina had formed a dredging large dredging hill and pile. Has anybody seen these? Where they can dredge out harbors and then they have to put the sand and the silt someplace else. So it's moved to the corners of fields, for example, and you know if you're a young man and you see a large hill. That you could pretend was a mountain, you're going to charge up it, and your little brother's going to follow you. And that's what they did. You could perhaps imagine, I'm not sure if this is reality, but them fighting their way up the hill and then getting to the top. But the difficulty with the dredging piles is that when the sand is deposited, some of it dries quicker, some of it dries later, and it creates voids. And so the newspaper article describes how they were running along And on this dredging pile, and both of them ended up collapsing under the silt and the sand The parents, they didn't come home that night, and the parents therefore put together a search party and eventually uh checking the dredging pile, the the police had put together a line where people walk along and they had seen movement in the dredging pile and it was a hand. And they end up pulling the, they see the hand, they pull the the younger brother up out of the sand and they resuscitate him and they say, where is your older brother? And he says he had situated himself under me so that I could continue to breathe or to live. And I used that in 2009, and it's an image that still has stuck with me throughout all of the years of an image of the Christ pattern, the image of a good older brother. Being willing to put his life at risk for the sake of the endeavors and the mission of others. That's what we end up seeing. That's why when we see in chapter 2, when Paul talks about Epaphroditus, he says you need to hold these men in great honor. They're the ones with all the medals here. And it's not because they sought their own glory. That's our picture of fellowship perhaps. I've given you a few now on what we're called to as a congregation. Let me draw your attention back to the scripture for just a few more seconds. Because I want to end on this note of it's really isn't it really startling? When he says a sweet smelling aroma, well pleasing to God. Can you can you just picture that with Breathing it in. God breathing in. The aroma of congregations that are taking up the pattern of his son. It reminded me of uh A gentleman who had l lived a long life with his wife and his wife passed. And she and Before you know, the closet was cleared out, which eventually needed to happen. The kids kept bugging them, Dad, we gotta, it's time to get rid of mom's stuff. Before that had to happen, he'd take her dresses and he would smell her perfume. And he would remember her sweet fragrance. And I'm sure he remembered the way she looked in the dress. That's fine. But he remembered, I'm sure, all of the other times too that they were together. Now if you were to walk in on that man when he was doing that, wouldn't that be touching to you? Wouldn't that tell you something about their relationship and the way that he looked at his wife? How much he enjoyed her? Here's a message for you this morning. Can you believe it that God thinks of you like that? That Jesus Christ and all of His power and by way of His Spirit is filling you with His Spirit. That you are beginning, and some of you are further along than others, you're beginning to give off a fragrance that when God smells it, he loves it. Maybe that uh illustration didn't connect with some of you. Some of you are real young and you're just starting to enter into maturity. Maybe I should have talked about like ribs on a grill or something and you needed to find your neighbor who was cooking them Whatever floats your boat. But you get the picture. That's what's being presented here to you as a congregation. And the question is then set in front of you. Do you want to listen to the lies of Satan and be a stench? in the nostrils of your God, which really isn't possible because God is faithful and is not going to let you do that. Or do you want to hear your King, Jesus Christ, and be the fragrance of Christ to your God? Well now you know a little bit at least of what that where that fragrance comes from. It's going to come not from affinity groups. It's going to be it's going to come from you all really fellowshipping with each other. I want you to think about your lives individually for a moment. What could you do? Today, tomorrow, this week, what changes could you make in the power of Jesus Christ to where you're starting to take up the pattern of Christ? In the way that you fellowship with others. Now remember what I mean by that when we talk about fellowship. Brothers and sisters out there who are younger, Uh can you think of some ways that you could fellowship with your younger siblings, encouraging them into greater maturity in Jesus Christ, rather than just criticizing them? What about if you're a teacher? Are there ways that you could be encouraging your students in a certain way? To where God, who is in heaven, will pick up and say, where's that smell coming from? Is that from the Academy? Is that from Rockbridge? Is that from some homeschoolers and from our umbrella group at Severn Run? Building up your children or your grandchildren in the gospel, giving canned goods in the name of Jesus Christ at the pop-up pantry so that you're helping them to care for their families. You see the common cause that's happening in each one of our lives, and we join together to help one another in the completion of the common cause. Wherever you are as the people of God, so too is the kingdom of God. How could we offer more? How could we give more pleasure to our God and Jesus Christ? How could you as heavenly citizens not only maintain but grow in your holy fellowship? Amen. Let us pray.