By your love. We are in awe of your mercy, and we are Grateful for your grace. Thank you, Lord. Thank you for this world. Thank you for this family. Thank you for our families. Thank you for all of the ways that you have proven to us. just how much you love us. Thank you for Jesus Christ. And by him we have your Holy Spirit living inside of us and it is His work that we seek to do now to worship you in spirit and in truth. We beg you, Holy Spirit, be with us, though this time of worship will be quick. We will take it seriously. We will show you how much we adore you. And we will indeed worship you We pray that you will allow us for this hour that we have together to put all the things of our private lives aside, all the distractions that tend to find their way, getting in between our effort. And our actuality. Help us, Lord, to concentrate on you and to focus on your worship now. We pray in the name of Christ Jesus, our Lord and Savior. Amen. If you would please stand for the call to worship this evening, as I call you to the worship of Jehovah, from Psalm 57, verses 7 through 11. My heart is steadfast, O God. My heart is steadfast. I will sing and give praise. Awake, my glory, awake, lute and harp. I will awaken the dawn. I will praise you O Lord, among the peoples, I will sing to you among the nations, for your mercy reaches unto the heavens, and your truth unto the clouds. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens Let your glory be above all the earth. This is God's word. It calls us to worship, so let us respond by singing together. Tis not that I did choose thee. Hymn number one in your bulletin She's not satisfied choosing more than good not me. This farm will be used me, has thou not chosen me Oh thou hast to take me that I should listen to me Toward the mercy for me and towards my open mind. Draw me to heaven glory. My foreign for thee, for why we bring my verse. Amen. If you do not uh have any difficulty, I would ask you to please remain standing as I just read this passage of Scripture to help lead us into a confession of sin. This is from Jonah, it's all of chapter four. But it displeased Jonah exceedingly. And I should tell you what it what displeased Jonah was God showing mercy to Nineveh, if you remember the rest of Jonah. But it displeased Jonah exceedingly and he became angry. So he prayed to the Lord and said, Ah, Lord, was not this what I said when I was still in my country? Therefore I fled previously to Tarshish. For I know that you are a gracious and merciful God, slow to anger, and abundant in loving-kindness, one who relents from doing harm. Therefore now, O Lord, please take my life from me, for it is better for me to die than to live. Then the Lord said, Is it right for you to be angry? So Jonah went out of the city and sat on the east side of the city, and there he made himself a shelter, and sat under it in the shade, till he might see what would become of the city. And the Lord God prepared a plant and made it come up over Jonah, that it might be a shade for his head to deliver him from his misery. So Jonah was very grateful for the plant. But as morning dawned the next day God prepared a worm, and it so damaged the plant that it withered. And it happened when the sun arose that God prepared a vehement east wind, and the sun beat on Jonah's head so that he grew faint Then he wished death for himself and said, It is better for me to die than to live. Then God said to Jonah, Is it right for you to be angry about the plant? And he said, It is right for me to be angry, even to death. But the Lord said, You have had pity on the plant, for which you have not labored, nor made it grow, which came up in a night and perished in a night And should I not pity Nineveh, that great city in which are more than one hundred and twenty thousand persons who cannot discern between their right hand and their left, and much livestock? It is good for us to remember that God prepares the path and he is merciful and he is full of abundant loving kindness even to those that to our eyes may seem unsavable. You may be seated. We will now engage in a confession of sin, where I will lead us in a short prayer, and then I'll give time and silence for you to confess your own sins before God. And then together we will receive the assurance of pardon from Holy Scripture. Let us pray. Almighty God We often can find ourselves in the situation of Jonah, wondering why you have chosen to order this world as you have. Sometimes it seems like the good are always downtrodden, and those who are evil are prospering. Yet we know it is fitting for you to be in charge, for this is your universe. And we are but parts in it. We all owe a great deal of gratitude to you for what you have done in our own hearts. And Father, help us. To put away resentment, jealousy, or covetousness, help us to put away our own judgmental nature. When we see you having mercy on those that we could not imagine you having mercy on. Help us, Father, to not be like Jonah. But to be like your son, showing love, speaking truth, and being kind and gentle to sinners. that they might see a different way, and that they might heed your spirit's call on them, if indeed you have chosen them We pray, Lord, that you will forgive us of our sins and that you will show us how to stand up under temptation in the future. Lord, it is good for us to confess our sin to you, because you alone can forgive us of our sins, and you are merciful. And you have promised to do so for the sake of your Son, our Lord Jesus Christ. It is in his name that we have prayed. Amen. Now lift your eyes, people of God, and see what He says, what the Holy Spirit has said in Psalm 103. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in mercy. He will not always strive with us, nor will he keep his anger forever. He has not dealt with us according to our sins, nor punished us according to our iniquities For as the heavens are high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward those who fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us. As a father pities his children, so the Lord pities those who fear him. For he knows our frame. He remembers that we are dust. Our God has separated your sin from you as far as the East is from the West. This is marvelous in our eyes, and our God has done it. Amen. If you have your Bibles, I would encourage you to open up and please, if you are able, please stand for the reading of God's Word from Philippians chapter 1. We have a very short passage and a very short exhortation, I promise. And then we will hear from Pastor Matt after we sing. Philippians chapter one, verses three through eight I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine, making requests for you all with joy. For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now, being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. Just as it is right for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart. Inasmuch as both in my chains and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you all are partakers with me of grace. For God is my witness how greatly I long for you all with the affection of Jesus Christ. Let us pray. Almighty God, this is your word that you have given to us, your people, that we may be Transformed and made more like Jesus Christ. We pray that though this exhortation be short, it would transform our hearts by your Spirit In the name of Christ we pray. Amen. Please be seated. So as I promised, this will be extraordinarily short. There are a couple things I want to point out to you, and I think it's beneficial that we realize this. We have two characters at play in this short passage. We have Paul the pastor and we have the Philippians to whom he has ministered. And there are two sides of this that must be considered. There's the side for the pastor, the example from Scripture, from Paul, and then there's the side for the church, which is us. You must see first, pastors, I'm speaking to you, that you must be grateful for the people that God gives you. No matter how much heartache or heartbreak, no matter how much difficulty it is in ministering to them You must remember them always in your prayers. And you must do this because of what? The fellowship in the gospel. That doesn't mean that you're grateful simply for paychecks or for support that comes in way of new shoes or iPads or whatever people buy pastors. This means that you are grateful for the fact that God has given you co-laborers and people who are in prayer and wanting as much your ministry to be a success as you are. You must be confident that it is not your work that is saving anyone, but it is the work of the Holy Spirit. the author and the finisher of our faith, the one who began the good work. And you must rely on him to be the one who finishes it, though you indeed are the laborer. Working the garden. It is God who makes the garden fruitful. And it is right for you pastors to think that way of the people because it is Your job to love those people. It is your job to love them not only because they have been kind to you and are Fellowship have fellowship in the gospel and the way that they're helping you do the work of ministry, but because you recognize that they are partakers of grace. In the same way that we all are partakers of grace who have been saved by Jesus Christ. And so because you know that they are in Christ, and because you know that they have fellowship in the gospel with you. It is your job to love them. And to love them so much that you pray for them and seek God's blessing for them. Now, people That's to the pastors. What is it that we must do? Well, we we must do our best to make it easy for them to love us. Right? We must make it easy to be loved. And that means that we should show love to them. And again, I want to stress how important this is. Showing love to a missionary or showing love to your elders or showing love to pastors does not mean writing checks. Certainly that's part of it. And we're never going to stop doing that. But it means that you must have that fellowship in the gospel. That would make this minister or missionary or pastor so joyful and so thankful for you. So, what is that fellowship in the gospel? What is it that we're to do? We, as I said before, should want their success in what they're doing more than they do. We should be praying for the people that they're ministering to to. We should be praying for God to send his people to that person. As we pray for God to send people to Severn Run, that He would receive the ministry of Pastor Jesse and the elders here, we should be praying for our missionaries. And brothers and sisters, I know that this is not typically how we think about our missionaries. In fact I confess to you, and I'm the elder over the missions, I can't name our missionaries unless I have a piece of paper in front of me. And this is something that I endeavor to change, and I would hope that you would endeavor to change that as well, because every single day we'll be praying for our missionaries, whoever they are, and maybe that means we need fewer. Or maybe that means we need more. Or maybe that means we need to change our budget so we give a little more to missions. Or maybe that means we should start thinking of different ways of partaking in the gospel of grace with these men. But the truth is, we should be taking more seriously those whom we have sent out into harm's way to bring the gospel of grace to those who need it. And so I encourage all of you, as you listen to Pastor Matt and his presentation, be praying for him. As you go away from here tonight, having heard what he'll tell us, and having maybe had a conversation with him over some delicious spaghetti. I hope that you will remember him in your prayers, and that he would remember us, and that together we would be in fellowship in the gospel. And bringing the good news of Jesus Christ to the ends of the earth, to every tribe, tongue, and nation. Please pray with me. Gracious God in heaven, thank you. Thank you for your word that shows us what we are to be, how we are to live, how we are to think. And even now, Lord, I pray for Severn Run that you would show us what it means To truly have fellowship in the gospel with those that we have said we partner in the gospel with. Help us, Father. Give us whatever gifts you would have us use for our missionaries. Give us generous hearts and spirits that we would give gladly. And Father, most importantly, I ask that you would change the way that we think and pray for those whom you have called to minister to us. May we be fervent in our prayer that we would see you glorified in all the earth I pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please stand and let's sing our closing hymn together. Glorify thy name. And photos are photos, those, those, photos. So Father, we love you, we were you Lord my name. Glory by thy name. Jesus we love you, we worship and God for you. Glory by my name in all the Glorify my name, glorify thy Oh my god, you know me. We worship and adore you Glory by my name, Glory by my name. Glory by thy name in all And God's people say that's a good idea. May the peace and the fellowship of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. Amen. Please be seated. So as I briefly Woo Hee hoo ha that's a little wild. I briefly introduced Matt. And uh I I just want to call him up here and let him tell you what he's doing and the work that he's doing and and uh how God is using him in Ghent? In Ghent. At least ten minutes. Yeah, at least ten minutes. Okay. Right, so when that says ten, I should be done. Uh no, it's uh counting up, so Oh it's counting up. Yeah, thirty minutes. I'm very confused, but I'm gonna look at that clock. I figure I've got thirty minutes. Does that clock work? Sure. Okay. Stop me if uh I'll tell you what, I'll give you this, you stop me if I go too long. We'll find about that. Bradley and I are just getting to know one another. Communication is an important part of relationships, you know, it's uh So um my name is Matthew Lamus. I am a missionary in Belgium and Europe, uh an ordained teaching elder as of about a year ago in our denomination, the PCA. And I was here two months ago, and it was a particular joy for me to be here. It was the first service that you all were meeting without masks. I don't know if you all remember that and the singing was uh it's very enthusiastic. I think it was after the uh special work of the Lord when the session had prayed and and and been, you know, really on their knees I guess about this and then the governor came out with his uh lifting the mask order. And it's a real joy to be back as well. I know that this is a sensitive area, so I hope no one's insulted. But how many of you are from Maryland, from this area? Decent number. How many of you know what a mid-Atlantic accent is? Judah has his hand up, okay. It's it's that particular accent that you get in South Jersey, Delaware, and Maryland. Does anyone know what I'm talking about? It's close to Philly, but it's not Philly. It's not New York. Yeah, it's a joy to be back in the I'm from South Jersey originally, so it's a joy to be back in the land of the mid-Atlantic accent. Anyway, it's nice to be here. I'm a friend a bit of Jesse and of Bradley, and I'm here to tell you about the work in Belgium and about the kingdom in Belgium. The way we'll do this is if you have questions, feel free to raise your hand and ask. As I'm going along. If it's a question I want to answer right then, because it fits in, I'll answer it then. Otherwise, I'll write it down really quickly and we'll get to it at the end. I want to tell you about four things. The first is the situation in Europe. What does it look like on the ground in Europe for the Kingdom of God and for evangelical and reformed churches? Secondly, I want to tell you about the church plant in the city that I live in, Ghent, Belgium. Ghent is where the Treaty of 1814 was signed. after the British had invaded America and we had that the War of 1812. You probably haven't heard of Ghent, but there's a nice little plaque and a brick building there. It's west of Brussels, halfway between Brussels and the sea And if you don't know where Belgium is, maybe that's where I should start. I won't ask for a show of hands, but Belgium is west of Germany, north of France. South of the Netherlands, it's where the Battle of Waterloo occurred during the Napoleonic Wars, the Battle of the Bulge, Van der Brothers, you may know of that. And a lot of World War I, Flanders Fields. So it's an interesting country. It's uh small, it's about twelve million people. It's divided by language. We have three official languages, French, Dutch, and German. And then there's a whole lot of Arabic and Turkish that is spoken in the big cities because if the immigrants from North Africa were from Turkey. So it's a a a country that was put together for the convenience of other countries. England and Germany and Austria and they say, you know, we've got all this land we don't really know what to do with Let's create a little buffer zone for when you know the Germans want to invade the French. They don't you know they've got the French have a little time to react first. And that that's kind of that I'm making a joke, but that's kind of the way Belgium was put together. It doesn't have a national identity the way that we do, or that France does, or that England does. People might be proud of the local city. People in Ghent are very proud of Ghent, but nobody's really proud to be a Belgian. In fact, it's so bad that you've had ministers of state stand up and they're supposed to sing the national anthem and they sing the national anthem of France by mistake. That has actually happened. You can imagine maybe uh the m the the the foreign the what do we call them? Uh the head of the Department of Defense, the Defense Secretary here being asked to sing our national anthem and singing Canada's by mistake. It's that sort of a thing But anyway, the situation in Europe. What is your impression of the church in Europe? If anyone wants to throw something out there. Klaus is shaking his head. Klaus is from Europe. He's shaking his head again. It's rough. So uh in Belgium the estimates vary. You might hear a number that 1% of the country is evangelical. I think it's probably closer to 0. 5%. There aren't a whole lot of believers in Europe. And very often the story that you've heard, and if you can't react, I'd be interested to know whether you've heard this and thought this before, but very often what we hear is Europe was Christian They had the gospel. They gave the gospel up. And now they don't have it anymore. And sometimes there's a bit of an attitude of too bad, so sad, too bad for you guys. You didn't know what you know. You gave it up. You had it, you gave it up No well, look at how bad of a state you're in. We don't want America getting like that. Which I understand that bit of it, you know, okay, so but still. Um and that's really not quite the truth. I don't think. It's true in some sense. But to be honest with you, for a very long time, the gospel is not preached in much of Europe. Because the Roman Catholic Church reigned in countries like Austria and Italy. Even in Belgium, I spoke with a missionary who was there in the nineteen fifties before the Second Vatican Council, and he was kicked out of villages by the police. This is in the nineteen fifties. for distributing Bibles or tracts. No, he wasn't put in jail, but he was kicked out of the village. So how much of the gospel is really being preached in a place like Austria or a place like Spain? If you know anything of the history of Spain, the Spanish Civil War just how how tight of a lockdown the Catholic Church Church had on the country. The gospel really ha has not been there in most of the European continent for a very long time. So that's part of our history in Ghent. We're in Belgium, we're in the very northern part. We're close to the border with the Netherlands. And we're kind of where the Counter-Reformation stopped. The Spaniards. Came up trying to reconquer as the Protestant Netherlands were rebelling. And uh they got to a certain point, and that's basically the border between Belgium and the Netherlands. And you still have words in our city dialect that are Spanish from when the Spaniards were there. And you can go downtown and you see one of the oldest buildings, it's from the twelfth century and it's it's stone and it's kind of bulging a little bit. One of the first hospitals in Europe And for eight years it was a Calvinistic university and trained seminary students during the time that our city was a Calvinistic Republic before the Counter-Reformation took over. So you see, for a long time the gospel just wasn't preached in Europe. And if you hear the story of Europe was Christian for so long and now they've given it up, not really. Kind of, not really. Not really. There's actually an opportunity, I think, now to preach the gospel in Europe that there hasn't been for a long time. Part of it is because of the downfall of the Roman Catholic Church. And particularly post-World War II, Europe has now gotten richer. There's a bit more access to to ideas. Part of it is postmodernism, which is a little softer towards spiritual things. People aren't quite so locked into secularism as they used to be. Now, it's a kind of secularism, it's pluralism, it's relativism. But I think there's actually more opportunity in Europe today, from the way I see things, than it has been for a very long time to actually preach the gospel Now it's still the case in Belgium that you can't proselytize. I can't go out on the street and hand a track to someone or else I'm breaking. I mean I can do it. I just can't complain if I get a fine or get arrested or something Because it's against the law. Now people can come up to you and ask if you put out a sign, but you can't do it as them. So that's just to give you an idea that there's still challenges But that being said, there's an opportunity to preach the gospel in Europe today that I think hasn't been there for a very long time And there's a great need, obviously, if I say half you know one half of a percent of of Belgium is maybe Christian. Other countries it'll be a bit more, but you know it's not a lot. Some countries it's a bit less, depends on how you slice things. So the question is what are we doing with that? Because Europe has particular challenges for us as Americans. Can anyone imagine what they might be? You guys probably don't like to talk back to me, do you? I in a good sense of talking back, I I preach to a very small congregation, five children and two adults. That's my core group in Belgium, one family. And if I don't ask questions, the children don't stay interested. So I'm sorry, but I'm used to asking questions So really feel free to respond. Um one of the big challenges is money. Americans like to be cost effective. And you can send missionaries to Africa and you can send missionaries to South America for a very small amount of money compared to sending a missionary to Europe. That's one thing. It costs money to do missions in Europe Europe's a bit more of an ex Western Europe is more expensive to live in than America usually. The other thing is you can't really go and do cool short term missions trips there. Kind of, if you work it right, maybe, but you know you can't go and you can't build a hospital. or a church or something like you can in a lot of other places. You can't go and do medical missions. I mean you can debate if you want whose healthcare system is better. If you care about that sort of thing, you can ask me afterwards. But you know, at the end of the day it's not Africa. So Europe's a little harder to get into. It's a little harder to make inroads. The other thing is Europeans are going to be as well educated as us, or maybe better, usually. So you can't just um take a team from any given evangelical church in the United States and go over and run some sort of basic training program about the Bible or Christianity And necessarily expect you're going to get a good reception in Europe, whereas you might in another another part of the world where they don't have bay de you know decent basic education. So there's some sp particular challenges to do emissions in Europe and from where I sit at least I know I'm being an advocate for my own cause, but um And as a general rule, I'm not sure we're doing a great job understanding how to do missions in Europe and addressing the challenges well and recognizing that Europe is important. So again, maybe this doesn't live amongst you, but I've been around enough churches and talked to enough people here that they write Europe off a bit, you know, um cheese-eating surrender monkeys and all that sort of thing. I mean I think those jokes are funny too to some degree, but um people tend to write off Europe. But Europe is actually tremendously important. Um it it still is, you know, one of the cultural capitals of the world, and European culture is influencing the whole world at this point Um in many, many ways still. And as you know, I in some ways I hope with time that that changes and that other places in the world go Christian and have different kinds of influences on us. But still Europe is a really important part of the world to have a gospel witness So it's important, there are challenges, but it's it's it's doable. So let me tell you something about what we're doing, the church plant in Ghent. First of all, again, Ghent is a lovely city. 250,000, 260,000 people. It has a university, the first Dutch language university in the country. About 20,000 students in the city. You'll have again maybe 20,000 Turkish-speaking immigrants. They either come from Turkey or they're from the Turkish-speaking half-Turkish people in Bulgaria. There's a segment of Bulgaria that is Turkish-speaking Very beautiful city. We have a beautiful, beautiful medieval downtown. There's a castle in the middle of my city. So anytime I, you know, I'm I'm biking up to the core family, I'm biking back, I can just pop down through the city and go, wow, that's a cool castle. We've got a nice belfry that rings bells and plays, you know, ding dong ding dong type songs. It's kind of dreamy. But of course there's there's a tremendous spiritual need there. The church that I pastor is called the Reformed Protestant Church of Ghent. That's because it's a name that will be useful if you understand the context. But um it's interesting because there are four reformed churches in the city. And I went to my presbytery and said, we need another. Here's a plan for a church plant in the city of Ghent. Why? Well, Ghent has fewer Christians probably than on average in Belgium. It has um I think maybe eight Total, maybe up, not quite 10, 9, maybe 10, Dutch language evangelical reformed churches. So evangelical and under the category of evangelical reformed. Um a couple charismatic churches, a lot of immigrant churches that can't reach the Flemish population. Of the four Reformed works, I say churches are really works I told you about, one of them is Turkish language. It's where I went to work in 2009. I went to help out a Turkish pastor. There's no way they can reach into the Belgian community. I'm sorry I called you Klaus. Klaus is over there. I apologize. Uh the second one is international, it's primarily English speaking. And it does have some Flemish language stuff going on. The pasture is a Flemish man, but it's very much internationally focused. Right now they're not even using Dutch at all in the service, I think. And uh good church, but it's it's international. A lot of focus on students, some outreach into the Flemish community, but it's not in the Dutch language. Another one is a part of a Dutch denomination that is going leftward like nobody's business. And the fourth, it's uh technically an evangelization post. is uh wonderful man there is the pastor, but it is um kind of locked up in uh Dutch Bible belt traditions. uh that are cultural, not biblical, that look a little bit more like let's say the Amish, that's going too far, but a little bit more like the Amish in uh the United States. Those sorts of little things. So the pastor has to wear black and white all the time His car is black. Like I don't think you'd be allowed to have a blue car, kind of a thing. And they have one member, they're fifteen fifteen people. One of those people is an 80-year-old Flemish lady. Everybody else is Dutch. Not Flemish, Belgian. And and the gap between the Flemish and the Dutch is uh it's night and day. It's a very, very big one, culturally and mentally. So there was a need in the city for a reformed church, and one of the things that I I love about Presbyterianism, I don't know how many of you are Presbyterian or Reformed, but what I love is you don't have to be If you're a member of this church, you can be a member because you're a Christian. And the Lord's table is here for you, and I think that that's exactly biblical But for those who are leading the church, we should believe in Presbyterianism and Reformed stuff. And I do. So if I say reformed and you don't believe in it, that's okay with me. I don't I I don't mind. Just understand I have to believe in it. And uh so there's a need for a reformed church in Ghent. That is in the Dutch language that's not going leftward, that's not kind of caught up in very minor cultural traditions Because when you w when you do that stuff, you're not going to be reaching the populace with the gospel. And we've got this two hundred and fifty thousand member you know person city, inhabitant city, where you know definitely less than point five percent of of the population believes in Jesus Christ. And you look around and say, where is the message of the gospel? It's barely there. It's there. There's a little tiny bit of light, but it's only barely there. So you've got the Jehovah's Witnesses out in front of the train station. Now again, they can't give out their materials, but people can come to them. And you've got them out at one of the big intersections in town And the very conservative church does do a a a a good outreach of giving away free Bibles. I've been part of that. It's a real joy. But they're old King James Version Bibles that nobody speaks the language anymore. And it's a bit worse in Dutch than it is in English even, I think. Um and you know, kind of the big churches, the charismatic churches get together and have a concert during the city festival. Where they play gospel music that's kind of you know fun and maybe have a gospel choir and stuff. And that's about it as far as I can there there's a couple churches do an alpha course or a um an Christian sports course. That's good But there's still a huge need, not just for evangelism, but also for apologetics. Um particularly if I think about apologetics. So I had a um you'll have to be careful not to judge me, but on occasion I visited a uh cigar shop in the city with a little back room and um you know up upscale people okay uh in the in the city again. It was very interesting to just go and kind of watch the the rich the rich guys, the rich guys club And uh the owner of the shop is is is a lady, a woman, who's uh that's kind of an interesting little twist there, you know, because cigars are supposed to be a guy thing, but this yeah Yeah. Um very educated woman, well dressed, etc. I had a couple of really great conversations with her. And you know, she was talking about being in America. She said it was really, really interesting. You know, people there think very differently than me And he said, I wanna I wanted to learn. I wanna now don't take this as a knock on Americans, I wonder but you know everybody just kinda wanted to shout at each other. So I said everybody, really able to have a good conversation with anyone. I wanted to, even though they differed from me, I wanted to understand why they thought the way they did. But I And talking, I realized now this wasn't directly about the gospel, but here's someone who, and many Belgians are like this, I seem to respectful. They don't believe in confrontation. They believe in trying to listen and understand. Diplomacy is huge for Belgians because they don't have a mighty military. They haven't historically liked Germany or France or whatnot. They've been diplomats all their lives. And a lot of people say, okay, I see there are different views and I I I wonder and I'm curious. And I've just seen that over and over again with people. So someone like that, and indeed even someone like my neighbor. I have a neighbor who um studied philosophy And um didn't continue. And then went and studied law. No, he works in computers or something. I've had a couple conversations with him. Um And you know, he asked what I did and and I told him uh it was a while back, I'm just getting going with this this this church plant idea. He's like, Oh wow, that's like entrepreneurial. Like, yeah, you're starting something new. Oh that's interesting. So I don't have an interest in religion. I'd like to hear more about it sometime Oh, okay. Yeah, yeah, that's that's really it's you know. Uh yeah, I used to be a an altar boy at Mass and stuff, but I I don't believe in that anymore. I don't believe in God. I don't but but that's interesting. You're starting uh I'd love to hear about it And uh, you know, has them different conversations. There's a need to actually be able to explain the gospel and the biblical gospel to people who, at least intellectually at some level, are ready to hear it if it's presented in a respectful manner and with substantive um if I can use the word reasoning or argumentation or behind it. Now that I mean biblical reasoning, but still most people think that the Christianity is either what they see in the Roman Catholic Church The modern Roman Catholic Church, which is, be a nice person, and God will save everybody who's nice. We're pretty sure, because we're pretty sure he's there, we think. And he's nice anyway. Or oh those crazy people in America who like handle snakes and stuff I I mean that's pretty much you know the the the the view that people probably have or the bad stuff in the Roman Catholic Church, right, in history that that has happened, sometimes recent, sometimes the past. The Roman Catholic Church was very allied with the um uh industrial powers in in Belgium who basically oppressed the uh the working classes and oppressed people overseas. So um so people haven't heard the gospel I think that's what I'm trying to say in a nutshell is we look at Europe and we think or very often Americans tend to think they've had the gospel, they rejected it. I go around and I meet these people in Ghent and I think they've never heard the gospel, they don't have a clue what it is Now they might reject it if they hear it, but the issue is much more is the gospel being presented, is it being presented in a way that's actually biblical and biblically balanced, the way that the Lord wants us to present the gospel Instead of some more skewed or corrupt version. So we are a very small church. One family is the core group. That's it. It's Pathetic slash par for the course. Because it's Belgium and you don't have many believers, much less people who wanted to go in to start a reformed church. We meet twice on Sundays. We meet in the mornings. We meet in the afternoons. We have the Lord's Supper every Sunday. I'm preaching currently through the Gospel of John. I preached through the book of Philippians Sunday morning. And in the afternoons, we tend to do a bit shorter, lighter, easier, more topical or catechetical type, catechism type preaching. We sing psalms and hymns in Dutch. And I'm uh as Tom Bradley, I hope bit by bit with time to build up a new a new Psalter in Dutch. That that there's a need for that, I think. But we know that we're there not just for ourselves. We have to reach out. Now we've had one year of COVID. So I got back, we held one church service, and then the COVID regulations hit. And we couldn't meet anymore for a number of months. And then we were only able to meet in a home. And then we could meet in a small chapel for a while, but uh we don't have that at the moment. I'll tell you what the plans are for the future. We know we're there because we need to do evangelization. And after a year of COVID, now is time to start. What I hope to do, and I would really covet your prayers for me to have the strength and perseverance to do it, are the following outreach activities. First of all, an apologetics website There are a few Apollox websites in Dutch that are from the Netherlands. But there's nothing that's more specifically Belgian-based, Belgian-focused. And um something that would be how shall I put this? Um accessible, not overwhelming. Aimed at a certain level of intellectual curiosity and desire to understand that the Bible is true on the one hand, without going too far, but giving deep resources and also presenting the reformed gospel to people. As part of that website, what I would hope to do is have study courses. So there's a book, let's say on the resurrection, or you can study a book of the Bible. Here are resources, here's a little study guide you can follow. And you can do it on your own if you want. Or here's an option to go through the course being um helped along by email. So, you know, write this email address, we'll agree. You know, every week, every two weeks, shoot an email, tell us what you've been talking about, what your questions are, we'll write back Or it could be we go out for coffee three times during the course if you're reading this book. You talk about your questions, you know, and get answers. Again, linked to that, there is a public market. It's called the Friday market, the Freydachmarkt, and uh every Friday, every Saturday there's a market, and all sorts of stuff is sold. Um we could go and put a book table out there. and sell books that would be both directly apologetical, the case for the resurrection, least robo-type stuff. And stuff that's just more generally interesting and fun, history of Protestantism in Belgium, or something about the Protestant background in the city of Ghent Or uh even some more types of fun fun stuff. That that's that's linked, cultural apologetics if you will. Um things that that people say, oh that's interesting, and it doesn't feel overly direct to them. Intelligence won't react well with a yes ma'am. Are these books all written in or are you going to write? No, I don't plan to write any books. Um they are already written. The question is whether they're in Dutch or not. Translate. Um I would like to ideally, yes. That's for a stage down the road in that as I begin to raise funds, um I don't think resource funding could be allocated to that until we really have some more fundraising. But yes, yes, somewhat. There are is there are some good things in Dutch, some good things in Dutch already translated. And also it's okay to sell English and French books there, because enough people speak English or French that that will work So yeah, good question. And then link to that again in those books, you sell some of the books that you're pushing on on the apologetics website, and you give the link back. So try and integrate everything, make it organic. Aside from that, I want to do a lecture series. That's probably the easiest place to start just have people come and give some lectures on things like I've got a friend who teaches business ethics at a Christian college, he's written a book on the subject Have them come over, teach about business ethics. It's not a pushing of the gospel, but from a Christian standpoint, but you can benefit from this if you're not a Christian And it's open to you. Maybe link that to having a professor come down from the Netherlands to speak about how the Protestant Reformation influenced the work ethic of Western Europe. Things like that. There's a guy in Germany I know who I'd like to come and lecture on Augustine. For those people in Belgium who are interested in their history and background and culture, they'll think, okay, that's interesting, something on Augustine. And it's just a lecture history, culture, but I know also get to explain how Augustine became a Christian. So those are the ideas for outreach. There are a few more. I think there's a way to do public preaching even though proselytacy is is outlawed. But it if you have to be very careful about it. There I would like to um do a parish approach, focus on a neighborhood and neighborhood approach. So there's a place we want to land in the city and try to map out an area. Other ideas, but that's kind of an overview of What I would like to do, Lord willing, for evangelization, and as I say it, it sounds crazy to me, so I would appreciate your prayers. There's a lot of work that needs to be done to make those nice ideas come to reality I want to tell you just a little bit about how I got to Ghent. I'm from a missionary family. My dad's from northern New York and went overseas for two years with a group called Operation Mobilization. They have ships. that go around the world and sell Christian books and they have tracking teams. He was in Turkey with a team that did um clandestine tracking at night and everybody got arrested and thrown in jail, but he didn't get thrown in jail. Everybody else did. He came back from his experiences wanting to be a missionary to the Muslim world that morphed to the place where we as a family went to Turkey in 1998. I had just graduated high school. So I studied at the University of Istanbul, I studied Persian language and literature, I studied Arabic as part of that, I studied in Turkish. I thought I would be going back to Turkey, but I ended up going to Belgium. My parents had moved to Belgium Um because my dad's job expanded. My parents are admission to the world, the denominational missions agency, and I was for a little while. I'm not anymore. I'm just under my Presbytery But um yeah, so they uh they they had brought a Turkish pastor to Belgium and I knew I was going back somehow into missions. I wasn't sure how, and I ended up going over to support him in Ghent, Belgium in 2009 So I really went there for a Turkish work. That man, Marat, is one of my closest friends. He's supportive of what I'm doing. I still hope to support him in the future. He has a small congregation of three or four families. who are um Muslim converts but from a very soft Islamic background. They're Bulgarians, but they're Turkish Bulgarians. And that's another story in and of itself. But basically I come from a missionary family and uh through them ended up getting over to Belgium. Lastly, as I am more or less on Bradley's half-hour time limit, I've got a couple minutes left. I can keep going. That's my friend. Uh the last point is I want to talk about the need for ministry partners. Um ministry partners, people to support me. people to support the work. That's something that's in the Lord's hands, uh who he brings to support a work and how. And for churches like yourselves that's a part of wisdom and following the Lord to know where to connect and and how to connect. But it's it's my job to give you the pitch. So, you know. Um there are there are various financial needs, which are the lesser ones, but we'll start with the lesser needs. I'm still working to raise my own personal salary And I'm probably in the neighborhood of 50% of what has been approved by my Presbyterian session. There's a need for one-time funding for these evangelistic projects So um you know if I'm gonna fly a prof over from the United States, may or may not need to put them up at a hotel, rent a hall Probably, you know, a few little coffee, this and that, the other. I mean I don't know how much it is. I've done run the numbers at some point, but you know it's gonna cost me a thousand five hundred probably. If we're going to have a book table, that's going to be costing more. I'm probably looking at $6,000 to be able to get up a book table up and going. So at any rate I I'm I'm putting those numbers together, but there are one-time needs for churches to support evangelism happening. And the nice thing is it can be done on a one-time basis. The biggest need right now is we in the Turkish congregation are seeking to, we're probably 90% of the way to an agreement that we're going to go in together to rent a space for worship. Neither of us has enough money on our own, but if we combine forces, we can rent a storefront probably uh downtown, and we can have worship space on Sunday. And we can have a point to use for getting together with people, for having these sorts of lectures, that sort of stuff midweek. Um, you know, if you need to meet up with someone, have have coffee. So The Turkish pastor is meeting with a Turkish guy who is interested in Christianity. No, he might be a professing Christian even, um, but he's in some psychic institution, some psych institution somewhere else in in the country and he he's allowed to go and leave, but he can't actually go into anybody's house. And so Murat was saying w I really need a place like this to be able to meet with him. Um so that's that's the most pressing need at the moment. Um The greater need is, of course, for prayer. And um I think what I would say is Springboarding off of the passage that Bradley read, the kind of supportive relationships that Paul is talking about that he had with the Philippians, and that Bradley was exhorting us to. So when Paul writes in verse 7, it is right for me to feel this way about you all, because I hold you in my heart. For you are all partakers with me of grace, both in my imprisonment and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel. And if memory serves, the word in Greek is not imprisonment, but that's the translation changing it because it says chains. So Paul is saying we're partners in the ch in you are partners in my chains and in the defense of the gospel, and I love you from the heart. And they loved him back. My family had a church when we were support raising in um in Georgia, a little ways south of where we lived, and that church loved on us as we were support raising. And it was a it was a haven of rest and it was a place to go to where we were buoyed up. Different churches have different roles for different people, but I need churches like that. So when we were support raising, my one thing my mom would would would say was William Carey apparently said this to his his supporting churches in England as he was seeking to go to India. I'll go down into the pit. If you'll hold the ropes. I need churches to hold the ropes. And if I don't have churches to hold the ropes, I'm probably not going to make it over the long haul in Belgium Uh that may or may not be you, but my request to you all would be that you consider whether it might be you. In terms of praying for me, I can give you a website that gives you a bit more information. Uh it's nothing fancy, but you can get a little feel for Belgium on it. And if you're on Facebook The best way I do prayer updates right now is a a private Facebook group that we post stuff to, uh me and the core family. And I you can give me your email address, I can put you on a list, and hopefully at some point I'll get a prayer letter out. I'm very terrible at it and I'm seeking to improve. If you're one of the people who's a good encourager, you can come and take it on. You can talk to me and say, Matt, do you want me to encourage you to get prayer letters out? And I'll say yes. And then you can be faithful in getting on my case. I'm happy to have somebody do that. Uh that's your personal spiritual gift and calling from the Lord. I'm going to close just with a few prayer requests that I had written down. Um most of them parallel. I was pleased to see what I already put in the bulletin The first is strength to persevere. So I've been at it for one year, so far so good, but uh some of you may know the joke. What was the movie? It was the Western made off of the seven the magnificent seven. It's not Jimmy Stewart, it's the other guy. He's he' he he's he's he's you know they're they're they're they're these these Western gunslingers are seeking to defend these poor Mexican peasants against the Mexican bandits. It's a hopeless situation. And you know the one guy says it's oh so far nothing matters happening. He's like, Yeah. It's like the guy who said to fell fell out of the ten story building. Oh what's that? Every floor he passed he heard him say, So far so good. So far so good. So far so good That's what I feel like right now. One year into it. So far so good. On the way down. So um strength to persevere, just just to hang in there. Secondly, that people will be added to our core group, that we'd have more than just one family. We'd have a few other people who come and say, yeah, we're committed to this idea. We want to be part of a core group to build this church up. Um another impossible idea, pray that there would be more missionaries. I do have some level of support network there because I've been in the city a long time, but pray that there would be other men somehow would come and join me. Um that is needed. Pray of course for outreach, that these things that I've outlined can actually happen, and pray for conversions. We have a lot of people that we talk with about the gospel. Um some of them are crazy people. Interesting stories. But I think that within what Bradley said applies with regard to the prophet Jonah and Nineveh, that there's no one outside of God's grace. Pray that we get the rental space and pray for the next five weeks as I'm four weeks as I'm in the U. S. seeking to do support raising. I'm here afterwards for some lovely spaghetti and uh we'll be happy to answer any questions. Um it really is a joy to be here and I hope that's been encouraging to you to hear something about the kingdom overseas. So thanks for listening. Thank you, Matt. Since uh we were going to have some time to do our prayer meeting, but I think it'd be appropriate if I just take this time. and pray for all of us, praying for Matt and for his ministry. And we will do this together now. Let us pray. Our Father in heaven, we come to you knowing that you already know all the things that we could possibly ask for. And we know that you are able to do even more than we could possibly ask. And so we come trusting in who you are, in your amazing love and your grace. And we say, hallowed be your name. And so in praying that your name would be hallowed, we ask that you would enable Matt and this core family. To when they gather on your day twice that they would be glorifying you. We pray that this core family, the husband and wife, in their relationship with each other, that they would glorify you, and that these children As they learn what it is to be part of a Christian family would glorify you. And we pray that you would enable Ghent. to glorify you, and we know that there is only way for that to happen, and that is for your kingdom to come to Ghent. We ask, Lord, that those who have been asleep would be awakened. That you would conquer Satan and his kingdom there, and that those who would seek to do harm to Christians or to the gospel would be silenced Were eliminated. We pray, Father, that your kingdom would be hastened. And we pray that we would see the fruit of your kingdom in truly converted hearts, that there would be Christians in Belgium that would be part of this labor that Matt is working. We do pray that your will would be done on earth as it is in heaven. And in doing that we pray That you would give us the ability and the desire to know and obey and submit to your will in all things. So we pray for Matt that he would submit to you and your will in all things. That he would submit to you in his ministry opportunities and in his personal relations, that he would submit to you in your choice of which churches will hold the ropes. We pray that the people that he ministers to will submit to his authority through you. And that his core group of people would grow, and that they would want to know and obey and submit to you, that the witness of their lives and the light that shines through them because of you. Would enlighten many in that area and in that city. Father, as we pray, give us this day our daily bread, we pray that you would indeed provide all that Matt needs for his physical sustenance. We pray for also his friend Marat and for that Turkish church, and we pray, Lord, knowing that there is much more difficulty than we could possibly imagine ministering in that situation. Please sustain them with the the finances that they need, with the safety, with the health. That will allow them to carry on the good work to which you have called them. We pray, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And we know that what that means is that people need you. We need you to redeem and transform us. We need you, Lord, to redeem and transform peoples. In Ghent. We ask that you would do this through the ministry of Matthew. That you would give him great power and boldness to speak the truth of the gospel to those that he speaks with And Lord, let him be wise as a serpent. I have already heard from him in these past days and tonight again that he really understands the people of Belgium. And he really understands what it is that will give your good news a hearing. Father. We pray, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. And we pray, forgive us our debts and forgive our debtors. In these ways, we pray, Lord. That you would be working not only in Matt to give him wisdom in how to speak and to preach and to teach. But that he would not harbor in his own heart any resentment against those who perhaps take up his time. And yet do not show the fruit. We pray, Lord, that you would not allow him to be tempted to give up on what is this good work that you have laid before him since before the foundation of the world. But indeed deliver him from the evil one as he ministers in areas that are surrounded by false religions, even false gospels. We pray that he would never be tempted to think you unkind. Or to think you not generous, or to think that you somehow don't love the people of Ghent or the Belgians We pray, Lord, that he would not be tempted as Jonah was to despise the people to whom you have called him. But Lord, rather we pray that you would give him great love for his immediate community, that family that relies on him. the future families that you will bring to him, and all those people who will flock to his church because they will see people living in a way that is different than the rest of the world. Living in a way that glorifies you. And so, Father, we know that yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory, and you will give yourself glory in Ghent. And you have the power to do it, and your kingdom will come to Belgium. We know this is true, for you have given the world Jesus Christ. And in Jesus Christ, you have given to Belgium Matt Lamus. We thank you, Father, for him and pray for his ministry. And we ask that you would indeed deliver to him his heart's desire, which is a Christian center and Christian city in Ghent. Lord, you are awesome, and we love you, and we pray in the name of your Son, our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Thank you, everyone. You are dismissed to deliciousness.