And our reading this morning is eleven through sixteen. But you, O man of God, free these things and pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, gentleness. Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life to which you were also called and have confessed the good confession in the presence of many witnesses I urge you in the sight of God who gives life to all things, and before Christ Jesus, who witnessed the good confession before Pontius Pilate, that you keep this commandment without spot, blameless, until our Lord Jesus Christ's appearing. which he will manifest in his own time, he who is the blessed and only potentate, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, who alone has immortality, dwelling in unapproachable light whom no man has seen or can see, to whom be honor and everlasting power. Amen. Let us pray. O Christ, I pray that you'd work among your congregation through the preached word this morning. Lord, above all, I pray that our honor for you would grow. And I pray, Lord, that with the wisdom you've given us from your word, we would honor you. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. This is going to be a two-parter. I believe we start Advent next week, Bradley. Is that correct? So we'll come back to this after the Advent season is over. And I want to divide this passage up into two parts. I want to focus more on the the uh end of this passage for part two. This week we'll focus Mostly on the first part, uh, because we're at the heart of really what Timothy has to say, especially in the second part. If you remember from last week We had another statement about what it means to be a healthy church, and it was this. A healthy church avoids inordinate desires. Now that was a really general way of a particular point that Paul was making to Timothy. But as a church who is healthy, we would by the grace of the Holy Spirit keep our love for God. Above our desire for all other kinds of goods. Obviously, we would keep it above evils. But even created goods are lower than our love for God. To help us along with that, we must learn to freely submit to and delight in God's wise and fatherly arrangement of our lives. And we must not take the bait. If you remember the corn example from the deer, we must not become captive to the will of the devil, but instead remember the words of Jesus in Matthew 6, verse 24. No one can serve two masters, for thee either will hate the one and love the other, or else will be loyal to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon or money. Now, continuing in similar lines of thought, I have a few observations for you this morning with Paul giving further commands to Timothy. So let's take a look at our passage 11 through 16 together. There are different commands that Paul gives to Timothy before he gets to the doxology at the end there. Where we all said amen together. There are different commands that Paul gives to Timothy that really structure this passage. That's good for you to know, especially if you want to talk about this over lunch. It divides it up well. So, for example, in verse 11, we see two commands there. I'm going to just keep that as one point. We see Paul telling Timothy to flee in verse 11 All of the practices of the false guides. If you remember, this is the discussion we've been having from the beginning, is about these false guides. Timothy needs to flee that, but he doesn't just tell him what to take off. He also shows Timothy with another command what to t put on, and that's where he says instead Timothy is to pursue A virtuous life, and you can see the list there in that verse that includes righteousness, godliness. That's the word for piety, by the way. Faith, love, patience, and gentleness. And many people group these six virtues into groups of two The first two focusing on how we should relate to God, the second two on how we should relate to each other as brothers and sisters in Christ, and the third on how we should relate to a hostile world. I think there's a lot to say for that So that's the first observation, and that gives you a real sense here of dividing up the passage according to these commands. But there's more commands to that than that, and so this leads us to our second observation. The next two commands are for Timothy to fight the good fight of faith and to lay hold of or onto eternal life. Now the rest of the verse, you know, what does he mean by all that? Fight the good fight of faith and lay hold of eternal life. The rest of the verse there clarifies, at least in part, what he means Timothy, I want you to picture Timothy for a moment as a young man who is recognized to have a calling from the Lord to serve over a congregation. And he's at his ordination service. And there are a series of vows that are being read to him. And he is telling before the whole congregation and God, yes, I commit to these vows. I make this confession before this people. There's something like that going on here that Paul is bringing up within the passage. Timothy made a confession at his ordination to serve Christ. by serving the church. And fighting the good fight involves all that is necessary in order to complete that mission that has been given to him. Now when we get to the command lay hold of, the idea there is that Paul is setting something out in front of Timothy that he doesn't have yet that he's to grab. He's to work hard to lay hold of it. It's it's um it reminds me of when Paul talks about running, when he says, I'm gonna run the race into the finish line. So lay hold of the finish line that Lay hold of that quality of life that Christ has for you. Lay hold of those words from Jesus Christ, Well done, my good and faithful servant. But the point is that he would persevere in the race, that he would and it goes along with that first imperative, keep fighting that good fight all the way to the end If you're in a race, you've got to keep up with the laps. We are not to the finish line yet. The reward is a crown of eternal life. And rewards from your Savior. That's the sense of what's going on here, where Timothy would look out and see Christ at his appearing, and Christ saying to him, Well done, my servant, enter into my rest. Well, this brings us to the third observation, and it brings us naturally into thinking about Jesus and to his future return as a primary motivation for our lives and for Timothy. He actually brings up in verse 13, you'll notice, that uh Timothy made a confession and a resolve to work for the church. And now look at the ultimate which is Christ who has made the confession before Pontius Pilate. Here we see Christ not we see Christ not giving up the faith, but carrying forward his mission that the Father had handed down to him. And Timothy must strive to be a soldier like Christ himself. And Christ Himself will return looking for his faithful soldiers. And Timothy must remember this, seeking to be like his commander, and waiting for him as a good servant. You'll notice the language there of blameless or without spot. He is to be blameless in keeping this charge that is given to him as a church planner until our Lord Jesus Christ's appearing. And I'll make one more observation also You can see where he's leading. You have Paul giving these commands to flee and to pursue this this resolve that he made within his vows, and this brings up Christ and how he completed his mission. And then you can see as soon as there's the thought of Christ returning and his appearing, that there's this thought of the final glory of all things coming together. That Paul wants to instill in Timothy what we've been saying all along, to take the fifth commandment seriously. And if you do, you'll find at the bottom of the fifth commandment, the third commandment. And if you keep pursuing the third commandment, you'll get into the first commandment. And then that brings him into this, where he all he can do is just sh uh recite to Timothy who God is and what he is accomplishing. That brings us to that final doxological part, that with deeply held devotion to God, Timothy must bear God's name with honor, bringing honor to his heavenly Father. And then he just breaks out into praise. He who is the blessed and only potentate, the king of kings and the lord of lords. who alone has immortality, dwelling in unapproachable light, whom no man has seen or can see, to whom be honor and everlasting power. Amen Now we'll get into this when we get back to this series, but that's the trick in serving God is getting those first four commandments right And holding him in honor, especially with the first and the third, if you're truly going to fulfill your mission. Well, we'll talk about that in another time. I want to focus on the first part. And so we have a very uh easy doctrine to remember this morning, and it's this A healthy church fights the good fight of faith. In the ways that I've spoken of. It's not just fighting for doctrine only. I'm talking about the whole thing. A healthy church fights the good fight of faith. And so I want to look at that under two main parts: a guiding parable and a guiding principle. A guiding parable and a guiding principle. A healthy church fights the good fight of faith. Now When I was reading this passage and doing the work on it, one of the first thoughts that I had was, wow, there are a lot of pieces going on here. There's just a lot of different stuff, especially when you get into lists of virtues. You just wonder what are you supposed to do with all of these different pieces? And I think that that can create a sense of being overwhelmed when you're trying to read this So I just want to point out very quickly that if you want to talk about this passage over lunch today or if you want to review it later this week, I think a great way To make sure that you're framing this passage correctly is to read it alongside of a parable of the good steward. Specifically for Matthew chapter 24. There are several parables there and in Luke about stewards, and you're going to want to read those. Those are really helpful, and they're all framing what's going on here. I wonder if that's exactly what's on Paul's mind are these parables as he's speaking to Timothy. Now let me read it to you what the parable is Who then is a faithful and wise servant, whom his master made ruler over his household, to give them food in due season Blessed is that servant whom his master, when he comes, will find so doing. Assuredly I say to you that he will make him ruler over all his goods. And it goes on from there. I've cut out a lot, but you can see this parable of what it means to be a good steward. But did you catch that little phrasing there? Did anything in that passage itself sound familiar to you? Let me read the part again. To give them food in due season. I know there's some children here that that know what that is. To give him food in due season. That is a um uh a reference to at least two Psalms, Psalm one forty-five and psalm one o four. And that, therefore, is another part that is supposed to frame our passage with Timothy today. If we had time to study this parable, you'd see that Jesus has Psalm 145 and 104 in mind. And Psalm 104 says a bunch of things like this. He, God, causes the grass to grow for the cattle and vegetation for the service of man. It presents a picture of God taking his responsibility as provider seriously and shows us what it means to be like our Father who is in heaven. And so if you want to mix those different verses or hold those different verses together in front of our passage today, you could do that and you could look at that list of virtues and not be confused You can say, well what's what is he ultimately getting at by listing these six virtues? He's getting at what it's going to take for me to be like my Father who is in heaven, as he is reflected within Psalm 145 and Psalm 104. And there is a profound theology behind this of what it means to exist in the image of God. For you to be like your father who is in heaven, and that it's pointed out specifically that he is one who is provider or or has providential actions over all cosmos The syllogism that you could set up is that you too are in your own way and under him a providential being just like him. And so if you go through the scriptures to look at what does it mean for God to act in his providence, you would discover clues as to what it means for you to act with agency in your particular providence. It means that you have been given a tremendous amount of responsibility. to take care of those things and those people that are a part of your life, and that your Heavenly Father is an example for how you are to do so. That means the shaping and the forming of your character in line with that particular duties that you have before you, which will require you to be virtuous. Those are some of the things that are underneath of that list of pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience. Fight the good fight of faith, which implies a kind of courage that must be present. Lay hold on eternal life to which you were also called and have confessed, and keep your confession You can see here that the image of God uh underlies all of this. I mean just ask yourself What commitment would you need to have in the face of opposition in order to be the kind of servant that Jesus commends and that imitates divine providence? Whatever the answer is, that's the s that's the kind of servant that God is calling you. To be. It is the kind of servant that Paul was calling Timothy to be. And so I'd encourage you to use that parable as a guiding parable. Matthew 24, Psalm 104, Psalm 145. Now there's not only a guiding parable, but there is a guiding principle. I want you to think about what's being said here, because it does not exist well with some of the ways that we conduct ourselves within the church or how we decide to talk about things. I have at different times in my life said, well, if I ever want to be discouraged, I'll just join the church. But that is not the picture that we have here within the scriptures. What we have is one man, Paul. Speaking to Timothy in such a way to where he would need to be pumped up and encouraged in order to be able to complete his race and his mission. And this leads us into a kind of general principles. If we are soldiers seeking to serve the Lord till he returns, we must make sure that we are strengthening. And we are not weakening each other. Let me just give you a picture for a moment because we do the wrong thing in the Christian life, but then we do the right thing in other activities. But let me talk about a wrong thing in athletics. Can you imagine just imagine with me for a moment a track meeter? I've been to a couple. And uh the ones that I was able to make, I'd try to line myself up. Uh, or if I was at a football game, I'd try to line myself up and to encourage them when they come running by. But could you imagine me there with a like a bullhorn and as they run by I'm like uh nice drive where'd you you know where'd you learn how to run? Or um, you might as well give up now. It's not even worth it. Or um, you know, you come up with it. What are some horrible things that we could say to each other on the um On the athletic field. And that gives us the principle, the guiding principle that we have. We must make sure that we are strengthening and not weakening each other. And this can become very difficult. Now, I want to give you two examples of this guiding principle. And the first example, I've said these kind of things before, but I'm going to say it again because I still find that it's pervasive among people. The first way in which we can discourage our s our the first way is that we can discourage ourselves. These are guiding principles to make sure that we can fight the good fight of faith. I've given you a guiding parable. Now I'm giving you guiding principles. There's many more, but we're just going to do two. The first thing that can happen is that we can discourage ourselves. We have got to be careful with our inner dialogue. The most difficult thing about the inner dialogue is that you just think you're always telling yourself the truth, but most of the time you're lying to yourself. When I speak with folks and they answer uh questions that I would give to them, like Um how is it going? What are the kinds of things that you've been saying to yourself lately? They when they tell me what they say to themselves, it is horrific. They are hypercritical. Let me just put it this way. We are hypercritical of ourselves. And our inner according to our inner evaluations, we never do anything right. The inner voice tells us Here's some I mean you go ahead and and put on your sermon notes, continue the list if you want. You're fat You're ugly. You're stupid. You're a terrible mother. You know those mom guilt feelings you have? Well, thank God you do, because you're the worst. You're a terrible father. How much more could you be doing that you're not doing? Only thing you know how to do is program the remote. You're worthless. No one could ever love you. God is extremely patient, and that's the only reason why He puts up with you Those are some of the things that have actually been said to me that people think, and I've had some of those thoughts myself, and I wonder if you've had some of those thoughts and more. Now this is what I want to do, and I I've done this before, but now just imagine you heard all those different things, all those different statements that the inner evaluator makes, right? I want you to take that spirit and I want you to make it a real person. And I want you to hang out with that person for the day. And they say those things to you whenever you're doing stuff. You're trying to make dinner for your family. You are worthless. Let me just ask you: how long would you remain friends with that person? I mean they would be out of my house quick and not invited back. It would just be bad news. But instead, we implicitly trust the voice and we take the things that it says to heart. And many of us, this is the whole point for this first one, many of us will need to change that if we're going to fight the good fight. Now this isn't exactly a Christian thing to do, but what I've tried to do is to start looking at, okay, well, who are people that have good inner talk? And I find that it's competitive, high-performance athletes and Navy SEAELs. They're just the coolest So I listen to what they say to each other, how they talk to each other. When they make a mistake, how do they process it? And I think that they're more on the track of what Christ intends than many of the inner conversations that we have. If you make a mistake, it reveals a weakness so that you can attack the weakness and become stronger. That's what David Goggins would say. Those of you who know him, or if you had a SEAL mentality. So we need to stop listening to those inner evaluations because it will drag us down and we will not be able to finish the race. How do you, Christians, speak to yourself? Perhaps this is the first time you've realized you actually have an inner dialogue and that it's saying things to you that are not true. Let me just put it this way. Is it the way that Jesus Christ would speak to you if he were physically present with you now? If you don't know, then you can talk to me, and we can figure out exactly what Jesus Christ would say to you. But be careful of that inner talk. That's the first example. The second example is this. We can discourage each other even with scripture. And we can especially do this with our understanding that God has given to us about our knowledge of sin. You know, you have to ask the question of why does God give us the knowledge of sin within the scriptures? Is it so that you feel like a jerk all day long? Is it so that you're demotivated and don't want to finish the race? I mean obviously not, but we often mislocate our doctrines of sin. Due to the reality of the pervasive nature of our sinfulness, for example, we seem afraid to commend each other that we have actually done something good. I've had folks come to me telling me that, I say, you did a great job. No, I'm just a sinner. And I'm thinking, well, hold on, I get it. You're trying to honor. a reformed tradition with regard to sin, but you're actually not doing a great job at it. You need to give credit to the work that Jesus Christ is doing within you. And you need to hold that alongside of our doctrines of sin. It seems that some of us believe that if we give credit or commend anyone, especially our children, that we are denying in some way or betraying the doctrine of total depravity. But let me tell you right now that that is false piety. It is false piety for you to walk around always hanging your head because you're such great sinners living before a holy God. Do you really think that's God's intent in telling you that you're a sinner? So that you would always just hang your head and not do anything but feel sad? Let me ask you, do you think that God makes you aware of your sin and its pervasive nature so that you can always feel beat down, depressed, and without agency? Is that what He's up to? When I look at the scriptures and I can see God most clearly with God in the flesh, I do not see Jesus Christ doing that to people. I want you to stop and think about Jesus for a moment. And I would love it. It's on your free time. If you could just look at, go start going through the Gospels and look at how Jesus interacts with people. When he tells them about their sin, why is he doing it? What is the situation? Why is he talking like that? What are his end goals and aims? Is he trying to bring death or is he trying to bring life? When Jesus confronted people in their sins, my argument to you is this: He did it so that they had the opportunity to become stronger. He confronted those who didn't think that they had any sin. So we need them to see that they did, so that they could become stronger by submitting to God in the way that God wants them to submit, to move them out of their pride. That's him making them stronger. He confronted his disciples who already repented unto life with their ongoing sin Because he wanted them to serve like strong soldiers, not sit around in uh burlap bags all day in penitence The premier example for me is Peter's denial. Give Peter's denial during my charge and my ordination. And think about how Christ dealt with Peter there. Peter had just betrayed Jesus Christ. After he said that he would not. And Christ says to him, Peter, do you love me? Now, why did Christ ask him that question? You have to make up your mind. Go back and look at the passage. When Jesus was talking to Peter, and he says, Do you love me? Was it to embarrass him in front of all of his friends? Only? Maybe there was some embarrassment, because there should have been. But was that his end goal? Oh, I see you're embarrassed now. We can stop talking. Or did he have something else in mind? Of course, Jesus Christ had something else in mind, because he brings life. He doesn't bring death with his words. When he speaks, things come to life. He said, Peter, do you love me? And he kept repeating it until it was unbearable for Peter so that Peter would become stronger because he knew what Peter would have to face. It was for Peter to look at his betrayal, which was in the past now, by the way, and we don't need to keep talking about it. And to resolve to not do that again. And Peter was going to go on to have people that were dead set against him. He was going to have to speak in front of the Sanhedrin. He's going to be his life is going to be threatened day in and day out. He's going to have to stand when other people fall And that's why Jesus Christ did that, so that that man would be strong and able to serve him after his ascension. So that Peter would be able to strive on with purity of heart, serving his Lord in the midst of criticism and threats. And so that really brings us to have our own thoughts about ourselves and our relationships. I want you to think for a moment. Are you an encouragement or are you a discouragement? And really, what I'm asking there is: are you an encourager or are you just a discourager? It is really easy to just be a discourager. There's like 101 reasons to just lay in the people, and you have no idea about any ultimate aim except that you are inconvenienced And you are annoyed. And especially this one, you're hurt, so you you bang back And we have got to be careful if we are ready to accept the word this morning, brothers and sisters, if you are ready to accept the word from Jesus Christ this morning. That you are in a race and you are soldiers, you have got to be careful in how you are talking to yourself and how you are talking to each other. We have got to look at soldiers or high-performance athletes and see how do they encourage each other to keep going on the race. Now there's a flip side to this. I could see it now. Someone who is in sin and doesn't want to change. You go to them and you point out the sin and then they bring up my sermon saying, you're a discourager. And this is what I have to say to you who are in sin, who you over and over again just refuse to listen to people That's not the right that's not what I'm encouraging either. You need to stop being so sensitive. People are not out to get you, they're trying to help you. If you're wondering if the person is really out to get you or not, you could ask me and I'll help you evaluate. But even if they are, take what they say, keep the good, and leave the bad. Just stop using sermons and your knowledge of Scripture as a cloak to keep from making any changes in your life. I'm not encouraging that either this morning. Here's the question that we have to ask whenever we're working with people. And it might mean that you have to keep your mouth shut longer than you normally do. When you speak to the people around you, are you saying the words so that they succeed? Or are you just annoyed with them? Are they just an inconvenience? Do you just have a short amount of time and you don't have time to deal with their stuff? Or do you want them to really succeed? Imagine yourself as a parent standing on that cross-country course. What are you going to say when you c see them coming up around the bend? How are you going to get them all the way to the finish line? That is what we have to ask for each other. I'll give you one other thing that hopefully will bring clarity to this second point. I don't remember if it was last week or if it was a couple weeks before all my sermons just kind of blend together But I remember saying that, well quoting Isaiah to you, saying that the Lord has given me the tongue of the learned, that I should know how to speak a word in season to him who is weary. Do you remember that And when I said it to you, I saw a huge percentage of the congregation nodding, saying, yes, thank God Christ works with us that way. And then I heard one person say, that's beautiful. And it is beautiful. And my argument to you then was that though Christ be in heaven, he has given officers to speak his word to those who are weary here on earth. But my point to you this morning is that it's not just officers. This Isaiah passage has everything to do with how you speak to each other also. If you have been given the Holy Spirit to be a person who encourages the people that are sitting next to you to keep on in the race, to fight the good fight of faith, then this verse is for you. That you would have the tongue of the learned, that you would know how to speak a word in season to him who is weary. Take weary there as they're not getting around the track very well, and we've got to get them to the finish line. So I wonder what it will look like for you to reform your way of thinking and your way of speaking to each other. If we are going to be a healthy church which fights the good fight of faith, we must remember our guiding parable and our guiding principle. And may we keep the words of Paul in our hearts. I want to give you a passage that has been dear to me. It helps me to know how to relate to my sin. It's another piece that helps me to further relate to my sin. Philippians chapter 3, verses 13 through 14. Brethren, I do not count myself to have apprehended, but one thing I do forgetting those things which are behind. And reaching forward to those things which are ahead, I press towards the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. What if you had the same mentality with yourself and with others that we leave things behind because the point is that we'd finish the race together? I assure you, striving for our great master and commander, the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, is totally worth it. Let us pray together. Father, we thank you that you frame our lives by the life of a soldier. And that you frame our lives by the model of fighting and the model of a race. It helps us to know how we are to speak to ourselves and how we are to speak to others. We pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would give us self-control and that you would give us wisdom so we know what words to speak. Lord, it is very difficult. We pray that you would not just let us consign people to their sin by remaining silent when we should talk. We pray, Lord, that when we do speak, it will be the time to speak, and that the words would bring life and not death I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, for your congregation. There are many fads and theological trends which are misplaced and missituated that lead people into disaster. I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would make us a congregation that realizes their agency, that they are able to act as providential beings. That they have responsibility, and none of that contradicts total depravity or God's sovereignty. I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would give us power and that we would use our power for good Ask these things in your name. Amen. Memph