I charge you therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who will judge the living and the dead at his appearing in his kingdom, preach the word. Be ready in season and out of season, convince, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and teaching. For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. But according to their own desires, because they have itching ears, they will heap up for themselves teachers, and they will turn their ears away from the truth and be turned aside to fables But you be watchful in all things. Endure afflictions. Do the work of an evangelist. Fulfill your ministry. Amen. Please pray with me. O Christ, we you are glorified in our dependence upon you. You are our Alpha and Omega, our all-in-all. We ask, Lord Jesus Christ, That you would make your preached word effectual this morning, that it would have power like dynamite, that it would change our hearts. That it would make us more and more human in your image. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Childhood, at least my childhood, was marked at gaining responsibility So that I could have more freedoms, failing in my responsibilities and losing my freedom. I can think of how that happened both on gaining responsibilities with the outside of my parents' house in their property. And I can think of how that happened on the inside of my parents' house and their property. On the outside, I was finally graduated past the daisy Phoebe gun that uh anytime you shoot it sh a shot it, no matter how much, it had an arc. I graduated to a BB gun where you could pump multiple times and it could take a squirrel out of a tree. My father said, just don't do anything dumb with it. And so what did I do? But I didn't know it was dumb at the time just to plead my case. I'm still pleading it I went out front and I thought what harm could it be if I shot at the mailbox across the street? Mailbox was metal. My father came in a little bit later and said, why is the back window of my pickup truck shattered? And I said, I don't know. I just shot at the mailbox. And he put the pieces together. But that was uh one way in which I didn't do a great job with the gun that was entrusted to me Another time was when I wanted my shoes to be a different color, and so in my bedroom without any towels down or newspapers, I just poured bleach on them and destroyed my bedroom carpet. These are examples of not doing well in the things that have been given to you, and it's Paul's major concern as he writes this letter. He wants Timothy to do better than I did with the BB gun. He wants Timothy to do better than I did with the bleach in my bedroom. Because Paul, by Jesus Christ, is entrusting to Timothy the very household of God that is at Ephesus. And what you have been hearing within this letter is Paul pleading, exhorting, convincing, and now in our passage charging Timothy to take this calling seriously. To take this calling seriously. You've seen that it's going to take a lot. There'll be much affliction involved. Timothy was a bit timid to take this on, but nevertheless it was Jesus Christ's call. And that call continues this morning as we look at this passage. We're starting to come to an end here. I don't know if you know it or not, but these are some of Paul's final words that he has written before he is killed or dies. And he's going to continue exhorting Timothy to take up the baton that's being passed to him and to fulfill the ministry. The main thing that the Spirit wants to teach us here in this passage is specifically that whether times are good or bad, You are called to serve Christ. And you are to do so in anticipation of him returning to evaluate your work. Let me say that again. Whether times are good or bad, you are called to serve Christ in anticipation. of his return. That's the take-home for you today, and it's something you could talk about while you're enjoying one of Jeremiah's famous smoked ribs down there at the Meet and Greet. Whether times are good or bad, you are called to serve Christ in anticipation of his return. Now, instead of just announcing points, uh divisions to you, What I'm going to do is we're just going to go through four separate things that are part of this passage together. So the the name of the title children, if you're taking sermon notes, would be point number one. And then point number two, and then point three and point four, and then we know when we get to four, when I'm finishing it, you know our time is done together. So let's just begin with the first main point. But remember what the Spirit wants to teach you is that whether times are good or bad, you are called to serve Christ in anticipation of His return. Here's number one. Number one. Christian, you have a ministry given to you by Jesus Christ. Christian, you have a ministry that is given to you by Jesus Christ. That's the first thing I want you to notice here within this passage. You cannot forget that Christ is our great King. And he is the one that has been given all authority to set up his kingdom. And he does set up his kingdom. He takes great care with his kingdom. And he does so in ways that may surprise you. This is a little bit of background, and then I'll point out to you where I'm getting this from in the passage You have a ministry from Christ because Christ is king. I want you to flip to Ephesians chapter 4, verses 11 and 12, and I want you to keep your finger there. I just want to read something to you And sometimes we forget exactly what's going on here in the background of this letter. How Paul is operating and how he is thinking. If you turn to Ephesians 4, 11 through 12, what has been announced is that the one who has always existed eternally with the Father, namely the Son, has taken upon himself human nature, he has descended and he has done his great work. In being glorified, even raised from the dead, he ascends to heaven But when he does so, he does not forget about his church, but instead it says here in Ephesians 4, he sends gifts to his church. In verses 11 and 12. It says about Christ that he himself, this is Ephesians 4:11 through 12, he himself gave some to be apostles. He gave some to be prophets. He gave some to be evangelists. He gave some to be pastor teachers For the equipping of the saints for the work of ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. And Paul is aware of this This is these are not just words to Paul. This is a reality that Paul has witnessed in his actual experience of everyday life, and which you witness just by the people that are sitting around you right now In the words of Ephesians, Christ gave Paul to be an apostle. And if you look now at our passage in chapter 4, verse 5. You can see that these same parts of Ephesians 4 are present and make sense of verse 5 and the rest of this passage. In verse 5, Christ gave Timothy a ministry. He says, fulfill your ministry. Christ gave Timothy to be an evangelist. One of the very words that we find within Ephesians 4 as one of the gifts that were given from Christ to the church, that the church would be healthy and grow. Paul consequently, and it makes total just common sense here as we look at our letter, that Paul consequently charges Timothy. One last time to preach the word, verse 2, and to fulfill this ministry which Christ gave to him, as we see in Ephesians 4. Now, seeing that reality, seeing what underwrites Paul's thoughts, why is it that Paul writes what he does? Why does he operate the way that he operates? He operates that way because he knows Christ and what Christ is doing. And so that is what's fueling and funding Paul's words to Timothy. And when we see that reality of Christ giving gifts, it helps us to see what lies behind Paul's charge. It helps us to see that not only Timothy has a ministry, but all Christians have a ministry. Christ has not given you to be an apostle, as it says in Ephesians 4. That's not what he poured down on you in gifting. He didn't raise you up to be a prophet. He didn't even raise you up to be an evangelist. He has given some here to be pastor teachers, but there is one thing that is for sure that if you are in Christ and united to him by the Spirit, Christ has given you all a ministry of one sort or another. Do you know what that word ministry means? Sometimes we formalize it, and that can be appropriate. But we can also just mean it in a popular way of speaking. If you were to look at the Greek word, it's the same Greek word we get for deacon. And it just means to serve or to have a service. And that's why Paul's been telling Timothy, you are a servant of the Lord. In service to the Lord. You are enlisted as his soldier serving him. And the same thing can be said about you. Not just to Timothy, though Paul's focus is obviously on Timothy here. It extends out even to you. Actually, did you notice that what I'm saying is included in Ephesians 4? That's why I asked you to keep your finger there. Take a look at Ephesians 4, 11 through 12 again. And you can see, let's just step through this very quickly. And he gave some to be apostles, like Paul. He gave some to be prophets, some evangelists, like Timothy. And he gave some to be pastors and teachers. Why did he give them? For the equipping of the saints. You. Why? What do you need equipping toward? For the work of ministry. Same word that we have in our passage, fulfill your ministry. For the edifying, Christ gave us these people for the edifying of his body. Guess who his body is? You You. All I'm trying to establish here in this very first point is that you Christians all have a ministry from Christ The application of that reality may be given to Timothy, as we see Paul doing. Timothy, fulfill your ministry. It was given to you by Christ. You're an evangelist. Preach the word. The same exhortation could be given to you in your ministries. You have a ministry from Jesus Christ. Paul had a ministry, Timothy had a ministry, you have a ministry. Now, that's the first, that's number one. Now, I wonder if you have the experience in this ministry or service to the Lord of working hard for Jesus Christ, really serving him, and watching the work go well. I heard a story this morning that I won't share the particulars with you, but it was the result of years of prayer. And people making efforts at serving Christ. And after three years, finally Christ brought fruit to the prayers and the efforts And it was beautiful to hear this morning. It was news I really needed to hear. To know that Christ is still working. And I bet you you have some experiences like that. You see lots of fruit. There's seasons like that, right? Yet I wonder if some of you are discouraged now. Because you do not see much fruit or any fruit. You may even just be moving negatively, which would just be things are rotting. And deteriorating and falling apart. And just when you think God wouldn't take more from you, He does take more from you. Instead of giving. It's as if you know that everything is from the hand of the Lord. And yet when you go to Him, His hand feels like this, closed to you I wonder if some of you are having that kind of experience, and I wonder if it has gone on for so long, the apparent closed fists of the Lord, that you are beginning to be more chalant, nonchalant in your conduct, and you're actually starting to have thoughts about quitting, and you're starting maybe even wondering if you should quit. I wonder if that's some of your experience. And that brings us to number two. You could say, wow, Jesse, you're a really Debbie Downer. I'm not a Debbie downer. I'm looking at this passage and don't call me Debbie. Seriously. Who do you think you are? Have some respect. Number two, number two, this is a very important reality for us to understand from this passage is that as you minister, and remember all of you have a ministry. As you minister, guess what? You will face good times and you will face bad times That's pretty common sense, but for whatever reason, we, including myself, we need to remember this truth. Number two, as you minister, you will face good times and bad times You can look down at your passage and you can see that Paul warns Timothy of the different seasons that he will in fact face within his ministry. You can see this in verse 2. Preach the word. Ah, but what's going to happen? Well, everyone's just going to listen to them and start worshiping God. Well, sometimes, but not all the time. And that's why he goes on in that verse. He says, preach the word, but you better be ready. You better be ready in season and out of season. You're going to need to convince, rebuke, exhort, and you are going to need to have all long suffering And you're going to need to instruct lots of instruction over and over and over again. Paul describes the out of season, if you continue to read in verses 3 through 4, he says that there's going to be a time that will come when people will not endorse sound doctrine. It's going to be apostolic and prophetic teaching But according to their own desires, because they have itching ears. I want you to picture a person just itching their ears, and we'll talk about the he'll talk about next what's the thing that relieves the itch They heap up for themselves teachers, and they will turn their ears away from the truth and be turned aside to fables. That's a description of out of season. And you can expect that same kind of thing within your ministry, same kind of thing. Not the exact same thing as Timothy, because he's a preacher and you're not a preacher. You'll face these things differently. You won't be preaching the word in the same way, but you'll have a ministry of the word. These are the problems which preachers face. Different trends and fads and fables. They act like rip currents, pulling people away from Christ. I wonder if you can think of any trends and fads lately. Critical race theory Anachronistic readings of history, diversity, equity, and inclusion. Did you know that there's a rise in Freudian psychoanalysis? Feminism, sodomy, transvestism, all undergirded by gender theory? And then the list goes on And it's not something that is just within the university or within our culture. This is a rip current that pulls in people from the church. Their ears are itchy and then they hear about gender theory and they go, oh, that sounds exactly right. Surely we are out of season. But it's just a season. Timothy is to meet all of those problems with the ordinary preached word. He doesn't have any special arsenal at his disposal Day in and day out, he's to do the faithful work of a minister, convincing, rebuking, exhorting with all longsuffering and instruction. And like Timothy, you will have in-seasons and you will have out-of-seasons with whatever work Christ has laid at your feet. Some of you right now in the domain of family are struggling with the decisions of your children. Some of your children meet the description that we read here in 2 Timothy. They are not content with Christ and his kingdom. They have heard the gospel their whole lives, and when they hear it means nothing to them, they find it distasteful and as if it stinks like a dirty diaper. Their ears itch, but they are not relieved by Christ and his scratching. I mean think about that. Have you ever had a bad case of poison ivy? I mean I remember when I was like 11 years old and my whole body was covered. There was some folk remedy that my grandmother recommended that I get into a bathtub full of tomato juice. Nuh-uh. Not happening. Somebody else told me to rub banana skins on my body? Didn't do that either. But you know what worked You know why, and and they made a song about this, Calamine Lotion. Anybody ever had Calamine Lotion? Still got it. Very good. You remember how good it would feel after itching all day long to finally put on the Calamine lotion and had some kind of magical quality from heaven where you would no longer scratch Well Christ is meant to be that. Christ is hi and his good news of what he's doing with us in his world is meant to go into our ears and down into our heart, and we finally don't have the itch anymore. Early church father Augustine says we are restless until we find our rest in him, and we scratch, we itch until Christ scratches. But the description here says there will be seasons when Christ is rejected as the one who stops the itch. They will instead turn to Freud, of all people, or whoever else happens to be the fad and the popular person at that time. They are only satisfied with the wisdom of this world. And the Spirit tells you this beforehand, as you enter into ministry, as you continue in your ministry. The Spirit tells you that these seasons will come. It is a good reminder that Christ permits good and that Christ permits bad times. If we forget that, we can really get knocked off balance quick. We can get blindsided. Will you please make it a goal to remember that there will not just be good times That there will also be bad times, and that both are from the hand of God, though there is no sin with him. That's number two. We will have in our ministry in seasons and out of seasons. So that's two things. One, you've got a ministry. Number two, you're going to have in-seasons and out-of-seasons. Now, number three. You must fight the battle with the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. You must fight this battle with the Sword of the Spirit. Which is the Word of God. Now, of course, in verse number two, if you take a look down at the scriptures again, Paul charges Timothy to fight the battle this way. How else would a preacher fight? But with the shield of faith And fashioned with the gospel and the sword of the Spirit. And Timothy was a preacher. But God gives you, in your ministry, even if you're not a preacher, he gives you the same sword. Used in a ministry of the word, though not in a preaching of the word. The sword of the Spirit is a teaching from Ephesians. Do you know that? Ephesians chapter 6, right? To whom is he speaking when he says, take up the sword of the Spirit? Is he just speaking to a special individual who's been set aside like an apostle, a prophet, or an evangelist, or a pastor-teacher? Ephesians is addressed, if you look at the very beginning of the book, to all the saints in Ephesus. And in chapter 6, he says, to all you saints, take up the scriptures in the battle. Timothy's mother and grandmother raised Timothy in the Word of God in season and out of season. And so whether it is a good time or a difficult time, parents, grandparents, church members, and you as American citizens who are Christians, you must continue In verse number two, to convince, to rebuke, to exhort, to do so with a ton of patience and constantly instructing people. That is what has been given to you even in the difficult times. Many of you have started off strong in using the word in your ministry. I love seeing those who have the lights come on. And that could happen in different ways. You could have a person, a child who's grown up in the church, the Lord convicts them of sin for whatever reason. It tends to happen around 12 years of age, and the lights go on. And they become excited about Scripture and its usefulness, like we learned last week, its usefulness in their life and the world around them. They feel like they can start to master and have dominion over their environment. They're not clueless any longer. They've got the right set of categories It can happen also where a person was not growing up in the church and the lights just come on by the gift of faith given by Christ in the Spirit. I bet you you've seen both. I bet you've seen them with regular devotional times, enthused, always wanting you to talk about the scriptures with them. Sometimes we refer this to as the cage stage. Where they really are going after everybody like wild animals with their scripture. And they learn to stop being so obnoxious for Christ. But after a while, what tends to happen, because this is a long journey You could watch your child, you could watch your grandchild, you could watch yourself, you could watch your wife, or you could watch your husband begin to not really love the scriptures. And it usually goes for some reason like this. I've tried that and it doesn't work. So, I'm not going to announce this out loud, but subconsciously, I'm going to start using something else that does seem to work. It could be vitamin D3. It could be some other teacher that seems like they have a million and one followers, 12 million followers, and I should be following them. But whatever it is, the scripture is kept sacred like you keep sacred things in a museum, but we don't really believe it's that useful any longer. We conclude the Bible it actually doesn't work. But what we have to say is that's not true. We have to say that, especially if you were here in the last sermon. What you are doing when you say all of those various things, number one, you're probably entertaining the very thoughts of the devil himself. with a kind of spiritual warfare, you're also probably entertaining very unproductive and unhealthy and godless chatter of the indwelling sin and flesh and that crazy old human that's still a part of you. And you are looking through those lenses at your experience and you're saying the Bible doesn't really work. But your lens is wrong. Because there's really only one standard that we have to determine what is actually happening in our lives, and that's the standard of the scriptures. Because this is from God. We talked about that last week. We must listen to God and not to ourselves if one contradicts the other. Do you agree? What did God say through his scriptures last week about his word? He said that it is preeminently useful. Those were the words that he chose. Right there in the earlier chapter, all scripture is given, chapter 3, verse 16. All Scripture is able to make you wise for salvation. All Scripture is given by inspiration of God and is useful or profitable for this, that, and the other thing, which we went through last week. So that way you're reading your experience can't be the right way to read it. You've got the long wrong lens on. When we use the scriptures sometimes, here's the real explanation. We went over it In the earlier point in point number uh two. When you use the scriptures and it does not have ears to hear, You are out of season. That's what that means. It means that you're in a season that people aren't able to hear or willing to hear because they suppress the truth and unrighteousness. And so what do we do in those particular situations? The Apostle Paul says, you do not abandon the scriptures. You don't start saying these things are useless, and I'm going to turn to other resources in order to be able to have a good life. He says, with long suffering, we stick with the same scriptures in hopes that God will grant those people and myself repentance. Take a look at 2 Timothy 2. 25. It's important for us to remember this. Let's start in 24. Think about what's behind this. Here's a servant of the Lord again, which you are. A servant of the Lord must not quarrel, but be gentle to all. You must be able to teach, and you must be patient. It's not as if the scriptures aren't working. They're just not working in the time you think they should work. In humility, you must keep correcting those who are in opposition. Why? Because there's something else going on in the background that you don't have control over, that you can't even see. Spiritual forces waging against spiritual forces And we go into this after the comma, if God perhaps will grant them repentance so that they may know the truth. Well, why don't they know the truth? And why is Pastor Jesse talking so much about spiritual forces? It's the next verse in twenty-six because they need to come to their senses. Why? Because they are snared by the devil himself. They have been taken captive like a little bird in a cage to do his will. It is not that the scriptures are not a mighty sword of the spirit. It is that we are in season sometimes and we are out of season, and when we are out of season, it means that you need to have long-suffering and patience in hopes that God will grant them repentance. Whether it be your children or your grandchildren, your wife, your mother, your father, your husband All of these areas of our ministry. The ministry of the Word will sometimes be out of season. That is no reason to abandon the sword of the Spirit. That is number three. Now, as you begin to see the reality of your ministry, you can easily see that this is not just going to be something that's short-lived. You're going to need to have endurance. And we've been learning that for a long time from the Apostle Paul. You can do all the Bible reading that you want, which will be great. You need to know your scriptures. But there's something left that needs to be intact, and that is that you need to endure afflictions. That's even in our passage here, where he calls to Timothy, but you be watchful in all things, endure afflictions. Did you ever wonder? I mean, this is Paul saying this. Do you ever wonder how Paul kept going? If you were in Paul's sandals. Would you have kept going? Would you have at one point said, I need to do something different. I think I'm called to North up Rummen and not to the ministry in this way Or whatever it is. What was it that kept Paul going? What was it that Paul knew by way of experience that he wanted to pass on to Timothy so that Timothy would keep going? Because boy does this sound like difficult work work where we're going to say things out of season and then there'll be no ears to hear, they just listen to other people, but we still can't give up on the sword of the spirit. We have to with long-suffering instruction keep going. Does Paul give this secret to Timothy? The secret of endurance? He does. And that's number four. And it is this, my brothers and sisters. In order for you to fulfill your ministry in good times and bad times, according to our apostle. You must anticipate the return of Jesus Christ. In order for you to fulfill in good or bad times, You must anticipate the return of Jesus Christ. If you are demotivated, this is where the motivation comes from. That's what Paul says. That's the way Paul worked That's what got Paul out of the bed. That's what got Paul up off of the ground after being stoned. Paul gives Timothy his final charge with dynamite. In verse number one, he says, I charge you therefore, take a look down at verse number one, chapter four, I charge you therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ who will judge the living and the dead at his appearance and his kingdom. Now this is a solemn oath before the one who shall appear as judge. Now we've come full circle. I wonder if you notice that. We've come full circle here in our understanding of this message that the Holy Spirit has for you this morning. In Ephesians 4, we learn that the ascended Christ called each of you into his service, and therefore you are servants of the Lord. Now we learn that Christ will return and hold each of you accountable for what you did with the gifts that he gave you and the work that he laid at your feet. Now Jesus gave a parable about this. In Matthew 24, 45 through 41. He also gave several of the parables for us to be able to understand this. And it says this in Matthew 25. He says, Who then is a faithful and wise servant? whom his master made ruler over his household to give them food in due season. Blessed is that servant whom his master when he comes Will find so doing. Assuredly, I say to you that he will make him ruler over all his goods. But if that evil servant says in his heart, My master is delaying his coming, and he begins to beat his fellow servants, and to eat and drink with the drunkards, The master of that servant will come on the day when he is not looking for him, and an hour that he is not aware of, and he will cut him in two, and appoint him his portion with the hypocrites. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. The main question that you have to consider as a Christian who has been given gifts from Christ to be used in his service, since you've been enlisted as his soldier, is which servant are you? Presumably, since you are a Christian, you are the first servant. You are the one Who is motivated because you always have in your mind's eye, or by faith, you always acknowledge that your master shall be returning, and when he does, you long for him to look over your work That you have done with the gifts that he gave to you, and he would say to you, Well done, my good and my faithful servant. Now we in humility will say, What have I done that you Have not equipped me for all the crowns need to go at your feet. But nevertheless, you see this interchange and this exchange that within our human hearts We long for the accountability of Jesus Christ. Because he is our king. And we are his servants. And there is nothing greater in a heart that has been renewed by faith than to find out that your Master Jesus Christ loves what you have Do you remember that moment when Jesus, uh, in his triumphal entry looks down over Jerusalem? And he says, Oh, how I long to gather you in like little hens, but you will not listen to my word. So Roman soldiers will build embankments and and raise this city. I want you to just have that picture by way of faith. of Christ showing up in his appearance and looking down on your life and the life of the church here at Severn Run. And him looking at what you've done through all the years and what you've built, what you've invested, what you've done with your children and your grandchildren and with your spouse and your communities. What do you want Christ to see? What do you want to see on Christ's face when he evaluates your work? I'm not here talking about the second servant. I'm talking about the first servant. I'm talking about the first servant knowing what Christ has done for them to the degree that they want to work that out in loving him back. Is that what you would like to do? That was in Paul's heart. Paul would say in other letters, my hands are clean of blood. And what he meant by that was, I have worked to the bone to make sure that no one's blood is on my hands. I have told everyone that I was supposed to tell about the gospel And Paul is laying before you his sane mentality, and he's saying, brothers and sisters, you've got a rough road ahead because there are in seasons and there are out-of-seasons. The only way you're going to make it is if you take up the Word of God. But even if you do, you're still going to need to have long suffering. And the only way that you'll have long suffering long enough is if you are captivated by working for Christ as your master and awaiting for his return You are the first servant, Christian. So be the first servant. Christians You all have a ministry from Christ. That's number one. Let's just accept that as a fact. Number two, as you minister, you will face good and bad times. That's fact number two. Fact number three, you must fight the battle with the sword of the spirit, which is the word of God. Don't give up on it And number four, in order to fulfill your ministry in good or bad times, you must anticipate the return and second appearance of Jesus Christ. Amen. Let us pray.