Proverbs 29, 8 and 11. Scoffers set a city aflame, but wise men turn away wrath. And then verse 11: A fool vents all his feelings, but a wise man holds them back. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your wisdom, who is Christ. And we thank you, Christ, for sending us your wisdom by your Spirit that we would have your mind. And I pray that you would impart wisdom to your congregation, that they would fulfill your great commission in all the different areas of their life And I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. I mentioned the Great Commission in my prayer. Have you ever thought about the Great Commission in terms of the Proverbs? Just you have the Proverbs on one side here, these 31 chapters, and you have the Great Commission from Matthew 28, where Christ is sending us out as his disciples. What do you think the connection would be Well the connection, maybe there's many, but at least one connection is that if you're going to do well by his power in his great commission, you are certainly going to need the wisdom that he gives to you in the Proverbs in order to be able to navigate life. And that's what we've been seeing. Last week we saw that though Christ is certainly our priest Though certainly he is our king. We were focusing really on him being a prophet, speaking wisdom to us from this book of Proverbs by way of the Spirit. And last week he warned us about a very particular kind of person. Throughout the Proverbs, there are a number of different kinds of people that Christ, by his Spirit, warns us about. But last week it was the flatterer The flatterer we looked at in terms of by way of an analogy of a friend of mine who is an investor, how he evaluated information. As an investor, if he got it wrong, he could lose millions. And so he made sure he had the right people in the room telling him the truth. Not fakesperts, but experts. And we drew an analogy saying in the same way, we want people who are going to be real with us and tell us the truth in our life that we might serve Christ well. We don't want to accept the words of the flatterer. Why? Well the Proverb tells you from Proverb 29, 5, it says, a man who flatters his neighbor spreads a net for his feet. You have become the hunted, and they are the hunter. They're stroking your ego for a reason. They are biased to benefiting themselves at your expense. That is the nature of a true flatterer. We saw that there's a close cousin to this Proverb, Proverb 27, verse 6, that gives us a similar principle, and it says this. This is very important to remember. When you're being flattered, it's very difficult to remember these proverbs, in fact. But in 27. 6 it says, faithful are the wounds of a friend. But the kisses of an enemy are deceitful. It's a very similar principle. Well tonight, Jesus Christ continues as his congregation to give you the wisdom that you need. to accomplish the mission that He has given to you. And it's this. Jesus Christ calls you to grow in the kind of wisdom that is able to restrain destructive forces. That he gives you a kind of wisdom that is able to restrain destructive forces, really, so that you can keep certain communities intact. against those people that want to burn them down or blow them over. So Christ is giving you a kind of wisdom there. And so you could take a look again at the Proverb and why I would say that in verses 8 and 11 We're going to look at the destructive forces and then we'll look at the restraining wisdom. The destructive forces and the restraining wisdom. Take a look with me at the text Just beginning in verse number 8, we can see that the Proverbist is listing natural destructive forces. Are you catching the imagery there? Take a look at verse eight. In verse eight you have the destructive force of a a fire. In verse eight he's he says, if uh schkofer set a city aflame. That's a that's It's a shark image for us to be able to see that they're setting a city on fire. And then if you jump to verse 11, you can see that the fool is giving full vent to his emotions, and here it's a literally a wind. There's a wind, if we were to take a look at the text in the Hebrew. It's a picture of a gale, a person who, when they talk, they bring a storm. uh that blows things over. These the natural destructive forces. The um I I don't know if you've ever experienced a gale, but at my uh one of my relatives homes who l who lives on the water, sometimes a gale can all of a sudden come down the creek and I have seen it pick up patio tables and just move 'em fifty yards or fifty feet or whatever it was, and it's the same thing with that fool and his mouth, as you can see there in verse number eleven A fool vents his feelings, but a wise man holds them back. The proverbist is using these two images of those those things in the natural world that cause destruction. For you to reflect on what can happen in certain societies. When we're trying to build a community, what are some of the things that can destroy it? Well, what they're doing is they're taking something from the natural world villages or cities are burned, storms come through and blow over houses, especially in this culture. And he's trying to connect that and say, well, if it's not fire and if it's not literal wind, is there something about us as human beings that could destroy a community. Well yeah, there sure is. The fire he mentions in verse number eight is really scoffers. Those who are laughing and despising the moral order that God has set up through his son Christ, they are inflamed And they inflame the emotions of a particular society to where they begin to destroy themselves. There are people that are just really good at this. Playing on people's emotions, getting them to burn the houses that they themselves would have to live in or destroy the stores and the community that they would benefit from That's the kind of picture that we have. I wonder if you can think of just some biblical stories where we have scoffers destroying communities. The one that came to my mind was from Acts 19. beginning in verse 23 with the the riot at Ephesus. Have you read about the riot at Ephesus in Acts? There was a gentleman named Demetrius that sparks the riot And a kind of paraphrase. Artemis. Do we remember this at all? Gathered his fellow craftsmen together along with others in related trades. You see, this is strategic. And he says to them all, friends, you know we've got a good thing going here. And all because of this business that we have, with particularly these idols. But look at what's happening. This fellow Paul is stirring up trouble, convincing crowds of people that handmade gods aren't gods at all. Our trade is in danger of being ruined, and worse, the temple of our great goddess Artemis could lose its prestige. The whole province of Asia, even the world, reveres her Now what Paul is doing, and really God through Paul is seeking to bring true healing to this society, for the community to be a true community, finding their center or God as their center. But here we have scoffers seeking to ruin it all and burn the whole thing up. And they take the real concerns of the tradesmen. Tradesmen, they need uh a wage to be able to take care of their families And so he pokes at real issues, stirring people up, emotions that are connected to their family's welfare stirs them up into a real uh inflame, uh like a flame, uh a fire burning throughout the city. Keeping them blind to the god to the God who is seeking to offer them mercy in Jesus Christ. That's one example. I wonder if you can think of some examples of scoffers. And the kind of the the way that they act, how it resembles a natural disaster, like a city catching fire. But there's also the wind of fools. And I'll give you an example from 1 Samuel 25, just because in this example there's a gentleman named Nabal And that literally is the word for fool. David's young men, if you remember, arrived and they delivered a message. They were seeking food and rations. But Nabal snapped, Who is this David? Who's this son of Jesse? There's tons of nobodies popping up these days, running off from their masters. Am I supposed to Take my bread and my water and my meat that I've slaughtered, all the the time that I've put into these things, and I'm supposed to hand it over to some gang for some guy named David? I've never heard of him. Now as I mentioned, Nabal is the word for fool. And throughout the scene, this is very interesting. Throughout the scene, did you notice that Nabal is drunk? He's intoxicated. And I think that this is symbolic for him being totally out of control His emotions have taken over. He is an example of giving full vent. An entire storm has built up and he just lets the gale out. It doesn't matter what the consequences are. And if you keep reading that story, David was going to destroy that s that that whole household. It would have been the worst mistake that he had ever committed in the ball. But we not only have these natural disasters or destructive forces that we can see in nature that are that are then analogously related to what can happen in us as human beings and how we can destroy communities by being scoffers or being fools in flaming cities. And giving full vent to our emotions. The wisdom here is he's saying that in Christ and by his power, he is forming you as a congregation that's able to offer restraint to that kind of destruction. Now you can see that within our passages in verse number 8, scoffers set the city aflame, but they're put in opposition to the wise. Wise men turn away wrath. And then in verse number 11, a fool vents all of his feelings, but then you have the opposite, but a wise man holds them back. You see the restraint in both cases? Now, that's a restraint that Christ is giving to each of you in these destructive forces. Here is the wisdom that is relevant. Christ is giving his people wisdom to restrain destructive social forces. You are built and made to form a holy society. But Satan is on the prowl and is antisocial by nature. And under Christ, he is giving you wisdom that community and love and brotherhood and families could remain. In verse number 8, wise people turn wrath away. In verse number 11, they withhold not only their own emotions, but they're able to tamp down those of the fool. Now I want you to notice in verses 8 and 11 that the Spirit does not list the ways that we're supposed to put the fire out. He doesn't tell us exactly how to still the storm. There's a little glimpse of it and he's saying that we're going to control our own emotions as wise people and not get wrapped up in all of the clamor. But there's not a list of tools that we're supposed to be using for that. But if we had the time, we could go through the surrounding proverbs. And I'd encourage you to just flip through and read through during the year, read through the Proverbs and ask the question, what are the tools? That wise people use in order to save communities from scoffers and fools, from those who set fire and those who have a stormy gale. That would be very beneficial. You might be surprised by some of the tools. Let me just give you a couple of examples of the tools that are in the passage. In verse number 9, It says, if a wise man contends with a foolish man. This is a really interesting passage. Whether the fool rages or alas, there is no peace. There's a lot to say about this, but the one thing I just want to point out is that word contends. And verse number nine is a legal term that's primarily used within courts of law. The wise know how to use the courts. in order to gain control and bring back order when other people just want to be lawless and stir up contempt. Verse number 11, the wise person holds back their emotions and self-discipline, not adding to the storm. In verse number 12, They maintain integrity and they maintain truth in informal disputes or informal disputes. And they, even within higher courts, make sure that justice is pursued with exactitude. And in the verse number 15, this might be surprising to you. These proverbs are given not just to individuals, but at a national level. And so in verse number 15 you can see the rod and rebuke give wisdom. You're looking for wise people and wise people save communities. Well then sometimes you need a rod, and sometimes you need rebuke. And you can see that that will come from mother and father, which could also stand for king and queen. There's different levels here. This rod here could be the rod that is used within the home. within wisdom and restraint, but it could also refer to a larger level where canings could take place, where those who are burning literally cities down sometimes need a strong response. These are the in different domains. If you are a police officer, if you were a parent. If you are a teacher in all of these different domains, Christ is giving you the wisdom that is necessary for community to be able to remain. We see this even in the examples that I gave to you. In the riot at Ephesus, it's really interesting how the clerk the town clerk responds in order to quiet the mob down. He really threatens the the rot. And he does so and he he says the town clerk got the mob to quiet down and he says we are risking a charge of rioting from the Romans. over this uproar. Do you know what it would mean if they showed up? And it quiets down. You see, there are different tools depending on what your position is and your occupation. He didn't change everybody's heart in that moment, but the city wasn't burnt down. Or another example is Abigail from 1 Samuel with the venting of the fool. When Abigail saw David, she threw herself face down at his feet. My master, don't take Nabal seriously. His name, this is a paraphrase, his name says it all, Nabal the Fool. And he lives up to it. David said to Abigail, Blessed be God who sent you to me today. You are a wise woman. For stopping me from this bloodbath and taking matters into my own hands. There it was. The wisdom given to her from God kept her family alive. Two good examples that we see where she was able to keep her composure and her emotions so that she could speak properly to David. Abigail holds back her own distress, using calm wisdom to avert disaster, saving her household where Nabal's venting failed. We all live in various societies. We kind of take that for granted because it's just how we grew up. All of you have a family. You have a church. You have school life. You have work life. And under Christ, your mission is for the kingdom of God to flourish there. I know that's your heart's desire, too. But here's the thing, wherever the kingdom of God seeks to take a step forward, Satan is right there seeking for us to have to take a step back. We're not afraid because the gates of hell will not prevail. And Christ is on our side, but we've got to keep it in mind that we're in warfare with scoffers and fools. So I get to ask you now, just think about those different domains of your life. Think about your family. Think about your church. Think about your school or your job. Who is seeking to set fire to the harmony that could be present there? Who's scoffing at the moral order Who is playing with the psychology of people to stir up the worst things about them, to bring the worst out in people? Or what if there's a fool in your midst? How are they inventing their emotions? How are they just destroying the things that are in front of you? And here's the second question. What is the wisdom that Christ is going to give to you to where you can restrain that kind of destruction? I'd encourage you to be praying to Christ for this kind of wisdom, the wisdom to be able to restrain destruction in order to keep good order in his name. Proverbs 29, 8 and 11 are calling you to this. Scoffers set a city aflame. But the congregation here tonight, they turn away wrath, don't you? Verse number 11. A fool vents his feelings, but not the people that are here this evening. They are wise and they hold their feelings and others back. from the destruction. And let us not forget this most blessed verse from Jesus himself. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Amen, indeed. Let us pray