Jonah one one through four. Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah the son of Amittai, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry out against it, for their wickedness has come up before me. But Jonah arose to flee to Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. He went down to Joppa and found a ship going to Tarshish. So he paid the fare and went down into it, to go with them to Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. But the Lord sent out a great wind on the sea And there was a mighty tempest on the sea, so that the ship was about to be broken up. Let us pray. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, I pray that through your preached word that you would bless your congregation, that they would be made fruitful to the glory of your name. And I ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. You may be seated. Once upon a time there was a young man who had entered into his senior year as a football player for high school and He had a little bit of senioritis, had been playing all four years, had a starting spot on the team. And he decided, really for no good reason, that he didn't need to attend practice as much as he used to. So he missed three, four practices in a row And then there was a game. Now they're in the locker room. The coach gives them their pre-game talk. Rousing them, they they chant and give their cheer, and on the way out with a bunch of excitement Out of the locker room, they all slap right above the door the word that says commitment. Commitment. And that young man who had missed four practices slapped it too. When he got out to the sideline and he was gearing himself up to head out, to start, to receive the kickoff, the coach said, go ahead and take a seat. And the senior, it being his senior year, was pretty confused by that. And so he questioned the coach, and the coach Looked at the student and said to him, I see that for the last two years that you have been on varsity, you have smacked the sign going out of the locker room that says commitment But by the fact that you have missed four practices now that you're a senior, it shows me that you really don't know what that word means. Hit the bench. And so he rode the bench for that game. That's an interesting reality that is far bigger than just the locker room or a varsity football team There are all kinds of words that you as a congregation of Christians use. Words like commitment, but there are other words like the word commission. Commission as in like the Great Commission, where we speak about the different commissions that Christ has given to us to make sure that we are growing and becoming healthy in his image as individuals. The commission that you have to your families and your different roles. The commission that you have from Christ to your local church body to which you have said vows, the commission that you have been given by Jesus Christ. to the larger society even in a runnel county. And I wonder if Christ was your coach, so to speak, and he kept seeing you Smack the sign that says commission to my family, commission to my church, commission to Anna Runnell County I wonder if he would have to pull you over to the side and say, I see that you smacked the sign, but I'm not really sure you know the meaning of the word based on your actions. Well, that's an important question for us to ask. It's a question that we're supposed to be asking as we enter into the story of Jonah, who's given a commission, who maybe gives it lip service for a moment. but obviously is neglecting his commission for these first couple of chapters. I want to begin by just starting to unfold here a little bit of what's going on in Jonah And then we'll spend some time seeing how we all struggle a little bit with what this guy has I want to begin by just mentioning to you that Jonah is an introduction considered by many to what is called the minor prophet. I wonder if some of you have spent time in the minor prophets. I know if you've attended the men's Bible study that you have, but the word minor here is really derive from the Latin and it doesn't mean that, hey, if you really want to hear something important, read the major prophets. If you want to hear something less important read the minor prophets. That's not what's going on here. It just has to do with their length. As you were s as I was watching you try to find Jonah in your Bible this morning. You can take a look at the books around it, and they're pretty short. Shorter than Isaiah, that is for sure, and some other ones that are longer The prophets here, though they are called minor, are no less important. One commentator, for example, says that these prophets herald God's mercy and grace in the new covenant just as much as other prophets. Micah predicts Bethlehem. That's a minor prophet, if you remember that, as the birthplace of the Messiah. Micah 5-2. Joel. Another minor prophet promises that the Lord will pour out his spirit and it's fulfilled during the Pentecost. And we see echoes of Habakkuk's teaching that the righteous shall live by faith In Habakkuk 2, verse 4, throughout the New Testament. The other thing to just notice here, besides that, this is a part of the minor prophets, is that Jonah is not just some guy. Sometimes we pick up and we read or we hear the stories of Jonah, the story of Jonah, or I've heard a very popular speaker get this totally wrong. Jordan Peterson got this totally wrong in lecturing on Jonah. Jonah is not just some normal guy. One teacher says that since it doesn't go into the biography of Jonah, he must be a nobody. That's not true. There actually is a biography of Jonah. You just need to know where to look within the scriptures, and you would turn to 2 Kings 14, 25 through 26. Now I don't think it lives up to the word biography, but he's not a nobody. It says here in 2 Kings, he restored the territory, speaking of God. He restored the territory of Israel from the entrance of Hamath to the Sea of Erabah. according to the word of the Lord of God of the God of Israel, which he had spoken through his servant Jonah, the son of Amitai, the prophet, who was from Gath Hefer For the Lord saw that the affliction of Israel was very bitter, and whether bond or free, there was no helper for Israel. So Jonah had already been a part of the prophetic scene. The Lord had given him revelation to send to Israel in their day where they needed a word of encouragement and rescue when they were surrounded by their enemies. Now, you'll notice as we start to get into the specific text and away from just this preparatory matter, that we see that the word of the Lord came to Jonah, the son of Amitai. We talked a little bit about who that is from 2 Kings. And the word of the Lord is this in verse number 2. He says, Arise. Go to Nineveh, the great city, and cry out against it, for their wickedness has come up before me. So what you'll observe here is that God has commissioned Jonah not to prophesy to Israel, as we see within 2 Kings, but to really the Assyrian Empire. Nineveh is a chief or a capital city. You can see there in that language, that great city is a chief or capital city. And Yahweh has taken notice of some evil that has occurred there. Now, what kind of evil could have occurred within that city or among the actions of that people? That city is acting as a kind of representative center of the ethos of this empire. And let me If you were to look through the history books and just to see how did the Assyrian Empire conduct themselves? Well, here's a a little bit from those books. Assyria was one of the cruelest and most violent empires of ancient times. And you say, how cruel? And I say, this cruel. Assyrian kings often recorded the results of their military victories gloating over whole plains and fields littered with corpses and of cities burned completely to the ground. One of the emperors is well known for depicting torture, dismembering, and decapitations of enemies and grisly detail on large stone relief panels. Assyrian history is, according to one commentary, as gory and blood-curdling a history as we know in the entire history of humanity. After capturing enemies, the Assyrians would typically cut off their legs. They would cut and one arm, leaving the other arm and hand, so that they could shake the victim's hand in mockery as he was dying. They forced friends and family members to parade with decapitated heads of their loved ones elevated on poles They pulled out prisoners' tongues and stretched their bodies with ropes so that they could skin them alive and display their skins on city walls. They burned adolescents alive. Those who survived the destruction of their cities were fated to endure cruel and violent forms of slavery. Behold the Assyrian Empire. And Jonah is sent to them because something has come up that the Lord has especially noticed in this great city. He says in verse number two: Wickedness has come up. Before me. Now, we keep going, and we see that Jonah is told not only to go to this specific group of people in their wickedness, but to speak against or denounce them. Arise, cry out against them. To a prophet, such a command could have meant little else than to warn that God was about to enforce his covenant. by enacting it in sanctions or curses, one commentator says. And this became very scary for Jonah because implied in preaching against them is the opportunity for them to turn away from their wickedness. This really starts to get to the heart of the matter of what's going on with Jonah. I don't want to jump ahead. I'm trying really hard not to all of a sudden give you all the information from chapter three But Jonah is not happy about the idea that this nation could possibly be given mercy, loving kindness, and repentance and not come under complete and total judgment. So when he is given this preaching task, he is not thrilled. It is clear that he understands Yahweh to be commissioning a warning. rather than an irrevocable announcement of immediate destruction. And if they hear the warning and they turn, turns out to be Jonah's worst fear. Now, we see in verse number three then, now that we have that story, that underlying understanding and the motivations of what's going on inside of Jonah. We can begin to understand verse number three, at least from a human perspective, because now in verse three we'll see that Jonah flees from his commission. Maybe in the past he would smack the sign that says commission, but he doesn't know what that word means in this particular case. It says in verse number three that Jonah arose to flee. This is a little funny to me because these different words are repeated throughout the passage. If you look at verse number two, it says, Arise! You could hear God saying, Jonah, arise. And then you see the author, it makes me wonder if he's playing a little bit here, because Jonah does arise, but he runs in the opposite direction. Jonah arises, he flees to Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. He went down to Joppa and he found a ship going to Tarshish. So he paid the fare and went down into it to go with them to Tarshus from the presence of the Lord. Do you need any More communication on what he's doing. It's repeated. I'm going away from the presence of the Lord. Tatars from the presence of the Lord. Tatars from the presence of the Lord. You'll notice the up versus the down here. God calls him to arise and to go, and initially Jonah does arise, but then he goes down. He goes down instead of up. Perhaps that's an indication of him moving more towards hell than heaven. Tarshius is on the other side of the world. And later we'll see his motivation in chapter 3 that God's decision to give mercy to this horrible nation is just absolutely odious to Jonah. Odious to Jonah. And this really brings us to an aspect of understanding ourselves even as Christians by looking at this picture that is painted here in the first four verses of Jonah, or the first three. I know that we wouldn't be surprised if this picture was painted fleeing from the presence of the Lord in his commissions by one who doesn't claim to be a part of God's people. But we have here in front of us a Christian, a Christian who's still struggling with the commission of the Lord. And so we have this universal truth and law that comes before us right in the beginning of this story that not only humanity in general, but Christians in particular. Still struggle with an inclination against God's commission. You and I still struggle With wanting to receive and perform the duties that God gives to us That's an honest statement. And that's what we're going to focus on here this morning. We're going to take a look at some illustrations of an inclination, and then I want to give you a case study of someone. else in the scriptures who ran away from God's commission so that you can think about your commission from God. And let me just ask up front Are you neglecting the commissions that God has given to you? Has He told you to arise and go, and you have arisen and fled? Well let's begin just with uh an illustration. Now when I said that we have an inclination away from God's commission, some of you furled your brow Like you didn't know exactly what I meant by inclination. So let me give you some examples of an inclination, different inclinations that I see. Yeah, I see lots of them depending on what we're talking about, but let me just give you inclinations of my two dogs, one is an Australian Shepherd and one is a chocolate lab. It's a great little case study. My Australian Shepherd's inclination is what do you think? To herd. Who said that? That was great. Excellent. Thank you so much. Is to herd. So if you visit my house, guess who will be the first greeter? It will be the Australian Shepherd. And then as you enter into my house, guess who will be following you? That will be the Australian Shepherd. And if you bring all twelve of your children or whatever, and they decide to run through my house, guess what my Australian Shepherd will be doing He will be seeking to get them to slow down, get them in orders, and he actually likes things being in pairs. As little as I can remember when he was a puppy, I remember sitting at our dining room table and I was eating some food and all of a sudden I heard a scream and the dog had herded my wife into the corner of the kitchen. And she could not get out from around him. We have helped him to not hurt her any longer. That is his inclination. I have been through countless hours of training and watching videos on training. I have tried mercy. I have tried wrath. And I cannot get the inclination for him to herd out of him. Now, while you might be asking, okay, well that's all you that's the inclination of your shepherd, what is Uh the w what is the chocolate lab doing while he's doing that? He is laying on the ground doing nothing The chocolate lab does not herd, but you know what he does? He retrieves. He will bring you snow mittens all day long and snow hats and IKEA bags. and many other things that he's not supposed to have in his mouth. He is most excited if he even hears the faint bounce of a tennis ball or a lacrosse ball because he wants to chase it. retrieve it back to you and that is what he has bred for that bread for that is his inclination. Now, with that in mind, let me ask you when we have when we have the those kind of concepts in our minds What do we see in the scripture are the inclinations of human beings and what are their disinclinations? Take, for example, Adam and Eve after the fall. Let me read to you, just with these dogs in mind and inclinations, let me read to you Genesis 3, 8 through 10, and tell me if you can pick up on anything here And they heard the sound of the Lord walking in the garden in the cool of the day. What should their inclination be in hearing the sound of the Lord, if everything were right and everything were harmonious? It would be it would be we would run to him because he's our Lord and our God. We would rest our head upon his breast as the beloved disciple did. But instead, if we continue reading, because there has been a fall and the very inclinations of humanity have been warped and changed, it continues saying, and Adam and his wife hid themselves. from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. We see here a snapshot not just of a historical story but a characterization to where you can begin to understand the problem that we struggle with as human beings. Now that's humanity in general I have given you a story before, and I won't go into it at length, where I had reminded you of a sermon that Jonathan Edward had preached, and he's Simple he's very similarly asking the question, how will we discover the true inclinations of humanity toward God And he says, let's do a thought experiment. Let's make God vulnerable enough and send him into the community of humans and see what they do. And then he points out that they crucify him. There's the inclination of humanity in general. The humanity in general. And that is played out for us too earlier within the scriptures. Think about the second story that we end up getting here with Cain and Abel, his brother. The Lord approaches him and he says, Why are you so angry? The Lord shows him his will. Why are you so angry? And why has your countenance fallen? If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin lies at the door. and its desire is for you, but you should rule over it. But what is inside Cain's heart? What is his inclination? At this point, he then does exactly what he was bred to do, so to speak, in his own fall, and receiving the inheritance from Adam, and that guilt and original sin He says in verse number 8 of chapter 4, now Cain talked with Abel his brother, and it came to pass when they were in the field that Cain rose up against Abel his brother and killed him. And then the Lord said to Cain, Where is Ambal your brother? And here's the inclination again. He said, I don't know. Am I my brother's keeper? The inclination is still present that there is no movement in Cain's heart towards repentance and towards God and submitting to Him and knowing His will and obeying it. And it ends up being a picture for us of the great and very deep struggle from which humanity must be redeemed only by the work of Christ and his Spirit. Now that's humanity in general, but do we still have a struggle with a drive like that away from God After we have been justified by Jesus Christ. After we have been adopted and brought into his family Do we still struggle with what we see present in Cain or in them hiding, Adam and Eve hiding within the garden? And the answer, of course, is yes. Now, one case study that we have in front of us this morning is just a consideration of the Apostle Peter. The Apostle Peter is obviously a follower of Jesus Christ. He is a Christian. And yet you will see him wrestle in very similar ways to Jonah, actually, which is why I've chosen him. He really west wrestled with entrance of Gentiles into God's community. He wrestled with those who he considered dirty and dogs into God's community. He wrestled with God's mercy. In John chapter 21, 15 through 19, I'm sure you remember after uh Peter had denied Jesus three times Jesus reinstates Peter into his commission and says that after they had eaten breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me more than these? Now we're all familiar with this. And Peter goes through these repetitions, and he said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. And the Lord says to him again, feed my lambs. And he said to him a second second time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? And he said to him, Yes, Lord, I know that you love I love you. And he said to him, Tend my sheep. And he said to him a third time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? And Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? And he said to him, Lord, you know all things, you know that I love you. Now you're seeing within Peter here a new inclination. That there actually has been the application of the work of Jesus Christ within the life of this man to where now his heart has been changed. And has been purified by faith and the work of Christ to where he really does love Christ. But you can see as we go forward that there's still progress that needs to be made because there's something in Peter that wars against the new inclination that the Holy Spirit has given to him. And that's a picture for you as a Christian as you struggle with it. Now you have these three, you have these repetition of this threefold cord that's not easily broken. to lie on the heart and the conscience of Peter as he goes forward. And then it's there's even added to that Acts chapter 10. Do you remember this account with Peter? Acts chapter 10, verses 9 through 16, it says this. It says, preparing Peter's heart to admit foreigners into God's community. Having been given mercy, it says, The next day as they went on their journey and drew near the city, Peter went up on the house top to pray about the sixth hour. And then he became very hungry and he wanted to eat. But while they made ready, he fell into a trance and saw heaven opened and an object like a great sheet. bound at the four corners, descending to him and let down to the earth. Everyone can see the vision? Like a great sheet, bringing things down to the earth. Now what is on the sheet? In it were all kinds of four footed animals of the earth. Wild beasts, creeping things, and birds of the air. And now why are those on the sheet? By the way. What is Christ doing here for Peter? These are all things that he's been taught are not to enter into his life. And so a voice came to Peter and said, Rise, Peter, kill and eat. But Peter said, Not so, Lord, for I have never eaten anything common or unclean. And a voice spoke to him again the second time. What God has cleansed, you must not call. Common. This was done three times. You see the repetition happening again with him. So now we have six times. That the Lord is seeking to help him with an inclination that he knows that he still struggles with. What God has called clean, you must not call common. This was done three times, and the object was taken back up in the heaven. Now, when we keep going, we can see that that was setting the scene for a group of people that can that Peter considered unclean. He would not even have a meal with them. We get to Acts chapter 10 verse 34 through 35. It says, Then Peter opened his mouth and he said, speaking of Cornelius, entering in with other Gentiles. Peter has this realization watching them being given the a kind of Gentile Pentecost where the Holy Spirit is given to them. In truth, I perceive that God shows no partiality. But in every nation whoever fears him and works righteousness is accepted by him. And in other words, he could have said, those group of people, basically any other nation but Israel have always been considered unclean and common. And what I see now is that whatever God is doing is that He is ushering in anyone from any nation who calls upon the name of the Lord Jesus Christ And it is not right for me to call them common any longer because Christ has made them clean. Now, we've got three times with the re-entrance back into the ministry in John chapter 20. We've got three times with the sheet. We've got the Holy Spirit descending upon Gentile believers in a Gentile Pentecost. And then we get to Galatians. And in Galatians, we still see that there is this little monster of an inclination that rises up and causes a problem for Peter. It says in Galatians 2, 11 through 13 that when Peter had come to Antioch, Paul had to confront him to his face. Because he was to be blamed. For certain men came from James. He would eat with the Gentiles, just like he was taught to do those six, seven times. But when they came, these men came from James, but when they came he withdrew and he separated himself from them. fearing those who were of the circumcision. And when Peter did that, other Jews who watched him separate himself from the unclean Also played the hypocrite with him, so that even Barnabas was carried away with their hypocrisy. Now let me just ask you as a congregation, why is it that the Lord would put any effort into the preservation of the story of Peter like this? Do you know how many other parts there were to his life that were not written down? Different things that he had done and different things that he had said? Why is it that the Lord preserves these things? Well, one reason we know is that the Lord is good to his church in every generation. And so he preserves these things even for you to be able to see something that goes on even within the heart of his followers. And we had already mentioned it at the beginning. All day long, we can smack the sign that says commission or I follow Jesus But there is something that still resides within your heart that needs progressive sanctification that disinclines you from doing the will of God. And we can see that within the story of Peter. Now think about that in what I call the four gardens, or when I was speaking to my children as they're growing up. The four bubbles. The four gardens are: we have a commission to ourself, we have a commission to our family, we have a commission to our church. We have a commission to our county. And of course, all of these fall under one commission to God through Jesus Christ by the power of his Holy Spirit. You could look at those as four gardens, if you will, or four parts of one garden, or four bubbles, however you want to do it. I got the idea of bubbles from Kuiperian spheres, Abraham Kuiper talking about spheres of of sovereignty. Self, family, church, and county. There they are, these different commissions under one commission that Jesus Christ has given to you called the Great Commission. Now, what is it as you go through your life, what is it that you end up encountering in the garden? If you go back to that original story, every single day of your existence, there is some kind of snake or another. It slithers their way in and threatens what's going on within the garden. There are thorns and thistles that they used to be over there on the side of the yard And because you didn't give them any attention for the last two weeks, now you have two foot of less of yard because the thicket has grown in the direction of the garden. We have those things happening every single day of our lives as we seek to take up this commission that Jesus Christ has given to us. It even becomes very, very specific. You could ask the question, well, what am I supposed to do each, every day of my life? Romans chapter 12, 1 through 2 goes over this. Where the Lord says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you would present your body as a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to God, which is your reasonable serv uh service. And how are we supposed to do that Don't be conformed to this world. Okay, well what does it look like not to be conformed to this world? Be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Okay, well what does that look like as I'm standing here in the garden and I'm trying to figure out exactly what I'm supposed to do. He goes on and he says that you're supposed to figure out what God's good, acceptable, and perfect will is in that moment. No matter what the situation. I have a flat tire. What's God's will? My friend has a flat tire. What's God's will? My grandmother has a flat tire. What's God's will? I can't afford tires. What's God's will? With every single thing that comes into that fourfold garden, Romans 12, 1 through 2 crops up, and Christ is saying, What is my will? What is my will for you to complete the commission here today? In all of the particularities, moment your foot hit the ground getting out of bed, it begins. And that leads us to a really serious question for all of us here as we are looking at Jonah. What are the various situations that God has brought into those four gardens of your life? What is going on inside of you? That's the first garden. Psychologically, intellectually. Are you wrestling with the Orthodox faith of Christianity? Has something gotten into you where you're tempted to buy into a lie? And become a liar? Are you having something going on with your emotions where they're not bridled and checked? And it's hurting the people that are around you. And you keep making excuses. Well, that's the garden of the self. We're not going to have perfect gardens until Christ returns, but is there something that could be done with the garden of the self? Not in your own strength, in the strength of Jesus Christ, and not by yourself, among us with each other as a community. And our community gets pretty large because it's not just here at Severn Run. Or what about the family? The family garden. What is crept into there? I remember uh last year, I think it was, I'm not sure, I'm usually invited to give a little talk at the graduation here at the Academy for um dialectic too when they're getting ready to head off into high school and they're finishing out the first part of the academy. And I think it might have been last year or maybe it was the year before. I read to them a book And the book is about a dragon. And this dragon starts in this little boy's bedroom, and the little boy sees the dragon. And he goes down, he tells his mom and his dad, and he says, Mom and dad, there's a dragon in my bedroom. And the mom and dad are saying, Oh, that's nice, son. Off to work. And the next day he wakes up and he sees the dragons doubled in size. And he tells his parents, there's a dragon, and he's eating all my clothes. Oh, that's nice, I'm off to work. And the third day he has quadruples in size. And he's eating all of the food. Mom, there's a dragon in the kitchen. He's eating all the food. Oh, that's nice And in the fifth day, the dragon has grown so big that he has destroyed the house and he's eating all the neighbors' cars and people. And they say, Mom, Dad, there's a dragon! And they said, oh, okay, nice, I'm off to work. And there was one more step within the book where the dragon had just gotten, it was destroying everything, and the boy points out, mom, dad, there's a dragon. And the parents finally pay attention and they say, oh, you're right, son, there is a dragon. We better do something about that. And just at that moment, the dragon became this big. manageable again. And the whole point of the story is basically what my grandmother said, which is if you sweep stuff under the rug, it doesn't go away. It's the same thing. And I'm just asking, has a little dragon entered into your family? Have you chosen not to acknowledge it? Because if you have, it's not going to go away. It's just going to keep getting bigger. And causing more and more problems. Or what about in your church life? What about that garden? Do you know there's people here within this church that are in tremendous pain physically, emotionally, financially? Do you know they cry out to God that He would help them? Do you want to know what the number one way that God helps people? He sends fellow congregants. Is it possible that in the neglect of your call, you're also causing the delay of a prayer? Is God testing this congregation to see, well I gave them all my word? Jesse has said a hundred times how they're supposed to be helping each other from my word I think I'll just be patient to see if they would like to do my will. Because the best way for this person's prayers to be answered is for it to be answered by the fellow congregation. I just wonder if you're neglecting each other. I'm not saying that you have to do everything for everybody. That's impossible But has there been something that kinda is picking at you? You saw something and you keep seeing it, but you're not doing anything about it? Are you neglecting this part of your garden? If you are, usually it is accompanied by excuses. I have lots of different things that I'm doing. Or I show up to church on Sundays, or my family is my church. All of those things are true, which makes them powerful. But is it possible that Christ is still commissioning you to more? Or to rearrange things to where you can contribute in a different way. And then of course I do want to save for last. I want to ask the question, are we neglecting our commission to Antorono County? I told you at the congregational meeting that I don't know if we should hire any personnel. And I said this in a letter. Because I need to see exactly what is the work that God is calling us to do and how are we supposed to be getting it done And when we can have answers to that, then we'll know who we might need in order to accomplish it. So as I'm going through that process, I'm looking at all of the work that we're doing as a congregation. And as a as a church really, like as a collective congregation and as a church. And I can see the percentages of time on what we do. Do you want to know the percentage of our missionary efforts to Anorono County? As a body. Would you like to know the percentages of our missionary efforts as a body? I don't mean financial contribution to other missionaries, but as a body to anywhere in the world. As individuals, I hear of conversations happening all the time where you are sharing Christ with your coworkers. As mothers and fathers and grandmothers, you're sharing Christ with children. That's all missionary effort. That's all mission. But as a body I can't even find the percentage. And what does that say about our neglect for the commission? I hope I'm wrong about that, but as I'm looking at it on paper at least, as a body, we don't have any real efforts except for financial contributions to the missionaries. Except for one exception, and that is the pop up pantry. Which I'm very proud that we have around here. I think my hands would be in my heads. My my hands would be in my hands if it weren't for the pop-up pantry. Because what it allows me to do is to stand before God as a pastor here and say we haven't totally neglected our responsibility. That being the case, I wonder what your responsibilities are to contribute in that specific way that the Lord has given to us with the pop-up pantry. When I went down there the other day, which I sometimes do, I saw the exact same set of faces that I saw six months ago And I wonder if there could be some other faces to contribute. Wonder if you could look at that as a way. to start ministering to these four areas of commission that have been given to us in the in the fourfold garden. Basically, the message here that we see in this first part of Jonah is that it is not only humanity in general that struggles with a disinclination towards God's will. But Christians struggle with a disinclination towards God's will. You and I struggle with a disinclination To God's commission. And so I want to end on this. This petition from the Lord's Prayer keeps springing to mind, and this will be your homework. Let's at least begin with prayer together as a congregation as we go through the book of Jonah. As we look at Jonah and we see, Lord, you called me to go and I fled. In all of the small ways that I had already mentioned. Let us keep question 103 of the shorter catechism in mind. Speaking of the Lord's Prayer, our divine said, What do we pray for in the third petition? And they answer, in the third petition, which is, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven, we pray that God by his grace Would make us able and willing to know, obey, and submit to his will in all things, just as the angels do in heaven. May the Lord answer that prayer here in our midst. Amen. Let us pray.