Have one brought to you? You good? Okay. That's great. If you could turn there with me and and follow along, that'd be great. James one, thirteen through eighteen Let no one say when he is tempted, I am tempted by God, for God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he himself tempt anyone But each one is tempted when he is drawn away by his own desires and enticed. Then when desire has conceived it gives birth to sin And sin, when it is full grown, brings forth death. Do not be deceived, my beloved brother. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above and comes down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow of turning. Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we might be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. Let's pray. Father, we ask for your illumination tonight through your spirit. We ask that you'd help us to be a church that can bear trials with joy. We ask, Lord, that this would just be another way in which our faith is expressed in action, that we are not just hearers of the word, but doers. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You look on the front of your bulletin, just to remind yourself what we're doing, is our faith at work. We know that our faith is a free gift. A gracious gift from God, but that He has also given us the gift of the Spirit that our faith would multiply in works, particularly love, faith. and hope. Well and what we see here in the book of James is him reasoning with us and giving us one illustration after another that we might know how our faith is to look when it is alive and active The main command that we received in the first sermon, starting in the second verse, really from the first two sermons, because there is a repetition with a digression between them on prayer is this consider your trials pure joy. There's a repetition of that in verse 9. Blessed is the man who endures trials. Sounds a lot like what Jesus would say. The joy is not found in the trials themselves. That's silly. The joy, however, is gained by truly believing that trials are worth it due to what God is accomplishing within you. The main question is: is holiness? Holiness of attitude, thought, word, deed? Is holiness important enough to you to undergo the process that leads to holiness? In the crucible, all frauds will be found out. I read a quote or ended the service last week with a quote on the 50th anniversary of the suffering of uh Johnny Erickson Tana. And she said, fifty years in the wheelchair and knowing Christ, it was worth it. It was worth it. And that's the question that's before you in the those first two sermons. This week there's an interesting turn of phrase. that takes place as we consider this sermon. Interestingly, if you take a look in verse 2, you see it says, count it all joy when you fall into various trials. Now, when we get to verse 13, there's the same word used that was translated trials in verse 2, but in verse 13 it is translated temptation. The reason for this is because in every trial is in fact a temptation. The two words are very they're the same word and there's this overlapping meanings and interactions. Within our life. Depending on the context, you have to figure out: should I translate this as a trial or should I translate this as a temptation? But in every trial, there is a temptation. Due to God's gracious influence, a trial leads to growth and gracious Christian character, holiness is what we're saying. However, due to our indwelling sin, sometimes trials lead to sin. And hence, there's this statement here that I want to consider. It's actually a quote or proverb from long ago in the 17th century. Trials and temptations are like a knife that might either cut the meat or the throat of a man. Trials or temptations may be your food, or they may be your poison. Trials and temptations may be for your holy exercise or for your destruction. The reason why we can say those two things is because of the two components that are in a trial or a temptation, namely in every trial there is a temptation and in a temptation there is a trial. Here, James is continuing. He's saying to you, how can you grow or express your faith? in trial. How can you grow to where you would say that it's worth it and you would grow grow within holiness. The next thing you need to know besides what God is doing within your trial is you need to recognize what you will do with your trial, and that is you'll be tempted And perhaps sin. So we need to go through that whole process. Here's how he begins. He starts by asking a question. Who is really responsible for sin? What is the origin of your sin? Since God is in control and he brought the trial into your life, is he also responsible for the temptation? You've got to ask that because the two are so intertwined. And his answer is, of course, that God is not responsible for the trial or for the temptation, but he is responsible for the trial. Let's go through this. And look at this first argument showing that God is not responsible for temptation by his nature. There's also an argument by his plan. I have room in the bulletin for you to write this down. We'll look at an argument from his nature, his plan And then we're going to look at the true cause of sin, which is our fault, his nature, his plan, and our fault. It says here in verse thirteen, When you are tempted, do not say, I am tempted by God. God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he himself tempt anyone. It's not an option. God cannot be tempted by evil. He's speaking specifically of his nature. His nature does not admit of being tempted. Sin has no appeal for God as it does for us. He does not relate to us in that way. Growing up, I had a lovely golden retriever. Uh I mean she was great. She she was uh perhaps the best dog I've ever met. Uh she was soft-mouthed, if you know that's a gift in goose hunting. She loved to play catch and she loved to train for goose hunting I would throw the tennis ball to her, I could throw five at a time, and she'd figure out a way to catch them and and bring them back. I've tried playing fetch or or or something like it with cats. And it's not working at all. It's not working at all. I've given up. This is a great picture of the differences in natures and what is an appeal and what is an ability. just within those two animals and the really the argument is here at that level. In the same way that uh the dog is so much more is so distinct from the cat in these ways, uh universally we We see this. Likewise any evil plan which you would throw before God is ignored. His nature is not like ungodly humans. He cannot he Remember English class, he does not have the ability to be tempted by evil is this point here. And there are a lot of scriptures that go along with that Nor does anyone tempt God. God wisely and powerfully preserves and governs all his creatures and their actions, but he does so with complete moral holiness. That's the picture that we have of God. And now that that's his nature, but there is also his plan. So if you were to skip down to the bottom that I read, Where you see, do not be deceived, verse 16, my beloved brethren. And then it goes on to talk more about who this God is and the kind of things that He is accomplishing. On the contrary, God is only capable of giving perfect gifts from above. You can see this in sixteen through eighteen. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above and comes down from the Father of light, with whom there is no variation or shadow of turning. One example that he gives of such a perfect gift is the church's regeneration from a life like a dusty and barren land, to a land filled with a green pasture of devotion for God and fruit trees of love for their neighbor. Those are the kind of things that God does. He does not tempt and draw people into evil. In fact, the fruit of the church is the first fruit of God's new creation. Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of his truth, that we might be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures. Have you heard that before, the first fruits? It's used in different ways throughout the scriptures. You really have to read the context. Christian believers in this case are said to be first fruits, referring to there being a unique and sacred possession of God out of all he has created. Holy unto the Lord, Jeremiah chapter 2, verse 3 would say. This sacred possession is marked by God, making us holy, taking away all moral pollution, not tempting them to be polluted. The plan, all of the redemptive plan, stands against against such a thought and thinking that because God is in control and He governs the universe. This is something that will do in desperation will lean on a faulty understanding of the decrees of God and say, well, if he's in charge and I'm under such a a heavy-handed trial, then he must be responsible for my reactions. How could he expect anything else from me? That's the kind of thought that he's warning us against here. Revelation 14, 4 through 5, though, says that his entire plan as God is contrary to this. He says, These are the ones who follow the Lamb wherever he goes. These were redeemed from among men, being firstfruits to God and to the Lamb. Now listen to the description of firstfruits. And in their mouth was found no deceit, for they are without fault before the throne of God He's not leading them into temptation. He's leading them out of it. So it's a silly argument. Really, it leads us right into the only truth the truth, which is That if there's any sin committed in the trial, if any temptation is given into, it will be because of your own fault. You are morally responsible for these things. Don't blame shift. In a trial. Now, I know you know that, but and here's more of the emphasis. When you're going through a trial, it's supposed to benefit you, but you better watch out because it can bite because of what dwells in you. You see that? So you're supposed to be convinced by this time from the book of James that I'm going to go through this trial because I am committed to growing holy. I am committed to being conformed into the image of Christ. And he's saying, okay, but watch out. Because this is what can happen. And it's inside of you. You're your own worst enemy. Okay? The enemy within here is what we what we see. And that moves us into our third point, which is It's your fault. Yeah, great. What is the cause of sin? James locates the entire operation within the soul of humanity. And now he gives you a step-by-step process, which some of you are very familiar with now because we just did mortification of sin in Sunday school. So you're going to see some of the same threads here. Here's verses 14 and 15. But each one is tempted when he is drawn away by his own desires and enticed. Then when desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin, and sin, when it is full-grown, brings forth death. You're going to want to mark the different truths that he relays in this passage so that you can better understand what's going on inside of yourself Anyone who wants to win the fight will know a lot about their enemy. And I'm getting ready to tell you a lot about your enemy, which is indwelling sin. So you'll want to note this. Here's the first truth in this section, in this process. The first truth is that you have your own inner sinful desires. It shouldn't be a news flash for you. This is a lesson both for Christians and non-Christians, though Non-Christians are dominated by it. The Christian has liberty or freedom from it because of the Holy Spirit, but there is still indwelling sin to To contend with until Christ returns or you're moved into glory in another way. Even after regeneration, a part of you yearns to sin. Now I say this because I was just speaking with someone not so long ago and they said I didn't know that. I only thought temptation came or these kind of things came from outside of me, from the devil. I'm saying it's in you It's in you, if you don't know that. That's the first truth. Here's the second truth from this passage. The second truth is that these desires entice and they draw you away. It implies you must be very diligent with your life and watchful. This is an act of nothing less than seduction, is what's going on here. Serenading you with the 12-string sinful guitar. This is an act of seduction, and the indwelling sin will use all of your faculties to its service. I'm telling you right now, this is no joke This is what I mean. The sinful nature will fight for, number one, possession of your imagination. Now, imagine something That's your imagination. Did I move too quickly? Imagine imagine Imagine something else. Imagine what we're gonna have for dinner tonight. That's your imagination. Imagine what your car looks like. That's your imagination. You're able to bring things up even though they're not present. There's your imagination, and the inclinations or sinful desires of your heart will grab a hold of it and will say, I possess you, and you now serve me. You are my servant. Bring me things to make me powerful. That's what ends up happening. When you are driving in the car, you will imagine how pleasurable the act of sin will be. You'll turn it over. How exciting! How sophisticated! How rewarding. That's what the imagination will do. It'll turn it over and over and over again, seeking to seduce you, playing its little guitar for you. Indwelling sin will not allow the imagination to see any flaw within the object. It'll be like a modern magazine with the brush, what's it? You know what I'm talking about where you don't see any blemishes on women anymore in magazines. Airbrushing. The indwelling sinful nature airbrushes in the imagination. It spins. The indwelling sin will not allow the imagination to see any flaw in its sinful object. It's actually very much like Fox News and NPR. Both of those news organizations do not allow anyone to see any flaws within their political candidates. They spin every story to their advantage, and so too will indwelling sin spin the narrative presented by the imagination. If alcohol has been your downfall all through life, the inclinations of the sinful nature will always present alcohol in your imagination as beautiful. It will s Sparkle. It'll smell full of richness and loveliness. That's the only thing it'll it won't show you that you lost your family already. It won't show you all the things that have happened within your life. That's what this thing is like. That's what this monster does. Indwelling sin will not just gain your imagination, it'll gain your eyes. It'll gain your ears. It'll gain your nose. It'll take all of them and make them servants, ushering everything to it to make it more powerful. It will whisper, cast a glance over at her. No one's watching. Go ahead. Look. She's wearing a skirt. Listen to all the good fortune in their lives. Look at all the good things that are happening to them. Do you hear they're talking about how they they've received a raise and how good their children are doing? They don't deserve that. That. Look at the childhood I had. I deserve something like that. Look how hard I've worked. Those are the things that you would hear. The smell of cologne. Mm, smell of cologne. Makes me appealing. People have told me I smell nice today. Perhaps this is another way for me. To have people worship me. Those are the kind of things that happen within us through our imaginations, our nose, our eyes, our ears, all the faculties the imagination grabs and it turns into a seduction process. Everything is an enticement. Appealing to those lustful desires. Now that's scary. And it's happening every moment, all day long, within you. Here's the third truth. The third truth is latent in the second, is that temptation, we haven't even talked about that yet, temptation inflames with a sudden burst of lust the indwelling desires. Now you have all of those things that are already present within you with the indwelling sin, and then temptation steps onto the stage. Some smell, some sight. Some sound. Your indwelling sinful nature is capable of taking any of those things and turning it into a desperate moment where you're doing stupid things. Here, I'm not saying that this is a sin. I'm just saying that here is an example of the kind of of what temptation looks like. I think I want to appeal to your own experience. There are a number of people I know that were smokers And they've quit smoking, or they've lessened it. Many who were smokers recognize the power of temptation to inflame and that it could be anything I've heard many say that when there's a cool summer night and they have the windows down and the sunroof open, the first thing that springs into their mind is not, God, you're so gracious for this day, it's I wish I had a cigarette. There's that that inner yearning, and I'm not saying it's that specifically a sin. I think they can be used sinfully. I'm just saying that's the kind of thing that happens. In any of any moment, there's that temptation that the inclination of the indwelling sin will take hold of and entice you. And now here's the fourth truth The fourth truth is that when desires conceive, they give birth to sin. Now, this is an interesting analogy that he's pulling together here. The conception of desire is an analogy from pregnancy. That's where conception takes place. The various desires and the temptation embrace They kiss, and the will consents to the sin. Oh, that is nice. I think I'll do it. The sin forms in the womb of our soul. When the time is right, under labor pangs and convulsing of the desire wanting out, you will give birth to your sin. Meaning you'll commit the sin. There'll be an outward manifestation of an inward what was only an inward desire and temptation at the time. This is a process of you as a human being. And here's the fifth truth. is that this sin will give birth or will cause death every single time, without fail, it will bring nothing but ruin and corruption And degree by degree, sometimes small and sometimes big, always growing to the height of its kind. The glance that I was talking about earlier, if sin could have its way, would be a full-blown adulterous affair. Sin will give birth or cause death. Sin says it won't. Sin says this is going to be so great, guys. This is going to be so great. And then you do it every time, and there it is. In the 80s, there was a movie, The Gremlins. And here are the rules. If you get a magwai and it gets wet, then it's going to multiply And it's going to multiply to a bunch of different creatures that do not have the same placid nature as the original magwai. It's going to be inconvenient and unfortunate. I'm giving you rules for magwai, okay? You need this If you feed the Mogwai after midnight, then the Mogwai will give birth to gremlins and all they do is bring death. Think of the movie, the movie theater. Think of the mailman. Death all around. And we're saying the same thing here, uh that sin brings death. Those those are the th those are the only deeds that it commits and the only fruit that it has Paul, in fact, speaks in his letters by way of reciting a personal history to not only tell you this truth biblically, but also for you to reflect on your own experience. And some of you will know this more than others. Remember the past? Do you remember when you gave in to whatever less was present at the time? That's what he says. When you were caught up in these lusts that are the lusts of the Gentiles, do you remember the past that you'd give into these things? Do you remember when those sinful desires you didn't pay any attention to them, and they just kept growing in strength? And they moved from being a toddler to being adolescent, then they moved into being a teenager and then a strong young man and woman that dominating you, controlling your life. What was the fruit of such things? What was the result? The answer is death. I have the privilege of going over to my hometown on the eastern shore, grew up on Kent Island. And I get to drive down there to my old stomping grounds. It was a little bit difficult for me this time. We had some crabs with my father, some corn, and on the way back, on Route 8, I kept looking down the streets where my fan my friends grew up And the Lord had brought to me very graciously for the sake of mortification. Every street that I looked down, I could remember a stupid thing that I had done. And I could remember the desire that was present in my heart and how I just let it go. Every result was death, corruption. The hurt of family members, the hurt of the community, the hurt of myself. Only death. That is the result. When sin gives birth. It's death. That's the great picture that you have here, so that you might understand yourself better and know what you are up against when you're in a trial. God, in fact, does govern our lives so that when we meet various trials, we are able to grow. But God does not tempt is the point that he's saying. You tempt yourself. It's contrary to his nature and plan. We are the true cause of our sin. And we have to be watchful therefore. Now, in closing, I want you to notice something interesting that's taking place within the passage. Interestingly, notice that the process of sin follows a similar process or pattern. It is a counterfeit to the process of growing in godly graces, such as Love, faith, and hope. When sin has had the opportunity to do its full work, take a look with me at some of the passages earlier. For instance, in two and three It says, count it all joy, knowing that the testing of your faith produces patience, but let patience have its perfect work, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. There's this process on to maturity for graces. Notice how the same thing happens with sin. When sin has had the opportunity to do its full work, it brings forth death, not life. When sin has had its opportunity, when the perfecting grace of patience in the midst of trial has had the opportunity to do its full work, it brings forth life Perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. Do you see the two things are always going to be side by side? There's going to be the real process that God is seeking to do within your life when there is any trial in your life seeking to perfect you in grace, love, kindness, and a counterfeit will accompany it, also seeking a maturity and giving birth to sin and death as opposed to life. At every moment there is a choice in your life when you're in a trial between life and death. Will the trial turn into a temptation and be a knife that cuts your throat? Or will it be a knife that cuts the meat of a man? That's the point. Trials and temptations are like a knife that may either cut the meat or the throat of a man It may be his food or his poison, his exercise or his destruction. Please pray with me. Father, these are advanced Christian concepts concerning trials and the nature of humanity. We thank you for this anthropology that you've given to us. We pray, Lord, that we would move down in our conversations with one another out of the abstract theory and down into how this is actually working within our lives. What are the particular temptations? What are the particular trials and what temptations arise within those particular trials? I pray, Lord, that your people would uh apprehend and embrace their duty to minister to one another and find out what is going on in each other's lives and that they would apply these things We ask these things in your name. Amen. Let's stand and conclude our service with a final sin