Turn, if you will, to Matthew 26 as we take up another fairly long passage today, Matthew 26, 17 through 56. And as we are moving in these uh found three weeks to the coverage of Matthew's gospel. And also too, if you are wish to do so, I will be quoting a uh couple a passage from Zechariah. And if you wish to read that, as I quote it later on, that is Zechariah 14, verses 7 through 9. So if you turn to those We will commence with our reading of the Gospel of Matthew. I will tell you before we start that there are many times, I suppose all pastors do this, all preachers do it. There are many times when you approach the scripture and you and you experience the sense of total inadequacy. And certainly this passage imparts that to me. The idea of approaching this precious statement here, these words that that should mean so much to us, and being able to expound upon them is something that is very humbling for one who, even though I believe I've been called to preach. So let's turn our attention now to Matthew twenty-six, commencing with verse seventeen. Now on the first day of the feast of unleavened bread, the disciples came to Jesus, saying to him, Where do you want us to prepare for you to eat the Passover? And he said, Go into the city to a certain man and say to him, the teacher says, My time is at hand. I will keep the Passover at your house with my disciples. So the disciples did as Jesus had directed them, and they prepared the Passover. When the evening had come, he sat down with the twelve. Now, as they were eating, he said, Assuredly I say to you, one of you will betray me. And they were exceedingly sorry. The Son of Man indeed goes just as it was written of him. But woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed, it would have been good for that man if it had if he had Had not been born. Then Judas, who was betraying him, answered and said, Rabbi, is it I? He said to him, You have said it. And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, blessed and broke it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take Then he took the cup and gave thanks and gave it to them, saying, Drink from it all of you, for this is the blood of the new But I say to you, I will not drink of the fruit of this fruit of the vine from now on until that day when I drink it new with And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. And then Jesus said to them, All of you will be made to stumble, because Because of me this night, for it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered. But after I have been raised, I will go before you to Galilee. Peter answered and said to him, Even if all were made to stumble because of you, I will never be made to stumble. Jesus said to him, Assuredly I say to you, this night before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times Peter said to him, even if I have to die with you, I will not deny you. And so said all the disciples. Then Jesus came with them to a place called And said to the disciples, Sit here while I go and pray over there. And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and he began to be sorrowful and deeply distressed. Then he said to them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death. Stay and watch with me. Me. He went a little further and fell on his face and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me, nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will. And then he came to the disciples and found them sleeping and said to Peter, What? Could you not watch with me one hour? Watch and pray lest you enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. Again, a second time he went away and prayed, saying, O my Father, this cup cannot pass away from me unless I I drink it, your will be done. And he came and found them asleep again, for their eyes were heavy. So he left them, went away again, and prayed the third time, saying the same words. Then he came to his disciples and said to them, Are you still sleeping and resting? Behold, the hour is at hand, and the Son of Man is being And while he was still speaking, behold Judas one of the twelve, with a great multitude, the source. And clubs came from the chief priests and elders of the people. Now his betrayer had given him a sign saying, Whomver I kiss, he is the one, seize him. Immediately he went up to Jason Jesus and said, Greetings, Rabbi, and kissed him. But Jesus said to him, Friend, why have you come? Then they came and laid hands on Jesus and took him, and suddenly one of those who were with him Jesus stretched out his hand and drew his sword, struck the servant of the high priest, and cut off his ear. But Jesus said to him, Put your sword in its place, for all who take the sword will perish by the sword Or do you think that I cannot now pray to my Father and he will provide me with more than twelve legions of angels? How then could the scriptures be fulfilled? That it It must happen thus. And in that hour Jesus said to the multitudes, Have you come out against me as a robber with swords and clubs to take me? I sat daily with you, teaching in the temple and You did not seize me. But all this was done that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled Then all the disciples forsook him and fled. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Brothers and sisters, we have arrived in our study of Matthew at holy, holy, holy ground. Now all of Jesus' life here on this earth was holy. I mean, just in his person, he was astonishing. Imagine God in the flesh. The second person of the Trinity united his divine nature with Jesus' human nature. So that he was truly human and truly divine. That in itself is holy beyond anything we could possibly imagine. Holy so much that we can't even really conceive of it. Everything he did as such a holy person, even the most What we would appear to think insignificant things, just like speaking to someone, became a blessed event just by him doing it, because of his divine nature Imagine that you were there and Jesus spoke to you. And you realize at some point this is God God speaking to me. I'm hearing God's voice. How holy could that be? Well Matthew has made us see throughout these scriptures that Jesus was holy in his person and everything he did was holy. But in this section Today, starting with today's passage, the holiness of Jesus' life ratchets up to an entirely new level. We enter a If you will, into the Holy of Holies. The proper response from us is awe. Perhaps even silence. We're walking on holy ground. We must not be like the disciples here, and I issue you this warning today. We must not sleep As we accompany Jesus in these hours. We must not treat this passage as just one more story in the long book of Matthew that we have spent two and a half Years working our way through. Imagine Jesus speaking to us as he spoke to them. What? Can you not stay awake even for one hour? Don't you see how holy this night is? Why are you not trembling? Don't you feel the presence of angels? Doesn't Don't the approaching fury of demons begin to register in your consciousness? How can you sleep? How can you not enter into what's going on here? Brothers and sisters, do not follow the example of the disciples here. This last passage This last section of Matthew deserves and demands our utmost attention. These verses don't just reduce down to a bunch of do's and don'ts. If you're here today looking for some way that you can turn a wrench on Some stuck nut in your life so that you break it loose and somehow another your life begins to work a little bit better and you're able to do something or do have this There are no do's and don'ts that I'm going to commend to you. These verses should change our hearts And it should make our hearts melt like butter. Here we see the love of God. We see the wisdom of God. We see the power of God. And that's what's on center stage. And we should consider these verses with reverence and awe, because that is why. They are here. The unifying theme in this entire passage is God's plan for the salvation of sinners First, what I want us to look at is the immensity of his work, Jesus' work in fulfilling that plan for the salvation of the world. Of sinners. Now, Matthew's gospel, as we have reiterated over and over throughout the last couple of years, has is united throughout by one overarching theme: the time is fulfilled. His great passion that the Holy Spirit led him to express was to show Jesus' life as the fulfillment of the Hebrew Scriptures. That's what Book of Matthew is about. And it's to point to Jesus as the embodiment of the great purposes of God, the Messiah who is to save his people. And that's what Jesus Himself teaches us. And look how Jesus here in these verses ties this whole long section together under that unifying theme. Look at verse 18. Jesus says, go and tell that guy who has a room that my time is at hand. Now what does he mean by that? He means that his entire life on this earth was directed towards a specific if you will instant, a specific time, a specific number of hours, of days, and with speci in which specific And when he says my time, he is referring to the crescendo of his whole life. A symphony moves throughout its orchestration up to that point where the music swells and seems to fill the whole room oftentimes in its great finale. As it reaches that crescendo, you notice So this is the expressed heart of the composer. Here we're seeing the same thing in the life of Jesus. Jesus is setting the stage for the last Supper. And he does so in terms of my time. And then down in verse 45. He says, the hour has come. Now he's saying the same thing here, just using different phrasing. Now, my time, the very hour of my time, the very moment of my time, all of my history here of walking on this earth, all of my life, everything up to this point hinges on what's happening now And notice how Jesus highlights this in Matthew's version of his prayers. Verse 39. Well Father, not as I will, but as thy will, as you will. Get that in your mind, brothers and sisters. Don't step back away from it. Last thing in the world God wants you to do right now is to step back and analyze this. I want you to see Jesus kneeling there in anguish. I want you to sense him already beginning to feel the great burden of sin that he is carrying and that he must carry. Let the holiness of this moment sink in. Imagine the sweat drops of blood. On his brow. Consider the sheer immensity of his words. O Father If it is possible, let this cup pass. If there is another way, he's crying out in this human nature here. If there's another way, God my Father, let's try that. But there is no other way. All of God's plans, all of the plans that The Son of God, the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit made with God before the dawn of creation. All of those plans come down to this night And what follows this night, and what must follow this night He must do it. He must go through it. That is the only way that God is to be gore through As he must be glorified. It is the only way for sinners like you and me to have any hope It's the only way that pain and suffering and heartache in this world can be, in fact, rectified. This is it. This is the only way. And it boils down to this one man who in his human nature confesses the spirit of God Willing. But the flesh is weak. Brothers and sisters, don't take this story for granted. You've heard it hundreds of times before. And that's good and bad. Imagine how you would feel if you knew that tomorrow you would be crucified. Let that sink in for a minute. Tomorrow morning, bad guy's gonna come, haul you away, put you up on a cross, nail Big heavy duty iron spikes like they used to put down railroad tracks or drive those through your feet and through your arms and hoist you up So that you have to take a long, miserable death. Just think how you would feel right now if you knew that was tomorrow. Imagine how terrified you would be, how your heart would race. And brothers and sisters, all you're scared of is dying on a cross. Well, that's not all Jesus was facing. In fact, that death, as horrible as it was, was perhaps the least of his concerns. It was the awful wrath of God that ripped through his heart. The wrath of God at sin, the wrath of God for sinners that Jesus faced. That was what He longed in his human nature to be allowed to miss. Brothers and sisters, because Jesus Christ Christ because we were united to Jesus Christ in his incarnation because through God's amazing wisdom and power and mystery somehow or another we were united to Him. Our sin became His sin. Or more precisely, he became our sin. The guilt of Adam, which is in each of us, what we call original sin. Sin was united to him through us. Jesus took on even the sin and guilt of of Adam and Eve. And on top of that, Jesus took on all of the sin that has come into the world through his people because of Adam's sin. All of the lying words, all of your lying words, all of the unfaithfulness, your unfaithfulness All of the adulteries, your adulteries, both physical and mental. All of the murders and all of the hate, your murders, your All of our failures, all of our unholiness in our thoughts and our words and our actions, all of All of us stumbling over petty things that we're constantly doing, our harsh words and our nastiness, all of it, every stinking bit of it was not just resting on his shoulders, he became that sin. It was like an ugly cancer taking over his human nature. His divine nature, his godness, could not take it on. God cannot be sin. But as a human he could. And he did. And his godly nature united to him in that bearing of sin. Sustained him and upheld him and empowered him as he stood to it. The Spirit was willing. flesh that was weak, the human nature that was weak. But together, the spirit and the human nature They held up because Jesus of Nazareth is the Christ of God, and he became our sin. Now, brothers and sisters, the sheer immensity of this ought to be hitting you right between the eyes right about now. If it isn't You're sleeping, like the disciples did. Jesus here, at the focal point of all history, became Sin for us. Because all of us, like lost sheep, have fall lost our way. Because we have all sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. And it Jesus, the divine Godman, had not gone through this for us, it would not just be physical death that awaits each of us should the Lord not return. The eternal wrath of God would abide on us still. And that is the immensity of the work that Jesus Jesus entered into that night. Now having looked at the immensity of the work, I want you to notice the perfection of it. Matthew's purpose in this entire gospel of us, as I've mentioned, is to interpret Jesus through the lens of the Old Testament scriptures. The time is fulfilled, has been the theme. Of this sermon series from its very beginning. Jesus says the perfect fulfillment of the promises of God is the focus of Matthew's gospel. And now in this rising crescendo of events, this point is hammered home here so clearly. God wants us to understand. He wants us to nail it down that nothing that is going on in this passage is the result of chance. Jesus' betrayal. Jesus' anguish. Jesus' death. They are not to be thought of as detours. Where God is having to adjust his great plan of salvation because something unforeseen has happened. Look at how this is stated. Look at Jesus' betrayal. Look at Judas's treachery in verses 23 through 24. What is said of it there? The Son of Man goes just as it is written of him. Woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. The Holy Spirit has revealed Reveal through Scripture that this is how it has to be. Someone I love, Jesus is saying. Someone I have honored as being chosen to be one. One of my disciples. I chose you, and one of you is a devil, he has said. Someone close to my heart has Do you see how deep sin is in this world? Do you see how perverted it is? That a man would betray his God. Jesus had to be betrayed by one of his own just to show how deep Sin is ingrained in each of us. Since we have all sinned and fallen short of the glory of God, this is the way it had to be. And then Then look at how Jesus is here deserted by all of the other disciples in verse thirty one. All of you were made to stumble because of me. made to stumble because of me this very night. Now you'll be made to stumble. Because this is the way the scripture said it has to be This is how the scripture says it has to be. I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered. The quotation from Zechariah is so important to the Passage that I think I would like to look at it. I think we must look at it and let its words sink in. I'm going to read it. It's Zechariah 14, 7 through 9. Awake, O sword, against my shepherd, against the man who is my companion, says the voice. Lord of hosts. Strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered, and I will turn my hand against the little ones. And it shall come To pass in all the land, says the Lord, that two-thirds in it shall be cut off and die, but one-third shall be left in it. I will bring the one-third through the fire. them as the silver is refined and test them as gold is tested. They will call on my name and I will answer them. I will say, this is my people And each one will say, The Lord is my God. Brothers and sisters, do you see the great plan of God revealed here? Do you see how it is perfectly distilled here? God would call forth the sword. God would send out men with clubs and swords. That's what the pastor says in Matthew. And God would direct direct his sword through those men toward his shepherds, the companion, the person, the second person of the the Trinity who was with him before the dawn of creation, toward his beloved Messiah, toward the one who loved God's sheep, who was their shepherd. He is the one who would feel the wrath of God. And those sheep, they're going to be scattered. Now we should see ourselves in these disciples, brothers and sisters, running away from Christ. We should see just how fragile our faith is. If our faith rests only in our own strength, then this is what we will do. God's plan for the world is so scary, it is so radical, it is so huge. That sometimes We tremble before what God is doing. We tremble before the judgment He displays. And so these disciples are us. They exemplify the fragility of God. Do you see the perfection of this image? The passage in Zechariah brings It all together, though, as good news. The sword will fall on the shepherd, and God will then turn against the little ones. God will scatter them in terror and in un But then in the midst of the very darkness of that day, in the darkness of the true Passover, God will bring them back and he will He will bring them back as through a fire. He will bring back a remnant. He will bring back a church that has been purged from its sin and will be brought through that darkness and through that fire and through that trial. And what's going to happen? Zechariah teaches us that through that fire, the church will Will call on God's name. And God will say, These are my people. And those who are gathered out of the fire of God When turned on the sword of the shepherd, these are the people who with one voice, one faith, and one baptism will proclaim. The Lord is my God. Do you see how Zechariah's words perfectly explain what God is doing in this passage in Matthew? Do you You see how Jesus is perfectly fulfilling everything that God has ordained in his great plan of redemption? The day of the Lord has come, and everything God has promised Will come to pass. Nothing will be left out. Not one jot, not one tittle of prophecy will be left unfulfilled. Jesus was perfect in his obedience to God and all that he did in his life, so Jesus perfectly fulfilled every promise that God has given us of God. Jesus tells us this himself. That's why I have great confidence in telling you this. He tells us it Exactly in verse 54. How then could the scriptures be fulfilled that it must happen Thus Put away that sword. I imagine it was Peter. Sounds like it. Put away that sword. Do not fight against these men who have come to take me away. Do not resist the will of my Father in heaven. Because this is the way it has to be. And it has to be done Perfectly. Everything must be fulfilled. That is what I and I alone must do. Brothers and sisters, how can we be anything other than humbled by this? As we look at the immensity of God's great work here. It's taking on our sin. It's burying our sin for us. The immensity of it just boggles our mind. As we look at the perfect Perfection of it? Because we look at the way Jesus took upon Himself to perfectly do everything that God has promised to be done And our human frailty, we ask, can it really be true? It's so far beyond our imagination No man, no great playwright, could have come up with a script. Nothing in Shakespeare or Hollywood could ever have imagined this kind of story. We struggle with believing. Perhaps we don't believe it at all. But, brothers and sisters, in one sense, that's what proves it's from God. Because How is it so impossible to imagine any human being coming up with a plan like this? In the words of a particular philosopher, because it is absurd. Therefore, I must believe. I believe it because it's true, even though it's beyond My understanding. From the dawn of creation, God has said, this is what must happen. And in Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God, this is what has happened. And that is what we must believe. As we draw near to the supper now, that is what we must celebrate.