Do not boast about tomorrow, for you do not know what a day may bring forth. Let another man praise you, and not your own mouth, a stranger. and not your own lips. A stone is heavy and sand is weighty, but a fool's wrath is heavier than both of them. Wrath is cruel and anger a turrent, but who is able to stand before jealousy? Open rebuke is better than love carefully concealed. Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful A satisfied soul loathes the honeycomb, but to a hungry soul every bitter thing is sweet. Like a bird that wanders from its nest is the man who wanders from his place. Ointment and perfume delight the heart, and the sweetness of a man's friends give delight by hearty counsel. Do not forsake your own friend or your father's friend Nor go to your brother's house in the day of your calamity. Better is a neighbor nearby than a brother far away. Let us pray. Lord, you've given us these specific scriptures in Proverbs that we might see your Torah applied that w we too might by the ministry of your Holy Spirit grow in wisdom. And that is just another way of talking about being restored in righteousness according to your image. We ask, Lord, that this would be done more and more, even in the preaching of your word. We ask these things in your name. Amen. May be seated. Last time we were in the Proverbs, we were able to see just how good of a shepherd Jesus Christ is. He knows that we all struggle socially. Especially when you're in the high school years, that can be some of the most difficult social years possible, or middle school. We've all heard phrases like mean girls, and it's a real thing. And so he helps us to see the reality of our actions, and he does so through different kinds of images. We had different images all along. We've had the honey, we've had Uh other images that he gave us last week. And Christ helps us to adopt true relational wisdom by helping us to take certain sins seriously. He is working with each of us to not be a cold north wind. That was one of the images from last time. But instead to be a healthy spring breeze. And he was helping us to not be a poisoned well, but life-giving water. Well, let's continue making a few observations about our social lives here. From chapter 27, 1 through 10. Chapter 27, the main unit, if you wanted to just look at the structure for a second The main unit of Proverbs 27 is 1 through 22. That's one whole thing, and it's all about friendship. I'm sure you heard the word friend quite a few times in just this reading. As you can see by our division, 1 through 22 may be divided into two sections, 1 through 10 and 11 through 22. And I didn't want things to get too complicated tonight, but you can take one and two and eleven and twelve and three and four and you know, you can they match all the way down. in different ways that they're communicating. Perhaps we can look at that next time because uh 11 through 22 will be our next section that we go through together. In the first section, we can see that at the dead center In 27, 1 through 10, you can see the poetic center here and the theme that's going to pervade the whole. In verses 5 and 6, it highlights one important feature of a friend. Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful. Proverbs 27:6. This proverb encourages us to look beyond the surface and initial feelings that we have toward people. It encourages us to consider more deeply who our real friends are. We've seen this over and over again in Proverbs, where Proverbs says we have to look past the surface of things in order to have real wisdom And that's true in our relationships also. When we think of being wounded by someone, for example, we think of those who are against us. If we think of kisses, we think of those who love us. And yet when we look deeper, we find that kisses sometimes are deceptive. Or telling us what we want to hear is actually just a disguise. They may not really care about us at all. And the same thing happens when we look at wounds or a stinging word or action from someone in our lives. When we consider it more closely, we may find that though it was hurtful, that they are after, in fact, our best interests. That is what wisdom looks like, looking past the surface at the reality of things, even our relationships. So that's the first thing I want you to notice in 27, is that when you go to the center of the first section 27, 1 through 10. And you look at 5 and 6, you can see that dead in the center there is friendship. What does biblical friendship look like? And they gave you a little bit of a taste of it right there in the center. So what we need to do now is we need to keep that lens on and look at the rest. These proverbs are elsewhere in Proverbs. You could find these sayings elsewhere. And what has been done is they've been collected that you might look at the same Proverbs through the lens of friendship and gain from them in yet another way. And so let's make a second observation about friendship. Keeping that lens on, if we pop back up and start going in order here into verses 1 and 2, The proverbs warn against a prideful self-evaluation and confidence. I'm sure you've seen this verse before in James. Well, here it is. Here in the Proverbs, James is often quoting Proverbs. Instead of having a self-evaluation and confidence, we must have others like friends. This mentions here another person or a stranger, which means someone outside of your family. We must have others who can speak into our lives and give us objective and accurate feedback. But it is not just a one-way street. You must be willing to listen to the objective and credible evaluation of your friends. It's in fact one of the great values of a friend. is they actually do have a credible evaluation of the situation and can help you. Whereas you yourself can become distorted in your evaluation of yourself and your situations. A good friendship, then, is one where you can give and receive honest evaluation from each other. If someone in your life is prideful and self-conceited, Then the truth that is revealed here in Proverbs is that your friendship will only ever be able to go so far, if ever able to get off the ground. That's the second observation. The third observation is in verses three and four. Here we see this comparison. It's moving from the lesser to the greater. And in 3 and 4 you can see a stone is heavy and a sand is weighty. But and then we're going to compare things to sand and to stone. And again, we're looking through the lens of friendship. Now this is interesting. The sand and the stone, or the sand and the brick. Could just be uh appealing to our normal experiences. If any of you have had to pick up bags of sand to fill in your kids' play area. You will realize that that is different than picking up styrofoam. After a while, it just becomes Exhausting and burdensome. And it's the same thing if you have hauled cinder blocks from one place to the next, perhaps laying a foundation. That's very different than picking up other things that are not as dense. It could be just that simple, appealing to our common experiences. What also might be going on here Is a reference to the sands of Egypt and the bricks of Egypt, and bringing up what it's like living under someone who is like Pharaoh. Now, the reason why the proverbist would want to do that is because he's trying to make a point about friendship here. Take a hard look at three and four. This is very important. This is really helpful to me as I was studying it. A stone is heavy and sand is weighty, but then he compares those things and he says, in a sense, those are nothing compared to working with certain people. A fool and their wrath? It's heavier than both of them. You think it's hard to unload a pickup truck of some sand for the playground? Work with a fool and his wrath. Then you'll really be exhausted, but then it's going to keep moving forward to those situations and features of people, certain emotions that take control of them that will be make the relationship worse and worse and worse. The next one is playing on the word, there's two Hebrew words going on here, but a fool's wrath is one word. And then wrath, wrath is cruel is a different word, is a synonym. But you can see it's developing here. Wrath is cruel, and anger a turrent. And then there's this final example that outdoes them all, heavier than any bags of sand. Heavier than any stone, and perhaps the root of the problem with Pharaoh himself as the Israelites had to live with him. And that was jealousy. Who could stand before it? That's the third observation here is that as long as those features are present, it will be impossible for a friendship to grow. Trying to be friends with someone who is wrathful, verse 3, a hothead, verse 4, and jealous will be as heavy as being in a relationship with Pharaoh. Or as taxing and exhausting as slave labor with sand and bricks And that is where I'm going to stop actually, and I'm going to go ahead and give some doctrine because I'm going to run out of time if I go through every single one of these. So you can um we could talk about the others that are present I've already done six and five and six. Open rebuke is better than love. Carefully concealed and faithful are the wounds of a friend, but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful. Take a look at verse 7 very quickly. I guess I am going to go over them. Let's just do this briefly. It's bugging me not to go over them. Sorry. 7 is about distorted desires. You're not supposed to loathe the honeycomb. You're supposed to be excited about it. It's sweet and lovely. Even the scent is is just lovely. But here, something's gone wrong. The desires are distorted, and they loathe the honeycomb. And it's the same thing with the second line. You're not supposed to find things that are bittersweet, so something's off. And what you want to do is you want to then link seven to eight. And because of the desires being off, there's something that's going wrong. inside of where people where people should find their place. When distorted desires enter into perhaps the greatest friendship of all, which is marriage. Then you can find that you're like a bird wandering from your nest, which is uh if you look at the language closely here, this is a great tragedy. It's the kind of thing that would happen like being displaced from your home from war or famine. It shouldn't happen. And disordered desires can be the root of a destroyed home. He then moves on to ointment and perfume delight the heart, and then comparing such things of the glistening of the oil And the the beautiful smell of that perfume to the sweetness of someone's friend giving them life-giving counsel. And then lastly, do not forsake your own friend or your father's friend. So this is a friend of many generations And do not go to your brother's house in the day of your calamity, but better is a neighbor nearby than a brother who's far away. And this challenges the concept that your family is always closest to you. Sometimes a friend is actually more of a brother than your brother himself or your sister. So I won't comment on all of those in the application, but we did go through them. And then 11 through 22 will continue these same themes about friendship, and I hope to get to that another time. Drawing these things together, we have this doctrine this evening. Christ calls his people to grow in their wisdom in the context of their friendships. Christ calls his people to grow in their wisdom in the context of their friendships. I want to look at this under a larger mission and then the specific passage. Larger mission and specific passage. Now let's go ahead and situate what we just heard about friendship in the larger mission of Jesus Christ Himself. The eternal Christ takes on human nature. That's what this whole season is about for the incarnation. He accomplishes his mission of obedience and sacrifice. He is justified by the Father in His resurrection, and He has given all authority in heaven and earth in His ascension. And then Christ, having earned the Holy Spirit, sends the Holy Spirit to us to apply his mission and ministry to our actual lives. He calls us from our death slumber, awakening us to believe, awakening us to love and to hope. And we then begin to co-operate with him by the power of the Holy Spirit. Now, I want you to listen to the language of cooperation in Ephesians chapter 4. This is Ephesians 4, 22 through 24, if you wanted to meditate on this this coming week. It says this, that you put off concerning your former conduct the old man which grows corrupt according to this deceitful lusts, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind. And that you put on the new man, which was created according to God, in true righteousness and holiness. That is the work of Jesus Christ in our cooperation with him. There is a taking off and a putting on by the power of his spirit. He even says that the taking off and the putting on is so different from our former lives, he calls us new people. And that instead of being created according and having similarities to the devil, we're now being recreated according to God. In true righteousness and holiness. Later, Paul will speak about this same thing that Christ is doing among us, but he's going to speak about it in terms of wisdom. In the book of Ephesians. If you were to skip down into the next chapter, into verse 15, he says, See that you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wives. The whole picture is one of contrasts. We were enslaved to unrighteousness, but due to the work of Christ we are set free to put on our new selves. in true righteousness and holiness. And it is another way of talking about us growing in wisdom or being made wise. But though we are made perfect in parts, we are not perfect in degrees. That's the same thing with a baby. A baby's perfect in parts, but it's not perfect in degrees. It's got a lot of growing to do. And all of us can be babies. And therefore, we must develop and grow over time like an infant to a toddler to a teenager to an adult. And then you have all of these different stages when you're an adult. That's the larger mission. Now when we look at when we look at that larger mission and we situate this passage within that larger administration of the Triune God. What is it that we find? How does it help us to make sense of our passage tonight? Well, it does at least in this way. Part of growing in true righteousness and holiness under the mission of Christ. Part of growing in wisdom, part of developing from infancy to adult, is growing in how to be a good friend. I wonder if you find that surprising. I wonder if you think that friendship just happens like a turtle falling off a log. You just think, you ever have to do that, Bill? You just you hit a you see a turtle on a log, you hit it, it'll just fall off. It's real easy. Is friendship that easy? That is the that is the bizarrest illustration I've ever given in my life Moving on. In our passage Christ shows us two main ways to mature as friends. First, we must take off certain mindsets, emotions, and impulses. If you have an anger problem, if you are a hot head, and especially if you are jealous, you will limit your friendships You must put off such vices and put on the new person who is slow to anger, self-controlled, and rejoices in the accomplishments of others. Now, I want you to picture just for a moment yourself and your different relationships. You can think about this, especially if you're a student. High school can be a terrible place, and so too can middle school. It can be extremely difficult. I always think of that one quote that my friend saw in the yearbook from someone they teased all that year. Sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will break my heart. That was their senior superlative. I guess that's what you call that. Those times of life can be extremely difficult. I want you to picture the things that are told to us in the Proverbs here with these different features that if they are a part of your relationships, the damage that they create. I want you to think of the list that's given there, like being wrathful or being a hothead or being jealous as knives. And I want you to figure out a way to where you would have those knives sticking out from you. If you wanted to, you could continue the list actually because it says those who are wrathful, so we have a wrath knife sticking out from us, because that's something that we have about ourselves. We're cruel. There's another knife knife sticking out from us. We're angry and have an anger problem. There's another knife that's sticking out from us. And then there's jealousy sticking out from us. And if you were to go into the next section, actually, you would find in verse 14, this is a pretty funny, funny one. Take a look down at verse 14 real quickly. He who blesses his friend with a loud voice rising early in the morning, it will be counted a curse to him. This is the morning person with the non-morning person, and it stands as an example for a much larger reality that you don't know the right things to do at the right time. And there's another knife. Or look at verse 15, a continual dripping and a contentious person or woman, someone who's a constant nag, there's another knife. Biggest knife of all, according to this, is envy or jealousy. So that's the picture that we can have inside of our minds. Now I want you to imagine that on each one of those knives are the words written here. You see, wrath. Hothead, jealousy, cruelty, nagging, uh not be able to read the room. Wrong word at wrong time, morning person, not morning person. You see what I'm saying? That they're all on those different nights. And then I and then I want you in your imagination now Imagine that you're trying to get close to that person. And you won't be able to. And you won't be able to get close to others. Or you'll only be able to get so close. Imagine cuddling with that person, for example, or or uh or something happens in a ball game and you're excited about it, so you throw go to throw your arm around them And I go you get stabbed in five different places because they got knives all over them. We would call this usually we we uh call this person prickly. That they're a kind of porcupine with the vices that they have. You can't the truth and the reality here that the Proverbs is pointing out to us, which is why the friendship is limited. is because you cannot get close to them without getting stabbed. That is a picture to help us understand friendship and what is necessary to grow in our friendships. in cooperation with the Holy Spirit, we have got to remove those vices before equality relationship can form. We remove each of the knives, stabbing others, because it's not just an emotion that we have as an individual that doesn't affect other people. It actually affects and puts limits on the kinds of relationships that we can have. That's the first lesson and the first image that I give to you from Proverbs, especially from verses 3 and 4. You can see there the importance of virtue in our relationships. The second lesson is that true friends don't let their friends continue in sin. This is an extremely difficult one. I'm finding more and more, especially among this high school generation currently and in middle school, that the worst sin that could ever be accomplished In any social setting is that you would make a person feel awkward. It's like the unforgivable sin. Now whether that's true or not, it can be difficult in those situations to be a true friend because you often do not find the courage to talk to your friends. and having a difficult and awkward conversation about their sin. But a true friend cares enough about their friend to have those difficult conversations and even when it's continually awkward. Yes. They will feel like you are wounding them. But that is not the case if in fact you are a true friend. You are actually applying medicine, and we all know about medicine. We know that some medicines sting. Some of the best medicine I've had has stung when they applied it to my wounds. It actually let me know it was working. At least that's how it worked in my mind. Without that medicine, health cannot be restored. And on the flip side, we as Christ's people are called to grow in wisdom and realize that not every wound which people inflict on us is a wound from an enemy. Sometimes our friends will say things to us that sting, that are embarrassing to acknowledge, but the wise recognize the great good which our friends have for our best interests. You will especially see this within marriage where one thinks that the other is against them when really they're not. The wise recognize true friends because true friends, even if having a difficult or awkward conversation, are after their good. They want them to flourish. They want them to have life. And they are willing to enter into those moments when you really need courage because they love them so much. It is only the fool who will accept relationships with kisses For those who flatter and only tickle our ears are often not our friends, but they are only looking out for themselves, and actually they're cowards, most of the time. And I'll remind you, lastly, also, just on this point, that in Leviticus, I believe it's in chapter 19. The Lord commands us not to hate our brothers and our sisters. Do you know the line that comes after that? It says, do not hate. Your fellow brothers and sisters. And then it gives an example of hatred. It is hatred would be not rebuking them in their sin And then it goes on to say that if you don't, you are complicit with them. We may not consign or sign over. are true friends to the sin that we see within them. Brothers and sisters, I want you to ask yourselves a few questions. Are you prickly? Do you have a a few knives, or if you think of yourselves as porcupines, do you have a few quills that have been disrupting your society at school, for example If you're in middle school, are there certain things about you that are ruining people's the year for people? Or if if you're in high school, are there things that are disrupting the society that's supposed to happen in your school? Or if you're in college, do you have a few knives and quills that need to be removed by the gentle but firm hand of our great physician Jesus Christ? Are you loving enough and are you a good and faithful enough friend where you will have difficult conversations? Do you need to pray and ask the Lord that you would no longer be a coward, but that you would have courage for the sake of love? The bottom line is that some of the best friendships do not come easy and they do not come naturally They come from the grace of Christ in our lives and the hard work of cooperating with the Spirit, which is why oftentimes good friendships are few. We don't, like Facebook says, have six hundred real good friends. We will have one or two in our life because of the kind of effort that it takes to be a good friend. And now may Christ be with us all as we seek to grow in wisdom in the context of our friendships. Let us pray