Twenty seven, eleven, or eleven through twenty-one. Be wise, or my son, be wise and make my heart glad, that I may answer him who reproaches me. A prudent man foresees evil and hides himself, the simple pass on and are punished. Take the garment of him who is surety for a stranger, and hold it in pledge when he is surety for a seductress. He who blesses his friend with a loud voice, rising early in the morning, it will be counted a curse to him. A continual dripping on a very rainy day and a contentious woman are alike. Whoever restrains her restrains the wind, and grasps oil with his right hand. As iron sharpens iron, so a man sharpens the countenance of his friend Whoever keeps the fig tree will eat its fruit, so he who waits on his master will be honored. As in water face reflects face, so a man's heart reveals the man Hell and destruction are never full, so the eyes of man are never satisfied. The refining pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold, and a man is valued by what others say of him. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for your wisdom and your spirit of wisdom. We pray that you would commune with us now by way of your spirit, giving us wisdom. Ask these things in your name on them. Maybe see them. The last time that we looked at the Proverbs together, we looked at this same chapter, but we looked at the first ten verses. And we looked at all ten of those verses as carrying forward a theme on friends and friendship. It was as if we went to the vineyard and we picked a whole cluster of grapes. But we only ended up eating a few, because we couldn't eat all of the grapes of verses one through ten the last time we were together In fact, if you think about it, if you had notes from last time, we only ate two grapes. It's all we had time for. The two grapes were this, were these. First, if you have anger problems, if you're a hothead, and especially if you are jealous, you will in fact limit your friendships. You must put off such vices by the power of the Holy Spirit and put on the new person created in Christ Jesus, who is slow to anger, self-controlled and rejoices at the success of others. What we did was we pictured, uh we used our imaginations to picture a porcupine. And we didn't focus on the animal as a whole, but we focused in on each individual quill. And what I asked you to do is to label each one of those quills with different vices. One quill would say rage. Another quill would say cruelty. Another quill would say hothead. And then there is the largest quill of them all that said jealousy. What we were to do was to imagine that those that we were the porcupine and those were the quills, and that's how they were labeled And then ask the question, is it easy to get close to us? Could we have close relationships without stabbing other people? Maybe that's why they keep their distance. It was a picture to help us understand friendship and what is necessary to grow in our friendships. In cooperation with the Holy Spirit, we must first remove those vices before a quality relationship can form. That was the first grape. The second grape that we ate was that true friends don't let their friends continue in sin. This is another piece of wisdom that Christ wants us to have. We must care enough about our friends to have difficult and awkward conversations. Yes, they will probably feel like we are wounding them. But that is not the case. We are actually applying medicine. And as we all know, there's sometimes medicine that has to be applied that stinks. But without it, health cannot be restored It wouldn't help, however, to add a little sugar so to help the medicine go down. Now we come to verses 11 through 21 this evening. And this could be taken, we could go back to the vineyard of the Proverbs, and we could take off a whole nother cluster of grapes, which I just read to you Here they are. You know what the little things are that hold the grapes on? Twiglets. Twiglets. Just I'm just I love saying twiglet. I'm just trying to figure out ways to put it in my conversation In 11 through 21, we have this other cluster, and uh it you could focus on that whole theme of friendship that's going on there. You're really looking through a kind of prism of friendship. and all of these different proverbs. But the nice thing about the way the proverbs are set up is you can just eat one grape at a time. And you don't have to go along with an overarching theme or anything like that. We can just benefit from a little wisdom. at a time. And so what I'd like to do is instead of trying to gobble down that whole cluster of grapes, I just want to focus on verse 12. And so we get just one grape tonight. And it says this. A prudent man foresees evil and hides himself. The simple pass on and are punished. What I like to do when we you know that's our teaching right there in the morning that would have been called our doctrine And I'd like to look at this and unfold it and unpack it by looking back at the story of the Proverbs. So the first point is a story. Then I want to look at the application. So the story and then the application. If you look at that proverb, take a look at it in verse 12 Think of it in terms of narrative and a story. What characters are present? What we have here are two characters in this proverb. The prudent man and the simple man. These characters have been a part of the story of Proverbs really from the beginning You'll find these words in the first seven verses of Proverb. You'll see the prudent man and the simple man walking along on these different paths throughout the rest of the different Proverbs. In chapter 9, for example, there is a man, and he is walking along a path, and the path stands for his life. He's going about his business, he's trying to live his life. And as he's walking along that path, he hears a woman shouting. She's up on a higher area than everybody else. And her name is Woman Wisdom. She's famous. Everybody knows her. And one of the reasons why she's famous is that she was there working with God to even create the world. That's how wise she is. And beyond that, even though her work of creation is done with God Himself, she loves to continue to bring order and good things to people. Everybody knows that about her. So when he sees she sees this man walking down the path, she cries out to him and she says Man, come and join me for dinner. I prepared a feast. If you join me and my family, we will show you how to live in this life, how to live on this earth, how to have good things, how to make great decisions, how to have happiness. How to be prosperous, how to be wise. But there was a problem Up on the one mount is the woman wisdom crying out to the man as he's walking down the path. But over here on the over here on another high place, there's another woman. And she's crying out aloud to him also. Really she's shouting, and when she speaks, her voice sounds like a dying cat. But she still gets her point across, and her name is Woman Folly. She called out his name. She promised him food that looked delicious. But what he didn't know, he couldn't see, is that underneath the beauty of the exterior and the veneer of the food was poison. And if he actually went into have a feast with her and to dine with her, one thing he would find is that all around her feasting table are dead people. He couldn't see that. So he needed to make the decision without that kind of information. And this is the crisis. Whichever feast he chooses, that is what he will become. He will either become wise or a fool. If he joins woman wisdom, then he will become a prudent man living in wisdom. If he joins woman folly, then he will become a simple-minded man living in folly That is the story that's behind every proverb. And now I want to move forward with some application with our particular proverb, knowing that story. Hearing this story, do you see how you're supposed to view our proverb that we read this evening? We have both of the characters that are still present there. Walking along the path of your lives, you will every day hear the calling and cries of these two women. And at each of those crossroads, you will have the choice to either become wise or a fool. Now, what are the two women saying in Proverbs 27:12? What's the message to the same person, or to two different people that may choose two different paths? Woman wisdom is saying, grow in discernment so that you can foresee evil and then you can avoid it. That's what woman wisdom would say. If you went to dine with her and have a feast and you sat there and was you were enjoying all of the delicious meats and the mixed wine that she has, that's one of the lessons she would have said. She would have said to you You need to see that these things are evil and you need to avoid them. But woman folly wouldn't have said the same thing. Woman folly would say, what's the trouble? Let's just have fun. When I think about these two paths and the two women and the choice between prudence and folly I actually made it brought to mind when I first brought my dog home. I remember when we first brought our dog uh Flynn. to the house. He was only eight weeks old. We let him run around and play in the backyard, as you're supposed to do with dogs. Well, this little puppy, he was probably this big. And and he just looked like a little ball of fur running. He was like a little fluff, I don't know how to explain it. This giant thing of fluff running around He was playing in the backyard and he saw a hole in the ground over by the wooden fence. And being the young puck that he was, and not foreseeing what was in that hole, Flynn ran over and stuck his nose right into it. Before I could say stop, yellow jackets poured out of their buried nest and they covered his fur. He yelped and he became confused. We had to run over and to grab him, to shake off all the yellow jackets, and then we had to take him to the vet. That's Flynn listening to Woman Folly. But I want you to fast forward a year, because my dog is doing much better now. I watched him last summer. Last summer around the pool, Flynn watched a single yellow jacket land on a piece of watermelon. And he went the other way. He foresaw evil and he hid himself. Even as an animal, woman wisdom gave my dog prudential instincts. Now the question for you is, are you sticking your nose in a hole not knowing if there's a nest there or not? Or can you at least have the instincts of an animal or learn the lessons of an animal and start to avoid evil? If you used your sanctified imagination, you could actually see lots of places where this would apply. Lots of evil that you would need to foresee and have the discernment to foresee. And those of you who are older, you know there were many things, many, many holes that you stuck your nose into. that you had to learn from. And you've learned the wisdom of this proverb to a greater degree than some of us. And if you wanted to, you could go on, and you could think of lots of other places where the proverb applies. But there is one application that is the most important of all with this proverb. A prudent man sees evil and he avoids it or hides himself. The simple man does not and is punished. You must realize that a day is coming when God will judge all people that have ever lived. Anyone that ever was, anyone that ever is, and anyone that ever will be You, therefore, must be prudent and take care to provide for the forgiveness of your sins and the salvation of your soul It is the most important application of this proverb. It is the ultimate act of prudence to make sure that your sins are forgiven. And that your soul has salvation. We must ask, in order to avoid that great calamity That great thing, to foresee it up ahead and to hide ourselves, to see the yellow jacket and to just walk away. We must know that we have repented and believed We must know that we are reconciled to God. If we wait until we are covered with the yellow jackets of God's judgment, then it will be too late. We must foresee that day, and we must hide ourselves in Jesus Christ. Well, that's the most important application. I encourage you to think about that. If that's confusing to you, or if you need some more help, I'm ready to talk about the most important application of prudence. Making sure that you have the salvation of your soul. No one here will escape death Now, after that first application, there is another application that is of utmost importance. I would say that in all of history and in all of the world. We just looked at the first most important point of prudence. And here is a second most important point of prudence and is this. As you enter into that forgiveness and into the life and the path of one who has salvation by Jesus Christ. You must be prudent and foresee the great evil that the devil wants for you. He does not want you to stand. He wants you to fall. Our apostle Peter tells us the devil is like a lion And he roams the earth looking for people to devour. If you know such a great evil awaits you, why not foresee it and avoid it Why not do so by being by practicing the Christian discipline of watchfulness? Of being aware of our temptations and the wiles of the devil. I'm quite taken back as I look at different ages that took watchfulness seriously particularly among the the the age with the Puritans. They wrote entire treatises describing the different devices that the devil uses To trick us and to make us fall. And the remedies in Jesus Christ for the ills that he would bring into our lives. Foresee the work of the devil, and avoid his temptations by reading the word, singing spiritual songs and psalms, and fanning the flame of your faith, love, and hope, but not alone. In community with each other. The good news, Christian, is that Christ has sent his spirit of wisdom to you You don't have to figure this out on your own. You're not even going to complete it on your own. You're going to co-operate with him and all of his might and all of his power. Look back at the history of the saints, at how many times your Holy Spirit has completed the task. Isn't He competent to complete it in you also? And so with hope, let's go forward. He is committing to finishing his work in you. You can count on it. That there will be a day when Christ Himself will declare you to be prudent. Amen. Amen. Let us pray