And we ask these things in your name. Amen. Please stand as I'll read this morning Revelation chapter five, the first seven verses. Our sermon this morning is titled From Tears to Joy. Revelation chapter five. And I saw in the right hand of him who sat on the throne a scroll. Written inside and on the back, sealed with seven seals. Then I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the scroll and to lose its seals? And no one in heaven or on the earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or to look at it. So I wept much, because no one was found worthy to open and read the scroll or to look at it. But one of the elders said to me, Do not weep. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has prevailed to open the scroll and to loose its seven seals. And I actually want to continue. And I look, and behold, in the midst of the throne, and of the four living creatures, and in the midst of the elders stood a lamb, as though it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out. into all the earth. Then he came and he took the scroll out of the right hand of him who sat on the throne. Amen. Please pray with me. What a heavenly vision you have given to us from your servant John Christ, the one who walks amongst the churches. We know that you walk amongst us now, and we ask that you would teach us by your Spirit to take great joy in you. to see all things coming together in you, that you would be both the first and the last. In the name of Christ, Amen. Amen. You may be seated. When you're sitting in the woods, whether it's camping or hunting or either hiking And as the sun is setting, you will notice, if you take the time, that the shadows deepen and they lengthen. And the effect of this, as the sun continues to fall, is that it takes away the crisp reality of each tree branch and each leaf that you could have seen individually before when the sun was in its full glory. All of the branches and all of the trees become indistinguishable as the night descends on the forest. Now, this is just a poetic way or observation, I think, that most of us have had. of saying we don't see well in the dark. And if it's dark enough, we can't see at all. Now this is a bit of a loaded question, but let me ask you. How's your site these days? And I ask because the world can be a dark place. I'll have to maybe talk to you about this later, but over your lifetime have the shadows deepened and lengthened? You think things have gotten worse? Are things darker? Well, whether they're darker or not, we all admit that they're dark. And that's really been our starting point during the Advent season The world is a dark place, and it can be hard to see. We could even say without the help of God, we can't see. And so we've turned to the lamp of God's Word to help us see the reality and especially the reality of Christ during the time of Christmas or Christmas. The first week in our Advent series, we spent time with Matthew and we observed his use of the Exodus to overlay the nativity scene. And it was revealing to us that Jesus is Israel, casts away the darkness as to who is Jesus, and it brings light, it lets us know something complete about him, that he is Israel, and I encourage you to go back and listen to that. If you weren't a part of that sermon. For the second sermon, we stepped into heaven in the book of Revelation to see that same scene played out from a heavenly perspective through symbols. We saw the birth of Christ play out in this drama that involved the woman, the dragon, and the child. Again, bringing great light in a time of darkness so that we could see the reality. Because although it is dark on earth, it is perfectly lit in heaven. And this morning we step back into heaven. We didn't read chapter 4 because it would have been too long, but if you were to look back very quickly at chapter 4, You notice in verse 1 that John looks and he beholds this book of Revelation, he's beholding a series of things. But here he beholds a door standing open in heaven, and he's called and invited, and he goes up into that door, and he enters into this throne room, and the one sitting on the throne continues into chapter 5. But John steps into that door and he sees another world as a place full of light where you can see perfectly. There are no shadows. You don't miss anything. It's a place full of light and place where you can see clearly, and that clear place is then brought down to us with the inspiration of these scriptures this morning. You know, the whole scene in chapter 4 leading into chapter 5 makes me wonder, and this is just a digression for a moment, just bear with me. It makes me wonder if C. S. Lewis used this for his John going into a door into a new world in order to be able to understand the the reality of the Christ, and then C. S. Lewis having a wardrobe and in the back is a door that goes into another world where perhaps he could understand. And help others to understand the reality of the Christ. It's just a digression, though. The door to heaven and the door to Narnia were both to lead the sons of Adam closer to reality. It's difficult to see on earth, but if we could just get to heaven where there's where it's light, then we could see. And we could especially see the significance. And that's what we're doing. That's what we've been doing through this Advent series, and it's what we're doing this this morning. We're asking questions like, what is the significance of the Christ? This world has become so dark we don't know any longer Why is he so necessary? Why has Jesus the Christ been celebrated for so long? Why does he have his own holiday or holidays if you look at the liturgical calendar? And why does he have holidays in a secular country called America or Sweden or Germany? How could this happen? Well, this passage this morning starts to answer those kind of questions for us. It again will help us to see Christ in clear light. And we'll see him through three main things this morning in this passage, the scroll, the many tears of John, and the the lion lamb. Those three things, if we follow the camera as it pans from one image to the next within this heavenly vision, it brings light to us here in this earth. to understand who Christ is and why he's so significant and why there are people still celebrating him today, even in a secular country like America. He's inextinguishable. And so let's begin with the scroll. That's our first point here. So we start in chapter 5. And by the time you reach chapter 5, as I've briefly led you through chapter 4 with the throne room scene after walking through the door, by the time you get to chapter 5, I really want you to think of this as a dramatic movie. It's the best way to think of it. It's like a movie, and that's good for us because we're movie people. The focus of the camera, then, is going from a grand heavenly throne room vision with Many different kinds of creatures and lots of worship taking place. There's this wide shot given. But then if you notice in chapter 5 of verse 1, we're really going to zoom down And I mean it's a real zoom shot. Look at chapter 5, verse 1. Look at how zoomed in we get. And I saw in the right hand. Not even the whole person on the throne, it's just the hand. Now we've seen shots like that in movies. And then if you if you keep reading, it actually isn't even just on the hand, it's on the item that's in the hand. That's how zoomed in we're gonna go. The camera is focused on the right hand of God the Father who sits on the throne, but then the camera keeps zooming in, and the focus is on what is in his right hand. It is a scroll written on the front and the back, or the inside and on the back. And it is sealed with seven seals. That's the main focus of the camera shot. That's going to determine the whole first scene, and that's why I've called it the scroll. Now If you were watching a movie and someone focused in on an item and it just kept focusing like an Alfred Hitchcock movie, And you had this little violin thing in the background with this continuous note. What would you s what are you supposed to feel? The answer is suspense. And a question would arise in the midst of your dispense. What in the world is this scroll or is this book? That is the question you're supposed to be asking at this point And that's how these dramas work out in Revelation. They lead you to ask a question and then they start to answer it. And that's exactly what we see here in this passage. What's the scroll? What's the book that's in his hand? I wonder what it is. I wonder what's written on it. I wonder what the seven seals are. And it invites you to start thinking about books in the scriptures, in the history of John and his people. Books have premiered throughout all of scriptural history. We have the general history of books. Moses was given a book on the mountain. And he was given much more to write, as recorded within Deuteronomy. Joshua was given this same book, and so too all the kings afterward. The prophets like Isaiah were given visions, which were then written into books. It's called inscripturation, and we've got all these books bound together into a single book, 66 of them. But it's not good enough to just look generally through the scriptures at books. What we have here in this vision of Revelation 5 is a very specific book, and this is not the first time that this book has Shown up. This scroll has been around before. For example, in Ezekiel chapter 2, verses 9 through 10, listen to this. Now, when I looked, there was a hand stretched out to me. And behold, a scroll of a book was in it. Then he spread it before me, and there was writing on the inside and on the outside. And written on it were lamentations and mourning and woe. That's another way of saying judgment, and how the judgment would proceed. And now the same thing, and the book shows up again in Daniel chapter 12. To understand Revelation, you have to understand Daniel. Everything is made sense of there and then brought here. But in chapter 12, verse 4 of Daniel, and this whole context I could read to you, but I'll just read this one so I can show you the book. But you, Daniel Shut up the words and seal the book until the end of time. And in that book were the promises. To all of God's people, in all of the destiny and purposes of God for his people, that David could not see that would happen through the crowd. He wanted to be able to see it, but the angel said, now's not the time. It's going to be locked up until the time comes. And so if you put all of these things together, just thinking very quickly, there's so much more we could say about this. If you if you put all of this together briefly, then the scroll really here. Brings together the whole destiny of the earth written on it. And what I mean by that is all of God's purposes, all of his plans, all of his judgment, all of his grace. It's another way of really saying the scroll represents all of the promises which God has decreed for heaven and earth, which he shall fulfill. And you'll notice if you go back down to the text that the camera will start to shift the focus now as we see the scroll. Verse 2, immediately there's a new character that's going to enter the scene, and so the camera goes off of the right hand, and the camera goes off of the scroll in the hand and shifts over to a new character here, which is going to bring us dramatically to our next question as we start to shift points here. We're starting to move into our transition. He moves from the scroll to a new character that enters the scene, and John sees an angel. And the angel is proclaiming himself a dramatic question. Then I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the scroll and to loose its seals? So now it's not enough to know what is on it. and what it stands for. Now we need to know who will be able to open this destiny, who will be able to complete the purposes that God has. And then you see here the answer in Revelation 5, 2, and 3, and no one in heaven or on the earth or under the earth. was able to open the scroll or to even look at it. And now we enter into our second point. Do you see how the drama is unfolding here? And the way that this has been put together, that we are to move along this way. The scene shifts from the hand to the scroll to a question Now about that scroll, and we get a devastating answer: no one can open the destiny and purposes of God. And so with verse 4 that we begin the many tears of John. Isn't that an appropriate reaction to the answer to that question? And so I wept much because no one was found worthy to open and to read the scroll or to even look at it. How devastating! You know, I had a friend comment on these this verse, and through my own study I arrived at the same conclusion I really think that John's weeping here is in line with so many other times of weeping. I can't see John crying. that no one can open the scroll, that God's purposes may not unfold, that we're kind of stuck in a stagnant curse I can't separate John's weeping from the other weepings like in our first sermon in this series when Rachel cried for her child. When Herod slaughtered two years old and younger, or when Hagar was treated roughly and sent out into the wilderness? Or when Peter cried after denying Christ three times, he wept much. Or, of course, the ultimate at the death of Lazarus. Perhaps the ultimate expression of the curse is death. And we see this one line That Jesus wept. Is it possible that here in this moment John's tears are representative of every tear, of every lamentation that has happened amongst human beings since the fall? I really think that this one moment in heaven where John cries is meant to bring up all the crying in the world. Even your specific crying. And I wonder what you have cried over. What have you groaned over? All of the tears of all of the ages are represented here in this one moment. John is crying because no one is worthy to open the scroll. And this lets us know something really important about the scroll that we need to hear as Westerners. It's not about opening the scroll so that he can read it. It's not like he can't wait to see what's in the novel that hasn't been released yet. So that he has another story before him to read. It's about if the scroll can be opened, then what has been declared in the scroll can take place in reality. That's what's going on here. And if the contents or the promises of God to bring righteousness on the earth, then John wept for much the same reason that everyone re weeps. We need relief from the curse and the fall. It is always why we cry, even if you do not know it. We need God to wash away the evil from this world and to make us a home in the garden again, but we are between gardens And that's the devastating tone of the answer. Who can open this? How could we end the pain? And someone arises and says, we can't find anybody. Now that is an honest assessment. And it is an assessment, you're a very educated people. You know the history of this world, and that is an assessment you know to be a genuine assessment If God gave you money for travel, let's say he gave you a private jet where you could go anywhere in the world, and he gave you a team of experts to go to the heavens, and you get your own astronaut suit. And you get to travel the whole world and you get to check at the bottom of the deepest parts of the ocean. Would you find someone who is good enough, who is powerful enough, who's the right one to right the wrong of this world? And they're saying, from a humanistic perspective, the answer is no. Now if we were to travel through the times of history, and I can't help but to have Bill and Ted's excellent adventure here. I I can't believe that the world would be left to them, but let's say we had a telephone booth. We would go back and we would find the erudition of the philosopher Aristotle and what he added to culture. And we would find perhaps some kind of insight somewhere with Sigmund Freud to understand the human person. Or maybe we would turn to the justice and the compassion of Nelson Mandela. Or maybe we would find the stability, forthrightness, and honesty of Winston Churchill. Or maybe we could turn to the at least relative humility of Gandhi and his concern for the people. Or maybe we could benefit from the kindness Of Mr. Rogers. But in the end, for all of the relative good that those people added to the world, and I say relative on purpose, They added, certainly, if we were to review their biographies, they added to the evil a little bit themselves. And in the end, they died. And it makes me think of other people too, like when John Lennon died, people wept for the loss of a vision of peace that was captured in his music. When JFK died, the world wept for a loss of a vision of a national promise. And when Mr. Rogers died, many mourn for the loss of a kind of kindness that you don't even see anymore. Especially towards children. Children aren't even usually treated like real people. But he tr he he treated them like people. And this is the insight that our culture has. Because we are a postmodern culture, we have this insight from this record of people, and we're able to look down the halls of history, and we can see the countless philosophies And we can see all of the scientists and all of the technology. We can see all of the human power and the initiative. And we have seen that throughout the halls of history It does not lead to the salvation of mankind. It's like there is a blood stain on us that we cannot scrub out. Damned spot. And that's why John is weeping. The scroll contains all of the answers. Inside and out are the ways to bring peace to the world. But the scroll has seven seals, and no one in heaven and earth or under the earth could open them. But of course, this is a drama, and so I have to say, well. almost no one. And that takes us into this final picture here in Revelation chapter 5, where thank God we didn't have to depend on John Lennon. But on the lion lamb. The camera shifts again, notice. And it shifts over to an elder, which I love because it means that heaven is Presbyterian. Actually it's elders, so there's a session. Verse 5 the camera shifts over, but one of the elders said to me, John, don't weep. Can you imagine what John would have been like in that vision at that moment? Just imagine for a moment, John, don't weep. The drama unfolding Behold. Now you know that word behold. Now John's got to look at something else. John has seen and he's hearing, but now the vision's going to change. And John and the camera's moving with John's eyes, and now we're going to see something. That is the reason why all the candles are lit. He says, Behold the lion lamb. Really puts it out here in two parts. He comforts John and he says, Do not weep behold the lion of the tribe of Judah. The root of David has prevailed to open the scroll and to loose its seven seals. I actually think this is a heavenly view of after Jesus disappears into the heavens in his ascension. We're now seeing what takes place After that. And there he is, the lion. But of course we have to keep reading because the one who is also called the lion, if we were to continue reading, is also called the lion. Lamb in verse six. And it's the lamb as though it had been slain. You see the marks on the lamb are still there. Although he stands as a lion, there he's also this this uh You can see him as the lamb, and not just as a lamb, but one who has been slain. And you can s you see the significance starting to unfold. That it's not about uh what kind of animal are you, Jesus If you were an animal, you know how people ask you that question? If you're an animal, what kind of animal would you be? That's not what's going on here. There's a symbol to show you the essence that the so that you have a perfectly clear vision. There's no shadows to block who he is. He's a lion and he's a lamb as slain. Throughout all of history no one could be found, but then and this is where Christmas comes in, there's one who is born who can loose the seven seals and open the scroll and he proves himself. to be that person specifically in the resurrection. That he is raised in victory. He is the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David. And he is, verse 6, the lamb, as though it had been slain. And therefore we have, behold, the lion lamb. The lion as king is fit to rule this world in righteousness. The lamb as slain is fit as a sacrifice for the sins of his people, and to be a great high priest over the temple of God. Each time we follow through passages like this, and we reach the climax and the peak of the mountain, everyone is swept away, and there's only one person. that seems to remain. It is Jesus Christ. And you can see in this passage why. Because the whole earth has been scoured, and all of the heavens, and beneath the sea, and no one could be found to complete the purposes of God except for the one. The world is a dark place and it is hard to see. The drama of Revelation, however, gives us sight to see the significance of the incarnation and of the Christ. What is the significance of the Christ? Why is Jesus the Christ so necessary? Why have he been celebrated for so long? Why does he continue to have people celebrating him amidst the secular culture? The answers are right here in chapter 5 in the first six verses. The whole earth mourns and weeps over evil. You yourself weep. And the human race has tried over and over and over again in their towers of Babel, but they cannot create paradise with their own resources. And yet one has come, and it is the lion lamb, who can unfold God's plan for the joy of the world. And now it is time to do a reality check. You've been brought into reality, you held John's hand, he took you through the door, there were no shadows, you could see everything in its light, and now the test comes to you. Because these are things that we can only see by faith. They're in the throne room of heaven, they're not on earth. And so now we get to test our faith. Do you believe that the scroll is still sealed for this world? Is there any progress or development? Are you stuck in your cynicism because you've seen that no one can open it? There's seven seals. It's a perfect seal. Someone has locked it up and thrown away the key, and I've given up hope. In all the particulars, I've given up hope for my children, I've given up hope for my marriage, I've given up hope on church, I've given up h Pope on any kind of institution on authority I've given hope on even knowing what gender I am That would mean if you've given up hope on all of those things and have no peace in them and therefore no joy, that you believe the scroll to human purpose and significance and the and the significance of this world and any kind of development, it's still sealed. It means you reject this passage. And I wonder if you would give lip service to this passage, but you reject it functionally. Is your attitude one where you act like this there's no one to open these seals? And that it's just sealed. That would make you a postmodern existentialist. Or do you believe? Do you have faith that although you cannot see it yet Except perhaps in small ways. Do you believe that the lion lamb is worthy to open the scrolls and that he is right now renewing Creation. Making a new heavens and a new earth. That's the test. And those are the two questions for you today. For you to see where your faith is. Let us see the reality clearly once again. Let us have faith That not only is the lion lamb present, but he has begun to open the seals of the scroll. Though it is dark on earth and hard to see, we have not only earth, but we have bright visions from heaven, and I admit that we have to have faith. Because we cannot see by sight, but here, through the inspired word, we're able to see by faith what is in store for us, because it always happens in heaven first and then comes to earth. And I'll encourage you with these final words. Now when he had taken the scroll The four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, each having a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. And they sang a new song. You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its seals. For you were slain and have redeemed us to God by your blood out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation. And you have made us kings and priests to our God, and we shall reign on earth. What is left to say but joy to the world? Please pray with me. Oh Father, we thank you for letting us through the door of heaven. We thank you for giving us the faith where we can believe that you have provided the lion lamb and that he has broken the seals. Even in the historical reality of the fall of Jerusalem, this is the beginning at least. Lord, we pray that you would have the faith now. To believe that what you speak in heaven will take place on earth. And may this bring us great joy, even in the midst of affliction. We pray, Father. That your kingdom come, and that your will would be done on earth as it is in heaven. Amen. Amen.