From the fish's belly. He said, I cried out to the Lord because of my affliction, and he answered me. Out of the belly of Sheol I cried, and you heard my voice. For you cast me into the deep, into the heart of the seas, and the floods surrounded me. All your billows and your waves passed over me. Then I said, I have been cast out of your sight, yet I will look again toward your holy temple. The waters surrounded me, even to my soul. The deep closed around me Weeds were wrapped around my head. I went down to the moorings of the mountains, the earth with its bars closed behind me for ever. Yet you have brought up my life from the pit, O Lord my God. When my soul fainted within me, I remembered the Lord. And my prayer went up to you into your holy temple. Those who regard worthless idols for the sake of their own mercy. But I will sacrifice to you with the voice of thanksgiving. I will pay what I have vowed. Salvation is of the Lord. So the Lord spoke to the fish, and it vomited Jonah onto dry ground or dry land. Let us pray. Oh God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we are often obstinate ourselves And so I pray in the same way that you found your way to get through to Jonah, I pray that you would find a way to get through to us this morning through the preached word. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. We began our series in Jonah by really picking up on what the Lord reveals to us here in Jonah chapter one. When it says, Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah, the son of Amitai. We saw that the Lord had commissioned Jonah, and we've used that as an opportunity as the congregation of God. to acknowledge and remember that it is not to Jonah alone that God has given a commission. God has Given him a special commission, but he has also given all of you here, and even us collectively considered as a congregation, a commission to serve our God. Part of him having you turn away from your your sins and the that mindset, that life of death is to then turn toward life. And it is in that life that God commissions you to serve Him. We categorize the service for the sake of convenience by way of talking about your service as a Christian and as a congregation to each other as families, mothers and fathers and grandmothers and aunts and uncles And we also talk about the responsibility that we have and the commission to each other as a congregation. We also, and really have been focusing specifically on our responsibility and commission to our surrounding communities. That don't know Jesus Christ as their Savior or as the one who delivers them from sin and misery. Now, last week we built on that foundation of our commission. by pointing out that we have a commission to share God's mercy, that we have, like the Apostle Paul, a ministry of reconciliation, that a peace treaty may be entered into. by the members of our county and that whether you pick up this responsibility or not, God is going to make sure that it is done. So it really puts us as a congregation in a twofold spot The first spot is, do you feel God's pressure pushing you in that direction? We called that a goad. And we looked at the Apostle Paul as a case study for that. And then we acknowledge that if you keep ignoring the goods, if you keep refusing to enter into the commissions that God has given to you, He will replace you. He will replace you. Now we see this on the landscape of the scriptures. We see that the Jerusalem had become so corrupt it mentions in the the parable of the vine dressers that they would in fact be replaced. And I hope that you're noticing even in our own day, in the landscape of churches, That churches, even in perhaps your own lifetime, you're watching God replace them. There are whole denominations. who have departed from the Lord, and the Lord is making them recede and is replacing them, giving them no real influence. in the world. And we don't want to be like that. We don't want to be replaced. We want to respond. Those are the first two lessons that we've received from Jonah. Number one, you have a commission. Number two, it is definitely to the surrounding world. Please don't neglect that. Now I want to continue, and we have a new lesson here this morning as we go on. So we're going to see what that lesson is here in a moment, but I want to begin by just walking through the scriptures so that you can see what that lesson is. So please attend to the scriptures with me, beginning in chapter 2, verse 1. And I'm going to make a few observations with you Remember, your beliefs are built upon the Word of God, so we want to look at it specifically. Now the first thing that I want you to notice, this is actually showing up in verse number 17 in the first chapter But also to one. And the Lord had prepared, that's a word appointed. That's very similar to it's actually the same as what the Lord has been doing with wind and waves and storm and and the boat. The Lord is in total sovereign control, appointing animate and inanimate objects. in order to be able to accomplish his will. And we see this even with a great fish. Again, remember the repetition, a great city, a great storm, and now we have a great fish. Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow Jonah, and Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights, and then Jonah prayed to the Lord his God from his fish's belly from the fish's belly And then we see this prayer, which you could go ahead and categorize as a Thanksgiving psalm. We see many psalms like this in the Psalms. But the first thing I want you to point out I want to point out here just with this great fish is that it is a continuation of pointing out God's great sovereign control God never lost control of Jonah. God never lost control of the plans that he wanted to accomplish with the Ninevehes. We have seen how God appointed a storm, He appointed wind, He appointed waves, He appointed a ship to accomplish His purposes, and the same is now happening with the great fish. Now I in part camp out on the fish for a moment because if you were to just type in the book of Jonah, one of the top search results you're going to receive is, was there really a fish? Did he really get swallowed? And by what kind of species of fish was it? And how did he not I've even seen it's really educational to read this debate. How did he stay in there without being consumed by the acids in the fish's stomach? and all of those kinds of things. And maybe those are interesting questions to ask. Others would resolve the whole thing by just saying, well, this is just a myth that has real principles that it's revealing, but it's not a literal historical occurrence. That's the one way that some people will go ahead and solve it. And I don't want to spend a whole lot of time on this. I just want to say that if God, as it is announced even in this book, is the creator of heaven and he is the creator of earth, if he's the creator of the dry land and he's the creator of the sea And he's the creator of everything within the sea, and it seems to me that he has plenty of strength to be able to do what he says here, historically, of having some kind of fish. Maybe it's even the Leviathan that we read about in Job and other places. It doesn't say whale in the translation, by the way. Then it certainly is possible and is within his power to be able to make these things happen. If God can bring Jesus Christ back from the dead, then certainly he could bring up Jonah from the depths of the sea. Even if he had seaweed wrapped around his head. I will just say that if you are a person here today who struggles with this being a reality, that these things really happen then it is most likely because you're operating off of presuppositions that deny that anything supernatural is able to take place. that God is able to do things within the natural world that you don't expect. And I'm not, I just want to be honest with you, I'm not operating from those presuppositions. I believe that God is at work all of the time doing things that I cannot explain and operating outside of what you see day-to-day in the natural order. So that's a difference between us. And I'd encourage you to think about those assumptions that you have and if that has boxed you into a very difficult and poor place. So I don't have I'm not in that same box and so I have no problem. I just read right through it and I say, yeah, he got swallowed by a fish. God created the sun. Seems like it would be easier for somebody to get swallowed in the fish than creating a sun. Not a problem. But the thing I also want to point out about this is that the fish is not the point. Do you know how much time is given to the fish here? I mean, if the fish could speak, he'd just say, move on. I'm not the point. If you look here, we can then go ahead and move into our second observation and point is just that you move immediately into stanzas and verse. And the point is that that as Jonah is drowning, he is able to take that experience that he has and he's able to put it into a psalm so that we can benefit from a highly condensed and significant illumination that Jonah himself has had about the nature of God himself. And that's what's important. The poem is the point. So let's just take a look at this poem for a moment. It it actually the poem, if you pay attention to it and you read through it a few times and don't get caught by certain summary statements The poem itself is a descent and then an ascent. You see, Jonah, you can see the poem taking you down to the, what it says, the moorings of the mountains. And then there's a coming back up and a vomiting on the dry land. Even the direction of the poem is exactly the experience of Jonah. Jonah's downward journey to death and to chaos. is captured by his descent to the bottom of the sea here within these stanzas. Now you've entered into a different genre of literature here, and this poem has different rules than history, for example. And so p and so Jonah is not just going to talk about the literal, it says weeds, for example, were wrapped around his head at the end of stanza 5, and that's seaweed. Just uh since he's in the sea, that's where those kinds of weeds are. You're going to see that he speaks about these things which we know we've all experienced seaweed, I believe, but he's also meaning a further signification of these things, trying to get at a point. So although Jonah here talks about the sea and he talks about the waves and he talks about the billows and he talks about the seaweed and the moorings of the mountains, he is not focused on their literal significance, but their symbolic So, for example, if you take a look in verse number 5, it says, the water surrounded me even to my soul. He's trying to get at a deeper reality of his experience with the Almighty God. and rebelling from him. He's not interested in just describing to you the sea light that he saw on his way to the bottom. He's not Jacques Cousteau, he's Jonah. So here's this downward journey that is soul-wrenching and soul-illuminating in the end. In verse number six, Jonah sees himself imprisoned in a different realm. Did you notice that? Verse number six, I went down to the moorings of the mountains. If you'd ever like to see a picture of the moorings of the mountains, I have a picture of Hebrew cosmology from my professor. I can share that with you on how they viewed the cosmos But in verse number six, he goes down to the moorings and the bottom of these mountains and the earth. Notice how he talks here that the earth which is with its bars closed behind me forever. Think about what Jesus talks about in Matthew chapter 16 verse 18 when he says the the gates of Hades The bars of Hades, the nether world is coming and it's collapsing around me where I'm not going to be able to get out. That's how far I've gone away from the presence of God and the presence of life It is the realm of death. Now we see this kind of talk in a lot of different places in Scripture, so I can't uh I can't describe all of them to you, but I wonder if some of you are familiar with Proverbs 7, 25 through 27. This is a regular image given within Proverbs is part of the poem where there is a descent away from God. It says, do not let your heart turn aside to her ways, speaking of the adulteress. Do not stray into her paths. Or she will cast, she or she has, for she has cast down many wounded, and all who were slain by her were strong men. Her house is the way to hell. descending to the chambers of death. Now this is the same kind of language in what Jonah is dealing with. So he has not only a literal sinking in the sea But there's something else going on inside of him as he reflects upon that experience in order to write this poem, is that there was a descent. And the best way to say is that it was a descent towards death and chaos and hell and any kind of light, any kind of breath, any kind of joy or vitality. He sunk away from the presence of the Lord, and those were the things that showed up. His descent ends up being here, as we continue in our observations, really I think a something that God does quite often, which is to create a living historical parable. What God has orchestrated here, though literally happening to Jonah, the meaning of each uh element is significant beyond the literal elements. The chaotic sea and the descent to the kelpy bottom of the sea signify humanity's descent from life with God to a realm that once you are there and the bars close It is inescapable. It says in another proverb that hell or Hades or Sheol or the grave opens its mouth wide. And then in another proverb it says about Hades that she is never full. She's always hungry. And that humanity, though built with eternity in their hearts, find that she always swallows them. And Jonah's experiencing that on different levels. He's experiencing that on a literal level of like, I'm gonna die. But he's also at a deeper existential level of realizing Of what life would be like, that it would be no life if I walk away from the Lord and away from my commission. Wow, what a picture. of human life. What a picture of just about every existential novel written. But you know the poem different from an existential novel, one of the ways that this poem from Jonah does not look like literature from Camus. Is that there's a switch. The center of the poem, by the way, I just want to point this out to you. Did you pick up on the center of the poem? The turning point in the pivot? Verse number six at the end of the stanza, it says, That you have brought up my life from the pit. Oh Lord my God. Do you see the you see the descent? And then the ascent starts to happen right there. We saw it beginning in verse number three with the summary. I cried out to the Lord because of my affliction, and he answered me. So it started off with a note of hope to begin with. But then after we make the descent, we make the ascent, again, starting in verse number six as the turning point or the pivot in the poem. And that is that even though the bars were starting to close, The Lord heard his cry and offered him mercy. Jonah cried out to God, and out of God's mercy and love, he rescued Jonah from the realm of the dead. And it seems to me that he rescued him by swallowing him with a fish and vomiting him on to ground dry ground. Now I want to make one final note here on this poem. We could have spent a whole semester on just the poem, so I'm just hitting the highlights. But there's one other highlight that's very important here because it goes, it connects very well with the story. We see the descent within the poem and then the ascent, but notice the key to the ascent is in verse number eight. The bars of death will in fact close around you, the bars of chaos, the bars of darkness. will in fact close around you. You will forfeit them if you turn to worthless idols. You see that in verse number eight. Those who regard worthless idols forsake their own mercy. Wow, what a powerful statement. And this is a statement that's coming now out of Jonah's mouth, and a realization that he has had in his rebellion, ascending to the bottom of the sea, finally praying to God, which he would not do on the ship. But with this heart change, at least for now, we'll see some things go awry by chapter four. With this heart change we're we're receiving incredible news and revelation about who God is and about who we are and how to relate to God by way of Jonah. And it could be captured like this. God alone delivers you from the pit. That is the timeless and universal law that Jonah reveals to us. That God alone delivers you from the pit. And I want to capitalize the word alone because of verse number 8. So it's all capital letters alone. It's God alone. There's nothing else that you can do. The only way for you to escape the pit is in his, according to our membership vow, sovereign mercy. In his mercy. God alone delivers you from the pit. Now, I want to develop this a bit, this lesson, so that hopefully it will s uh no pun intended, sink in. The first thing I want to look at is just well what is going on here with the language of the pit? We can see that here where he mentions that yet you have verse number six, brought up my life from the pit And I've talked to you about Sheol and the Grave and Hades and these are different ways to talk about the same thing. But I do want to talk about the pit for a little bit so that we can understand that. And then I do want to ask the question, do we really need God to be rescued from the pit, or are there other ways? And then I want to look at how we fit into that. Now the pit, I think, is depending on how you depending on the focus and the emphasis and the purpose. I think the pit has a pretty broad w uh has a bunch of different meanings depending on what the purpose of the author is. But it looks to me that specifically here, the best way to talk about the pit is actually God's judgment that is hanging over all of humanity. And I'm going to back that up here in just a minute, but let me just say that again. That the pit, specifically here in this story, if you follow the thread, is God's judgment. Hanging over humanity is just judgment. Now, this is how I arrive at that conclusion. I arrive at this conclusion by first acknowledging, and this is important for you as you're a reader of this story. That there's a I mentioned this to you last week, there's a mirroring technique that's going on with the book of Jonah. There are these, you could even call them foreshadows. There's these events. that then become matched later in the book that keep going through and they're working their way towards a center. And I actually think that's the way that this book is constructed as you think of them as panels that mirror each other. Let me just give you an example so that you can see this mirroring technique. Since you have the the book in front of you, take a look at at Jonah chapter 1, verses 1 and 2. Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah, the son of Amitai, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry out against it, for their wickedness has come up before me. And we've categorized that correctly as the commission that's given to him as a prophet to go and to speak judgment to this nation, that they would receive mercy if they repent. Now take a look at chapter 3, verse 1 and 2. It specifically mentions the mirroring by calling it a second time. Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah the second time saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and preach to it the message that I tell you. So we see here there's a there's a commissioning and a rebellion and a recommissioning and then a moving forward. So there you that's why I'm that's what I'm calling this mirroring technique. Well you could go ahead and look through the book and you'll keep seeing that things are happening like that. For example We see there is a storm that arises in terms of the main storyline. What is the main storm that everybody should be worried about within this book? God's wrath, God's justice on those who are unjust, falling upon the nation of Nineveh. Well, we end up seeing that first and foremost in a literal storm being brought or appointed, literal waves, liter literal wind. And we see later in chapter four, you're going to in chapter three, you're going to see Nineveh repent. And what did you see with the sailors? The sailors decide to call upon Yahweh. For mercy from the storm and its wrath. So you already have in the sailors a kind of Nineveh that's getting ready to come up. So you have the commission to commission the sailors in Nineveh. They have these different mirrorings that are going on. The same as with the storm and the sailors in 3-4, it's representing God's judgment there. God's judgment is the main focus As much as that doesn't seem feel culturally appropriate, the the his judgment is the main focus throughout the whole book In 3. 4, Jonah begins to enter the city on the first day's walk, and then he cries out, and he said, Yet forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown. And then he tells them exactly what they need to do. So that's the mirror there. Jonah is thrown directly into God's judgment and he relays his experiences. There's the other mirror. He discovers that the only way to escape is if God hears his cry and gives mercy, again foreshadowing the Nineveh's Which are then mirrored in 3, 5, through 10. Listen to this longer account, and we're going to get into this next week, but listen to this how it reflects both the experience of the sailors and the experiences of Jonah himself, which is at the center of the book. So the people of Nineveh believed God, proclaimed the fast, and put on sackcloth, from the greatest to the least of them Then word came to the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his throne, and laid aside his robe, covered himself with sackcloth, and sat in ashes And he caused it to be proclaimed and published throughout Nineveh by the decree of the king and his nobles, saying, Let neither man nor beast, herd nor flock, taste anything. Do not let them eat or drink water, but let man and beasts be covered with sackcloth and cry mightily to God. We have the sailors crying to God, we have Jonas crying to God, all this so we would be prepared to understand with reference to God's judgment that the Ninevehes were going to be crying to God. And then you see here the repentance, let every one turn from his evil way and from the violence that is in his hands. A direct reference back to chapter 1, verse 2. Who can tell if God will turn and relent and turn away from his fierce anger so that we may not perish? Then God saw their works, that they turned from their evil way, and God relented from the disaster that he had said he would bring upon them, and he did not do it, in the same way that he relented from the storm. It is a threatening to take you to the moorings of the mountains. But God relents once Jonah is in the sea. But then Jonah descends and starts to head to the moorings of the mountains. But Jonah cries out. And God gives him mercy and begins to ascend. And then a storm of God's anger shows up or would show up within 40 days of Nineveh. But they cry out. Turning from their ways, asking for mercy. Who knows? Maybe God would relent. And instead of descending even further than they had already gone, remember they slay human beings. They ascend. And this is happening all the way through the book, and I'm just trying to point out to you that this repetition by way of this mirroring is a repetition. With the main topic of God's just anger. Those who have rebelled against him as the creator of heaven and earth. If you are under his anger, if you are under his wrath, my main point to you this morning is you are in the pit. Now, I know that we have used that word for other things that are good and necessary consequences from this, but the heart of this book and what Jonah is realizing. Is that to be under God's wrath is to be in the pit. Now, besides just the mirroring technique that I see within Jonah Shhh, helping us to understand what is the pit from which we must be rescued? That's the main question that we're asking. What is this pit that God alone is able to deliver people from? Besides seeing it within the book of Jonah, just think about the rest of the scriptures and what you have learned pretty much your whole life if you grew up in the church. Jesus used Nineveh as an example of judgment hanging over the heads of cities Do you rem we it's in our bulletin and from Matthew and it's also in other gospels? For example, Luke 11, 32, it says, the men of Nineveh, Jesus is now going to compare those who are hard-hearted unwilling to turn from their ways and get out of the pit, he compares them and he says, The men of Nineveh will rise up in judgment with this generation and condemn it For they repented at the preaching of Jonah. And indeed a greater than Jonah is here. Jesus is coming forward to these cities who have rebelled against God, who have become wicked vine dressers, and he is pointing out, you are under God's anger, you are in the pit. Jesus will continue this same message in John. Now John, I think what would you say is the most famous chapter of John? Three. Did you say three? Yeah. John chapter three, and then we usually turn to verse sixteen And then we can lose our attention on what else is going on there with the rest of the chapter. I'd encourage you to check out John chapter 3, verses 35 and 36. It says this with reference to our particular topic this morning as to what is this pit that only God is able to deliver people from. The Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand. He who believes in the Son has everlasting life. And he who does not believe the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him. Do you see the cross domains that's that are starting to happen here with Jonah descending to a place where there is no light? Shut behind bars. He calls it a pit. And then Jesus, using that same kind of imagery, is talking about that place here. is where those who are under God's anger are still under it, it's just wrath, that's where they reside also. And again, my argument to you is just that's the pit. That's the pit specifically in Jonah. Or again, consider in Acts with the Apostle Paul, Acts 17, 30 through 31. He says, truly, these times of ignorance God overlooked, but now commands all men everywhere to repent. because he has appointed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by the man who he has ordained. He has given assurance of this to all by raising him from the dead. Now it's going back to that sign of Jonah that that um Jesus talks about and that he is bringing this where the whole world will be judged in righteousness and we are to be putting those things aside. In other words, God has left you under his wrath, but in these latter days, he is now bringing preachers. And Offering a peace treaty by way of his son Jesus Christ. So I think that the main point really here within this book is for all of us to be able to reflect on the fact That humanity left in its natural state is under the wrath and the just anger of God, and that this is portrayed to us in the descent into a pit It's it's um humanity is in a state of rebellion. Those who rebel enter into a pit. Humanity is in the pit. Now, the second question I want to ask is there any way, now that we've defined exactly what the pit is, I just want to ask you, is there any way out of the pit besides God getting you out of the pit. And that's something you really have to you have to examine to see what you actually believe. Have any of you had the opportunity to read a famous sermon by Jonathan Edwards, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God? I encourage you to go ahead and read that or listen to it. It's all over the place these days. And be patient. It's a little bit of archaic language, but it goes over some of the same points that we're seeing here in the book of Jonah. And I want to ask specifically in terms of can we be rescued from the pit without God? Let me ask that not only about yourselves, but since we're focusing on Anorunnal County, and you're able to zoom in if you just want to focus on Millersville, that's fine. But is Anorono County under the wrath and the anger of God? That's number one. Are they in the pit? I want you to answer that. And think about it. And then number two, is there any way for them to get out of it? Except for God. Is there any other way but God for them to get out of it? Now let me just run through a couple silly things here. You ever you've I'm sure you've seen on the news or in movies or whatever it is, that someone commits a crime of injustice and then they go into hiding and people can't find them So they had planned the crime and they already had their tickets to Mexico, I don't know. And they fly away and they live in some little hut and they have their face changed. And their fingerprints have been burned off so that they can hide and never have to pay for what they have done. I just want to ask you, is it possible for anyone to hide from God That if you were to burn your fingerprints off or change your face, if you infuse so much Botox that you are unrecognizable Would you be able to escape his justice? Sometimes we don't see just the trying to hide. Sometimes what we'll see is that, you can see this on the news sometime, that people will commit acts of injustice. And then because they're so strong, they'll b instead of trying to hide from you, they'll basically step forward and they'll say, Yeah, we did it, and what are you gonna do about it? And they link arm in arm, forming armies, saying, we're going to have our will and our way, and what can you do about it? Let me ask you a question. If the entire world united, all in rebellion together, linking arm in arm, bringing out the most advanced Technology from our military and decided to look at God and say, yeah, we admit it. But what are you going to do about it? Would God be able to hold them accountable? Yes. So there's no hiding. There's no overpowering. Jonathan Edwards makes another point. He says, what if we, instead of just the whole human race Joining together in armies against God so that we can't be held accountable and his justice actually can't be effective. What if we join forces with the devil? And he points out, actually, the devil is on God's side here, because since you're in rebellion, God is handing you over to him, and he gets to be your father. The devil has no interest in standing against God because he already owns you. We could plead our case And show that perhaps we have committed no injustice. I think this is actually the most powerful one right now for why people aren't motivated to work outside of their local congregations, is that people don't think it's actually that bad. Okay, we have a notion inside of our head that everyone is pretty much living a civil life. We're not in a war zone. There's not really much that needs to be done. But I do want to ask you a question. Is that going to be God's judgment? Is God in His holiness using the same reasoning that you are? And is he looking at Antaronal County and he goes, Well, it's not, you know Boys will be boys. Is that how God reasons about this? I think that's actually the one that strikes most vitally at why uh um at this case that Jonah is making is that Even if we are theoretically willing to admit that God's anger abides on Anorano County and the world, unless there is repentance and then the granting of reconciliation or mercy, we actually, even we we keep that theoretical because We don't really think that human beings have done all that bad. So just consider, for example, Genesis, use this as a case study, Genesis 18, 20 through 21. This is where they're going to go visit Sodom and Gomorrah. And it says, And the Lord said, because the outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because their sin is very grave. I will go down now and see whether they have done altogether according to the outcry against it that has come to me, and if not, I will know. So just imagine that the Lord decides to visit our area And he goes into our cities and he goes into our homes. I honestly am trying to get you to ask, when he goes there with his angels, will he basically say, Yeah, pretty good Not really a problem here. Maybe there were people that were out prying, but you know, they're sensitive snowflakes. My bet is that you actually do think that. But we're being challenged here in the scriptures if you were to look as per specifically at Romans. that if God were to visit Antarondo County, he would find that he'll need to suspend his sort of judgment above them. Let me just give you one example, and then I'll give you another one. There were 78% of people in Anorono County that voted to make Abortion constitutional. That will make that will that will that will be decided in your mind if you think that abortion is actually murder I know that there are some of you sitting here who have a question as to if it isn't if it isn't is murder. That we've been given over to that. But if he were to just visit and see that statistic walking among us The other thing I think that you can do here is have you ever been under the conviction of Jesus Christ by way of the Holy Spirit? I'm asking you honestly. Have you ever been under his conviction? Yes. Are you the worst murderer in the world? My my point in bringing that up is just to say, even whatever it is that you did, I know it's not the worst thing that's ever been done. And yet when Christ decided to reveal that to you by way of his spirit, did you feel how serious it was? to have existed in that sin against him. That is another piece of evidence that maybe we're reasoning about this wrong and the state of humanity in our area is worse than you realize. A lot of the time, I can't convince people that the state of humanity is bad in our area unless I could show you people dead on the streets. And then show you that there's somebody who's evil who's causing it. Have we forgotten that there are four commandments before we even get to our relationship to our neighbor? What is the just anger of God relative to the fact of the percentage of people in Anorono County that do not worship him? That pay him no attention and no regard, who say that he does not exist. Does God take that seriously? I think inside of our hearts we don't know if he does because it doesn't feel the same as talking about murder. But if you look at the scriptures, he takes his worship very seriously. He has killed people for getting it wrong. The sword of God's justice is over Anna Runnell County, even with the abortion statistic alone. And so far we know that they're not going to be able to hide from him, and they're not going to be able to overcome him And if I'd encourage you throughout the day, try to come up with a list of all of the other possible means that a human being could use in Anorano County to escape the anger and the wrath of God. that abides upon them, and I think that you'll find, no matter what option you choose, that there is no escape for them unless God chooses to deliver them. Now, that's the main point of the whole sermon, is that God alone is the one who is able to deliver. I'm going to read a couple scriptures to you and then we'll end. I want you to consider this as a congregation. We've seen what the pit is that the Holy Spirit wants to teach us this morning that we really need to consider God's anger and wrath And we need to consider that it cannot be escaped unless God delivers, because He alone is the Savior. And then I want to add a third element here, right here at the end, and say, and guess what? Guess who he has given the responsibility to make sure that the people of Anorano County know that they're under God's wrath and how to get out from under it. And that's you. Romans ten, twelve through seventeen, for there is no distinction between Jew and Greek. This is the conclusion of a long argument. For the same Lord over all is rich to all who call upon him. And then listen to this quote. Whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. And that's true of all those in Antill County. And how is that going to happen? The answer is by way of our commission. How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they and how shall they preach unless they are sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the gospel of peace, who bring glad tidings of good things. Do you see how that last phrase only makes sense if we understand the message of Jonah first? There are no there is no good news, there is no glad tidings unless the people around us first know what their actual condition is relative to God, and that is that if they have not called upon the name of the Lord, then they still abide under the anger and wrath of God. For us as a congregation, to not go to them and tell them and to witness to them with our lives that this is being done is to be in the rebellion of Jonah. As a congregation, we must practically and not just theoretically affirm that there is no way out for our family, our friends, or anyone in Anorino County unless they acknowledge their sin and cry out to God for mercy and mercy and God in His sovereign mercy grants it to them. And that must show up practically. It must show up in the things that we do and how we conduct ourselves. I want to just one final word. Let me remind you as a congregation that you are not a philosophical community. You're not here to just kind of turn ideas around. You're permitted to do that in your different vocations. You can think through things, and that requires dialogue and turning things around. But at the end of the day. Please do not forget that as a congregation, you are a prophetic witness To the kingdom of God. Which means you must conduct yourselves and orient yourselves and prioritize yourselves in a different way than any other community upon the face of this earth. Any other community on the face of this earth is just thinking life's going to keep going on and we're just going to keep progressing. You alone, as a congregation of God, know That everything is moving toward a single day where the one who has been established to judge shall judge in righteousness. And all those Who have called upon his name shall be delivered, and those who do not, who still abide under the wrath of God, shall have the gates and the bars of hell itself close around them. That is who we are. We are a prophetic witness. We are a prophetic witness. The only way out is to cry out to God for His mercy. Because it is only God who delivers anyone from the pit. Let us pray.