Matthew five, thirty-eight through forty-two. You have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. But I tell you not to resist an evil person. But whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn the other to him also. If any one wants to sue you and take away your tunic, let him have your cloak also And whoever compels you to go one mile, go with him too. Give to him who asks you. And from him who wants to borrow from you, do not turn away. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, you have called this congregation to be salt and light. And you have promised that you would Make them salt and light by your word. I pray that you would do so by this preached word here today, that it would be an evidence of your power and not the elocution of men. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. You may be seated. We just heard an excellent example of what happens when we Decide to respond or react in a certain way. When we heard the story of Job driving the car and someone was tailgating him. And then he chose to swing over a little bit. I wonder if you remember a similar scene in a movie that we usually watch around this kind this time. with the uh Chevy Chase or Clark Griswold with the pickup truck tailgating him and he decides to make it difficult for them and he ends up underneath of a 18-wheeler. And then skyrocketing off into a Christmas tree farm. Whether it's Clark Griswold or Joe Macus, we can see there is something to It really not being wise to pay evil for evil and to retaliate. That's really what we're going to talk about. this morning and we're going to talk about it not because of Clark Griswold or just because of Joe Maccus. All of us have indulged in retaliation. I imagine you have even done so this past week. Maybe it was just in small ways with body language or whatever it was, but there is a way in which we engage in this all the time, and Jesus has something to say about it Jesus has had a number of things to say about very important topics as we've gone through the Sermon on the Mount. We're seeking to know what it means to be his disciple and to disciple others. So we've gone to a main section of his teaching where he's teaching his disciples to be disciples. Last week we looked at verses 39 and following. Again, you have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not swear falsely, but you shall perform your oaths to the Lord. And we talked about how important it is for us to have our yes mean yes and our no mean no. That if we're going to be salt and light, and our good works are going to glorify our Father in heaven, then that will happen in part by being a people that are true to their word and who speak the truth. And this week we have another lesson on what it means to be his disciple. The Spirit teaches us here that the disciples of Christ are urged away from personal vengeance and retaliation as a lifestyle. And instead, that we would embrace a greater righteousness. The disciples of Christ are urged away from personal vengeance and retaliation to a greater righteousness. We'll take a look at this just for your convenience of sticking with me here under two parts, the law corrupted and the practice restored. That'll take us through the whole passage together, the law corrupted, and the passage, the practice restored. Now the Spirit's teaching us that the disciples of Christ are urged away from personal vengeance. And the way that Jesus really gets into that is by, again, as he's been doing on this regular pattern. He quotes a particular law that he wants to discuss that's being misused. And this is the law corrupted. Take a look with me at verse number 38. with the statements of the law. He says, you have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. And we'll go ahead and stop there before he develops the practice. You see, this quote that he gives is not a quotation from a book that got it wrong. This principle of justice, this legal principle that he's stating, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth, is actually all over the scriptures. Jesus, for example, could have, if he if we would have, if he could have kept quoting different passages, he could have quoted Exodus 21, 24, Leviticus 24, 20, Deuteronomy 19, 21. And each one of those would have gotten across the idea of an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. Let me give you a specific example of this from Exodus. Exodus 21, 22 says this. This is considered case law, is what people call case law, and it's going to give you a scenario or a case. that is then used for that nation to judge. If men fight and hurt a woman with child so that she gives birth prematurely, yet no harm follows. He shall surely be punished according as the woman's husband imposes on him, and he shall pay as the judges determine. But if any harm does follow on that child But if any harm does follow, then you shall give life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth Hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for wound, stripe for stripe Now, what is going on here with the declaration here, even within our own passage, of this legal principle that we see all over? Sometimes people respond to that when we think, I mean it's it's pretty vivid, right? Uh seeing that picture of a foot for a foot or a hand for a hand literally? The way that that could work out That disturbs people. And they they view this kind of legal principle as cruel or something along those lines. But if we go ahead and we boil it down to uh essentially what God is saying here It's really actually a beautiful principle of justice, and it's that the sentence should fit the crime. The sentence should fit the crime. I think there's an inclination within the human heart where when we are offended or when someone does something, when someone wrongs us, I think in the human heart Most of the time, we don't want a sentence that fits the crime. We want to destroy If you were in the heat of the battle or in the heat of the offense, would you actually keep it to where the sentence fits the crime, or would you make that person suffer more than they actually justly deserve? So that's one way for you to look at that is that this is a way that has been given to us. There's even a uh a general justice to it where it should still be applied today. Jesus quotes this. I wanted to make an observation for you so that you can see a bit of what's going on here within our passage. Did you hear that The in the example of the law, I'm sure you heard the eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn. But did you hear that it that it wasn't in the context of your personal relationships It wasn't as if if I harm you, you get to just determine what the best sentence is that fits back and you get to harm me It's not talking about personal relationships. Listen again very closely. We don't want to overlook this. It says, he shall be punished according as the woman's husband imposes on him, and he shall pay as the judge determines So what you have here that Jesus is quoting, and if you look at each one of these quotes, you're going to find that these are not private citizens determining their own justice. That these are actually courts of law. And in a court of law, the judge should be following particular legal principles with regard to sentencing. And that really starts to get for us get for us where Jesus is going with this. I'll just state it very simply. Jesus is going to help us to see that the law is corrupted if you take something that was meant to be public in a civil court and you try to translate that over into a pro private as if you're the judge. Like you're the Supreme Court and you get to determine what the sentencing should be. He's going to warn us about that in just a moment, that we should not transfer that principle over into our normal dealings in life. Where we become, I think my grandmother used to put it as who made you judge, jury, and executioner? Anyone ever heard that? My grandmother was wise. Did she talk to you? It's those you you know I think all grandmothers had the same sayings. But it's it's not private, it's public in each of those times that are quoted throughout the law And what we see here within this passage and what we're anticipating as we're going to move on to the next verse in a moment is that there is a corruption of this law. that they took what was meant to be harnessed and used wisely amongst third party and uh uh judges Who were not showing favoritism, it was in that context where there could be a proper sentencing giving given that matches the crime. But you can see even when you look at 38 again, I brought this up to you last week, he says you have heard, he says he doesn't say you have written. And there are many commentators that point out that that word heard there is referring therefore to a pharisaical oral tradition. That ends up getting things wrong as opposed to it is written. And the thing that they have gotten wrong, if we start looking at how Jesus applies this, is that they made what was meant to be under a court, they made it private, and emphasized vengeance. far too much. Now before we move on to that second point of the practice restored, I just want to point out like I did last week, it is so important As the disciples of Jesus Christ, that we do not misuse his law. It is very important If you want to look at our confessional documents or you just want to talk to me, it's very important for you to even memorize, well, what is the purpose of the law within human life? Remember that one of the purposes of the law is to show you that you're never going to be reconciled to God by way of your own righteousness. You know, it's interesting when I just when I just teach, like if I'm in Sunday school and I'm just te right now we're going over the duties of parents. And if I just teach straight duties, you should see the guilt that starts to accumulate within everybody. Because that that gives us a real picture of of where we stand. We can hear the law and we realize, well I fail at every One of those. Now we're not supposed to be left there just thinking that we're failures, and that's where the gospel is even using the law, where the this purpose of the law is meant to bring us to see that we need the righteousness. And the sacrificial atonement of Jesus Christ. Children, I don't care how cute you think you are Or what good works you think you have done, the only way to receive salvation and the forgiveness of your sins is through Jesus Christ and His righteousness. I encourage you to remember that purpose. You know there's other purposes of the law too. The other purpose of the law is to keep a cap on sin. This is especially true when we look at Romans chapter 13, and we don't want to misuse that. The government has been given the sword for a specific purpose and and has been given the law for that purpose in order to keep a cap on sin. God uses that sword and uses the proclamation and declaration of those laws. So that we don't become as bad as we could. Where we don't become just a dumpster fire of a world. And I see Jesus Christ doing that all the time. It's very important to remember that purpose. And it's also used for us to be able to know, those of us who are in Jesus Christ, what is the path of righteousness? And that's a primary emphasis that's going on here. But I tell you, in each one of those areas you could misuse the law And in each of these examples, Jesus is at least one of the applications and the lessons are, do not misuse the law. Make sure you are staying within the purposes of my law. You could weaponize the law in so many ways, even with just each other. It's very important that we use the law to build up and bring life and not bring death. Now that's all I'll say about that first part is that there can be a corruption of the law. I've spoken to you a little bit about how that's happening here and the importance of making sure that the law is used well. within our lives. And now Jesus is going to spend the rest of his time teaching us by way of the practice that is restored in these next set of verses. Now before I read all of those verses to you from 39 down to 42 I just want you to notice that he starts off with a principle. Take a look at your scriptures. He starts off of a principle that lies behind the practice that he is restoring. He says this, he says, but I tell you not to resist an evil person. And I think a great way to put that based on the total context Not only of this passage, but in all of the passages that I looked at is do not retaliate against an evil person. And in that way it is an iteration or a reiteration of what we're going to get to next week. Take a look at verse forty-three. Look, the topic continues. You have heard that it was said, You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy, but I say to you, love your enemies, bless those who curse you and do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you. Retaliation game is not going to be present in the disciples of Jesus Christ. And he's beginning his focus on that there in 39 by giving you that principle, but I tell you not to retaliate or resist an evil person. And I choose the word retaliate because of the option on how you could resist. That would be called retaliation. And now once we have the principles we can s the principle we can see that he gives several examples now. Now I can read to you the rest of this passage and you can see what he's teaching. In verse number, starting at the second part of verse number 39, he says, but whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn the other to him also. No retaliation. If anyone wants to sue you and take away your tunic, let him have your cloak also. Not retaliation. Notice he didn't take the clo cloak. There's no suing yet. It's just if a person wants to. Not a retaliation. We have another example here. He says, and whoever compels you to go one mile, go with him too. Not a retaliation. Go to him, give to him who asks you, and from him who wants to borrow from you, do not turn away. Now. As we look at those different examples, I'll maybe just explain to you a couple of them. And then you can see how this really does fit with that principle of that we're not going to retaliate. The first one is one example that I see misunderstood quite often. And that example is when you are slapped in the face. But whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn the other to him also. Now I just want you to think about that for a moment, and there are many commentators that point out the same observation. I want you to pretend that you're standing in front of me and you are going to slap me in the right cheek. And I just want to know how you're going to do that. Are you going to do that with your weak hand? That is how some of you will look, slapping my right cheek with the left hand. That would be quite insulting if you lived in the ancient world, because this is meant for bathroom duty. If you are going to slap my with your right hand, which is mostly the dominant hand of most people, then how are you going to slap my right cheek? Are you going to do how are you going to do that? The idea, even in the way that he's describing it, is it's going to come across like this and you're going to backhand my face. And that's pointed that's pointed out by many different people. Actually, I think it's one thing all the commentators have in common Is that they're being backhanded here. Now that's a really important bit of information because what is happening here with a person slapping them in the face is not life-threatening, but rather a social insult. It is the same thing if you were to have been slapped with the left. So that really defines our picture here. Is that they're being insulted, not having their life threatened. Do you see the difference that that makes? Jesus is not saying to you, you get to be, guess what? As my disciple You get to be the doormats of the world. And you can't even defend yourselves. Jesus isn't addressing that at all. Jesus is just saying if someone insults you And they can do so by backhanding you, then do not retaliate with insult. That would be the main principle. Don't give an insult for an insult. And you could do the same thing with the other examples that are given to us if someone is seeking to shoe you in a particular way that is especially socially insulting you don't respond by way of retaliating seeking to take all of their clothes away from them Leaving them a destitute. That third example with the going one mile and no go ahead with them two. Number one, mile is a metric that only Romans used at the time And it was a Roman law as a part of the Jewish people being under their dominance that if they needed help with something in particular, then they were compelled by law where they had to drop what they were doing. and they had to become a porter in helping them for at least one mile in that task. And every time that they would do so, it would be an insult It would be an insult. Now you could see the same example in Joseph of Arimathea. He was forced to help carry the cross the rest of the way with Jesus Christ. Simon. Simon, I'm sorry, not Jerose, but Aramathea. Different one. Still involved with the cross. Yes. Thank you very much. But you can look up that story. And you can see what was going on there, that even that example, all of the examples that you're seeing are ways in which you could be socially insulted at this particular time. And Jesus is saying, we're not going to repay insult for insult. We're not going to move into this cycle of retaliation. But I want to make a couple things clear based off of those observations. I already said to you the insult is not life-threatening, which means this passage may not be used as a proof text to tell you that you can't lawfully defend yourself. You can lawfully defend yourself. And I'll even say that with this passage, you can't see another person being hit and then just let them be hit because they're supposed to It's not they're supposed to just let up other people insult them. You you can't make that decision for them. What you can do for them is stand up for them, however. Which is what we're supposed to do So lawful defense is still in place. Jesus is not wiping that away, though some people pretend that he does. He doesn't take away protecting others, especially if we are in a position where we are meant to restrain evil. If we're parents, you're meant to restrain evil. Older brothers and sisters, meant to restrain evil Brothers and sisters in Christ, meant to restrain evil. If you have a position in the government, meant to restrain evil, according to Romans 13, and not go through life passively. He doesn't take away any of those things. The thing that Jesus is addressing here, and the one thing that he's taking away, is he's taking away the retaliation game. And I wonder if I need to keep arguing for that any longer. Because with Joe's example that he gave us here this morning, isn't that a great example for what happens every time that we enter into the retaliation game. And I can't help but to believe that Jesus is just simply teaching us here, that he doesn't want us to be pursuing vengeance at this time. He doesn't want us pursuing that nitpicking that the Pharisees were encouraging. Well if they hit you then you hit back. Instead, he's giving you principles by which human society was always meant to exist. And especially once we are fallen. And we have this thing in our hearts that does want to give vengeance and strike back. He speaks to us to make sure that we can remain a community that is. Salt and light. I'll just ask you, is there any way for you as a congregation to remain salt and light if you enter into the retaliation game? Do you see how quickly it escalates? We know this from the earliest of ages, especially if you are a woman. Now this is just my observations. I watch men, I watch women, I watch um younger men and younger women, and I see that socially women have a way of really retaliating. Now men have their own way. Usually in my experience, and I'm only speaking to my experience, if it gets hot enough, men will break each other's noses, and then we move on. But I'll notice within s the society of middle school girls or whatever, if you even get A certain look from another girl. There's something that happens within your heart where you want to punish them back immediately. So then you say something that's not true about them to this other girl, and then they start to share it with all these other girls, and before you know it This girl is totally embarrassed and ostracized from all girls. Does that story s sound familiar to you at all? And that's the retaliation game. And it's the same game that we see within the New Testament letters when Paul talks about people devouring each other alive. Retaliating back and forth as opposed to this greater righteousness that Jesus gives to us here. Which is where we wouldn't retaliate. You can see there at the end of the passage, look at the other options he gives you in 41 and 42. And whoever compels you to go one mile, go with them too. Give to him who asks you, and from him who wants to borrow from you, do not turn away. You could even turn into our sermon that's going to be here next week where he says, Those who curse you, you do good to those who hate you, pray for those who spitefully use you. That you may be your sons of your the sons of your father who are in heaven. Now, this is a very different society that will end up being salt and light. in this greater righteousness and this practice that is restored. What I'd like to do now is I'd like to just give you a couple other passages to where you could begin to see that Jesus gave this teaching Many uh Paul and Jesus gave this teaching many times that we're not to enter into the retaliation game. That's not who we are as a city, brothers and sisters. In 1 Corinthians 6, 7 through 8, this is the first one I want to give to you in terms of this practice being restored throughout the New Testament churches. He says this, he says, but brothers go to law against brother and that before unbelievers Now therefore it is already an utter failure for you that you would go to law against one another. This is a small claims court situation Now w what would you do if you had a small claim against each other? What do you think the response should be if you have a small claim? But in order to fulfill the small claim, you're going to have to air the dirty laundry of the Christian community and what's going on inside of it in terms of how you're getting along with your brother or sister. And when they see how you're acting and how the other person is acting, it will bring shame upon the name of Jesus Christ. Not I'm not talking about hiding things that shouldn't be hidden. I'm just talking about the possibility of bringing shame on his name. What should it be? In our hearts, as fallen human beings, it should be, I should get mine. This is my rightful claim. And what we're going to see here in the scripture that I'm going to read to you this next verse is that you're right, it is your rightful claim. You should be treated fairly and justly. But listen to what Paul tells them as pastoral authoritative. Exhortation, he says, Why do you not rather accept wrong? Why do you not rather let yourselves be cheated? No, you yourselves do wrong and cheat, and you do these things to your own brothers and sisters. Do you see what's at the heart of his exhortation for us? He's like Jesus calling us away from that game where it's tit for tat, where it's insult for insult, where it's retaliation, where it's I'm always just gonna make sure I get my rights no matter what. is at stake, even if it's the name of our God. Instead, there are some circumstances where you would choose to rather be wronged and cheated than bring dishonor upon the name of God. Another example that I'll give to you is one that Joe quoted earlier, and it's uh a principle that is higher than getting what you want And it is maintaining peace within Christian society. The way, one of the ways, one of the main ways in which we will stay together as a church and as a congregation is if we do not enter into the retaliation game. Even at the lowest levels. You heard Joe's story. It just started with him. Thank you so much for this story this morning, Joe. It's providing all my content. You heard that all he did was in a moment of absent-mindedness swerved over to the left a little bit and came back. And then it almost turned into World War III. I mean I was just waiting for the part of the story where they turn they they swipe their cards to get the gas flowing, start pulled the trigger and lit it, and we're Taking over the world. That's how it always begins, though. It begins in that small those small things, and it's the same thing here, that that small thing starts to grow up and it destroys Christian society. It says in Romans twelve, seventeen through nineteen, Repay no one evil for evil. Have regard for good things in the sight of all men. If it is possible, as much as depends on you, live peaceably with all men. Beloved Do not avenge yourselves, but rather give place to wrath, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. Now that is a very different society that operates on that principle. And what it will immediately show if you refuse to take vengeance into your own hands, but instead become a community that is a continual witness Not primarily of justice and vengeance at this time, but of mercy, you will truly be salt and light in the world. You'll be salt and light in the way that even your society is maintained by way of peace. And that is why the Spirit here this morning urges us away from personal vengeance and retaliation. to a higher calling. Let me, I would be remiss if I didn't give you one final example. And that is from 1 Peter 20 2, 20 through 24 is an example of our Lord Jesus Christ himself and how this was his way. And as his disciples it must be our way. He says, For what credit is it if when you are beaten for your faults you take it patiently? But when you do good and you suffer, if you take it patiently, this is commendable before God. For to this you were called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow his steps. Who committed no sin, nor was deceit found in his mouth, who, when he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he didn't threaten in return, but he committed himself to him who judges righteously. Who himself bore our sins in his own body on the tree, that we, having died to sins, might live for righteousness, by whose stripes you were healed. Now that's the example, and I think the way that God will work in his providence is that he will permit stripes in your life also. Stripes that you won't retaliate over. But God knows that you have borne those stripes as a follower of his son, and just as he brought fruit from the sacrifice of Jesus. So too will he bring fruit from your life. It may not happen in that immediate second, but as a people of promise and a people that trul of trust and a people of faith, we believe That God will never leave us hanging. He'll always, just as he did for Jesus, he will vindicate us. That's what the resurrection is. Vindication. That is what the exaltation is of Jesus. Vindication. And you shall be raised. And you shall be exalted to glory in complete vindication. Therefore, we need not take vengeance into our own hands. The primary concern of Jesus Christ was not his immediate honor to the destruction of everything else. He didn't play the retaliation game. He played the long game, seeking real good for his people, and he was willing to suffer to accomplish it. He committed himself to his father to take care of care of justice. For the father to take care of justice when the father decided to take care of justice. And in the meantime, he wasn't distracted, but he kept his eye on the goal and on the prize. He wasn't consumed with receiving his rights immediately And being wronged or insulted. He was above those things. And Jesus, of course, became the salt and the light of the world. And we as his bride are the salt and the light of the world. And here's the logic We are to be the salt and the light of the world, particularly if you go back in the Sermon on the Mount, by the good works that Jesus Christ performs through us. And what will some of those good works be? That we are a people that don't enter into the retaliation game. As we have received mercy through Christ, so too do we give mercy to others. We go the extra mile. And you know what will happen when we're salt and light that way, showing forth good works that are done in Jesus Christ? It says in the Sermon on the Mount, that they shall glorify your Father who is in heaven. And that's the whole goal. There's the logic, and those are the steps. Those whom you will disciple will need to learn this lesson too. Remember, we're learning about disciples so that we can disciple. They're going to come in angry. They're going to come in with ways that their family has taught them how to handle conflict. And a lot of the time it's just retaliation. With an Irish or an Italian temper. And now is the time for us to enter into this way of Christ so that we have something to give to those whom Christ brings to us as a congregation, or whom Christ brings to us in your church plant, teaching them to be the disciples of Jesus Christ. That they would get out of the retaliation game, even if it means that they are treated unjustly. At that point, they will just thank God. That he chose them to be able to suffer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. And let's pray.