Again, you have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not swear falsely, but you shall perform your oaths to the Lord. But I say to you, do not swear at all, neither by heaven, for it is God's throne, nor by the earth, for it is his footstool, nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king. Nor shall you swear by your head, because you cannot make one hair white or black. But let your yes be yes, and your no no. For whatever is more than these is from the evil one. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I pray that you would work through your preached word today. I pray that you would edify and build up your congregation, that they would fear you. And Lord, that they would be a people known for their faithfulness and their truth, that they would be known as sons and daughters of the faithful and true and living God. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Children, I have a question for you. In reviewing, if you were to review the life of David from the Old Testament The Elder Testament. If you were to review the life of David, what is his greatest characteristic? Not his greatest achievement. I think of that as like projects he was allowed to work on. But what was his greatest characteristic? It was especially true. of him when he was younger and just starting to be revealed as the anointed one His greatest characteristic. I'll give you one more hint. We'll see if you can get it then. He revealed this greatest characteristic when he heard the words of Goliath. His greatest characteristic ended up being that he had a zeal for the honor of God's name. When anyone spoke against the honor of God's name, like Goliath, when he chided and disgraced And tried to embarrass the army of the Lord of hosts, or degraded God's name itself, that made a fire burn hot in his heart for the name of Yahweh. You can look in those scriptures and see he asks the question, what Philistine is this denouncing or defiling the name of our God? And it is with his smooth stones from the river bed that he takes them down. We want to remember that example that David gives to us as a foretaste of what we see in Jesus Christ as the one even unto death who honors his Father's name and now even having been raised and is at the right hand of the Father does everything for the honor of the Father. We want to keep that in mind as we go forward here in this particular passage that is in front of us. We're looking at the Sermon on the Mount. For the past two weeks, we've really focused in on the seventh commandment especially. We've looked at adultery in particular, and we've unfolded that in the passage that just came before this, where it we we took a more narrower perspective than just looking at divorce and Jesus helping us to understand his intentions for marriage and the seventh commandment This week you can see we move really to a different commandment, but it is connected. It is, if you had to guess, let me just ask you very quickly, if you had to guess what commandment Jesus is concerned about in the passage that I just read to you, what commandment would it be? It would be a good argument to say the seventh, because marriage is by way of vow. In fact, you heard that last week as Brad gave the confession. He tied that into the seventh. That's a very good one. But you'll see even more particularly that it has to do with the third commandment. And the third commandment. The third commandment, the third commandment. The Holy Spirit actually is teaching us here this morning that you are called to take the third commandment seriously. That we are a people who keeps our word. We do not live by lies. The Spirit teaches us that you are called to take the third commandment seriously and that we're a people that keeps our word. We do not live by Now I just want to look at this. I want to unfold the passage for you to see that in just two ways. I want to show you some background and then some correction. some background and then some correction. Let's start to unfold this now. You can see in verse number 33 that there is the quotation of the law. In verse 33, Jesus says, Again you have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not swear falsely, but shall perform your oaths to the Lord. Now, this is a cobbling together of different verses that are coming from the Old Testament. You can see if you wanted to on your own time, you could take a look at Leviticus 19, 11 through 12, and we'll look at that in just a moment. But you can see just by taking a look at the words with me right there at the end that Jesus is concerned about swearing falsely. but then also performing oaths to the Lord. And that was a real command given to us in the Old Testament, although we're going to see that once again certain teachers had twisted that. Oaths and Vows. You can find oaths and vows actually within the Westminster Confession of Faith in chapter 22. I encourage you to read it if you'd like to see a pretty in-depth view of that. An oath is where we call God to witness concerning a truth or a statement or a promise. You can be put on oath and make an oath. You can also make a vow. A vow is a promising to God that we will do something. And you can see that particularly in wedding vows. I just saw that yesterday at a wedding. This comes from the past, as I mentioned, from Leviticus 19, 11 through 12. He says, and listen to this carefully because it helps us to see what is on Jesus' mind. You shall not steal Nor deal falsely, nor lie to one another. Now that part with the lie to one another and dealing falsely is primarily the ninth command, which also connects well to our passage. But then it goes on in Leviticus to say, and you shall not swear by my name falsely, nor shall you profane the name of your God. I am the Lord. And you can see really what I'm trying to just show you right now is that Jesus and talking about vows and oaths, the background to that is that Jesus is very concerned to make sure he teaches his disciples about the third command, making sure that they understand what he really intends by it. The third command is, thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain. It's really a call to take his name seriously. And that is part of what Jesus quotes there in the beginning, that you shall not swear falsely. But you shall perform your oaths to the Lord. A lot of the times I've noticed that we try to reduce the third commandment when we say that we shall not use his name in vain to uh outward cursing or using his name in a way that's trivial. All of those things are applicable. But the But the third commandment is much bigger and really takes up all of human life. I'd really encourage you to take a look at the third commandment in the larger catechism. The overarching picture that you get is that God, if you look up all of the scriptures that go along with that shorter, the larger catechism statement, you'll see that God is very concerned with the honor of his name. And that may really surprise you if you were to compare your concern for his name versus his concern for his name. We live within a society that really doesn't consider anything sacred. They trivialize just about everything, in a sense. But here, what you're hearing at the beginning of this with Jesus just starting off and looking at the background to what he's saying, you're hearing actually Jesus has a real heart and concern for the name of God. And if there's anything that degrades it, any words or works or thoughts, And Jesus isn't on board with that. You know, I mentioned David in the introduction, and he was one known after the heart of the Lord. There were m there was a a time when he got to later in his life where his heart had departed from the Lord We all know where David has a, there's a very famous sin that David had committed, a sin of adultery with Bathsheba. And you would think that as God was confronting him, that he would confront perhaps all of the effects of that adultery. And the degrading of her, and the degrading of him, and the degrading of the nation. based just upon the seventh commandment. And God in some sense does. But when you get to the heart of it, with Nathan speaking to David in 2 Samuel 12, 13 through 15, The thing that is at the center of God's concern is actually God's name. And again, it exposes something in me and it exposes something in you that we don't Hold God's name highly and are concerned about it in the same way that God is, which means there's something for us to learn here this morning. Listen to this from 2 Samuel 12, 13 through 15. So God said to Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. And Nathan said to David, I'm sorry, so David said to Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. And Nathan said to David, The Lord also has put away your sin. You shall not die. However, because by this deed you have given great occasion to the enemies of the Lord to blaspheme, the child also who is born to you shall surely die. Then Nathan departed to his house, and the Lord struck the child that Uriah's wife bore to David, and it became ill. You can see the seventh command still present there, describing it as the wife of Uriah. But do you notice the reasons specifically and explicitly given for the penalty? It was because the nations are now blaspheming God's name. It's an interesting question, more than interesting question for you to begin to ask. Last week we talked about adultery. And last week, I did not need to convince you that the sin of adultery is high in degree. It is a major problem. The reason why I'm spending so much time on this first point is because it seems to me that I do need to spend a little bit of time to point out to you that the third commandment and its violation is also of a high degree. It's in a list of all the things that Jesus could have said. It's in the same list as adultery and murder for you to degrade or treat trivially God's name Now, I haven't given you anything else besides just become aware of the fact that maybe we are well certainly we are falling short in this area. And you can see again our need for Jesus Christ. You know, C. S. Lewis tries to get at this idea that Jesus is beginning to get at here with just the background of the commandment. When he we've heard this so many times it doesn't have much effect any longer, but the children ask if Aslan is safe, and they say, no, he's not safe, but he's good. And the choice of a lion in the story starts to get at the picture of how we are to view our God as one who is to be feared with reverence. If a lion were to walk through the doors now and work its way up through the hall, what would be your response? Would you treat it with indifference? Would you treat it trivially? What would happen to you biologically and psychologically? Would we hear someone scream? Would everyone finally discover this exit door? Whatever it is that you would do, it would be because you treat that thing seriously And it's not by mistake that even our Lord Jesus Christ, who is God in the flesh, is represented as the king and lion of Judah, and that his name is to be held high amongst us as his people. Now that's a little bit of background. When we look at verse number 33, we just see that Jesus is bringing out some things that were said of old. You shall not swear falsely. But shall perform your oaths to the Lord. And the motivation behind this, I'm arguing, is that Jesus is very concerned about the name of God. as the greater David. Just as we saw the lesser David concerned about the name of God, so too do we see the greater David. Now, we not only have some background, but we may now move into our main second point that which is going to take up the the um the rest of the uh sermon here and that is that There is some correction that needs to be given. And actually we do see that in verse number 33 already because Jesus says, again, you have heard. You can read some places where if Jesus says it is written, it means that it's directly from God's word and authoritative. If he says, you have heard, he's referring to older traditions. So there's already a hint of that, or a tell, if you will, given to us in 33. But you can see the obvious correction in the rest of the verses there, beginning in verse number 34. But I say to you, so here's the I'm going to go ahead and correct it now. Do not swear at all, neither by heaven, for it is God's throne, nor by the earth, for it is his footstool, nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king. nor shall you swear by your head, because you cannot make one hair white or black. And the very first thing you need to observe about what Jesus is doing here is you have got to read this carefully You've really got to read this carefully. On a surface reading, you could think Jesus is very concerned about the Father, about God's name, about the triune God's name. And one way in which his name is blaspheming amongst the nations is that his people do not keep oaths and vows. They don't keep their word. There was a coronation ceremony for David. David certainly made certain vows and oaths, and he didn't keep it, and now his name is blasphemed across the cosmos. And now what you could see is that what Jesus is doing is he's saying, You know what? Let me just tell you what I've always intended is that we would never make any vows or oaths. So just stop it all. And that's why we have to read carefully. We have to read carefully, because actually I believe in some KJV Bibles there are these titles that are given in Bibles. Do you have a title in your Bible over certain paragraphs? Like I have a title coming up in mine in chapter six that says the Lord's Prayer. You see the title? You have titles in yours. Those titles are not original. Those are added by editors. In this case, it's not like the Psalms These titles are added and maybe they're on target, maybe they're not. In the KJV, the title is Jesus Forbids Oaths And I have a problem with that. I have a problem with that because we see throughout all of the scriptures, it's very important that we take our scriptures and we compare them to other scriptures to make sure that we understand what the total counsel of God is saying. And when we do look at the rest of the scriptures, we don't see God forbidding oath That's not the explanation of what Jesus is doing here. He's not trying to burn it all down. Let me just give you one example, although I think my last count is there's over 30 examples of this In Hebrews 6, 13 through 14, it says, For when God made a promise to Abraham, did you catch that already? When God made a promise, what's a vow? Right, a promise. Thank you very much. It is a promise. When God made a promise to Abraham because he could Swear by no one greater. He swore by himself, saying, Surely blessing I will bless you, and multiplying I will multiply you. So if you want to say that it is all those who have vow, who take vows and oaths are evil, then by way of this example and many others, you would have to put God in the category of evil. That's not the explanation that we have here, though some do take that uh explanation, as you can see in that KJV title The explanation here is not that Jesus is burning down all oaths and vows. He's saying the way in which they are taking oaths and vows Trivialize God's name, and this isn't the way that we ever intended for you to take oaths and vows. We wanted you to take oaths and vows your regular uh not often. And we want when you do have to take oaths and vows, you would do so in a way that honors God's name. We see wedding vows all the time And those going back to our sermon from last week, wedding vows are meant to mean something. And they're signified with the ring. And they're meant to mean something. And what Jesus is getting at here is that the way that they're taking their vows, it doesn't mean much at all. Now there's a whole bunch of stuff going on behind this passage here. Where we we do need to look at this very carefully, but we also need to understand exactly what was going on. And I can't give you exactly what was going on, but take a look at the passage again beginning in 34, and look at how they're giving their vows and oaths. Apparently they would give vows by s they would I swear by heaven or I swear by God's throne or I swear by the earth or I swear by his footstool or I swear by Jerusalem Or I swear by my own head, and you would hear this in middle school playgrounds when I was growing up where they would say, I swear on my mother's grave. Or what's the one where you stick a needle in your eye? I don't know. It's a terrible saying. Cross my heart and hope to die stick a needle in my eye. Yeah. You hear these different kinds of vows. And as I'm reading in the history of it, what they were doing is that there was a vow you could take. where it really meant you needed to keep your word before God. But then there were other vows that you could take by the by Jerusalem or by earth or by heaven. And they are still vows, but they're not as much of a vow as this vow Now I wonder if you have some experience with that, where people are bowing to you, but they they go ahead and they start to create This taxonomy of vows where some vows are more important to keep than others. Because that's what they were doing within the society. Listen to this one example that I found uh uh from a gentleman. He says, I I was once uh wooed to a teaching position at a particular school The school's president promised many advantages if I would agree to take the post. So I moved there with my family. Not all the promises came to fruition, however And I felt disillusioned when I tried to discuss with him the broken promises. He asked, did you get these promises in writing? I said, no, sir, but I did trust you. You see how that's already a part of our society where we make a distinction between, well, if I didn't put it in writing, then I don't really have to keep my word. If I only said it to you by a word, we could do a whole pharisaical gradation if we would like. Did I just say it to you, or did I also look you in the eye when I said it? Was I crossing my fingers behind my back? Did I shake your hand? Was it in writing? Did we have a notary? All of these different ways in which you could create these gradations and let your conscience off the hook if you only said it in word but you didn't write it down. That's an example where we see that. And Jesus is contradicting this He's saying that is not what is for his people. This was never the intent of what they were supposed to do with the third command. Jesus does this by showing, and I'm not going to get into this right now, but Jesus shows that all of those things that they're swearing by are God's anyway, so you're still swearing on his name. So stop it. And whenever you do have to make an oath or a vow, you go to that next verse, let your yes be yes. And let your no-by know. It's really simple. Anything else that you devise, whatever scheme that you come up with, like the Pharisees did, where you don't really have to keep your word, do you know what that's from? The devil. That's his point right there, as we get into as you look at verse number 37. But let your yes be yes and your no no, for whatever is more than these is from the evil one. You know, I you uh think I've told you this before, but it seems to me that Even locally, society used to be greatly different in how we thought of ourselves as human beings. I've told you this story before, but when my fat grandfather had returned from the war and took up a job as both a carpenter and a fireman for the United States Naval Academy He and his wife, my grandmother, were starting a family and they needed a place to raise that family. But they didn't have any money up front. Now has anybody here ever visited J. F. Johnson Lumber Company? Well, I'm talking about so far back that J. F. Johnson was alive. J. F. Johnson met my grandfather over uh off of Ridgeley Avenue in Annapolis across from the Navy uh football stadium, the Navy Stadium, met met him over at the property. They stood out front of the property. My grandfather shared with him the design and the lumber package that he needed. And J. F. Johnson and Ridgley Cruxley shook hands on the deal. And the reason why, now that was a kind of promise or a kind of oath, it's as far as it needed to go though with my grandfather because My grandfather had the kind of reputation where if he said he was going to do something, that's what he was going to do. He had that reputation in the war. He had to string communication line at the top of telephone poles under fire. Talk about a really bad job to choose. But he would get the job done if he said he was going to get the job done. And his reputation so his reputation preceded him, that he was faithful to his word. And his reputation continued in the way that he operated in uh honestly, his honest aid carpenter, and also his honesty in the fire department. Then all of these things allow J. F. Johnson to be able to say, you know, we we'll just let our yes be yes and our no be no, and we'll have the lumber package, I don't know if they delivered at that time or what. But the house still stands there. And the house began with honesty. He let his yes be yes and his no no. We didn't need a bunch of bureaucracies and notaries What we relied on was truthfulness and faithfulness within humanity. And that is the vision that Jesus is giving here. That is the vision. Remember, Jesus is not a nun just cracking your knuckles. Jesus has a vision. Jesus has been put in charge as King. He has all authority in heaven and earth. He has a vision. And with the background that we have seen, we can see that his vision at the center of it is the honor of God in his name. And so he came in and he made some corrections to make sure that we as his disciples have the right vision in mind. And it's let your yes be yes, let your no be no, be a people of your word. You're called to take the third commandment seriously. We don't live by lies. I wonder if I imagine many of you have read Luke chapter 24 verse 27. Could you go ahead and just quote it back to me real quick? Okay. Just do it. Just keep it. Make sure you're awake. Luke 24, 27 says, And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. Would you like to know what all of the scriptures are about? It's Jesus Christ. Is the law and the third commandment more particularly included in the scriptures? then it's about Jesus too. It's about Jesus in a lot of the a lot of ways and the ways that I'm pointing out right now is that it's about Jesus and that This is the vision of Jesus for society. Jesus has sent you his Holy Spirit, brothers and sisters. in order for you to become a person who is honest and who is faithful. That's what he's doing inside of you. And you know, it makes me wonder if the disciples were on to that, because the a verse just following it says, And they said to one another, Did not our heart burn within us while we talked with while he talked with us on the road and while he opened up the scriptures to us I'm sure their heart burned for all kinds of reasons, but one reason my heart is burning right now, and one reason why your heart should burn is the inheritance and the plans that God has for you as His people. Jesus Christ has set you apart and sanctified you by his Holy Spirit so that you would be a people that don't live by lies, but that you would be a people who tell the truth. Who are trustworthy, who are faithful, and that you are the first fruits, or some of those first fruits, of the promised future of this earth. I imagine that we should be excited about that. The Lord always pointed to God incarnate, Jesus of Nazareth. The law points to his character, but it also points to his work. It points to his work within you and what he's doing within you to make you a person who thinks and speaks and walks in truth. And I want to ask you, where do you detect that Jesus is moving you to faithfulness and truth-telling in your life right now? What's going on in your relationships where Jesus He's been very gentle with you and patient But now that you're under this preaching and he's working through this word, go ahead and look at the landscape of your life. Where is he calling you to be faithful and true? Are there places where you haven't been keeping your promises and it's time to go before the Lord and really confess that and ask for his power to keep your word to your children? or to your wife, or to your husband, or to your church, or to act to the your responsibilities, your civic responsibilities What's Christ calling you to in terms of the third commandment? I just wonder I encourage you to go before him with these things and tell him that you hear him, you recognize his voice as your shepherd. And ask him to give you the power to be able to live a faithful and true life. This is very important if you'll I haven't reminded you for a couple weeks, but This is very important based off of the purposes of this series. Remember, we're seeking to understand what does it mean to disciple the nations. What that means is that in this in this passage is that God will call people into his kingdom. And those people up to that point will largely have been living by lies. And you as a community already having some practice in being truth-tellers and living faithfully. you will disciple them in what it looks like to live a true life. And a life that is faithful, where your yes is yes and your no is no. And ultimately you and them. As the disciples of Christ will be growing to be like your Father who is in heaven. Let me read this to you. Titus 1, 1 through 2. Paul, a bondservant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of God's elect. and the acknowledgement of the truth which accords with godliness in hope of eternal life which God, who cannot lie, promised before time began. Jesus Christ by his spirit is making you like your heavenly father. It's time to stop resisting that and instead embrace it. This is what goodness looks like. This is what beauty is. And this is the truth. You have been given a special gift, Christian. Jesus Christ here today, by way of the preached word, has showed you what's really real. And it's a life where you keep your word by the power of the Spirit. Let us pray Heavenly Father, I thank you that you have given us your word, which is truth. It's inerrant. It does not have any errors. And I thank you that you have not just given us your word, but you have also sent us your Holy Spirit, where we are able to see these as Christian scriptures. As they did in Luke. We thank you that you have opened our eyes to that. And I pray for your congregation now that, oh Lord, that we would be known once again as a people that are faithful. That uh are those who are outside of the Christian community that when they interact with us they would say things like, Well, we don't really need a contract. It's their word is better is even better than that. Oh Lord, I pray that all of these things would stack up and they would amount to even those who are not your followers giving your name glory. Because of the good works of the faithfulness and the honesty of your people. I ask these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.