Said to those of old, You shall not murder. And whoever murders will be in danger of the judgment. But I say to you that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment And whoever says to his brother Raka shall be in the danger of the council, but whoever says, you fool, shall be in danger of hellfire. Therefore, if you bring your gift to the altar and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there before the altar and go your way. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift. Agree with your adversary quickly while you are on the way with him, lest your adversary deliver you to the judge. The judge hands you over to the officer, and you be thrown into prison. Assuredly, I say to you, you will by no means get out of there till you have paid the last penny. Amen. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, through the work of your Son, I ask that your congregation would be attentive to your word here this morning, that they would be not just hearers, but doers of your word to your glory. And may the end of your word going forth here today would be the more sure establishment of your kingdom and its growth here and now. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. If we had the opportunity to have lunch together or Go down to the playground children. If children, if we were at the playground together and I pulled you aside and I asked you, do you think that the Ten Commandments are useful to you or do they have a place in your life? I wonder what you would say to me. Surely you based on the teaching that's going on in your homes And in your schools, surely you would say that the Ten Commandments teach us, first and foremost, our great need of redemption through Jesus Christ. Now let's pretend that you said that to me. And then I also said to you, whether you're a child or an adult, I reminded you that While we are in Christ, through his power, the Ten Commandments are also what we need or all we need for faith and life. We covered the faith part. And I said, this is all you need, these ten things for all of your life. I remember when someone had said something similar to me and I I was speechless because I thought all of the different scenarios within my life could be covered by these ten things And there you can even hear it in my tone, representing myself from the past, that the tone reveals a kind of unbelief that that can't be true. My life is too complicated. to find all of the answers in ten things. And I wonder if you have ever had that thought. I wonder if you've ever had that attitude. I wonder if you've ever behaved in such a way where the Ten Commandments aren't enough for us to know what God requires of us. in terms of our life. Is that you? And if so, is it possible That you've only had a superficial understanding of his commandments That's what I'd like you to consider here this morning as we enter into our passage. But before we get there, just as a reminder, if you want to take a look at your scriptures. This is great for you to have your scriptures open and not just the bulletin because I review the passage from last week and the and it's not in the bulletin. But if you have your scriptures, we looked at 17 through 20 last week. As we've entered into this section of the Sermon on the Mount, and we saw that this main teaching from Jesus. That Jesus continues to teach the abiding force and to affirm that the Old Testament is there for you, for your faith and life. He's not doing away with the Old Testament, He's fulfilling it. And we saw several arguments in that line. And then in addition to that, not only is there Jesus Christ in the Old Testament and his establishment of its continuance, but also that he wants his disciples based upon his Thoughts about the Old Testament, how he still upholds it. He wants his disciples to honor it in their faith and in their life as he has fulfilled it. And I asked especially, though there are many responsibilities for everyone with regard to that sermon last week, I laid the responsibility especially at the feet of the men. Making sure that you take this seriously and making sure your children know the scriptures in the home and that that can be accomplished especially through family worship. I really hope That the Lord led you and that you followed the Lord this past week in family worship. If you're still not doing that, please speak with me or another elder and let's see how we can help you to get that started, even if it's just in small ways. Well, this week we continue with the teaching of our Lord Jesus Christ. Last week he showed us that he's not going to take away the law, the Old Testament, the law and the prophets. He's going to establish them. And this week he now is going to start doing that work. He's starting to unfold exactly, especially here this morning, what the sixth commandment means and what he wants to do Just as I brought up to you in the introduction is he wants to take you past a superficial understanding of his commandments to the profundity of them to where they are sufficient for your life. In knowing what God requires of you. This morning, the Spirit is going to teach us that as disciples of Jesus Christ, we must not settle for the superficial meaning of the sixth commandment. But we must embrace the full and the righteous meaning. Not going to settle for the superficial, but embrace the full and the righteous. And we'll look at this under three main headings, the superficial meaning, the full meaning, and the righteous meaning. Those are the three things we're going to look at today that build up to what the Spirit teaches us. That as the disciples of Jesus Christ, we're not to settle for the superficial meaning of the sixth commandment, but embrace the full and righteous meaning. So let's begin with the superficial meaning. We're just going to step through this text here, and we first see that there is a superficial meaning that Jesus is combating. The rabbis assumed that one kept the commandment to not kill by refraining from committing murder in the first degree, just the kind of physical blood act. But Jesus shows that this commandment is far more profound than the external act of murder. And you can see this beginning in verse number 21. You have heard that it was said to those of old: you shall not murder. Here Jesus is bringing up a declaration from Deuteronomy 5, 17. And he's doing so as the great lawgiver, as the one who is able to show us the profundity of the law. And that he because he is the one who has given it. I want to show you something really quickly, just so you can see the kind of confidence we should have in the interpretation of the law or the giving forth or the promulgating of the law by Jesus Christ. First thing I want you to notice from last week is that it mentioned that he did not come to take away the Old Testament. When he said that, did he mean he did not come from Galilee? It's something I want you to think about. I think what's really what's going on there is he's speaking about the one who has taken up the God who the Son who has taken upon himself human flesh. And that he has come in order to make sure that we understand the Old Testament. That should give us great confidence. But if you also turn to chapter 8, Verse number one, you can see that he is pictured here as the one who had given Moses the law to begin with, when he had come down from the mountain. Great multitudes followed him, and behold, a leper came and worshipped him, and then he even associates this whole sermon that he gave in 5 through 7 with Moses in verse number 6. He says, and offer the gift that Moses commanded. There's an association with Jesus and Moses here as Moses is on top of this mountain. And it's not, I don't like to just say that Jesus is the new Moses. Standing on the mountain giving his law again to his people, and therefore we could have confidence in it. I actually think the point here, since Jesus is God in the flesh, That this is representative of God who gave Moses the law. And here we see this being reenacted again with Jesus on the mountain. Knowing that we can have confidence in what he's getting ready to say here about the sixth commandment that he just mentioned. You've heard that it was said, you shall not murder. And then he goes on, he goes on from there, and he reveals to us we're going to see a superficiality that has been among the teachers of that day and how they Understood that law, and that's in that next section. And whoever murders will be in danger of the judgment. Do you see what has been done We'll see it more clearly as we go on. But they were able to affirm correctly the law as was given in Deuteronomy or in Exodus. But then they limit it to only the first degree of murder. And that's a superficial understanding of what God always intended for the sixth command. And Jesus is going to unfold it for that. You know, the scribes and the Pharisees had a real problem with reducing things to just their superficial surfaces. If you turn to Matthew 23, Jesus rebukes them and says, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you cleanse the outside of the cup and the dish, but inside you're full of extortion and self-indulgence Blind Pharisees first cleanse the inside of the cup and the dish, that the outside of them may be clean also. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you're hypocrites. For you are like whitewashed tombs, which indeed appear beautiful outwardly, but inside you're full of dead men's bones and all uncleanness. Even so, you also outwardly appear righteous to men, but inside you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. The same problem is going on here. They're limiting the commandment, that is the sixth commandment, to just the outward act. And Jesus needs to show them that there is a greater profundity intended with his law. You know, this is important for us right away to take a lesson from, is that, and we're going to unpack this in just a moment, but I want to stop and just say When you're in your homes and it's for yourself or it's for your family, it is very important that you unpack the Ten Commands And don't limit yourself to just the letter and superficiality of what's said there just in those words. You shall not murder. If you reduce that to just the physical act of murder, then many of you here could claim that you're not murderers, I hope. But you're going to find in the rest here that actually sitting here today we're all murderers. We've all violated the sixth commandments. So it's important for us to be teaching our children and our families how to handle God's word appropriately, including the law. And so this is a practical exercise that I encourage you to do is when you go through that Deuteronomy section, have your children and yourself memorize the Ten Commandments. And then as you're going through the stories of the scriptures, look at the characters and ask yourself and your children in in a kind of conversation. Do you see them fulfilling or uh in line with or against any of the commandments? And that'll help you to fill out what Jesus intends for us to understand as to what his righteousness is. It'll help to train our children to have their minds framed. according to his law, which is desperately needed today. I encourage you to do that and to look especially for the positive form The sixth commandment says, do not murder, but the positive form is that you would bring life. If you see examples of that in the scripture, bring it up and say, look, a living example by the grace of Jesus Christ of the sixth commandment. Think of Tabitha, for example. And the good that she did for her community is an excellent example of what Jesus intends for the sixth command. May that be before our children. Well, that is the superficial meaning that Jesus is up against. And you can see when you get to verse number 22 that he's going to contradict this superficial meaning and move into the profundity of his commandment. In twenty-two he says, But I say to you that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause And I'll go on to read that in a moment, but I just want to point out to you first that there's the contrast. You see the contrast with what was being taught and limited to just the first degree of murder. Now Jesus is going to say, actually there's greater depth here. Where there's not just a first degree of murder, there are other degrees. And I want to show you those things, and those are as forbidden as the physical act of murder. The law against murder prohibits actual murder. But Jesus wants people to be aware that he also prohibits those things which provoke you toward murder. You could call that potential murder. In other words, what is prohibited is not only the actual killing of a human being, but those things that would provoke you and have the potential of the destruction of those people that are around you. If there is a flame inside of you whose end is to burn the people around you, Jesus says, Extinguish the flame. He'll talk about this later when he says, pluck out your eye. Cut off the hand. He's still using that same kind of logic here. And you can see this now in verses twenty-three through twenty-three, where he takes us into beyond the surfaces of the law to see that He wants the whole man involved, the whole woman, the whole child involved. But I say to you that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. And whoever says to his brother, Raga, shall be in danger of the council. But whoever says, You fool, shall be in danger of hellfire. Oh well, he's introduced a lot more than just the inner uh the external act of murder. Our confession would say that he has introduced Thoughts, words, deeds, attitudes, gestures, all of these things that are signs that the provocation has begun And Jesus knows that within the human heart, once that little plant starts to come up, its end is murder. And so he doesn't want the plant to grow at all. And he wants us to recognize that therefore even the provocations and even these thoughts and these gestures and these attitudes are covered by the sixth command. You'll notice in the first in verse number 22 when he says, But I say to you that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause, you can see here that there's a distinction that needs to be made, that not all anger is sinful. If you were to look through the scriptures, you would see, for example, with Moses as he gives the final curse to Pharaoh that he burned hot with anger when Pharaoh rejected. And that was a kind of godly anger. You'll see Jesus in an act of anger, a righteous anger, flipping tables. You'll hear of God Himself who is a jealous and a wrathful God, stoking his anger. You'll hear about that in different passages. So not all anger is condemned here. It's anger without a cause. It's the kind of sinful anger. It's the anger that's too quick. It's the anger that's misplaced. It's the anger that's towards the wrong end. It's the anger that's overbearing and inappropriate for the particular situation We've all seen that kind of anger. When the two-year-old didn't really mean to push his juice off of his tray and it gets on your beautiful rug and you lash out. It's an inappropriate kind of anger. And how many other examples where we've lost our temper? Where we've our our words are fueled by the coal of just being angry and wanting to destroy people. We're not saying it for their good. We could care less if they repent. We just want to lay into them. Those are the kind of angers that Jesus covers in the sixth commandment, and thank God for that Thank God for that. Can you imagine having a conscience so seared that you'd treat a little one like I just described and say, I'm I'm still clean before God? Here Jesus says, No, you're not. There's something that has begun in your heart. that would result in murder, and even that is covered in my sixth commandment. If you were to go on in these verses, he not only talks about anger that is without a cause shall be danger in danger of the judgment, but then he moves into this insult, which is many commentators interpret this uh this insult raka as that you are simple-minded or stupid. Others interpret it as a kind of gesture where you would just kind of wave somebody off dismissively And Jesus is covering that also. The other provocation and the potential murder, or that which leads to murder, is that final one? where we see him saying not only rakah but whoever would say you fool and this has moved to a commentary on a person's intellectual ability into a moral Disability. You could look throughout all of the Proverbs and you'd see that the fool is the one who turns their back on God. The fool is the one who is condemned. The fool is the one who should be cast out from society. And having those kinds of thoughts and gestures and attitudes towards other people without cause is covered by the Sixth Commandment. Even the potential murder is covered by the Sixth Commandment. even our thoughts and our attitudes that would lead to the act of Cain. Now the other thing I wanted to note about this, you can see those three ways in which we get past the surfaces of the sixth command and we are now addressing the whole person I want you to see that there is a kind of escalation that's going on here. It begins with anger without cause, then it moves to one kind of an insult, then it moves to an ultimate kind of insult, and the sentences are different. ending in hellfire. That there's an escalation that Jesus warns us against that happens within our hearts. We might start with just a little bit of anger That is inappropriate inside of our hearts. But if you don't catch it by way of the sixth commandment, if you just let yourself go, saying God doesn't care about this, he's warning you that it will continue to grow. It will fester in you and blow up with pus. And the end result is murder. That's part of his point here. That's part of his point. You know, I think part of what's going on here with Jesus' concern that we see with the names that we would call people, which is happening a lot these days, by the way, and it gives me great concern. about where humanity is headed. But one you you start to put people in a certain class of people. There are implications to that. Do you know one of the ways in which slavery was perpetuated was to place the black man into the class of subhuman? Do you know one of the ways to justify the Holocaust of the Jews and others was to place them in the class of subhuman? And if you go to the Holocaust Museum, you'll see pictures in which they, with their propaganda, had painted the Jewish people in such a way to where they were grotesque and worse than the worst of animals. They were they they reduced them to the category of cattle in your stall, or worse They would contort their pictures so that their their faces looked like they were all disabled and were from bad stock. And Jesus is worried about that here as of what can happen inside of the human heart. And it begins with just that attitude and those names. Getting people in a certain class. And then the implication is, well, if they really are that, it would be fine for me to kill them. Don't we see that today? What do you think allowed that young man who killed Charlie Kirk to justify that? He had Charlie Kirk in the category of Nazi. And the implication of that is that Nazis should be killed And they should be brought up on charges for war crimes and receive capital punishment. It all makes rational sense if you go that way Oh, what a picture of the human predicament. If we don't see past the superficiality of the six commandments into the depths, there is no chance of us having a society that has peace and that has love. I'd encourage you to think about these words also besides them moving people into a class and besides the escalation that happens. in the human heart that you would also see these words as furtherances of Old Testament examples of what happens from small things like words. Jeremiah covered this well for us. Words really make a difference. Attitudes grow into things that are bigger than attitudes. It says in Proverbs 29:8, scoffers, those are people who scoff with their words and with their gestures that are coming from hearts that have certain attitudes. They set cities on fire, it says. But wise men turn away wrath. Romans 3:13. Their throat is an open tomb. With their tongues they have a practiced deceit. The poison of asps is under their lips. Does that sound harmless to you? I don't think any of you want to play around with venomous snakes. Then why play around with these attitudes? And we wouldn't, because now we know Past the superficiality that Jesus covers this in the sixth command, to take these kinds of things seriously. And then if you'd like to this afternoon take a look together. uh with others James chapter 3 and just learn about the tongue though small is mighty in setting things on fire Now there are a few lessons for us to be able to take from this. There's plenty of lessons that are already been given, but one thing I I want to mention is uh I had read a story of uh R. C. Sprohl. I'm not sure if many of you know him. I think you probably do. He's with the Lord now. But R. C. Sproull had mentioned an encounter that he had with a scholar. And this is what he says. And this helps us to understand what's going on here. With an objection you might have to what I've been saying. Several years ago, I read an essay, writes R. C. Sprohl, by a scholar who was skeptical about the ethical teaching of Jesus. The scholar could not understand how hating or slandering one's brother could be as bad as murdering him. Do you ever think that? Yeah, you have a little piece of your heart that says, Me slandering or getting angry with the two-year-old is not as bad as murdering him I bet you there is a little piece of your heart that thinks that. And actually you're right. That's what R. C. Sproul goes on to say. He says the point he missed is that Jesus does not say it is just as bad to be angry with your brother as to kill him. Jesus never collapsed the difference in degree of heinousness of our various sins. His point is that just because you have not gone all the way to murder does not mean that you are free from the full orbed responsibility of the law. You hear R. C. Sprawl? If I was a little smaller, I'd do like a little imitation. Pittsburgh accent. You have not been free from the full orbed responsibility of the law, even though we admit the degrees of sin. That is all by from our confession, by the way. Our confession says for our next lesson that though there are degrees of sin, there are differences in heinousness of sin. Do you know what's true of all sin? Our confession says it's mortal. All of us deserve death. From any of the violations, from any of the commandments. And let me just point out to you that your heart is exposed at this point. Tell me who here has not committed heart murder? Who here hasn't committed mouth murder? And that shows you right away your desperate need and my desperate need for the salvation that is only found in Jesus Christ. Oh, how we need him as our righteousness. We need him to cleanse us from our sins. Well, if you weren't convinced before, by the time we get to the bottom of the sixth commandment, away from just the superficiality, you can see. Two things here before I go on to the next point, and that is if you have not gone to God to ask for forgiveness, you must do so today. And if you have received forgiveness, would you take some time away from the noise and the hustle and bustle and to thank him for saving you from your murderous heart? I know that there's still that old man knocking at the door wanting you to serve him, but you can see the Lord has dominion now. Thank him that he has saved you from such a wretched life and wretched end. We have an obvious need for Jesus Christ there in that fuller meaning. Of the sixth commandment. So we have seen together now in this passage the superficial meaning In just reducing it to the physical act, we've now seen that fuller meaning where it involves our entire person, soul, will, intellect. The sixth commandment is addressing all of those things. And now we in the last part of this passage see the righteous meaning. The righteous meaning. Now the reason why I gave it that title is because he gives us two different examples for us to be able to see Okay, now that we realize this about ourselves, what are positive movements forward for us to be able to be a community that really understands the sixth commandment. And let's just go ahead and take a look at that first within our scriptures. You can see this in verse number 24. I'm sorry, we'll start in verse number twenty-three. Therefore, if you bring your gift to the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you Leave your gift there before the altar and go your way. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift. Agree with your adversary quickly while you are on your way with him, lest your adversary deliver you to the judge The judge hands you over to the officer and you be thrown into prison. Assuredly, I say to you, you will by no means get out of there till you have paid the last penny. I just want to say a few words about this. That Jesus Christ gives us two examples of positive righteousness. Now that you know this about the sixth commandment, he wants you again to remember That though stated in the negative, he intends positive effects. The commandments are a vision for human society that is flourishing under the kingship of Jesus Christ. So what could we do in order for that kind of kingdom to be on earth as it is in heaven The great question that we're asking is, how is it that we could be salt and light to the world based on what the wisdom that he gives us by his spirit in this sixth commandment? And the thing that he says here, basically in a nutshell, is that all of us need to go back to those beatitudes and remember, blessed are the peacemakers. Blessed are the peacemakers. Very quickly, I'm not going to dwell on this, but you have two examples of people whether they did the wrong or they didn't do the wrong. You have examples of those who are considered righteous according to Jesus' example, who don't wait around for things to stir up in their hearts and to get worse. They go They go. And you can see the seriousness with which Jesus gives this because he says, even if you are giving your gift at the altar, drop it and go. Now that's not something new that Jesus is introducing into the scriptures. He has always said obedience is better than sacrifice. And what he means by that is that there are a set of priorities. God continually rebukes his people for showing up and doing all of the sacrifices which are good and of themselves according to the appropriate time, but not paying attention to how they treated their neighbor all week long. He says in Isaiah chapter 58, you're right, I haven't heard any of your prayers. And you want to know why? You're confused because you keep fasting from food before me and you want to know why haven't you answered our prayers? I tell you the true fast is that you would stop oppressing the people that are around you. It's the same principle that Jesus brings here to show you the priority and how imp just really the gravity and the importance that he places upon making sure that there is forgiveness, reconciliation, and peace among his people Do you know what will happen if you don't run to reconcile? Instead of being the salt and the light of the world, you will be the stain of the earth. It would be better for everybody to just get rid of us. Because we're just part of the problem. But Christ gives us a spirit so we wouldn't be the problem. We would be a light to the world. on what is possible in Jesus Christ. And that's a society that's not destroying itself, taking each other to court, making everybody pay the fullest penalty possible. That's the other example that he gives us. If you are estranged from your brother due to unjustifiable anger or slander or whatever has brought about this disharmony, Jesus basically says here in a nutshell Take care of it. By his grace, take care of it. There is a children's book. I've told you this before. I'll just remind you quickly. There's a children's book that's called There's No Such Thing as a Dragon. Has anyone read that? And there's a little dragon that shows up in a boy's room. And the boy goes down to his parents. Have you heard this? The boy goes down to his parents and says, Mom, Dad, there's a dragon in my room. They go, well, nice. Okay. They ignore it. Day goes on. Drag dragon shows up uh in the kitchen and the and he's eating all of the cereal and the food and might have eaten the refrigerator by this time. And he says, Mom, Dad, there's a dragon in the kitchen. Oh, okay, well, I don't that's okay. They just go on with their day. And then the next day comes and the dragon has eaten the house and is destroying the neighborhood and he says, Mom and Dad, there's a dragon. And they finally start to pay attention to it. And as soon as they acknowledge that there is in fact a dragon, the dragon becomes this big again. And they're able to reconstruct the neighborhood and get on again. And the lesson of the book is that if you just let things sit in your heart because you you think they're just attitudes If you don't acknowledge them, not only between you and the Lord, but between the people that are in your lives, they will grow up as dragons and they will tear your families and your churches apart. and you will lose your witness to the glory of God. So Jesus says in these two examples, go. Go even in the midst of right before that worship starts. Go while they're on their way to the court. Go. Blessed are the peacemakers who keep their societies alive. And that is our teaching of the Spirit here this morning is that as disciples of Christ, we should not settle for the superfici superficial readings of the sixth commandments. But we need to embrace the full and the righteous meaning that Jesus gives us, that is, to the whole person, and we must take responsibility and go and claim the reconciliation. And you see that's largely because we are salt and light. I think what Jesus is uh the the deep background here for Jesus That he has on his mind and what the Spirit intends for us to hear this morning is that Jesus does not want his congregation to rehearse what took place in Genesis chapter 4. It says in Genesis chapter 4, now Adam knew Eve his wife, and she conceived and bore Cain, and said, I have acquired a man from the Lord. Then she bore again, this time his brother Abel. Now Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was the tiller of the ground. And in the process of time it came to pass that Cain brought an offering of the fruit of the ground to the Lord. Notice that there are in at the altar and worship again, just like in our passage. Abel also brought the firstborn of his flock and of their fat, and the Lord respected Abel in his offering, but he did not respect Cain in his offering. And Cain was very angry. That's where it begins. It was an unjust anger sprouting up. And Jesus is telling their story here and helping us to understand the sixth command. Well, you know what takes place. So the Lord said to Cain, Why are you angry? Why has your countenance fallen? If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin lies at the door. And its desire is for you, but you should rule over it. Now Cain talked with Abel his brother, and it came to pass when they were in the field that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and he killed him. Then the Lord said to Cain, Where is Abel your brother? He said, I don't know. Am I my brother's keeper? That is the result. Of not paying attention to the profundity of the sixth command. Jesus Christ has given you the grace to walk in his ways. And now he's showing you what his ways are. We are to be a new kingdom where disciples love. I'll end with this. recitation or paraphrase of our confession. What does the sixth commandment require? The sixth commandment calls us to actively protect and value our own lives and the lives of others This means avoiding thoughts, desires, or actions that could unjustly harm anyone, including resisting violent intentions. controlling harmful emotions, and steering clear of situations or behaviors that could lead to taking a life. It involves defending life justly against violence, accepting God's will with patience, and maintaining a calm and godly mindset. To foster kind, loving, and compassionate attitudes, and to speak and act with peace, gentleness, and respect Additionally, it requires being quick to forgive, patient with others' wrongs, responding to evil with good, comforting those in need, and standing up for the innocent. That's a vision of the kingdom of God, and isn't it delightful? Isn't it beautiful? May God bring the kingdom on earth through you. As you by his grace seek to work out the sixth commandment. Amen. Amen. Let us pray.