Heard that it was said, You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, Love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you. That you may be sons of your Father in heaven. For he makes his son rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. If you love those who love you, what reward have you? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if you greet your brethren only, what do you do more than others? Do not even the tax collectors do so? Therefore you shall be perfect, just as your Father in heaven is perfect. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I pray that you would honor these words of your Son in the preached word, that they would that you would make them therefore effective I pray that your congregation would not just be hearers of the word but doers. I pray those here who are still at enmity with you that you would bring them to a knowledge of their sin. and a knowledge of Christ for their righteousness and forgiveness. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. I heard the story of a young man in college who would work diligently for a young lady to date him. Sometimes it would take months of coaxing, of uh n nice letters, nice attitude, chocolates and flowers And then as soon as she would say yes, he would dump her. Uh can you turn if you could turn down these mics a little bit, I'm getting a ringing. The in other areas of life I heard reports that he would do similar things. He would join different clubs at the college, and once he was able to show himself As dominant in the club, he would leave the club. And actually, if you were to sit down with the young man, you would find that in each area of his life Whether it be his personal life or his family life or let's say that he went to church, his church life or the way he conducted himself as a uh civically, as a citizen, you would find the same pattern. where the mindset for him wasn't the proper mindset. It was really just how can I show that I'm dominant in a particular area and dominant over people. And once I show my dominance, I'm done. Now, uh when I was in seminary, we read a book on counseling where when we would run into situations like that where we would see a pattern that pervaded, there needed to be what they called a total restructuring. And the way in which we would talk about total restructuring would be by way of the scriptures and under the concept of mindset. When a person has a particular mindset, they see the world in a certain way. And it really governs and dictates all of their actions. Sometimes in just our colloquial way of speaking, we'll say a person who is stuck in a certain mindset that's unhealthy will say, well really, you really got the blinders on today, don't you? You really can't see pastor knows, Kenya. This is indicative of a mindset that consumes us And in the case that I gave you with that young man, it was a negative mindset. But there can be positive mindsets too. Philippians chapter 2, the Apostle Paul calls us to have the mind of Christ Jesus Who, though, is God in the flesh made himself a servant for his people. And that is the mindset that we are to adopt. My point in bringing these two things up to you is to just remind you of mindsets. And to now bring you back to this passage that we are here this morning where Christ is, he's not just seeking for you to do a couple different actions now and again. He's seeking for there to be a total restructuring of the life and for there to be a particular mindset or a heart set, if you will. by the enlightening influence of the Holy Spirit upon the lives of His disciples. In the past we've seen a mindset or a heart set or a lifestyle. We could put it that way too. We've seen that in different ways as Jesus has unfolded these last couple of paragraphs. In verse number thirty-three, if you look down at your scriptures, he was calling his disciples to be people of their word. To be trustworthy. And that that wasn't just a couple actions here and there. It is a dominant lifestyle of trustworthiness. And it is the same thing with last week, starting in verse 38, where an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth, that it's an that it's a dominating lifestyle and a total restructuring where we're not continually retaliating on each other. We're not repaying evil for evil, but instead we're looking for people's good. You know all of these examples, whether the paragraph I gave you starting in verse 33 or the example that I gave you starting in verse number 38. They're all examples if you flip back to chapter five verse um chapter five chapter five verses um seventeen and following, especially in verse number twenty, these are really specific examples of what Jesus means that unless Verse number 20 of chapter 5, that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. And these are the examples that he's given to us for his disciples to have a life, not just individual actions now and again, but a life that is maturing. into something like this. And he's given us different examples. Well he's giving us another example today. An example that we especially need to hear. The Spirit is teaching you here this morning, quite simply, that the disciples of Jesus Christ love their enemies. That the disciples of Jesus Christ love even their enemies. The disciples of Christ love even their enemies. Now, what I want to do is I want to work through this whole passage and working that out with you. And we're going to do that just under a couple points. Here's point number one. It's going to be false teaching. We're going to consider the false teaching. And then we're going to look at true instruction. And then finally we'll come to ultimate purpose. False teaching, true instruction. and ultimate purpose. Those are nice neat containers for you to keep track of this passage, which is a little longer than usual. So let's begin with the false teaching, which we can see quite clearly in verse number 43. You can see it more clearly than even the other verses that we've looked at in the past with the sermon. In verse number 43, he says, You have heard that it was said, you shall love your neighbor. Okay, that's good so far. But then he has this and there, which should surprise you. It goes on and he says, You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. Now, one of the things that I want you to do really quick while I'm waiting for you is I want you to go through your whole Bible and I want you to find where it says, hate your enemy. Where this is where this is where it's it's meant to be put be put. That's just this is one of the difficulties here of this sentence is that as you go through, you're not going to find an explicit law that says something like this. Now you may be able to start doing some deductions to where you think that God wants you to hate your enemy in general and not just at specific circumstances, but that's a different case. In Leviticus 19, 17 through 18, This is the heart of where we would find the typical statement of the law in this case. For example, in Leviticus 19, 17, it says, you shall not hate your brother in your heart You shall surely re uh rebuke your neighbor and not bear sin because of him. You shall not take vengeance or bear any grudge against the children of your people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself, I am the Lord. There it is. There's not that second part, and hate your enemy. So you have to wonder, well, where is it, what is it that Jesus is confronting? And that's part of the difficulty, is we don't exactly know. We just have some guesses. And we don't really need to know. We just need to know that Jesus is confronting it. We know what he's confronting, because in the next verse that we're going to look at, he says, love your enemies. We know what his main point is here, but I just want to point out to you that maybe he's looking at other communities and what was being taught at that time. Perhaps there were some communities that in looking at the Psalms which called for the destruction of God's enemies, maybe they deduced something that in general we should always hate our neighbors. Maybe they looked at all of the examples of taking over the land of Canaan with Canaan within holy wars, and they extracted this out as a general philosophy that we should hate all of those who are not a part of Israel. Maybe it was like the lawyer in Luke chapter ten where the lawyer was really hung up on, well, what is a neighbor? Now in that section, I think that there's some plausibility to that being part of what's going on here. It says in Luke 10, 25 through 29, and behold a certain lawyer stood up and he tested Jesus. And he said, Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? He said to him, Jesus says to him, What is written in the law? What is your reading of it? So he answered and said, I'm sorry, and this is Jesus, I'm sorry. And they continue the conversation, and he says, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself. Just what we read in Leviticus. The conversation continues, and he said to him, You have answered rightly. Do this and you will live. But he, wanting to justify himself to Jesus, said, And who is my neighbor? Now, does anybody know what the story is that comes right after this? It's the story of the Good Samaritan. It's the story of the Good Samaritan, but there's you notice that word there that lawyers I've never heard of this before, lawyers justifying something. Huh. Right. Sure. With semantics? Never before. But here you have a lawyer justifying, well, what is really the definition of neighbor? from that law. And maybe that's at root and at bottom what is going on here. Well whatever it is Whatever is going on, they got it wrong to where if it's the case of a of limiting or narrowing the definition where they thought they had permission to hate a certain group of people because they weren't under the category of neighbor Whatever it is, Jesus sought to correct the false teaching, and the false teaching is hate your enemy. That's the false teaching. Hate your enemy. Now that's the first point that I just wanted us to make sure we started off there so we could see that first part, which is the false teaching. But the second point that I want you to pay attention to is that now Jesus will move into true instruction. So we not only had false teaching, but we now have true instruction. And that's in verse number 44 and following. He says, But I say to you, love your enemies. Bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you. What is an enemy? What is an enemy If you look here, it's actually taking what is usually a verb and it's putting into it a noun. And it's basically those who are who hate you. Doesn't they don't have to hate you for their whole life, but they could be hating you? Now what do you do if there's a person who's hateful towards you? What what if the if all you're hating me? What do you do and if you had to put that into a noun? Well, one of the things we do here in this translation, in order to put it into a noun, to show the state that a person is in towards us, is to say, well, they're we could say they're at enmity with me That's one way to put it. Another way to just say it is that they're my enemy. So that starts to help us to understand what's going on here. And then Jesus tells us that with regard to this person who is hating us We are to love them. Now what are the ways in the passage there that you see that the hate is is happening? Do you see that in verse number 44? They curse you They hate you, they spitefully use you, and they persecute you. Do you see that This is a pretty limited context. This is going to be with Christians with regard to general society. I don't really see the context of war here. I think if we were going to enter into war, we're going to have to talk a little bit differently about things. and parse this out. This is a bit of a more normal lifestyle situation as Christians are existing within Babylon, within society. And at the same time that we're able to go through that verse and we're able to see the ways in which people hate us or may hate us, you can also see the corresponding ways in which we should love them. One of the difficulties that we have in our society is that everybody is for love. But you've it is a rarity to some see somebody define it. But Jesus does define it here. He doesn't define it in an ultra-philosophical sense, but he gives you specific examples so that you can start to collect what it would look like for you to love your enemy. Look at what he says there. He says, you're to love them with your words. They're going to curse you. But you are not going to curse them. You are going to bless them. That word bless them there is the is from the word that we get eulogy. It's uh good words toward them. Words like we would see in 1 Samuel 26, verse 9, with David. David says to Abishai With regard to Saul, who has caused all kinds of trouble, has put David's life at risk over and over again. He says, do not destroy him. For who can stretch out his hand against the Lord's anointed and be guiltless? You see what David did there? Even while Saul is seeking to destroy David, David refuses to say a poor word about him. But instead speaks of him with an honorific title of the Lord's anointed. That's a great example of someone who's trying to curse you, but you bless them. In words. Not only does Jesus mention words, he says, with our actions, he says, you will bless them even when they curse you. You will do good to them, even when they hate you. Proverbs 25-21 gives some examples. If your enemy is hungry, give him bread to eat. And if he is thirsty, give him water to drink. Jesus goes on and he says, And you're going to pray for those who persecute you. That's how you love them. Luke 23, 33 through 34, and Acts 7, 59 through 60 give us ultimate examples of what it looks like to love your enemy by way of prayer. Do you know what examples those are? I just wanted to slow down. I've been I've been like a rocket ship up here. I wanted to slow down for a second. Because we're starting to get to the heart of what Jesus is teaching here when we get to these examples of loving your enemy through prayer. Luke twenty-three, thirty-three through thirty-four. And when they had come to the place called Calvary, they crucified him. And the criminals, one on the right and one on the left. Then Jesus said in a prayer, Father forgive them, for they do not know what they do. And they proceeded to divide his garments and cast lots. And then following in our Lord's Footsteps by the power of the Holy Spirit. We have Stephen in Acts chapter 7. And they stone Stephen. As he was calling on God and saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. Then he knelt down and he cried out with a lord voice and a prayer, Lord, do not charge them with this sin. And when he had said this, he fell asleep. It's right for me to slow down in times like that. For us to see the heart of what's going on here when we start to look at these examples with how we're to be treating our enemy. We had the false teaching that had developed within their culture, but the true instruction of Jesus Christ leads us to see that when they curse us, we bless them with our words. And when they do all kinds of evil against us, we give them bread and drink. And when they persecute us, we pray for them. And those who are most noble have done the same. There is another example for us in Acts chapter 8 of this principle that we see in the passage. And it's important for us to see this example so that we don't mix things up. There's another way in which we could fall back into a false teaching from this true instruction. Let me explain what I mean. Jesus lists for you specific ways to love your enemies and your words and your actions and in your prayers. One of the things that you have to resist of thinking that Jesus in this single passage has said everything that God has ever said about every single circumstance. There are many circumstances in your life, every circumstance in your life, Christian, where you have to figure out what that love looks like. Let me give you an example. It doesn't excuse you. You still bless, you still pray, you still do good, but you've got to do so wisely. And let me give you an example of that. In Acts chapter 8, Saul was consent- remember Stephen's martyr there. Saul was the one who consented to his death. He's the one that had warrants for these people. At that time a great persecution arose against the church which was at Jerusalem, and they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea, except the apostles. I just want to, I mean it's a really basic observation. If you think that Jesus is calling you to just stick around no matter what happens, we have contrary examples in the scriptures that are commendable were commended where it can be an act of love to those around you and an appropriate action towards your enemy if you run. Don't forget that. We need to consider the whole counsel of God, even as we're considering this particular passage. That they ended up running and that was a part of God's plan. When we get to Acts 8, chapter 3, Paul, the reason why they're running is because Paul or Saul is making havoc of the church. He was entering into individual homes and dragging off men and women and committing them to prison. That's Acts verse 3. I just read it to you literally. Busting into people's homes, dragging them off to prison. What does it look like to love your enemy in that situation? It doesn't look like being naive. Now let me give you the example of why I say that, because a little bit later in the chapter it says in Acts chapter 9, 26 through 28, After Saul has become Paul, because Jesus Christ has converted him, and now Paul is serving Jesus as his Lord. Paul, together with some of the disciples, is seeking to be able to fellowship with fellow Christians. And it says this in Acts 9, 26 through 28. And when Saul had come to Jerusalem, he tried to join the disciples, but they were all afraid of him, and they did not believe that he was a disciple. And that is not saying, and these people were wrong and not loving of Saul when they did that. This is a part of a godly caution and a godly wisdom that you the person who was just killing your family members should not just be let inside of your front door until we get some credentials going on. And that's what the rest of those passages in Acts are going to show you. Paul is going to start being credentialed by Jesus Christ and seen and shown to be a true disciple, and then he will be welcomed back into people's homes. So I just want to make sure that's clear. Sometimes we go from we we have this idea in our head that if we're really going to love our enemy, we just get we have to let the enemy do whatever they want to do And we just become the doormass of the world. And that's not the picture that we see anywhere within the scriptures. We see a group of people called the Lord's congregation that are as wise as serpents and as gentle as doves. It's always Christian wisdom. It's always Christian wisdom. So I want to make sure that we look at that. In fact, perhaps you should have this as a memory verse in Ephesians 5, 15 through 16. See then that you walk Circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise. Why? Because you need to redeem this time. Why? Because the days are evil. So let's keep all of this in mind that we can have the wisdom of God. Now those are our first two points here as we unfold that we're to be the disciples of Christ are to love their enemies. We have seen the false teaching. We've seen the true instruction. And we've counterbalanced that to make sure we don't draw any false conclusions. And now we're going to go into the third main point, which is that there is an ultimate purpose behind all of this. And that is seen in this next set of verses, particularly in verse number 45 and following. You can see here in verse number 45 the ultimate purpose, the thing that we really need to pay attention to. You see there in verse number 45 it says, that you may be That word there is very important. It shows you this is the this is the whole purpose. This is what we're we're striving toward with all of these different things, and that purpose is That you are meant to be the sons of your father in heaven. We are to have the marks of our parentage. You know, I wonder if you hear that uh there's a lot of new babies showing up around here And you'll listen carefully when the baby is born and the baby finally makes it to church and the baby starts to get a little bit older, you'll start to hear people say, oh, he's got your nose Or uh, oh, she definitely her eyes. I'll tell you a funny story. Um my grandfather had larger ears than normal, and I got my grandfather's ears When I was born, my ears were so large and disproportionate to my face that my mother, when people would visit, would hold them back And I actually think she pinned them with the with the s the you know the when you swaddle the baby? She swaddled me so they were pinned and hoped that the cartilage would grow in a certain way and they weren't And they weren't too big. So there you go. That's a fun fact about me. But that's the idea is if you were to see that uh the the I know this is weird, I'm we're talking about my ears. But if you were to look at pictures of uh Ridgley Crutchley, my grandfather, then his six brothers, and then you saw me when I was born, you'd say, boy, you got your grandfather's ears. And those are the marks of family, and there's a mark of parentage that's going on here that you would be the sons or the children or the daughter, the sons and the daughters, or the children of your father in heaven It says in Ephesians 5. 1 the same thing. It says that we are to be imitators of God as dear children. And then it goes on and it shows us what that ends up looking like. Well, what does the Father look like in this case? It says it right there. He makes his son to rise on the evil, and he makes his son to rise on the good, and he sends his rain on the just and he sends his and he sends the rain on the unjust. That's the kind of father that he is, and you're meant to be like him And that means that if the Father is giving rain and blessing to those who persecute you, then you are meant to bless those who persecute you. If Jesus prayed for those who just crucified him, then you're to pray for those who persecute you. And we'll talk about why in just a moment. He's going to tell us why. But I wanted to give you an example which was from our bulletin from the the the idolatry that was going on in the in um that passage from Acts chapter 14 verse 17 You'll notice if you read that passage again on your free time, that this shows what the Father is like. It says, nevertheless He, the Father, did not leave himself without witness in that he did good. He gave us rain from heaven and fruitful seasons. He has filled our hearts with food and gladness. And Paul is saying that to a pagan city who is literally committing idolatry right in front of his face. That all along, the only reason why you have any of these things to sacrifice, the only reason why you had those feasts that you did, the only reason why you're not starving and you have food is because the Father has been good to you despite what you have been towards with him. And this mark, this parental mark, is meant to be the mark of his sons and his daughters. That's the main point. That's the main point. That's the main purpose. That's the ultimate purpose. Now that ultimate purpose comes out with the rest of this passage with a very important contrast. Take a look at verse number 46. There is the image of the father, and then there is the image of a tax collector. And we're no longer supposed to be made in that image. It says there in 46, for if you love those who love you, what reward have you? Do not even the tax collectors do the same And if you greet your brethren only, what do you do more than others? Do not even the tax collectors do so? Staying within the context here, I think the main argument is that By nature, we come from fathers and mothers that are tax collectors, and the way that they handle their lives is they retaliate and they destroy their enemies. But if you were born from above, if you are born from your Father who is in heaven by way of his Son and His Spirit, then we are like our Father who is in heaven, who sends his rain and his sunshine on those who are evil and those who are righteous. And you are to be in his image, and not of the image of the fallen Adam. Which takes up the image of the tax collector, those who tax the people, who don't look out for their good, who uh take away what is justly theirs. And then finally in 48, you can see that this is all coming home. It's the same thing, that we are to be perfect, just as our Father in heaven is perfect. And don't let that freak you out He's not saying that you enter into eternal life by way of the perfection of your good works and righteousness. He's not negating the work of Jesus Christ. That's silly. If we understand what God is doing, Jesus Christ's righteousness and his paying for our transgression leads to our adoption into his family. And he gives us his Holy Spirit to where our life more and more over time starts to look more and more like a different father. than the old Adam, who was the first father of the human race. And the way that that looks is that we love our enemies. We love them in pr in wise and in practical ways. Acts 2, 3 through 4 is another example. that I want to give to you here with this ultimate purpose. Then there appeared to them divided tongues as of fire, and one sat upon each of them, and they were filled with the Holy Spirit. and began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. Anybody know where that's from? If you know it, you can say it out loud. What is the traditional name that this goes under? Acts chapter 2, 3-4. Pentecost. Okay. And let's just keep going with our catechism class. And who is it that sent the disciples in the upper room? The Holy Spirit Okay, yes, Jesus did because the Father has given the Spirit to Christ and Christ is sending his Spirit to His disciples. And what are those disciples being empowered to do by way of the Spirit? Oh, to go give good news and mercy to those who just crucify Jesus? Oh. Yeah, that's the logic here. Jesus, having been crucified, spent 40 days with his disciples, ascended to the right hand of the Father, is given the Holy Spirit, and what does he do with his time? He sends his Spirit to His disciples that his disciples would go forth and preach a gospel of forgiveness and remission of sins. A gospel of mercy? Who's the audience? Well you could say Jew and you could say Gentile, but you want to know what the real category is? The audience is his enemies He is loving his enemies in the offering of the gospel. And as his disciples, the Spirit teaches us today that we're to love our enemies like him and by his power. Of course, this brings us this this whole, everything that we have gone through here with this passage. Whether we're looking at the false teaching or we're looking at the true instruction or we're seeing the ultimate purpose that God has for all of these things, all of it goes back to what Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount in the beginning. He said, let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and they would glorify your Father in heaven. Now doesn't that make more sense now that we're seeing all of these pictures come together? Why would they glorify your Father in heaven? What would they see in you that would make you make them give glory to him? You know what they would see in you? They would see compassion and mercy. When they treated you poorly, when they persecuted you, when they said all kinds of shameful things about you. When they confiscated your property and you did not retaliate, but instead loved them as Christ would send them the Holy Spirit and enlighten their mind, they would see your example But know the God of mercy. And they would glorify him for his mercy. Let me just ask you, do you have that experience? Do you have anything in your life where God has shown up and he has given you mercy? Do you know what it's like to give God glory for the revelation of His mercy? You know how strong that is in the human heart? To be oppressed by one's own sin and misery, to be at enmity with God But then to be for that to be exposed and then for God even by way of his messengers to step in and say, I understand all of that, and all of it's true. You do deserve death and condemnation But I am here to offer mercy through my son. Do you remember what that feels like? That's what's going on here in the Sermon on the Mount and these different examples is that our Father in heaven would be glorified because we are a congregation, and same with all Christian congregations, we are witnesses And we testify by how we conduct our entire lives by way of our mindset and our entire lifestyle. A total structuring we conduct by our life, even as a community, what God is like. And God is saying, I really want to make sure that the people around you know that I am merciful. That I have loving kindness and patience, and that today is the day of salvation. And the way the people around you get to know that is that when they treat you poorly, you don't. You bless them. That's the ultimate purpose here that Jesus is giving to you. Our mercy to enemies is a direct witness to who our Father is in heaven. And in the hands of the Holy Spirit, the world around us will glorify him for his mercy by your merciful deeds. Now, I would like to give you a practical exercise. Let me read to you a quote from Puritan and I'll leave you with this exercise. One Puritan writes Have you never beheld a condemned prisoner dissolved into tears upon the unexpected and unmerited receipt of a pardon? Who all the time before was as hard as a flint. The hammer of the law may break the icy heart of a man with terrors and horror. And yet it may remain ice still, unchanged. But when the fire of love But when the fire of love kindly falls its ice, it is changed and dissolved into water. It is no longer ice, but of another nature. Therefore, meditate on the love of God and Christ to your unworthy soul. And that's the practical exercise. I would just encourage you to go through the scriptures when you're able, which should be every day. And look for examples of the mercy of God. Look for them in just the basic stories. I don't want anybody here getting fancy. Just look at the different stories where God is merciful to men and to women and to children. And I'd encourage you to especially look at God as revealed in Jesus Christ. Look at his example and how merciful he is to the people that he interacts with. Look for his mercy. Would you do me a favor? Would you all become hunters this week and hunt it down? Opening season is coming up Hunt it down, chase it down, chase down the mercy of God. Get lots of examples inside your mind and your heart. Then the second part of the practical exercise is I want you to rehearse those mercies with other people. And I want you to rehearse the mercies that God has given to you in your own experiences. Go ahead back to the beginning. When you first became a Christian. Some of you veterans out there have been around here a long time walking with Christ. I want you to go back to the beginning. And I want you to recount, maybe have a conversation with a friend. Recount how God was merciful to you and what you used to look like. Before he got a hold of you. And then I'd like you to fast forward up to today, take a good hard look at what you look like today, and see how merciful he is still And then bring step number three. You're looking in the scripture for mercy. You're looking in your life for mercy. And then that third step of the practical exercise. Is that you would ask God in prayer, oh Lord, would you help me to show mercy to the people around me like you have shown to me in these scriptures and in my own life? And may God, through the power of Christ and His Holy Spirit, make us a congregation with each other and the world. who loves our enemies. And in loving our enemies, may the people around us be able to see what God is like. And by the power of the Spirit, may they run to Him for mercy and join His congregation, kissing the Son. Amen. Amen. Let's pray.