This is God's holy word for you, God's holy people. Then they sent to him some of the Pharisees and the Herodians to catch him in his words. When they had come, they said to him, Teacher, we know that you are true and care about no one, for you do not regard the person of men, but teach the way of God in truth. Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not? Shall we pay or shall we not pay? But he, knowing their hypocrisy, said to them, Why do you test me? Bring me a denarius that I may see it. So they brought it. And he said to them, Whose image and inscription is this? And they said to him, Caesar's. And Jesus answered and said to them, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's. And to God the things that are God's. And they marveled at him. Then some Sadducees who say there is no resurrection came to him. And they asked him, saying, Teacher, Moses wrote to us that if a man's brother dies and leaves his wife behind and leaves no children, his brother should take his wife and raise up offspring for his brother. Now there were seven brothers The first took a wife, and dying he left no offspring. And the second took her, and he died, nor did he leave any offspring. And the third likewise, so the seven had her and left no offspring. Last of all, the woman died also. Therefore, in the resurrection, when they rise, whose wife will she be? For all seven had her as wife. And Jesus answered and said to them, Are you not therefore mistaken, because you do not know the scriptures nor the power of God? For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven. But concerning the dead, that they rise. Have you not read in the book of Moses, in the burning bush passage, how God spoke to him, saying, I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob He is not the God of the dead, but the God of the living. You are therefore greatly mistaken. Then one of the scribes came, and having heard them reasoning together, perceiving that he had answered them well, asked him Which is the first commandment of all? And Jesus answered him, The first of all the commandments is, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and with all your strength. This is the first commandment. And the second, like it, is this you shall love your neighbor as yourself There is no other commandment greater than these. So the scribe said to him, Well said, teacher, you have spoken the truth, for there is one God, and there is no other but he. And to love him with all the heart, with all the understanding, with all the soul and with all the strength, and to love one's neighbor as oneself, is more than all the whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. Now when Jesus saw that he answered wisely, he said to him, You are not far from the kingdom of God. But after that no one dared question him. Then Jesus answered and said, while he taught in the temple, how is it that the scribes say that the Christ is the Son of David? For David himself said by the Holy Spirit, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand till I make your enemies your footstool. Therefore David himself calls him Lord. How is he then his son? And the common people heard him gladly. Then he said to them in his teaching, Beware of the scribes who desire to go around in long robes, love greetings in the marketplaces, the best seat In the synagogues and the best places at feasts, who devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers. These will receive greater condemnation. Now Jesus sat opposite the treasury and saw how the people put money into the treasury, and many who were rich put in much. Then one poor widow came and threw in two mites, which make a quadrance So he called his disciples to himself and said to them, Assuredly, I say to you, that this poor widow has put in more than all those who have given to the treasury. For they all put in out of their abundance, but she out of her poverty put in all that she had, her whole livelihood. Please pray with me. Gracious Lord, you have loved us so much that you have given us your Son, and you have given us His Word to us. You have revealed yourself. And in this episode of Jesus' ministry, you have revealed very much Please, God, fill us with your spirit that we would be enlightened in our minds, that we would know you, that we would see Jesus. We pray that you will give us the ability to submit to your word and submit to Jesus Christ. That you would make us more like Him through our worship here. this evening. And I pray, Lord, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. There's a famous vaudevillian comedian named W. C. Fields. Not sure if you know about him, but suffice it to say, he was very, very famous. And he was not only famous for being a comedian, he was famous for being not the greatest of guys. Had a lot of mistresses, did a lot of things. At the end of his life, he was very ill. And as he was approaching death, one of his friends came to him and saw him reading a Bible. He was surprised. And he said, I never thought I'd see you do this. What what are you doing reading the Bible? You know what W. C. Field said? Looking for loopholes. I'm just looking for loopholes. He was not sincere in seeking the scriptures and seeking God. He approached God because he was approaching the end of his life. And whether or not that's a true story, it's been copied many times over. People have talked about it. I use it simply to ask you, have you considered how you approach God? How you approach the scriptures? Are you like Mr. Fields looking for loopholes? Trying to find ways to excuse what you believe or excuse how you behave. We've been going through Mark and we have seen some amazing things. From the very beginning, Mark points out that he has a goal, he had an agenda in relaying to us everything that's happened in Jesus' life. Do you remember what that agenda is? It is to prove to us that Jesus of Nazareth is the Son of the living God. He is the Christ, the Messiah. We've seen it so many times in all that he has done and taught, he teaches with authority like no one ever taught before. He performs wondrous acts. That can only be attributed to God. And even when people try to attribute it to Satan, his wisdom shuts them down. The last time we were together, last Sunday, we saw that Jesus has been teaching those who questioned his authority what it really means to question his authority. We saw that he is the Son of the Lord of the Vineyard. And we asked ourselves, In whose vineyard do we serve? Are we serving ourselves in our own vineyards? Or are we servants of God in his vineyard? Well, tonight I'm trying something that I've never tried before. Mainly because there's only three more sermons in Mark. And I want to get through as much of it as I possibly can with you. So we're taking this big chunk together. And I want to first point out that this is all related, and we know this because there's two bookends. This very first question that comes from the Pharisees and the Herodians deals with giving God the things that are God's. And then do you notice that second book end at the very end with the widow and her two mites? How God commends her. How the Son of God commends her for giving all that she has to the Lord. We're going to look through this long passage tonight, and we're going to see, I pray, that those who are genuinely devoted to God give him their all. You who are genuinely devoted to God, you will give him your all. And we're going to look at this under two headings tonight. We'll first examine verses 13 through 34 and see genuine devotion. And then verses 35 through 44, we'll look at giving God all. So we start by seeing what it is to have genuine devotion. And Mark shows us this. with the disingenuous discussion of these Pharisees and these Herodians. Look there at verse 13. Then they sent to him some of the Pharisees and the Herodians to catch him in his words. They're trying to trap Jesus. They are not going to Jesus to be transformed. They are not going to Jesus to be enlightened. They're going to Him. Looking for loopholes, trying to find a way to ensnare him. Now it's interesting that the they, they sent to him, that's the Sanhedrin, those who were questioning Jesus' authority and By what right he had to do the things he did. And it's important to see that they're not going to him on their own. They send others to him. Because they're not trying to raise their estimation in the eyes of the people. Their goal is to make Jesus look like a fool to all those people. And if you remember, they were afraid of those people. They leave Jesus' presence because they didn't want to be there when the people realized that that parable was spoken against them. Now the Pharisees and the Herdeans were very, very different. They were not teammates. They were not pulling together in the same direction. The Pharisees were the side who said that Israel is never to be in subjection to any other national power. And the Herodians, well, they said, of course, of course Rome has a right to be here. And they said that because Rome had set up their puppet king, Herod. And so the two sides of this question The two sides of this issue are brought together to question Jesus because they know that there is no way that he could answer them and please them both. And so if he answers one way, the Pharisees will say, Aha. You see people, he's not a true Jew. He's one of those Romanizers. And the Herodians would say if he answers the other way, aha! You see him? He doesn't actually respect the authority of those who are over us. The next thing we see in verse 14 is the falseness that is revealed by their flattery. When they had come, they said to him, Teacher, we know that you are true and care about no one, for you do not regard the person of men, but teach the way of God and truth. Well, it just sounds sarcastic. If they actually believe that he taught the way of God in truth. Boy, they would have listened to a whole lot more. A lot about them would be very, very different. They know that he cares about God. He cares about what God thinks more than what men think. And so they come to him, perhaps seeking to soften him, maybe put him off guard. They come to him pretending as though they believe that he really is a good teacher who teaches truth. And so they come to him with this question, a direct question. Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not? Shall we pay or shall we not pay? Now they don't really want an answer. Both sides have their answer already. They both believe what they believe. What they want is that outcome. They want Jesus to take a side so that they can point to the crowd of people and say, Look at him. He's not one of us. He's one of them. And then they can start creating this disunity. Perhaps they wouldn't be so afraid of the people if the people start going after Jesus. But Jesus confronts them. He confronts them and he knows their hypocrisy. See that there in the rest of verse 15? But he, knowing their hypocrisy, said to them, Why do you test me? And so we see that they do not have a genuine devotion to God. Jesus points it out. They're being hypocritical. They're not actually seeking him. And in the genius, only the genius that Jesus can demonstrate, he settles the question. And he says, Bring me a denarius that I may see it. Now Daenerys was a coin. It was a silver coin that was used by the Romans. This was their currency for everything. There were quite a few different denarii in the history of Rome, but at this time it's most likely that this was the coin of Caesar Augustus. And so when he says, Whose image and inscription is this, he's talking about the image of the Caesar that was stamped on these coins. It had an uh an inscription, Caesar Augustus the Divine, Father of the Country. The coin itself made a claim about Caesar, and it shows their true hypocrisy. He answers them. Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. He points out their hypocrisy, because the denarius, it wasn't like they had to wait hours for somebody to go find one of these denarius. They had them. They used them. They submitted to the authority of Rome because they would use these to pay for things. They had the money changers because you couldn't put a coin in the treasury of Israel that had another person's image on it, and they were claiming to be divine. That's why they were money changers in the temple Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. Do you see the hypocrisy there? They're asking Jesus, should we give to Caesar and be under his authority? And Jesus' response is, sure. But more important than that, you should give to God what is God's, because you are under his authority. And this use of likeness or image language, what does that bring our minds to? On each one of you is stamped the likeness and the image of God. All that you are belongs to Him. Are you rendering unto God the things that are God's Are you giving him what he has owed from you? That shows that this was a personal problem, not a political problem. It's not a question of can you have dual citizenship? Can you be a Christian and be a citizen of another nation? Of course you can. But you must keep things in the right hierarchy. God is the one who's given any national power its authority. So if you submit to that authority, you should be submitting to God's authority, even more so. The premise that they come to Jesus with proves their insincerity. They use Caesar's currency, they enjoy Caesar's protection, they submit to his authority. But as we saw before, last Sunday, and even before that, they won't submit to the authority of God who comes in the flesh, in Jesus Christ, to his own temple, to his own city, and demands that they act and do differently. Now this is the first of the bookends. It starts with render unto God the things that are God's. And then it moves on into this next section, starting in verse 18. Then some Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection, came to him and they asked him, saying, Teacher, Moses wrote to us that if a man's brother dies and leaves his wife behind, and leaves no children, his brother should take his wife and raise up offspring for his brother. And you can see the rest of it there as they come up with this hypothetical theological situation. Let me ask you, does it seem like genuine devotion there? Are they coming to God in sincerity? The way that we use the scriptures, the way that we approach the scriptures given to us by God can show whether or not we are sincere in our belief. They obviously are not sincere about the scriptures. In fact, you can see that they use the scriptures. It's pretty self-serving. They're pretty selfish in how they view it. It's likely this is not a real scenario. I mean let's look at the probability. I there's a lot of mathematicians here. Maybe you could work out the probability of someone having seven sons and all those sons dying and having the same wife and not having any children. It's it's Almost certainly a hypothetical situation. They were looking for loopholes, trying to track Jesus. Do you see what he says to them in verse 24? Are you not therefore mistaken because you do not know the scriptures nor the power of God? Jesus points to their false presupposition. Now this, as I said before, this could be an entire sermon just talking about what Jesus says here. I just want to point out a couple things very quickly. He shows that when we are resurrected from the dead, we are going to be different. And he says that they will neither marry nor are given in marriage, but they're like the angels in heaven. Now some people can take this and run with it But really what's being communicated here is that there will be no reason for births because in the new heavens and new earth there will be no death. There will be no reason for this kind of union that is designed to produce offspring. There's just no need for it. And in that way, they'll be like angels in heaven. Angels do not reproduce. There's a set number of angels that God created. But then he goes on and he says, But concerning the dead, that they rise, have you not read in the book of Moses, in the burning bush passage? How God spoke to him, saying, I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. He's not the God of the dead, but the God of the living. You are therefore greatly mistaken. Because of their insincerity, because they do not have a genuine devotion to God, they come to the Scriptures selfishly to serve themselves, and they come to it with a false presupposition. Do you notice that? They have their idea of what will be, and they go to the scriptures to prove what they think. And if we do that, we'll be just like these Sadducees. We will end up twisting the Word of God or ignoring the Word of God to make our position seem more plausible. How we view, how we honor and understand the scriptures shows us how we view and honor and understand our God, the God who gave us the scriptures. So I'd ask you, brothers and sisters, when you are reading the Bible, are you reading it in such a way as you're hoping to prove your point of view? Prove what you would like it to say? Or do you submit to it Do you allow the Word of God to form your positions rather than reinforce your positions? A lot of us understand what it is to be in the cage stage. You guys know the cage stage? The cage stage of Calvinism is when somebody begins to explore Calvinism and they they begin to have answers to a whole lot of questions and they start Like every interaction with a human being is a cage match. Like two men enter, one man leave. Like you need to just put somebody down. And you use the Bible to do it, oh, may it never be. Very wrong understanding of Calvinism, a very wrong understanding of what the Bible is for. No, I'm not saying abandon Calvinism, but I'm saying embrace the Bible. And even those of us who've spent many years studying scriptures and studying theology, we need to be careful that we don't come to this precious book, this precious gift of God, and begin to pull out passages. In our daily devotional reading, oh that's a good one. Oh, that'll answer that guy on Twitter. Oh, that's gonna be great. Oh, Facebook will never know what hit him If you've ever read the screw tape letters, it's exactly what the devil is trying to say to do. Make sure he reads that Bible, not because he wants to know God, but because he wants to answer questions and win arguments. It's not a sincere and a genuine devotion to God. I do want to point out something that's very encouraging to me about Jesus. Jesus believes the Bible. Did you catch that there? Jesus believes Moses, who's a real person who wrote part of the Bible. Jesus verifies that what happened, what is recorded for us, when Moses encounters God at the burning bush. That that was real. That's true. And there are so many who want to point to the scriptures as being unreliable because they do not They do not conform to the reality we observe. They have all these wondrous, supernatural things that occur, like a like a burning bush. Are we so intelligent? Are we more intelligent than Jesus? He believes what the Bible says. And so you should believe what the Bible says. We come next to the scribe I can't tell if this scribe is being genuine or not. It seems like he is. It seems like a very honest and real question that he comes to Jesus. Look at verse 28. Then one of the scribes came and having heard them reasoning together, perceiving that he had answered them well, asked him, which is the first commandment of all It seems like he's coming to Jesus and he really wants some information from him. He really wants to be taught by him. What is the first And in in the Hebrew understanding of first, it doesn't just mean like the first, right? When we ask our kids in catechism, what is the first commandment? We know them thou shalt have no other gods before me. But when it says first, in the Hebrew idiom, it means greatest. It means foundational. It means what is that commandment that if it's violated, all other commandments are violated? And so Jesus I I started to think that this is a genuine question because Jesus doesn't point out his hypocrisy like he did to the others. It doesn't tell us, oh, he knew this guy was trying to test him. And Jesus answers with that great summary of the moral law. The first of all the commandments is: Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and with all your strength. This is from Deuteronomy 6. And the people of God had known this. They had known this for their entire history since Moses had written the Torah. And he goes on and says in the second like it is this, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. There is no other commandment greater than these. This is why we break down the Ten Commandments into the two tables. How do we love God and how do we love our neighbor? Commandments one through four, how do we love God? Commandments five through ten, how we love our neighbor. And if you want to have just a whole lot of fun, or at least the the kind of fun that I Enjoy, you can take time and look through the Westminster Shorter Catechism at all of the exposition of these commandments. And you will see that there is, you will be hard pressed to find a sin or a failure in your life that can't fit under one of those commandments. What happens next is what makes me wonder if this is a genuine question. Verse 32. So the scribe said to him, Well said, teacher, you have spoken the truth, for there is one God, and there is no other but he. And to love him with all the heart, with all the understanding, with all the soul, and with all the strength, and to love one's neighbor as oneself is more than all the whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. Boy, that sounds great, doesn't it? But I couldn't help but get a sense that this guy was judging Jesus. He's asked the question to see if he'll have the right answer. And in that way it causes me to wonder, to think, perhaps there's not genuine devotion going on here. And what God says, because Jesus saw that he answered wisely, he says to him, You are not far from the kingdom of God. Not far from the kingdom of God. I wonder if the scribe uh felt that like a gut punch. Like, oh I know the right answer. You gave the right answer. You're saying I'm having all the right answers, not in the kingdom of God. And so we learn that being in the kingdom of God is so much more than an intellectual exercise or knowing right answers. There's something more that we require. And now I hope you notice there that after that no one dared question him. It's the end of the temple challenges, the temple testing. And we learn from this first section that you cannot pretend to be genuinely devoted to God. You just can't fake it. This is not a fake it till you make it kind of situation If you go to God and you go to Jesus and you go to His Word, His revelation, looking for ways to trap Him? Looking for loopholes to get out of what he's commanding and what he's requiring? If you do that, you can't at all pretend to yourself that you're genuinely devoted to God, that you sincerely love him. Want to be transformed by him. And from this point on in this episode, the questions cease. No one dares. I wonder if they started to feel it. I wonder if they started to feel, hmm, there's not really a question that can be asked, because none of it is coming from a genuine place. And so Jesus begins teaching. And in this teaching, verses 35 to 44, we'll see and examine together what it is to give God everything. To give God your all. Look there at verse 35. Then Jesus, having answered, or answered, and said, While he taught in the temple, how is it that the scribes say that the Christ is the Son of David? For David himself said, by the Holy Spirit, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand till I make your enemies your footstool. Therefore David himself calls him Lord. How is he then his son? You must give God your mind. You must give God your understanding. You must submit all of your rational power to Him How you make sense of this world, it must be submitted to Christ. You must understand what's happening in your own life in the light of Christ. And he points that out by taking them to the scripture. Now they they had been saying that the Messiah is the son of David, and they used that as a reason not to believe Jesus, the son of David, the son of the king. He will restore the nation. Even the disciples got this wrong at the beginning of Acts. Is now the time when you'll restore the power and the glory to Israel? That's not the point of it. He is the son of David, but he's not just the son of David. He's David's Lord. And he takes it to the scriptures. He points out that it is through the Holy Spirit that David says this. It's absolutely true. All of his enemies will be your footstool. In saying this to them, he points out that you cannot simply go by the appearances of what is happening. Jesus didn't at all look like a conquering king, did he? Remember that triumphal entry? On a donkey, the foal of a donkey? This doesn't look like a political power move. That's because it's not. The Messiah is not a political figure. Jesus Christ is not An honorable Jew who tried to revolt against the Romans and was killed for it. That's not who he is. He is the Son of David, but he is the Son of God. And so do not resist the Spirit. The Holy Ghost has the right to change your mind. He has the power to change your mind. And you should want him to. You should want God to change your mind. To give you real understanding. You should be seeking Him in truth, wanting truth. And so I ask you, are you genuinely devoted to God? Do you go to His Word? Hoping for him to change you and change what you believe, to conform you to the truth of his word. Or are you going to the scriptures similarly to the last episode? Trying to validate your own position, validate what you think. Notice there it says, and the common people heard him gladly. They heard him gladly. Because for hundreds of years, this is not what had been taught. This is not what the people of God were being told was a true devotion to God. And so he goes into this next section, starting in verse 38. Then he said to them in his teaching, Beware of the scribes who desire to go around in long robes. Love greetings in the marketplaces, the best seats in the synagogues, and the best places at feasts, who devour widows' houses, and for a pretense make long prayers, these will receive greater condemnation. It's those people that he's talking about that all the people of God had wanted to emulate. They wanted to be like them These are the people that have been put in authority over them. And they obviously were the experts, scribes right there, the experts in the word, experts in the law. And so obviously they understood it better than the common people. And so the common people hear this gladly from Jesus. Then what is God looking for? It's not looking for expertise. Yes, you should want to know the Bible so that you know God. But he doesn't he's not looking for Bible experts. He wants people who live founded on the Word. I think if we try to be Bible experts, we're going to end up in that position, like the cage-stage Calvinists. And if somebody says something that is a little off to us, or maybe challenges us, and our position We get real defensive. And the love of God starts to be very far away from our conversation. Remember the sermon from this morning. We start to treat people who maybe challenge our conceptions as enemies. And we forget that God wants us to love our enemies. In giving us this example of those who are there, those scribes, and telling them to beware, we see that we must give God not only our minds and our understanding, but we should give him our heart. You need to give God all of your ambition. Give God all of your goals and all of your desires. Is it a bad thing to want to be known as an expert in the scriptures? I don't think it's a bad thing. But it is bad if what you do, you are doing so that you have gain. The reason that they've devoted their lives to the scriptures is not so that they know God, it's so that they can wear the robe, have the credentials. They love the greetings in the marketplaces. The best seats in the synagogues. This made me think of Fiddler on the Roof. Do you know the song that Tevy sings if I were a rich man? Would it have been such a terrible thing if he just made me a little rich? And then there's one part in the song where he says, you know, oh I could sit and study the holy books seven hours every day. Oh, I'd have a seat by the eastern wall. Oh, they would ask me to advise them, like Solomon the Wise. Posing problems that would cross a rabbi's eyes. He wants to be rich so that he'd be honored, so that he'd be able to sit there and people would look at him and say, Oh, Rebtevy, oh Rebtevya. Is that what you want? If you tell somebody that you are a committed Christian, devoted, genuinely devoted to God, is Do you want them to come to you and say, I'm so glad I finally know that you're a true Christian. I've got all these questions about Christ. And if you just give me the right answers, then I will be a Christian too. It's more than knowledge that you need to be in the kingdom of God. And if you want to know God so that people will come to you and trust you. Boy, the temptation will arise that you'll start doing like we read in Psalm 115, and you'll make an idol of God. And you'll present that idol to them because you can answer all the questions about this thing you made up. You won't be able to answer every question that someone has about God. And I'm here to tell you, and you may not hear this from many pulpits, but pastors also can't answer every question that you have about God. I hope they will be able to answer many questions. And that their lifelong study will give them ways of helping you understand God and know God. But they won't have all the answers. And if a pastor tries to pretend to you that he has every answer and he's got it all figured out and there is never a single question that he has. Run and far away, because what he wants is to be recognized. He wants good seats in that synagogue. He wants the best place at the feasts. He wants the kind of respect that really should only be going to God And then finally we see here, at the very end, give God your all. And we see this in the episode of the widow. Now Jesus sat opposite the treasury and saw how the people put money into the treasury, and many who were rich put in much. Then one poor widow came and threw in two mites. A mite is like half of a penny. It's like half a cent. She gave one cent, because she got two halves and put it in there And so he calls his disciples to himself. And he said to them, Assuredly I say to you that this poor widow has put in more than all those who have given to the treasury. For they all put in out of their abundance, but she out of her poverty put in all that she had, her whole livelihood. This is the other bookend, and it drives home the point for us. By all outward appearances, everyone else there seemed to be more genuinely devoted to God. They gave so much more than she could give. But Jesus points out that they're not giving in the same way she was giving. She gave out of her poverty. She gave all that she had. Everything. She didn't hold any of it back. Jesus honors her and her sacrificial giving. And so, brothers and sisters Do you see that those who are genuinely devoted to God give him their all? My prayer is for you, that you would be genuinely devoted to God and you would hold nothing back for yourself. You would give all, give your all to God. So I just ask you, where are you? Is that where you are? Is everything that you have God's and you're going to give it all to Him, to what He wants you to do? Or are you going to hold some back for yourself? Do you use your faith and your Christianity as a way to accrue to yourself glory? Or are you trying to give God glory in all the things you do? I look out at you and I see some who are going to be extraordinarily successful in your life. You're going to do wonderful things and people will commend you for the good things that you do. Why are you doing it? Is it for your own glory or is it for God's glory? As you go through life, if you have questions, how do you approach God with your questions about faith? About what He's requiring of you? Are you really seeking answers? Are you going to the scriptures really seeking answers? Or are you like W. C. Fields? Are you looking for loopholes? Trying to find a way out of what he's requiring? Are you trying to find a way out of giving him all that is your life? I encourage you, brothers and sisters, with me. I'm preaching to myself as well. Our daily prayer should be begging our God in heaven that he would reveal to us, enlighten our minds, and show us, are we genuinely devoted to him? And if we are, why are we holding things back for ourselves? Go to God, beg him to transform you and to make you more like Christ Please pray with me