O give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endures forever. Oh, give thanks to the God of gods, for his mercy endures forever. Oh give thanks to the Lord of Lords for His mercy endures forever. To him who alone does great wonders, for his mercy endures forever. To him who by wisdom made the heavens, for his mercy endures forever. To him who laid out the earth above the waters, for his mercy endures forever. To him who made great lights, for his mercy endures forever. The sun to rule by day, for his mercy endures forever. The moon and stars to rule by night, for his mercy endures forever To him who struck Egypt in their firstborn, for his mercy endures forever, and brought out Israel from among them, for his mercy endures forever. With a strong hand and with an outstretched arm, for his mercy endures forever. To him who divided the Red Sea in two, for his mercy endures forever. And made Israel pass through the midst of it, for his mercy endures forever. But overthrew Pharaoh and his army in the Red Sea For his mercy endures forever. To him who led his people through the wilderness, for his mercy endures forever. To him who struck down great kings, for his mercy endures forever. and slew famous kings, for his mercy endures forever. Sihon, king of the Amorites, for his mercy endures forever, and Og, king of Bashan, for his mercy endures forever And gave their land as a heritage, for his mercy endures forever. A heritage to Israel, his servant, for his mercy endures forever Who remembered us in our lowly state, for his mercy endures forever, and rescued us from our enemies, for his mercy endures forever. Who gives food to all flesh For his mercy endures forever. Oh, give thanks to the God of heaven for his mercy endures forever. Please pray with me. Almighty God, there is something in this psalm that you want us to remember. There is something in this psalm that you want us to understand. We beg you by your Spirit to lead us into the truth and plant deep in our hearts that which should be present all the days of our life. We pray that you would grow it into a mighty tree that bears good fruit for your glory and for our benefit And Lord, I pray that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable. In your sight, O Lord, my strength. and my Redeemer. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Hard to miss the repetition there, isn't it? It's kinda like parents when they're talking to their teenager. Right? You will be home by eleven. You will be home by eleven. Say it with me now. You will, right? It's over and over and over again because it's something that must sink in. It has to be there. But before we can get to that point that must sink in for us, we have to examine a little bit about thankfulness. Have you ever considered the difference between thankfulness and giving thanks? They're two very different things. Thankfulness is an experience that even unbelievers can have. Can't they? Thankful for a tax return. Thankful for their preferred team winning the Super Bowl or whatever. Thankfulness for That green light. So they made it to work on time. Do you see the difference? There's thankfulness for things. But to give thanks, it must be to someone. If you are going to be a person who is able to give thanks, you need to know to whom you should be giving thanks. If you've watched any of those dumb shows that Mark is talking about, movies, you probably have heard something of this foolishness. Where a character thanks to the universe. Oh, the universe made it happen. I've never met the universe. Never heard a word from the universe. Don't quite know how you give thanks to a woo woo woo. To give thanks it requires a person. And that person is the only true and living God. If you've been with us in the month of January, you may be noticing a theme in the sermons that I've been preparing. We started with trusting in the Lord from Psalm from Proverbs 3. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways, acknowledge him. He will direct your paths And then last Sunday we were able to examine that wondrous passage from the Sermon on the Mount, in which we have another command. Do you notice? Trust in the Lord. That's a command. Be anxious for nothing. Another command. Our passage here is full of these commands. In fact, the whole passage itself is a command. Give thanks. To Jehovah, give thanks to the Lord. And the reason that I've come to this passage for this morning is because this is the end. This is the outcome. If you are a person who trusts the Lord, if you heed the command not to worry about your life, the end result will be that you will constantly Never endingly be giving thanks to God. And we will see this morning in this psalm that God's everlasting mercy proves That he is worthy of your thanks. God's everlasting mercy proves that he alone is worthy. We're going to look at this in two ways. We're going to examine this command or this call to thanksgiving. We'll see that in the first three verses and the last verse. And then we will look at the proofs. How does God prove Himself to be worthy of your worship, your praise, your trust, your thanksgiving? Starting right there in verse 1. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. This command, give thanks. It could be surprising to you to find out that it has a wide range of meaning. It doesn't just mean give thanks. It means praise. It means confess. It means worship. And so being a person who's giving thanks to God, it's not just that you're thankful for all that He does, but you give thanks to Him for who He is. And the first reason we're given there is that he is good. We'll explore that more in a moment. Notice in verse 2, oh give thanks to the God of gods. In verse 3, give thanks to the Lord of lords. Who else should be receiving your thanks? One of those other lords? Or one of those other gods? No, there is only one who's worthy of your worship and your praise and your confession Only Yahweh, Jehovah, the God of faithfulness. And we see twenty-six times in this psalm Something that is very important that we grasp, that it sinks in, and that we remember it, for his mercy endures forever. Before we go any further, we've got to explore this idea of mercy. When I'm talking to the children in Sunday school or helping them prepare for their invit uh interview with a session, I I often try to help them see the difference between grace and mercy. There's a difference. Right? Grace is being given what you don't deserve, right? And mercy is when you deserve something and it's not given to you. But if that's the only way we think about this mercy, the mercy of God, we will miss A whole lot of goodness that our God is showing us through His mercy. This word here is the word chesed. Some of you may be familiar with the Hebrew word chesed. Many times translations put a little footnote when they translate it as mercy. And you can see it and it says covenantal loving kindness. Have you ever thought about that? Covenantal loving kindness. This is God's promise, love to you. The word comes up so many times, almost too many to count in the Old Testament. And this is God talking about his promise to love his people, to love you, Christian. He has sworn by himself. That is the covenant. He has sworn by himself as the only God who lives that he will be merciful to you and he will show you his love and his blessing. He is the author and the finisher of your faith. He is the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. He alone is worthy of your lifelong thanks and worship. Don't forget it. Don't forget that his mercy endures forever, that his love to you lasts forever. His love to you doesn't stop. And it doesn't change forever. And you have to remember this because it is the proof. That he is worthy of your worship. And that's what we're going to look at now, the rest of this Psalm, verses 4 through 25. The proof of his love for you. Look at verse 4. To him who alone does great wonders. It reinforces this idea that it's just God, God alone. And he is doing wondrous things. Wondrous things for you. As Elder Mark was reminding us, sometimes we can focus on that little bit. That we put in category bad, the little part of our life that's just not going well, and we miss the 99% of life. That is fantastic. How many things in your life are going better than you could have ever imagined? And yet that wonky knee is what drives you to be grumpy all the time. Think of all the ways that He has blessed you beyond your wildest dreams. And yet it's that one thing that you think you're lacking that is all constantly in the front of your mind. Constantly there. Know that God doesn't need you to do the wonders that He has planned for you. He's not waiting on you to figure out how you're going to cooperate with Him. He chooses you, calls you to himself, and he loves you so very much with that everlasting, never-ending, forever love. That he will do the wonders that must be done with or without you. Sometimes in spite of you. Can I hear an amen? He does wondrous things for you, even though you don't deserve it. And these wonders prove his everlasting covenantal, promise, loving-kindness, and mercy. If we look at verses 5 through 9, if your Bible is as helpful as mine, it's kind of broken this out into its own little section. And we will see that he proves his everlasting mercy in creation. Look there at verses 5 and 6 And since we've already covered the for his mercy endures forever, just for the sake of the reading, I'm going to leave that choir or that chorus out of it. To him who by wisdom made the heavens, to him who laid out the earth above the waters. This is clearly a reference to God's powerful and wise and merciful act of creation. He's made the heavens and the earth a universe in which you can live and exist. But you live and move and have your being. That you have being at all is an act of God's everlasting mercy. And if you don't believe me, and if you don't believe the psalmist, ask yourself. Did you wake up on land today? Or was the earth covered in water? It reminds us of all of his wonderful promises. Promises made to his people. But creation takes us even a step further, doesn't it? Promises made to all creatures. God is good to all creation. God is good to The righteous and the unrighteous. He sends the rain on the righteous and the unrighteous alike. He created you, he sustains you. And if we look at verses seven and nine together, I hope that you see that His everlasting mercy is evident to you. It should be a source of your thankfulness, of you giving thanks to him, because of his great personal care. Look at verses 7 through 9. To him who made great lights, the sun to rule by day, the moon and stars to rule by night. Now some of you may be asking yourself, stars, sun, moon, this is personal care? Skip Rad another cup of coffee. It's personal care. If you were to go back to the creation account and you see why he made those. Do you remember what it says? You can turn there if you got your Bible. We can go right Genesis 1. It's probably the easiest place in the Bible to find He says as he flips over and over again. Starting in verse 14. Then God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heavens to divide the day from the night, and let them be for signs. and seasons, and for days and years, and let them be for lights in the firmament of heavens, to give light on the earth. And it was so. Then God made two great lights, the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night. He made the stars also. God set them in the firmament of the heavens to give light on the earth, and to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness, and God saw that it was good. That's the fourth day. He didn't make them to be studied. He made them to be a sign for you. So you can tell time. We would have no concept of time if there were no other stars or if there was no sun. The sun is very important, but brothers and sisters, do you realize this? It was made for you There's a sun because God loves you. There's a moon because God loves you. Now it's not yours, right? But he made it for you to serve his purposes on your behalf. Isn't that personal care? The personal care of our God? It's one of his many ways that he shows love to you, an everlasting love. the everlasting mercy. But he gets even more personal. That could seem kind of impersonal. But he takes it down now to the level of what should be the most important thing in your life. He proves that he is worthy of your worship and your thanks. Through redemption. And the whole story of redemption. So let's look together now, looking at verse 10. And I'll read verses 10 through 12. To him who struck Egypt in their firstborn, and brought out Israel from among them with a strong hand and with an outstretched arm. You notice how it puts this? We know that he delivered Israel out of Egypt, right? That was the Exodus. He brought them out of the bondage and the slavery. But do you see how it's put here by the psalmist? It says he struck Egypt. Yes, he brought out Israel. How did he save his people from Israel? He saved them by judging Egypt. Give thanks to your God that He saves you, that He is all mercy, love, kindness, goodness. And he is all justice. Whenever I talk to unbelievers and they they talk about what they think might happen after death, it's usually just this utopian notion that everything's going to be great for everybody. And I say to them, that's not going to be that great for me. You mean Hitler's going to be there? I'm gonna have to spend all of eternity with Stalin? With people who've killed tens of millions of people? That doesn't make sense. That doesn't seem like paradise. Christian, be thankful to your God that He is all justice and He will not allow sin to go unpunished. We are talking about his mercy. But first we must see his justice and his judgment. He struck Egypt in their firstborn. Where it would hurt the most. But remember, it was going to strike Israel also, wasn't it? And yet he shows his great love. and his great mercy in giving to his people the Passover Lamb. He has given a way out of sin. He has given you a way that his perfect justice does not destroy and consume you. Brothers and sisters, he's given you Jesus, the true Passover Lamb, that the blood of Jesus filled and applied to your life Your sin is dealt with, he is still completely just. But oh what mercy. What love. He's done this with his strong hand. He is powerful. And his powerful mercy proves that you should worship him and give thanks to him. Look at verses thirteen through fifteen with me. To him who divided the Red Sea in two, and made Israel pass through the midst of it. But overthrew Pharaoh and his army in the Red Sea. Way that he delivers. Do you see the reality altering wonders of your God? And this is where there's a big problem. Is if we try to take a naturalistic approach to things or an empiricist approach to the Bible will say, well, that doesn't make sense. It must have been the readse. There must have been a different understanding. No It could have been the whole Pacific Ocean. God is powerful enough that he could have split the earth in half And had there be two Earths just hemispheres floating around in space, he could have done that. He can alter reality. He Split the Red Sea, divided it. And do you see why he did it? He did it one, to save his people, that they would pass through it. Just imagine the fear. If you've ever seen the movie Prince of Egypt, they did a good job on that one. Because it wasn't just a bunch of people Well oh yay, we can walk on Tryland. They were terrified for their lives. God bless you. They were terrified, but God Have them pass through it. And in the same way that he saves his people through the passing through of the Red Sea, what else did he do with it? He overthrew Pharaoh. Nothing can withstand God. Nothing can get in the way of His good plans for you. His plans to redeem you, his plans to deliver you, his plans to save you. There is no challenge that you face. Brothers and sisters, there is no obstacle that you will encounter ever Right? His mercy endures forever. There is nothing that you will face in all of your existence that is impossible for God to overcome. So what should that drive you to? Give thanks to God. Give thanks to your God who saves you. Turn with me to Romans chapter 8. I don't mind taking the time to do this because it's just wonderful. Romans chapter 8 Starting in verse 29. For whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he predestined, these he also called, whom he called, these he also justified, and whom he justified, these he also glorified. This is you. God's called you, predestined you. And look at what it says. If you skip down to verse 37, yet in all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am persuaded that neither death nor life did you catch that? Neither death nor life. Nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other created thing shall be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Our Lord. His mercies endure forever. More than conquerors Even your death can't keep you from experiencing the everlasting mercy and love, the kindness, the great faithfulness of your God. Turning back to the Psalm, looking together at verse sixteen, to him who led his people through the wilderness. His constant guidance is another proof to you. God will guide you As he guided his people. This thought occurred to me and it man it has it has blown my mind this week. Remember how sinful the Israelites were? A two-week journey to the Promised Land. They send out spies. Had things gone the way it could have gone, a week later they'd have been conquering the Promised Land. But instead we know what happened, don't we? Forty years. 40 years in the wilderness. 40 years of wandering. 40 years for a two-week journey. And God was with them every step of the way. In the pillar of the cloud, in the fire. And what blew my mind this week is realizing That's after. They messed up so terribly. We do know that their stubbornness and their sin meant that that generation had to perish in the wilderness. But look at the great mercy of God. Their children didn't. He didn't say, done with you. Remember, he wanted to He wanted to say, I'll make up a new people out of you, Moses, as m and Moses said, What do you remember what Moses said? If you don't go with me, don't send me. We can't do this. God's constant guidance is because of his everlasting mercy and his loving kindness toward you. Let him guide you. Don't allow your sin or your foolishness to get in the way of God guiding you. And what I mean by that is don't say, I've messed up too much. I have strayed too far. I have been too unfaithful to God. That means you don't understand what his mercy and his loving kindness is like. What is his mercy like It endures forever. And he doesn't put it on you and say, I will show you my love this one time. And then I'm going to change and stop showing it to you. His mercy to you is forever. Allow him to guide you. And then this other section, verses 17 through 20, we see his royal protection as a part of his great mercy and love. If you know your shorter catechism, you know that Christ executes the office of a king, doesn't he? Do you know how he does that? He executes the office of a king in subduing us to himself. Boom. Christ subdues you to himself. And no matter how hard you may fight him, if you belong to him, you will never win. You will be subdued, you will submit to him, and you will love doing it. But that's not the only way. He does it in ruling and defending us. He governs how you are to behave and how your life is to be lived. And when you come across mighty kings who wish to tell you no. You must do what we say. He will defend you. And he gives us this example here to him who struck down great kings and slew famous kings. Sihon, king of the Amorites, and Og, king of Bashan. He lists these particular kings for a reason. One, it draws us back to that wilderness wandering. Of the Israelites. In Numbers chapter twenty-one, verses twenty-one through thirty-five, you see what happens to Sihon and to Og. In fact, let's turn there just quickly, if you want. I'm just going to look at this part about Og starting in verse 33. It's Numbers chapter twenty-one, looking at verse thirty-three. And they turned and went up by the way to Bashan. So Og, king of Bashan, went out against them, he and all his people to battle at Edre. Then the Lord said to Moses, this is what God says to Moses and to his people, while they're being guided through the wilderness after being terrible sinners. Do not fear him, for I have delivered him into your hand, with all his people and his land, and you shall do to him as you did to Sion, king of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshphon So they defeated him, his sons and all his people, until there was no survivor left him, and they took possession of his land. God is the king of the universe. There are no other kings who can stand up to him. Doesn't matter how powerful If you were to turn to Deuteronomy chapter 3, you'd see that Og was a giant. A giant. Not a figurative giant. An actual giant. The last of the Rephaim. Talked about his iron bed. Talked about how huge it was. Bigger than Shaq. Shaq's a person, right? People still remember who he is. Og was a terrifying figure and a great king with sixty cities. Yet because of God's everlasting loving kindness promised to his people Promised that they would receive and inherit that land. They needed to fear no one, not even a giant king, who commanded such respect and such armies And this leads us into the final thing we see, the royal provision of God. Verses 21 to 22. God gave their land as a heritage, a heritage to Israel, his servant, his mercy Endures forever. Do you remember when he first promised that land to his people? It was to Abram. He said, This will be your land for you and your people and your generations and your nation. A nation I make of you that will be more numerous than sand on the seashore and stars in the heavens. And there's even more promises in that. He said, Through you I will do something. Through you, and through that nation, and through your seed, I will bless all nations. And he had another promise. I will bless those who bless you. I will curse those who curse you. And these kings. Obviously, they weren't going to roll over and allow their kingdoms to just be taken over by this group of shepherds out of Egypt. Didn't matter how many millions there were. But because of God's great covenant, love and mercy that never ends and never fails, all of God's great promises were fulfilled They received the promised land. Now, of course, we know on this side of the cross that it wasn't completely over. It needed to be finished in another way. And the promised inheritance to God's people is not just a nation on the coast of the Mediterranean in the Middle East. Not just the land where there's a bunch of fighting going on right now, but the promised inheritance is that all the heavens and all the earth will be yours. You will have a crown and you will reign with your Christ in that day when there is no more sin, and when there is no more pain and suffering, when death itself has been destroyed. And so give thanks to God for all that He has done. He's proven that He is worthy of your thanks in the creation, and He's proven that He's worthy of your thanks in the plan of redemption, which is all of human history. Working out this redemptive plan. But I want to end this by reminding you that you must remember who God is. Remember that He is the God of grace, like the song that we just sang. And so his everlasting mercy proves his great grace. Look at verse 23. Who remembered us in our lowly state? He knows your lowly state, Christian. He knows you're a sinner. He knew the Israelites would fail worse than they did in not entering the Promised Land and trusting Him to conquer for them. He knew it would happen. And if you read the minor prophets, he's telling them that it will happen. Moses said, You will stray from the law of your God, and you will suffer the curses. that come along with it. And yet he says, but I will bring you back. A remnant of my people will survive. They will inherit the land. There will be great judgment, not only for Israel and Judah, but for all those peoples who were still there And yet through that judgment he would save his people. And he remembers your lowly state. Romans five. Such a wonderful passage for us in Romans chapter five. Verses six through nine. For when we were still without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die, yet perhaps for a good man someone would even dare to die. But God demonstrates his own love toward us. And that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. There is hope for you because God saves sinners. There is hope for you because his plan cannot be thwarted. There is hope for you because his mercy endures forever Look now at verse twenty-four. He rescues us from our enemies. What's the last enemy that will be destroyed? Death. He will rescue you even from death. Do you doubt that? He's proven it. He raised his son from the dead. It is the proof to you That his power to fulfill his promises is true. And his promise to love you forever and ever and ever is true. And he's proven it. He's proven it even in his common grace given to all creatures. Look at verse 25. He gives food to all flesh. He loves you as his people in that very special way. And it is greater than his love for all creatures. But he knows that you also love this world. There are many wonderful things in this world. He provides for all of it for you. As a proof of his everlasting mercy and love. And so what should come up in our hearts daily, every minute? What should come out of our mouths daily? What should be the focus of our prayers every single time we pray? Oh, give thanks to God. Give thanks to your God who has saved you. And so, brothers and sisters When you are tempted to focus on that little 1% of your life that Paul calls a momentary light affliction When you're tempted to be drawn into that and to say, this is what my life is all about, I encourage you and exhort you to kill that notion, like a snake in a garden. Like a snake who wants to twist the truth of God's goodness and mercy and make you think that somehow He is against you. Count your many blessings. Count them one by one. Count your many blessings. See what God has done. Think about what He's delivered you from in the past. Think about what he's delivered to you in the present There are many of us who never thought we would get married, never thought it would be even a possibility that somebody would be willing to put up with us. And yet God in his everlasting mercy. Has given us to someone and them to us. If you've struggled with a particular sin in your life And God gave you victory over it? The next sin that comes up, remind yourself. I don't have to do this anymore. God has saved me. God has spared me. Remind yourself what he has delivered you from. Remind yourself that his mercy endures forever. Raise your shield of faith. Your shield of faith that is founded on his great faithfulness, that he does not change. That he has promised covenantal loving kindness to you. And there is no end date, there is no end time. It is forever and ever. Amen. We get to sing a wonderful hymn. It may be unfamiliar to you, but I want to just draw your attention to it right now. It's the third hymn that's in your bulletin. I just want to draw your attention to it because it may be unfamiliar to you, but these words I want to make sure that we all know what we are about to say. A debtor to mercy alone, of covenant mercy, I sing, nor fear with thy righteousness on, God's righteousness. My person and offering to bring. The terrors of law and of God with me can have nothing to do. My Savior's obedience and blood hide all my transgressions from view. The work which his goodness began, the arm of his strength will complete. His promise is yea and amen, and never was forfeited yet. Things future, nor things that are now, nor all things below or above Can make him his purpose forego or sever my soul from his love. My name from the palms of his hands, eternity will not erase. Impressed on his heart, it remains. marks of indelible grace. Yes, I, to the end, shall endure, as sure as the earnest is given, as sure as Christ has risen from the dead. More happy, but not more secure, the glorified spirits in heaven Because the mercy of your God endures forever, you can have this confidence that nothing can ever separate you from his love. Please pray with me and then we'll sing this song