Let us turn to the preaching of God's Word in Psalm number eight. The title of this sermon is Glory in All the Earth as We've Just Prayed. I pray that you are experiencing already this morning the loveliness of your God. Please follow along with me. This is a very special psalm for us. This would be one of those ones you'd want to memorize while you're going, while you're memorizing. Memorizing the rest of them. Oh, but this holds a dear place in our hearts. This is God's word. O Lord our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth, who have set your glory above the heavens. Out of the mouth of babes and nursing infants you have ordained strength because of your enemies, that you may silence the enemy and the avenger. When I consider your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars which you have ordained, what is man that you are mindful of him, and the son of man that you visit him? Him, for you have made him a little lower than the angels, and you have crowned him with glory and honor. You have made him to have dominion over the work of your hands. You have put all things under his feet, all sheep and oxen. Even the beasts of the field, the birds of the air, and the fish of the sea that pass through the paths of the sea? Oh Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all of the earth. Please pray with me. Oh Lord, these words are too much for us this morning. We are worms. Oh, but change us. Help us to understand something of your these words this morning, not in a way where we would be taking a college class, but that we would acknowledge these words with our very soul. That we would would embody them. Overcome us today. Enter into us. Don't wait for us. Take us over. We ask these things in the name of Christ. Amen. We add lemon zest or salt or other herbs and spices to our food to really bring out the flavors. of our food. If you do this, the spices and the seasonings make something you've tasted your whole life as if you've never tasted it. This has been a mic experience with how some people make Brussels sprouts versus how they were boiled in my childhood. These spices and herbs they bring and reveal hidden dimensions that we've never seen before in our food, hidden flavors. And we say things like, mmm, or we We say things like this is excellent. I'm sure there's some seasonings for you in your life. But I want you to think beyond seasonings, what are those things that bring out the hidden dimensions and reveal to you something about God that maybe you just didn't see what when you were being brought up. This is the sort of thing, this is the sort of the the the way that uh it works with God, these spices and these herbs for food are Similar to the way that creation works with God, there are certain sights and there's sounds of his creation that bring out and reveal hidden dimensions of his power and his beauty. I have walked through some trails with a fly rod in my hand and I've had to stop more than once when I've seen, when I've heard the brook. Or the moss on the rocks, seeing the moss on the rocks, or a pine tree coming up out of the midst of the rocks, just have to stop Because somehow they've revealed the glory. It brought out some new flavor, if you will, of who our God is. Now we're asking these kinds of questions. Do you already feel the difference with this psalm than the other psalms that we've been in for a while? while psalm 1 was an instruction psalm that felt different than this morning and then psalm 2 3 and 4 was lament who was lent Lamentation. Things were heavy. And that felt different than this morning. But this morning, you know, we arrive at a new psalm. We arrive at a psalm, kind of psalm we haven't dealt with together in a sermon Series and it's Psalm 8. It's a hymn of praise. No wonder it feels so different in here this morning. Yahweh wants to teach us something through his spirit. this morning in this hymn of praise. He wants us to know that his majesty is revealed. It's brought out like those spices and those. That his majesty is revealed by the heavens and through those who are humble. That second point is A real surprise, isn't it? Yahweh's majesty is revealed by the heavens and the humble. Let's take a look at this passage just under those two things: majesty through the heavens and majesty through the heavens. You see here in the beginning in verse 8, O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is your name in all the earth, its majesty through the heavens. The psalm, take a look at the superscript, it's written to the chief Musician. It's a psalm of David. David and all of the nation, O Lord, not my Lord, our Lord. David and all of the nation in him. Praise the majesty of Yahweh. Some translations say excellent instead of majesty. I certainly prefer majesty. Actually, my translation says excellent, and I read right over it the word majesty. And I do that and I like Majesty better because excellence, in when I look it up in the Oxford English Dictionary, or even when we look throughout the scriptures, excellence means that you're great at something Certainly, God is the greatest of all things, but majesty means that you are a person who commands respect through the excellence of your power. That is what majesty is. You see majesty used in Exodus 15, 6. Your right hand, O Lord. And we sang this this morning about how Yahweh's right hand destroys the powers of Satan. This is this same sense here. Your right hand, O Lord, has become glorious or majestic in power. Your right hand, O Lord, has dashed the enemy in peace. Jesus speaking of the deliverance that Yahweh gives his people through the Red Sea. That demonstration of his power and calling back the waves is a demonstration of majesty. Imagine seeing that. Would you say excellent? Or like Bill and Ted Excellent? Or would you say I know you were thinking that, so I just had to say it. I saw Dave's face under Or would you say majesty? It says this again in Exodus 15, 10 to really get the point across. You blew with your wind, the sea covered them. They sank like lead in the majestic waters. The waves up on either side, they would have said, oh, the majesty. But really, they were just attributing to the wave the attributes of the God who was doing that with the waves. At a recent youth group, we saw majestic waters, didn't we? Brothers and sisters. At least some of you did when I mentioned to you that there was a big wave surfing contest in Nazare, Portugal. And I said, some of those men are surfing on 100-foot waves. And you just kind of looked at me like, oh, that's cool. I've seen lots of things on YouTube. And then I saw I saw one person bring up the wave from NASA. Portugal on their phone. And you started watching the youth group come around the phone to watch these big waves, and it was, oh, oh my goodness, whoa Those were majestic waves, the kind of waves that make people sink like lead. Think of how those surfers feel under those waves to get a picture. Of this deliverance from Egypt and to be on the wrong side of the judgment, those hundred-foot waves. Think of the power within those waves, youth, as you saw them on YouTube, or as you look up Nazareth. Big waves surfing. Look at the wave. And think about the majesty of the God that is behind it. These waves roll in one after another. No big deal. And they're all created by God. Now, this gives a sense of the majesty that we're talking about here. That's the big word. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all of the earth. And we're focusing on the earth, which isn't really what the psalm does. David wants to focus on the heavens. The heavens declare the majesty of Yahweh, he says. How excellent is your name in all of the earth, who have set your glory above the heavens. Now, to get the full sense of this, please take a look at your scriptures, very carefully. Here. It says here in verse 1c, who have set your glory above the heavens. This is a very special kind of psalm. Now, all psalms are a part of Hebrew poetics. We're going to have this conversation Real quick. Poetics mean there's going to be different forms that the poetry can take place. You have seen the form called alternating parallelism. I know. I we should come up with a different name. It's when one wave comes up on the beach, we've all have experience with this, and then there's a wave that comes after that pushes it further But have you also been in this experience when you you're excited about the wave coming up on the beach, you see one come up, it goes back out, and you're expecting the second one to push it up, but then there's no Nothing. And then there's a wave that comes pushing everything up. That's this psalm. It's called alternating parallelism. Meaning there's going to be a phrase and there's not going to be an immediate parallel. There's going to be a break and a discussion on a different topic, and then there's going to be another wave that pushes the same theme up the side of the beach. Now take a look at that. It's real easy to that sounds academic, but it's actually just right here in front of your face. Look at one C who have set your glory above the heavens, and now look down at three. See how there's an interruption in the thought, and then it comes back to the thought. It alternates So the parallel is verse 3. When I consider your heavens. Do you see that? We're back onto the topic of heavens. And now he's going to become more specific, the moon and the stars which you have ordained. This whole poem is set up like Like that. Well, there's going to be this alternation. And to get the true sense of it, you've got to see that when we start to talk about the majesty of the heavens. Textually, therefore, you combine verses 1, C, and 3 to get the whole picture. Verse 1c gives the general statement. Verse 3 specifies. In verse 3, the emphasis is upon his ownership. Notice, this is not the heavens. It's not their heavens. It's your heavens. Yahweh owns the heavens. That's quite a statement. And notice also that the emphasis is on the ease. Some of you say the hand of God. Some of your translations will say the work of your hands. The Hebrew is very specific. They make a difference between the arm, the palm. The hand and the fingers. The focus here in the Hebrew is on the fingers to show how easy it is for God to create the moon and the stars and all of the universe. And to sustain them. It is just a work of the fingers, is the point. Now that's textually considered if you consider the alternation. You want to do something easier? The answer is yes. Let's just look at it visually. What is David doing? He's looking at the night sky He's looking at the moon. He looks at the heavens and he states it generally. Have you ever not just focused on the individual planets, but just went, oh That's the that's one C. Verse three is when he he gets his app out and he holds it up and he starts to see all the individual things. Although if you need an app For moon, then you're in deep trouble astronomically. Visually, David stands looking at the night sky in all of the work of Yahweh. And now here's the question for you. You have been given a Hubble telescope, and so how much more should you be standing in the awe of the majesty of Yahweh in the works of His heavens. Let me just go through a couple statistics for you, and I want you to know that I'm communicating statistics so that you could get a sense not only of God's majesty through the Navarray Portugal big wave surfing competition. But now through galaxies. And this, if you've got issues as a human being right now, it's a good chance the reason is because you haven't compared and held your Self up to the majesty of Yahweh. Listen to this. This is what Yahweh creates and sustains. Did you know that the one million earths could Fit inside the sun that Yahweh created? One million of the planet that you're walking around, that you see on maps, could fit inside of the single sun that He created And the sun, by the way, is considered an average-sized star, if I have that correct. Not a big star. Just the work of his fingers. If you could fly a plane to Pluto, the trip would take more than 800 years. That's just the distance. that we're talking about with this God. There are more stars in the universe than grains of sand on all the beaches of the earth. You think about that when you stand On a beach. Look at all of those grains of sand, and there are more stars that God has created than you will see on any of the beaches accumulated throughout all of the earth. Every time the Hubble telescope is pointed at black space, it looks black, and then they focus in and it becomes riddled. With signs of other galaxies, to the point that some are estimating now that not only we live within the Milky Way galaxy, but there are billions of other galaxies out there. Just the work of his fingers. Our galaxy, the Milky Way, is 100,000 light years in distance. And this is Very small. The galaxy M87 is 980,000 light-years in diameter. Hercules A galaxy is 1. 5 million light-years across. Just the work of his fingers. Do you have any idea who you're worshiping this morning? Did you forget the This past week in all the minutiae of your life? Oh, what would David say if we gave him a Hubble telescope. How much longer would the book of Psalms be? Would he have had even the strength to write? Right. O Lord, your glory, your splendor, your inexhaustible majesty, how you have set your glory above the heavens certainly we see his majesty in the heavens is this how you regard your God if you're not a Christian is this how you think of the Christian God? You know, what's really a misfortune for us, and some more than others, is You can step outside your door and it can be hard to see the stars in the sky because of all the light pollution. You can't see the stars and therefore you can't see See the majesty. Well, you know, there's other kinds of pollution in our life that keep us from seeing the stars. Keep us, therefore, from seeing his majesty. If your life seems out of sorts, I guarantee that it's because you don't see His Majesty. Human beings Are never happier than when they are existing in Christ, in the majesty of God. All of your anxieties and your worries, for some reason I can't explain all of it just yet, but they just seem to fall away when you put yourself in the proper place within the universe. Stop trying to make yourself God, trying to stop trying to fight for your own majesty. And to sit before His Majesty is finally a day of contentment, a place where you're supposed to be. You want to know some signs of not seeing His Majesty in the heavens? That you're unforgiving, that you hold grudges, that you're arrogant, that you're all tied up in knots about who you are and what you You're supposed to be. And you want to know the most utmost sign for not seeing His Majesty? It's not being thankful in absolutely everything. Have you seen stop today to realize that anything that you have is because he gives it to you and he sustains you in all of your goodness You see these little kids running around here in cute little spring dresses. It's all from God. Everything. Oh, who would stop to recognize His Majesty and see the work of His fingers, we'd realize we should be thankful and everything. Working on gardens, working on whatever would just become praise songs. That's how you know. That's how you know if you understand His Majesty. And I tell you, I think That based on how I answered that question this week and how I'm answering it now and how maybe you are answering, whether you're thankful, I think maybe we need to get out there and we need to view the night sky again. And see that the heavens declare the splendor and the majesty of Yahweh. But David's not done Yahweh's Majesty is seen by the heavens, and we have to reevaluate ourselves based on that data and that information. But this same God, surprisingly, now moves from the heavens to say that He will show His majesty also through the humble. To give the end away, really, it's the humility of His people. Here we move to verse 2. And again, it's still alternating. How excellent is your name in all of the earth. We've seen that it is Avenger, and the alternating verse that corresponds is verse 4, where it starts to pick up with man again that you are mindful of him. Now I want you to notice particular poetry in verse 2. Notice the matches here Babies and infants are matched with enemy and avenger. And an avenger is someone who takes matters into their own arrogant hands and does not look to God. In this specific context, it would definitely be easier to Egypt and Assyria. And thus the contrast. This is not literal babies, for they don't speak praise out of their mouth. So I think this is a figure of speech. It's not literal babies. It refers, just as Martin Luther had picked up, to those who are helpless and rely on God, those which we call the humble. Blessed are those who are meek, in other words. Out of the mouth now, returning to the poetry, matches with may silence the enemy and the avenger. Some of your translations will say will still the enemy. But that matches with out of the mouth. And so what we have here, when we match up this poetry, when we allow one alternating wave to wash up on top of the other wave, when we do these matches We could say that the humble uh the humble silence the foe, the enemy, the avenger. And we have to ask the question, how Because they have no strength of their own to do it, is the point. It's an important question for David, because Israel was puny near the near the giants of Egypt. Now given the context, the speech that the humble use must be prayer because it is calling upon the early thing. Majesty, the glory, and the power. There's a warrior language that goes through this psalm that I don't have time to bring out. Majestic warrior Yahweh. That is the speech that the humble use to overcome. This speech is the ordained means or the way by which God would establish strength over his enemies. That's what it's saying there. In verse 2. And thus God's splendor is seen in his use of the humble prayers and praises of those who call upon and praise his name, namely the church. And the head of the church, who is Christ Jesus. But it's not just the prayers and the praises when we bring in the other alternating wave You don't just sit around and pray and praise. It expands into the whole life of man being a living sacrifice unto God, as you can see beginning. What is man that you are mindful of him, or is that you you come down and condescendingly care for him is the idea the idea here, and the son of man that you visit him And you have made him a little lower than the angels or heavenly beings. And you have crowned him with glory and honor. You have made him to have dominion over the works of your hands. You see the work here? The cultural or dominion mandate is being brought up again in the context of prayer and praise. Dominion in the context of dependence on God. Verses four through eight are the parallels, and they repeat the opening chapters of what? Genesis. Genesis. He is repeating the opening chapters of Genesis when God gave his people dominion over the earth. In verse 6, take a look with me. Psalm 8, God appointed his people to rule over the work of his hands. Notice the appointment here. And this would have been particularly important for David, who's writing this, when he says in verse 3, when I consider your hand Heavens. The king is present at the forefront here within this psalm. And now the king is also thinking about the dominion mandate that has been given to him, and of course he was appointed to do such a task, which we see See in Psalm 2. But there is also the empowerment in 6b. He has put all things under his feet. The empowerment of the Messiah, whether it be David or Solomon, but of course it being Christ Jesus and his people God empowered his people to rule over verse 7. Now follow through Psalm 8 with me and see the same statements as in Genesis verse 7: the beasts of the field. Field. Verse 8, the birds of the air. Verse 8, the fish of the sea. You see what he's done here? Is he He has taken and he put the account in Genesis 1 to music. Isn't that beautiful? To bring out the majesty of God. Do you see what David God not only shows his majesty in his unmediated work of solar systems and galaxies upon galaxies, but through the mediated work of his creation. It is through his king and his people that will participate, and they, and Yahweh through them, will bring glory to himself. In other words, he is not only the God of history, but of redemptive history. In other words, It is more majestic for Yahweh to accomplish a great work through pitiful people. That's what's happening. If you really want to show yourself to be majestic, then don't work through your own divine hands. Work through the clumsy hands. Of sinful people. And that's what he does. It is one thing to hit a ball out of the park with an aluminum bat. It's another thing to hit a ball out of a park with a wooden bat. It's another thing to hit a ball out A park with a dandelion stem It is one thing to rule the heavens through the direct hand of God. It is another to rule the earth through humans and their prayers and Praises. And this is the exact sense of this psalm, and it's exactly how it's used in the New Testament in Hebrews chapter 2, verses 5 through 9. I want to flip to that so that you have That on your minds. So please turn to that in your scriptures. Hebrews chapter 2, and it's verses 5 through 9. I'd like to just read that for you. Chapter two begins in showing the great works of God the Father through the Son. And then in verse 5 it says, For he has not put the world to come of which we speak in subjection to angels, but one testified in a certain place, saying, What is Man, that you are mindful of him, or the Son of Man that you take care of him. You have made him a little lower than the angels. You have crowned him with glory and honor and set him over the work of your works of your hands. And have put all things in subjection under his feet. For in that he put all in subjection under him, he left nothing that is not put under him. But now we do not yet see all things put under him, but we see Jesus Who was made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor, that he, by the grace of God, might taste death for everyone. Psalm aid is applied to Jesus first as the new Adam, based on Genesis 1 reference that we see here. It is second applied to Jesus as the utmost Messiah based on David's responsibility that we see within this psalm. And the point is that although Jesus took on the form of a servant and humbled himself, God the Father, through the Spirit, would show his glory through using the humble servant, Jesus the Messiah, to overcome the greatest enemies of sin and of death and to recreate this whole world. Beginning with himself. Now, if you would have told that to the culture that saw Jesus in the flesh, they would have You mean the one that was crucified? You mean the one that was killed by the Roman army? And you know what Paul says. Because the foolishness of God is wise. Than men. And the weakness of God, which is Christ crucified, is stronger than men. That's 1 Corinthians 1:25 five. And here's the even greater news. Just as in the Psalm 8 we see the Messiah David and all of his people in him, so too in the greatest Messiah. The only true one, Christ Jesus, we see all of his people in him. Humble Christian, you and your prayers and your praises. You are the infants and the nursing babe And it is through you and your prayers and your worldly insignificance that He will overcome the enemy and the Avenger. For you see your calling, Severn run, that not many wise according to the flesh. There's not many of you here mighty, none of you are noble But you are the ones that are called. God has chosen the foolish things of the world to put to shame the wise. And God has chosen the weak things of the world to put to shame the things which are mighty. And the base things of the world, and the things which are despised, God has chosen, and the things which are not to bring to nothing the things that are. Why did He do that? So that no flesh would glory in his presence, that everyone would have no doubt that his majesty is declared not only in the heavens, but in the humility of his people. That it would be His majesty and no one else's, His glory. He is the only attributable cause of the new heavens and the new earth But of him you are in Christ Jesus, who became for us wisdom from God, and righteousness, and sanctification and redemption. That as it is written, He who glories, let him glory in the Lord. God's majesty is seen through the heavens. It is declared as we look through the Hubble telescope And to great surprise, Christian, His Majesty shall be declared in working through your weakness. By your prayers and your praises. Out of nursing babes and infants, let us glory in our weakness Now, based on this truth, that God's majesty is seen through the heavens and with great surprise through the humble. Perhaps God's kingdom is far different than you imagined. Maybe you've been trying to enforce a different kingdom. What he's trying to set up. Did you know that he's not trying to establish your glory and majesty? He's not trying to make you look good and the reason why all good things happen Do you know how much time you spend in the day to not come off as incompetent and high performing? That's fine. That can be lawful in its own place, but don't forget that even with the high-performing Paul, God showed forth his strength and his weakness. And he will do so also with you. It is promised that that is how he will work throughout all of redemptive history. Let me also say that since God's majesty is seen through the heavens and with great surprise through the humble That prayer especially must be taken up as the regular practice of the Christian for the enemy. You know, when you look at this, it it it it looks like at this time that everyone was just going to be But now that Jesus Christ has been revealed, the enemy is being overcome, and you are the enemy. And he has subdued your hearts and brought you in to kiss the sun, lest he become angry. And it is through your prayers that those around you also might become submissive to God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Take that seriously. Rely on this psalm. This is how redemptive history will work Through your prayers, people will be brought into the kingdom of God. It is the utmost form of evangelism. Here is the problem. And some of you know this, I would say all of you will know this, if you don't now, that the greatest enemy is original sin. Sin. Original sin keeps you from being able to even recognize the reality of Jesus Christ You could hear his name preached from the pulpit all of your childhood and yet not know the reality of Jesus Christ because of the enemy of original sin. It will blind you. Principalities and powers capitalize on it to where you are unable to see the truth of the gospel. You know what breaks that Prayer, God working through prayer, and of course not just prayer and praise, but us taking up the great Commission, which is the new it's part it's been incorporated into the Dominion Mandate as we see within the Psalm. Psalm eight, we don't just pray, we work. We must engage those who are overtaken by the enemy. But this is what I hear. That's really scary because they drink too much. That's really scary because they're homosexual. That's really scary because they think differently than me Here's an interesting thing that I just read in a book. One woman brought out this. She said, you know, we do have those fears. We have those fears. And that's why we don't engage our neighbors. And why we don't think to pray for them is because we haven't engaged them. But you know when fear goes out the window when there's a crisis? If there were a flood in Saverna Park or Severn, you would welcome, you would bring things to neighbors you've never seen. talked to before because that's what Americans do in crisis. It's what human beings do in crisis. Now let me ask you this question. This is what she brings up. This is Rosaria Butterfield. In her new book. Are we in a crisis or not? Because if we are, then we must begin to open our arms to the strangers that scare us And to welcome them in our dinner tables and pray for them. I'm not saying unbridled, licensed with no wise consideration. Be as wise as a serpent, but as gentle as a dove. In this crisis, we must. We must pray for them. And you know what we have to do? Have a non-pressured relationship with them. You know why? Because it's not you that's going to get rid of original sin anyway. It's not you that's going to release them from the scales from their eye. You will be used as a means as you pray privately in your bedroom for them. And as you offer hospitality, God will use those things and empower them, and he will be the one that changes them perhaps over six to ten years. In the meantime, you just wait on God and open your arms just a little bit wider. This is a hymn of praise. And your work and prayers for your neighbors and against original sin can be an act of praise. Through Jesus, then, let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God, that is the fruit of lips that acknowledge His name. Do not neglect to do good to your neighbor. Let us pray and then go to the table to See this humility and the glory of God. Father, we thank you for this truth, and we ask that you'd show us your truth now. That you'd speak to us even as we prepare ourselves in this invitational song. In the name of Christ. Amen.