In Mark chapter seven, we'll be looking at verses thirty-one through thirty-seven, the end of the chapter. Mark chapter seven, starting in verse thirty-one. I'll begin reading in verse 31 down to the end of the chapter. Again, departing from the region of Tyre and Sidon. He came through the midst of the region of the capitalist to the Sea of Galilee. Then they brought to him one who was deaf and had an impediment in his speech, and they begged him to put his hand on him. And he took him aside from the multitude and put his fingers in his ears, and he spat and touched his tongue. Then Looking up to heaven, he sighed. And he said to him, Ephhatha, that is, be opened. Immediately his ears were opened, and the impediment of his tongue was loosed, and he spoke plainly. Then he, Jesus, commanded them that they should tell no one. But the more he commanded them, the more widely they proclaimed it. And they were astonished beyond measure, saying, He has done all things well. He makes both the deaf to hear, and the mute to speak Please pray with me. Gracious and almighty God, this is your holy word. Thank you for keeping it for us, keeping it pure and entire throughout the ages. That we would be able to feed upon it, be transformed by it. O Lord, we come to you in submission to your Spirit within us, begging Him to open our ears, begging Him. To reveal to us the glorious truth that we too would be amazed and marvel beyond measure. And Lord, I pray that you would let The words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O God, my strength and my Redeemer. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Those of you out here with siblings you ever had a situation where I don't know, maybe you were playing a little too rough with one of their toys and it broke. And you knew that if they ran to mom and dad, oh, that was gonna be a problem. Have you ever had that situation? Did your sibling maybe promise to you, oh, don't worry, it's okay? It's all right. I forgive you. But in the back of your mind somewhere you were wondering Can I trust them? Is that true? Will it really be all right? Well, there's a story for us, an account of something true that happened that I'd like to read for us, because this is exactly what happened to Joseph and his brothers, if you remember. If you were to turn to Genesis chapter 50, you could follow along with me. You don't have to. I'll read it out. But remember, remember what Joseph's brothers did to him. They were jealous of him. They pretended like they killed him. They lied to their father and said that he was dead, but they sold him into slavery, into Egypt. Well, here we come in Genesis 50, verses 15 through 21. I'm going to read this for us because this is what happens after their father dies. When Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead, they said, Perhaps Joseph will hate us and may actually repay us for all the evil which we did to him. So they sent messengers to Joseph saying, Before your father died, he commanded, saying, Thus you shall say to Joseph, I beg you. Please forgive the trespass of your brothers in their sin, for they did evil to you. Now, please forgive the trespass of the servants of the God of your father. And Joseph wept when they spoke to him Then his brothers also went and fell down before his face, and they said, Behold, we are your servants. And Joseph said to them, Do not be afraid, for am I in the place of God? But as for you You meant evil against me, but God meant it for good in order to bring it about as it is this day to save many people alive. Now therefore, do not be afraid. I will provide for you and your little ones. And he comforted them and spoke kindly to them. Oh boy, these guys were afraid that Joseph really hadn't forgiven them. He was really going to hold it against them. And do you see what Joseph said to assuage their fears, to calm their hearts? What you meant for evil God meant for good. Joseph depended on God, not himself. And he knew that the plan Obviously, it wouldn't have been Joseph's plan for himself, right? All that time in jail, Potiphar's wife, etc. That's not what Joseph would have wanted for him. But Joseph trusted God, our God, and knew that it was God's plan. That God had used him to save many, many lives. The Lord worked that situation out really well, didn't he? He saved a whole lot of people's lives through Joseph and through even, as you see there, the sin of Joseph's brothers. God can make all things turn out well. And if you recall what we've been looking at through Mark, we're looking at basically what are snapshots, photographs, pictures. In the life of Jesus, in the ministry of Jesus Christ. And all of them are for a purpose. Do you remember that purpose? It's to prove to us, to show us. That Jesus of Nazareth, Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of the living God. And it's been proven because Jesus has done what only God can do, and Jesus teaches as only God can teach. He does all things as his father does. In the last few sermons we saw that By Jesus' teaching, we need to truly seek God from our hearts, rejecting man's ways and only accepting his ways. Last week we saw that real faith Jesus recognizes real faith. And he doesn't just recognize it, does he? He rewards it. Well, tonight we are going to learn the result. Of what all of us should understand about Jesus and about his Father. It's what all of us will understand if we have ears to hear and eyes to see. Do you know what that is? And this passage tonight, I hope we'll all see it, God does all things well. God does all things well. We're going to look at this in three ways The first division, he plans. That's verses 31 and 32. He understands. Verse 33. And the beginning of verse 34. And then the rest of verse 34 through the end, verse 37, he commands. God plans all things well. He understands all things well, and he commands. All things well. So let's jump right into it. Verse 31 and verse 32. And we'll see through Jesus that God plans all things well. Right there, verse 31. Again, departing from the region of Tyre and Sidon, he came through the midst of the region of the capitalist to the Sea of Galilee. Decapolis, that's a Fun word. Comes from the Greek prefix for ten, deca, and polis for city like anapolis or miniapolis or indianapolis. It's the city. It's ten cities. And what was special about these ten cities, why they were called out as opposed to all the other cities, is because these are ten very, very Greek cities and a very Semitic world. These are ten hyper-Greek cities, so Greek. In fact, they were established in order to spread Greekness. in this region. So all of these cities, if you were to look at a map of the Sea of Galilee, they're all on the eastern side of the Sea of Galilee. Whereas where Jesus had been ministering before and Capernaum, they're all on the western or the northwestern. And so there's this interesting thing that's happening. We got the Sea of Galilee. Jesus has been up here in the region of Tyre and Sidon where he he Did that miracle for the Syrophoenician woman. And then he goes back to the Sea of Galilee by this really circuitous route. He goes all the way around in this region of the ten cities. And he is trying to avoid the large crowds of the Jewish people that had been amassing as a result of his ministry. And one of these cities in the Decapolis, you'll recognize it if you've been following along with us through Mark, it's the city of Ghidara. Ghidara, do you remember what happened there? There was a man who was filled with a legion of demons. Do you remember what happened the last time Jesus did something special in a city of the Decapolis? They didn't clamor for him to stick around. In fact, a lot of people urged him, begged him that he would leave And so this has been the best way, not only for Jesus, to avoid the crowds and get a little bit of a rest, but it's also to avoid those Jewish authorities. The Pharisees and scribes from Jerusalem had already started to come. And they were trying to talk to Jesus about himself, trying to make a case so that they could move on with protecting quote unquote their people from who they thought was a false future. He went to this region because they're also very Greek. They're not looking for the Messiah. They weren't looking for the Son of David. And so Jesus could have had a little bit of a relief. And we see that Jesus plans all things well and that he plans his ministry well, didn't he? He knew exactly where he wanted to go. He knew exactly how how he would get to the next place he wanted to be so he could do it all. He plans and has planned his ministry well. And if you want, we could have a coffee one day or tea or I got hot cocoa and we could talk about how we can see his ministry being planned through Mark. But he does something else. He plans something else well. He plans his ministry well, and he plans our lives well, doesn't he? Look at verse 32. Then they brought to him one who was deaf and had an impediment in his speech, and they begged him to put his hand on him. Think about this man's life. He wouldn't have wished that life on himself if he had the power. If you know anybody who has suffered from something like that, being deaf or being blind, Are having a terrible difficulty, maybe they can't even move their neck. They'll be honest with you and say, I wish this wasn't how it was. But look at how God's planned this man's life. Obviously, he has some friends. Later on in this, we see that they stuck around with him because they're the ones that Jesus commands. So they didn't just leave him when Jesus takes him away from the crowd. These are some people who are with him. And I couldn't help but wonder, man, these people are not looking for the Messiah. But I do believe they noticed something special about one guy being followed by twelve guys, looking really Jewish in these really Greek towns, and they probably said, Hey, didn't we hear about somebody who fed thousands? Haven't we heard something about this special guy, Joshua, who's going around doing amazing things? Maybe. I don't know what his name uh what's what's a good Greek name? Mykonos. Maybe Mykonos. Remember Mykonos. He still can't hear. Maybe we could take Mykonos to them and and he could do something. And so you you see what they do The friends that God has given him. They bring this man to Jesus, bringing is really the word for leading. They just kind of lead him there. This guy obviously I imagine his life was was very challenging and he allowed a lot of people to just Be charitable to him. And so they lead him to Jesus, and do you see what they're begging Jesus to do? They begged him to do something very specific, to put his hand on him. Do you ever wonder why they ask that? Why why would that be? Well typically that's how a miracle worker would work his miracles. He would put his hands on the person. We've seen that. Jesus has laid hands on people in the past. But it shows us something about these friends. They were looking for a miracle worker. They wanted Jesus to do what they could understand, how they could grasp This idea that perhaps this one is special and he really could work a miracle, work a wonder in Mikanos' life. I don't know if that's his name. Don't ever don't write that down. I just made that up. But here's what you must notice. Jesus is not just some wonder worker. Jesus is not a magician. And he isn't doing something mystical and magical. And he doesn't make spells and say them over people and he doesn't do what you think he should do for everyone. Jesus does What he knows is needed. And that leads us into the next division. We see in verses 33, in the beginning of verse 34, that Jesus, and God, Jesus is God, understands all things. Well, he knows exactly how he wants to accomplish his holy will. We do not need to tell Jesus what to do for someone else. Do you ever think about that? We need to lead them to him. We need to be faithful in bringing somebody who is struggling in their life to Christ, but we dare not tell him what he must do. We can beg him, beg him to please himself by doing what he knows they need. And so Jesus knows how to accomplish his holy will. He knows exactly how he's going to heal this man without giving that whole group of people the wrong impression. And you see what he does? And he took him aside from the multitude. This is verse 33. He took him aside from the crowd. Why do you think he did that? Do you have any clue? Well, if he had done this miracle in a crowd of people who worshipped pagan gods, who do you think they would have given the credit for for the miracle? No matter what he said. Hundreds of people wouldn't have heard exactly how it went down. They wouldn't have heard that he used an Aramaic word, would they? They would have just seen a wonder worker and seen a wonder and said, Oh, um what's a what's one of the gods from Oh yay, Zeusie, Zeus did some stuff. Is that how it would have been? Who knows who they would have given the credit to? But Jesus knows how to accomplish this such that the credit does not go to any other false god. He knows how every single person needs to receive his good news. Do you see that? Look at what he does for this man. I wish I'd have never said myknos, because I can't get it out of my brain now. He put his fingers in his ears and he spat and he touched his tongue Hey, wait a second. Didn't I just say he doesn't do something mystically mysterious and magical? What's happening here? Well, think about this How else could Jesus have communicated with this poor man? How would you? How would you tell someone who's deaf, who has no way of knowing how to read lips? How would you explain to them? That what is wrong in their ears and with their tongue is the result of sin Sin in the world, misery working itself out. How would you explain to them what that what they need to do is cry out to their Father in heaven? But do you see how Jesus does it? He puts the fingers in his ears. The man would have understood what was going on. His whole life, people have been leaning close to his ears and shouting things he's never heard. Jesus spits and touches his tongue. Now there's a little bit of a difference in interpretation. Did Jesus spit or did he spit into his hands and touches tongues. So there's there could be some understanding that Jesus actually spat into his hand and then touched And if that's how we interpret it, praise be to God, that's how clean Jesus is. His saliva, which is unclean in the rest of us, can cleanse someone. But I really think that this was the least rude way for Jesus to tell this man what was happening. Because you can't spit without a tongue And to show him this fitting, it would have been far kinder and gentler than to just stick out his tongue at the guy, right? Either way, God knows. He understands all things well. Jesus understands all things well, and he understands what this man needed Do you see that Jesus understood this man needed something even more than the physical healing? He needed to believe. And have faith that God could heal him and would heal him. That faith is so much more important than the physical problem being dealt with. And so Jesus shows that God understands all things well because He knows how to accomplish His holy will, He knows what every person needs, how they need to be communicated with, and He knows exactly how to supply. What every one of us needs, look at what he does. He says to him. He looks up to heaven and he sighs. He groans. Did you notice in our reading for the confession of sin what it says there? With everlasting joy. On their heads they shall obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away And we can really understand this word because it's used several other times in the New Testament. It's used in Romans chapter 8. It's used in 2 Corinthians 5. And you don't need to turn there unless you want to. Which of course I'm happy if people like to flip in their Bibles. 2 Corinthians chapter 5. I want to just read this for you to show you how we should understand this word that's been translated sighing. Verses two through five. For in this we groan, same word. That's the word. For in this we groan earnestly. desiring to be clothed with our habitation which is from heaven. If indeed having been clothed we shall not be found naked. For we who are in this tent groan, same word Being burdened, not because we want to be unclothed, but further clothed, that mortality may be swallowed up by life. This is the problem for all of us. This groaning of being in our flesh, being in this state of sin and misery. That's what Jesus does when he looks up into heaven to his Father. He groans for sin. He mourns the sin. He mourns the brokenness of this universe, which is why this poor man. Has never heard a sound in his life and can't communicate with anyone. Can you seriously imagine what a terrible existence that would be? To never have anyone know what your thoughts were. How alone you must be, and to never know what anyone else is saying. Jesus groans for this. And so He shows this man What must happen? I don't know if the man could hear the groan or not, but he could certainly tell what Jesus was communicating to him. Your ears don't work. Your tongue doesn't work. Your Father in heaven hates that this is the case, and he can change it. And so he did it. Jesus did it as only he could. And how does he do it? Well that leads us into our third division. God commands all things well. Jesus commands all things well. And so he gives a command to this man. He uses the Aramaic word effatha, which is very closely related to the Hebrew word for to open. And Mark is very kind to us, isn't he? He translates it for us. Well, he's actually really kind to his original audience, which were likely a bunch of Greeks. They wouldn't have known what that Aramaic word was. So he tells us it's a command. Be opened. I don't want to get too nerd on this, but it's a passive command, which is interesting because it's not open yourself. It's be opened. Jesus knew that the problem with him was not his will. It wasn't that he wasn't trying hard enough to hear. I know sometimes that's the problem with our children. But that wasn't this man's problem. It wasn't anything he could do for himself. And the command is obeyed. Look at verse 35. Immediately his ears were opened, and the impediment of his tongue was loosed. And he spoke plainly. And this word for impediment is actually the word for bonds, like someone who's in chains, like someone who's enslaved. Boy, that makes sense to us, doesn't it? He was enslaved. There was a bondage of his tongue. And so his tongue is loosed, his ears are open. We're told it's immediate. There's no amount of time needed to wait. Uh and that's for a good reason also, isn't it? Because if there had been some time and he had gone about his life, maybe he had taken a nap, he I don't know had a different diet that day and would have said, Oh, it was the rice that opened my eyes or opened my ears or or it was I slept on my left side instead of my right side. Because we do this all the time, don't we? We try to look for all the different reasons and things. Why did this go wrong? Why did this go well? That's not what we're to do. We need to trust our Lord. Trust that he knows everything that we need and he will supply it. And it says that he spoke plainly. That's that word orthos, like if you have orthotics, or you go to the orthodontist, or Right? You go to the orthodontists, what are they doing? They're straightening out your teeth. They're getting your teeth back to being right. Jesus had made this man's tongue back to being right. Oh, and what else what a glorious thing to be made right. If you can't speak, how can you pray? How could you pray aloud with others? How could you pray with someone else? There's a glorious thing that we do, praying on our own for others. That's a wonderful thing. But I'll tell you. There's something else different that happens when you pray with someone. When four or five or six men are gathered and praying for the same thing out loud to each other, with each other, it's different. There's something different that happens. You can't praise God if your tongue is bound in sin. And then the last thing that we'll look at in terms of commands is verse 36. Look at this other command. You see that there? Then he commanded them. That they should tell no one. But the more he commanded them, the more widely they proclaimed it. I had a hard time with this because I'm I'm battling against being a really critical person. God is helping me tremendously. But I saw this and I was going, wait a minute. Why isn't the Holy Spirit telling us how bad these people were for ignoring a command of God? Why didn't they tell us why or what? And then I realized, no, verse 37 tells us exactly why they couldn't do that. They were so astonished. They were so amazed. And then I thought, poor Mykonos, with his tongue, finally being able to speak. What's he going to tell people? Because the first thing they're going to ask him is, how can you hear me? How can I understand you? And he has to tell them this one. This one did this for me. And everyone who was there, all of his friends, you see that? Jesus commanded them. This is these thems in the days, they're very nonspecific. Right? And I wanted to think to myself that the reason that is, is because what's most important here is what Jesus is doing. But I was so grateful for these thems and they's, these people who brought this afflicted one to Jesus. That we would be able to hear this. And he commands them that they should tell no one. Why? Because he knows exactly what he's trying to do. Remember, he plans his ministry well He doesn't want crowds of people to be clamoring for him in these Greek cities because they don't even know what they're looking for. And if you read ahead in chapter 8, you see exactly what happens from all of their proclaiming. And we'll get to that next week. Could you keep it to yourself if you were there and saw one of your friends being healed? And so we see that they were astonished beyond measure. And what were they astonished? How did they respond to their astonishment? They proclaimed far and wide something that I hope we all believe. He has done all things well He makes both the deaf to hear and the mute to speak. And these Greek people could not have understood the significance of that because they had not read Isaiah 35. They had not read that chapter we read, in which we are told that God is doing this. No matter what it may seem to you, God is doing all things well. No matter what it may seem in your life. He has planned it well. He knows and understands you well. He knows what you need better than you even do. And so, brothers and sisters, may we turn in our hearts to the Lord Jesus Christ, whether we Whether we feel like our ears are stopped up or not, turn to Christ. If you can hear just that, that's all you need to do And if there's someone in your life that you really desperately want to see them pulled out of their sin and out of their misery, what is it that you must do? You must bring them to the one who does all things well. I am not sad to admit to you that it's not bring them to me. It's not bring them to Pastor Jesse. It's not bring them to the PCA. It's not bring them to America. It's bring them to Jesus. We don't do all things well. The PCA doesn't do all things well. America, anybody paying attention? Doesn't do all things well. There is only one who does all things well, and that is God Almighty, the Lord Jesus Christ. Bring them to him. He knows exactly what they need. You may bring them to Jesus and say, I need you to make them obey their parents better. Right? That's kind of like saying, God, would you lay your hands on this one? And he may say, No, I don't need them to obey their parents better. I need them to love me more. Let God do what He's going to do with them. Let's not try to put God in a box and say, you must do this. Instead, we need to bring them to Christ. Who does all things well, trusting he will do this well, and that he knows exactly how they need to be communicated with. Our God is good, isn't he? And he does all things well. Let's pray Gracious Lord