Evening. If you have your Bible in front of you, please open it to First Samuel chapter sixteen. What did I say? You said uh sixteen. Oh. Twenty-three, right? Let's go with twenty-three. As we like to think about the Bible, it's all good. Please give heed to the word of God. First Samuel chapter twenty-three, the first twenty-eight verses. Then they told David, saying, Look, the Philistines are fighting against Cala. They are robbing the threshing floors. Therefore, David inquired of the Lord, saying, Shall I go and attack these Philistines? And the Lord said to David, Go and attack the Philistines and save Kalah. But David's men said to him, Look, we are afraid here in Judah, how much more then if we go to Kalah against the armies of the Philistines? Then David inquired of the Lord once again, and the Lord answered him and said, Arise, go down to Kala, for I will deliver the Philistines into your hand. And David and his men went to Kalah and fought with the Philistines, struck them with a mighty blow, and took away their livestock. So David saved the inhabitants of Kela. Now it happened when Abiathar, the son of Ahimelech, fled to David at Kala that he went down with an ephid in his hand. And Saul was told that David had gone to Kalah. So Saul said, God has delivered him into my hand, for he has shut himself in by entering a town that has gates and bars. Then Saul called all the people together for war to go down to Kela to besiege David and his men. When David knew that Saul plotted evil against him, he said to Abiathar the priest Bring the Ephid here. And David said, O Lord, God of Israel, your servant has certainly heard that Saul seeks to come to Calah to destroy the city for my sake Will the man of Kala deliver me into his hand? Will Saul come down as your servant has heard? O Lord God of Israel, I pray, tell your servant. And the Lord said, He will come down. Then David said, Will the men of Calah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul? And the Lord said, They will deliver you. So David and his men, about six hundred, arose and departed from Calah and went wherever they could go. Then it was told Saul that David had escaped from Calah, so he halted the expedition. And David stayed in strongholds in the wilderness, and remained in the mountains in the wilderness of Zif. Saul saw him every day But God did not deliver him into his hand. So David saw that Saul had come out to seek his life. And David was in the wilderness of Zif in the forest. Then Jonathan, Saul's son, arose and went to David in the woods and strengthened his hand in God. And he said to him, Do not fear, for the hand of Saul my father shall not find you. Ye shall be king over Israel, and I shall be next to you. Even my father Saul knows that So the two of them made a covenant before the Lord, and David stayed in the woods, and Jonathan went to his own house. Then the Siphites came to Saul at Gibeah, saying, Is David not hiding with us in strongholds in the woods in the hill of Hakalah, which is on the south of Jesheman? Now therefore, O king, come down according to all your desire of your soul, and our part shall be to deliver him into the king's hand. And Saul said, Blessed are you of the Lord, for you have compassion on me. Please go and find out for sure and see the place where his hideout is. And who has seen him there? For I am told he is very crafty. See therefore and take knowledge of all the lurking places where he hides And come back to me with certainty, and I will go with you. And it shall be if he is in the land that I will search for him throughout all the clans of Judah. So they arose and went to Zith before Saul. But David and his men were in the wilderness of Naon, in the plain on the south of Jeshemon. When Saul and his men went to seek him, they told David, therefore he went down to the rock and stayed in the wilderness of Maon. And when Saul heard that, he pursued David in the wilderness of Maon. Then Saul went on one side of the mountain, and David and his men on the other side of the mountain. So David made haste to get away from Saul, for Saul and his man were encircling David And his men to take them. But a messenger came to Saul, saying, Hurry and come, for the Philistines have invaded the land. Therefore, Saul returned from pursuing David and went against the Philistines. So they called that place the Rock of Escape Pray with me. Lord, your word is a treasure. It stirs our hearts to ponder your workings and your promises. And so we plead of you tonight again that you would be pleased. By your Spirit to seal the truths of your word to our hearts and change our lives, that we would more and more show forth the love of our Savior, the power of our Savior in us. We commit our study to you in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. Let me begin with a question. What comes to your mind when you hear the name David, the son of Jesse? Was it the boy who slew Goliath with a fling shot? Was it the teenager whose heart was knit with his close friend Jonathan? Was it The outlaw with his band of loyal followers and living in a cave Is it the fugitive that was constantly on the run to escape being killed by Saul? Is it the poet, musician who wrote a hundred songs? There are many fascinating stories about David in 1 Samuel, and in a minute we'll look at one more of his adventures. But David is more than just an interesting Old Testament character. He alone is called in Scripture a man after God's own heart. To him alone God swore an oath that one of his offspring would rule on his throne forever. And remember the angel Gabriel announced to Mary that her child, Jesus, would reign on the throne of David. David also wrote many psalms and in fact was the subject of some of the psalms. We just sang, hail to the Lord's anointed, great David's greater song. The metrical version of Psalm 89. The Lord has sworn that David's son will ever sit upon his throne. In theological terms, David was a type of Christ. That is an Old Testament picture. Christ. So as we study our chapter this evening, think about David, how he gives us a glimpse of our Savior. You may recall from earlier studies in 1 Samuel that almost immediately after David won his great victory over Goliath. He found his life was in constant danger because King Saul considered him a rival to his throne and so determined to put David to death. David was forced to live in the wilderness. Away from where he might be found. David had no place. That he could call home. And remember, Jesus said, the Son of Man has no place to lay his head. For many years, David lived in the wilderness. That word wilderness shows up four times in this chapter and again in the first verse of the next chapter We see David and his men first traveling from their hideout in the forest of Herath to the town of Kila, and then later to the wilderness of Zif. Then to the wilderness of Maon, then to the wilderness of Angeti. If you happen to have a Bible in the back of your Bible, a map in the back of your Bible, You might want to turn there and just get an idea of where all these cities are. For those of you who don't have a map, let me mention that The land of Judah was approximately a square, 30 miles on the side, about the size and shape of Baltimore County. Judah was bounded on the east by the Dead Sea, on the west by the land of the Philistines, on the south by the Negev Desert. and on the north by the territory of Benjamin where King Saul lived. This thirty mile square was the playing field on which Saul and his men played their game of cat and mouse, trying to corner and kill David In this respect, David was a lot like our Savior. He's called all through the Gospels the Son of David. Jesus was constantly on the move, spending much of his time out in the wilderness. Luke 5. 16 says, Jesus would often slip away to the wilderness. For two years, he was the object of the murderous plots of the Jewish leaders who constantly sought to kill him. Yet somehow he managed to escape their clutches Time and time again, the Jews were ready to kill Jesus on the spot, but the gospel, gospels tell us Jesus eluded their grasp, or Jesus hid himself and went away. That's what we see David doing here, hiding himself from his enemies, eluding their grasp. The Gospels explain our Savior's many escapes from his enemies by pointing to the providence of God. For example, John 7. 30 says they were seeking to seize him But no one laid a hand on him because his time had not yet come. That explanation shows up repeatedly. His not time had not yet come. And the writer of first Samuel also mentions God's providence. At the end of verse fourteen we read Saul sought David every day, but God did not deliver him into Saul's hand All through this chapter, you can tell the providence of God was very much on the writer's mind. Rider's mind. And we'll see that clearly in a moment. David's flight for survival began years earlier in chapter 19 when soldiers showed up at his house with orders to kill. But he managed to escape out a window with the help of his wife. He fled first to Samuel at Rama. then to Jonathan at Gibeah, then to Ahimelech at Nob, then to Akish and Gath Then to the cave of Adullam, then to the king of Moab in Nizpah. When he returned from Moab, he settled for a time in the forest of Hereth in eastern Judah, not far from the city of Hebron, where he would later reign as king. Here in chapter 23 we find David first traveling to Kala. a town in the open plain of north central Judah, not far from the border of Benjamin where Saul's palace was. From there he fled south east about ten miles to the area of Zip And from there he went further south to the wilderness of Maon, almost to the native desert. But David was doing more than just trying to survive. Eluding Saul's grasp was not the only thing on his mind. He was also looking for ways that he could serve God's people. And we see that in verses 1 and 2. The Lord puts us on earth not just to survive till he calls us home to heaven. He puts us here to serve him, to give ourselves to the work of his kingdom. Verse 1 mentions a particular need of God's people at that time. The Philistines were plundering the threshing floors of Kala. Every harvest season, the Philistine soldiers would come into Judah and camp around the towns and villages and force the Jews. To give to them part of their crops. Repeatedly these enemies would invade the land and oppress the people. But King Saul didn't do anything about it. He didn't care for his own countrymen. He was like a hireling, not like the Good Shepherd. So God sent David to fight the Philistines. David cared about the sheep of Israel. And when he learned of the people of the danger the people of Calah were in, He immediately thought of going to deliver them. But notice David did not just pick up and head to Cala. The first thing he did was pray. Verse 2. Therefore David inquired of the Lord. He asked, The Lord, Shall I go to Cala and attack the Philistines and save my countrymen? And the Lord answered, yes. Go attack the Philistines and save Calah. But now there was a problem. David's men didn't think it was a good idea to leave the safety of the forest and go out into the open where where Saul would surely hear of their whereabouts, and it would would once again put Sail, Saul, hot on the trail of David. And the men told David frankly in verse 3, We're afraid. We're afraid just to be in the land of Judah. How much more afraid would we be if we came out into the open where we would be vulnerable? So David's men questioned David's decision to go to Cala. Nevertheless, they did go, and verse 5 tells us God gave them a great victory over the Philistines. And the city of Cala was delivered. But it turns out David's men were right. Coming out into the open got Saul's attention and set in motion the whole series of events that we read about throughout this chapter. But let me say this chapter is not just another fascinating story. It gives us insight into two very practical matters in the Christian life namely the providence of God and the guidance of God. By the providence of God we mean God's most holy, wise, and powerful, preserving and governing all his creatures. And all their actions. God is a God of providence. He's in complete control of every event in history And we see his providence clearly in this chapter. It's interesting to see how God controlled the events both in Saul's life and in David's life. It's also instructive to see the responses of David and Saul to God's providences. All through the chapter, the writer is repeatedly showing us contrasts between these two men. First, please notice in verse 7 Saul's response to God's providence. We see in Saul an attitude that is all too common in the church. Even though Saul was an unbeliever and was wrong in his view of Providence, in verse 7, when it was told Saul that David had come to Calah, Saul said, Aha! Well, that's my editorial comment. What he said is, God has delivered him into my hand, for he has shut himself in by entering a city with double gates and bars. And with that mistaken view of God's providence, He hurried off to Kayla. Saul made two mistakes. First, he presumed to know the future. based on current events. When Saul heard that David was in an in a city nearby, a city enclosed in walls He presumed to know what would happen next. He announced he felt sure. God has delivered me. David into my hand. Saul was confident that with his superior military position and ability, he would soon have David in his clutches. And sometimes today, when Christians see certain events happening, they presume to know what is about to happen. They presume to know what God is doing, or they presume to know what God wants them to do. When they hear that gold's been discovered on public property in Colorado, they're sure that God wants them to pack up and move to Cripple Creek. That's the kind of thinking we see in Paul, in Saul. When Saul saw what had happened. That David had come and settled in Cala. He took that as a sign from God that he should go to Kaila and kill David. Of course he was wrong. God's word says plainly, you shall not murder. But Saul ignored God's word and looked at this one providential circumstance that David was within his grasp. And he said, now I know what God wants me to do. He has delivered my enemy into my hand. But Saul is wrong. Present circumstances are not an indication of the will of God. Sometimes Christians go around looking for open doors and closed doors, assuming that God leads us by placing open doors where he wants us to go and closed doors where he doesn't want us to go. But sometimes closed doors are a test from God to see how committed we are to doing His will. One of the most spectacular successes in Christian missions came about through the labors of William Carey in the 18th century in India. But he would never have gone to India if he had waited for an open door. He had to batter doors down, as it were, and overcome major obstacles. On the other hand, sometimes God wants us to turn away from open doors and not go through them. Providential circumstances are not a sign of God's will. Saul made the mistake of thinking they were. Then a second mistake Saul made was basing his view of reality on his feelings. He interpreted God's providence in his own self-centered way. Notice that in verse 21. When the Ziphites offered to hand David over to Saul Saul said, May you be blessed of the Lord, for you have had compassion on me. Here were traitors. To the cause of righteousness, coming to Saul hoping to gain some favor from Saul by turning over an innocent man to him And Saul says to them, Blessed are you of the Lord. That shows how distorted his view was of reality. There's no way God was going to bless to bless what these Ziphites were doing But Saul interpreted everything that happened around him by his own selfish feelings. He felt someone finally had compassion on him. That's all that mattered to him. How things made him feel. Anything that made him feel good must be God's will. That was his whole approach to gardens. It was subjective. When these Ziphites came to Saul, he felt God was leading him to go after David. He felt sure. The Lord was leading these men because they were doing something that made him feel good. That was his whole approach to guidance. It came from his own heart. And sometimes we see that in the church. People look to their feelings rather than to God's word for guidance. I'm sure God wants me to join a soccer team this fall. Well, what makes you so sure? Oh, I got this letter in the mail inviting me to join the team and it came just at the time when I was wondering what I should do for exercise, and now I know. God wants me to join the soccer team, even though they play all their games on Sunday. That's the approach Saul had to God's providence. He was wondering how he was going to get his hands on David. These folks came and invited him to follow them, to follow them, and they would take him to where David was. So Saul concluded. This must be the Lord's blessing. God must want me to go kill David because he brought these Ziphites to me and gave them compassion on me, offering to help me to catch David. That's interpreting God's providence in a purely subjective way. By contrast, notice David's approach to God's providence. In verse 1, a report came to David that the Philistines were plundering Calah, the enemies of God's people were invading the land, something had to be done. Here was an open door, an opportunity to do something for the kingdom of God. But David didn't presume to know God's will just because this information came to him. Rather, he sought the will of God in prayer and waited on God for an answer to his prayer. Now we are not told how God's word was made clear to David. Verse 2 simply says, the Lord said to David, go attack the Philistines. Most likely, God's word came through the prophet Gad, who was staying with David at the time. In any case, what's important to see. That David looked to the revealed word of God for guidance, not to circumstances, and not to his feelings. And even after he received an answer from the Lord, David was not afraid to take another look when new information came to him. When his men came and said, verse 3, we're afraid to go to Kalah. David was willing to listen to what others had to say, and then go back to God's word, as we see in verse 4. Then David inquired of the Lord once more. Lord, do you truly want me to go to Kala? And the Lord answered, Yes, arise, go down to Cala, for I will give the Philistines into your hand. Even though David had received the Word of God, he didn't stop thinking. Nor did he ignore the others who were involved in the matter. But he cautiously reconsidered and went back to the Word of God. God's word is the only sure guide to what the Lord would have us do. Providential circumstances can be interpreted in so many ways. They may be an open door, or they may be a luring temptation. They may be a closed door or they may be a test to our faith. Circumstances are not a reliable indication of God's will. And David knew that, so he looked to the Word of God to make his decisions. Sometimes Christians say, God showed me that he wanted me to do such and such. The Lord showed me he wanted to buy a new TV because the very day that my old TV died A new big screen came on sale for only $700. So the Lord did the Lord lead through circumstances? Or the Lord led me to spend the day at the racetrack because my car stole right by the entrance and I couldn't get it going again. God's providence. Well, it's really saying more about your own desires. That was the case with Saul. He wanted to believe that God would have him kill David. So when the Zephites came and offered to help him, Saul interpreted those circumstances to mean that God was leading him to go kill David. But it was really only his own desires, not the will of the Lord. Today we no longer have prophets like Gad to tell us God's will. But we have something better. Peter tells us we have the more sure prophetic word in Scripture, to which we do well to pay attention as to a lamp shining in the darkness. If we base our decisions on scripture and on the biblical counsel of fellow believers, we won't be afraid. to reconsider our conclusions or our interpretation of Scripture. We'll be willing to search the Scriptures further because we are committed to doing what God says in His Word. Another mistake Christians sometimes make is concluding, well, I must have made the right decision because everything turned out so well. God must have wanted me to skip church last week and play soccer, because I scored the winning goal. Or sometimes Christians feel they must have made the wrong decision because their decision led to all sorts of trouble. I should not have come to church today. I got a speeding ticket on the way, and then my Car sold and then I was in such a bad mood that I couldn't Pay attention to the preaching. When David followed God's will here, it led to all sorts of trouble. Because he went to Kalah, he ended up having to spend months fleeing for his life Now that Saul knew right where David was, he was hot on David's trail and almost caught him. Right decisions often lead to trouble. Do not let that discourage you or distract you. Some of you here are facing important decisions in the days and months ahead. Whom should I marry? Where should I go to college or grad school? What job should I apply for? What career should I pursue? Should I move or stay put? Should I buy or win? These are important decisions. They may have long-range consequences. But the only sure rule for discerning God's will in these matters is His Word, not His providence. Also, David did not assume that God would work in the future the same way he had in the past. David could look back on many times God had delivered him from the hand of Saul. But that didn't lead David to stay in Caleb, presuming God would deliver him again. That would be a false view of providence. The right way to To view providence is to praise God for the good He's brought out of every situation. The Lord has brought much good for His kingdom out of all troubles. That his people have suffered. All these troubles came to David because he came out into the open to help God's people. That's how Saul found out where David was, because David was out in the open. But because David's deliverance of Cala was done in the open, All his countrymen began to see his care for God's people. And as a result, David began to win the hearts of his countrymen all through the land. Also, through these events, David learned the lesson that men cannot be trusted. The very people whose lives and livelihood David had just saved a few days earlier. Who was now ready to turn against him and sell him out to Saul. That doesn't mean that they didn't appreciate The deliverance that David had brought them. But considering what Saul had done recently by killing everyone in the town of Nob, you can understand. Why the men of Cala did not want to risk their lives and the lives of their wives and children just to hide a man who would probably be moving on soon anyway. We can learn a lot about God's providence and God's guidance from David's life. In verse 1, you see, God brought to David's attention the need of the people of Kalah. And God put it into David's heart that God delivered them. Then in verse 9, God brought to David's awareness the evil plans of Saul. But in each situation, David sought direction from the Lord. He did not, God did not tell David what to do until David asked him for guidance. Well, David and his men fled to the wilderness of Zif, and Saul pursued them. And verse 14 says, Saul sought David every day, but could not find him. And yet, even though David's enemy couldn't find him, his friend Jonathan did, notice that. Verse 16. Saul with all his intelligence and all his forces working day and night to find David couldn't. But verse 16 tells us Jonathan decided one day to go and encourage David. And came right to where he was, another silent testimony to the providence of God. And what a beautiful picture Jonathan is of our Savior. The Son of the King, whose anger burns against us, comes to us and encourages us and says to us, do not be afraid. How often did Jesus speak those words to his disciples on earth? And how often does he speak them to us today? Do not be afraid. For the hand of my father shall not find you. Jesus can say that to us because he has already taken upon himself the full brunt of his father's anger against us for our sins. Then notice Jonathan says to David in verse 17, and you shall be king, and I will be next to you. Again, a beautiful picture of Christ and the saints reigning together. It reminds us of Revelation 3. 21, to him who overcomes I will grant to sit with me on my throne. For the faithful saying of 2 Timothy 2. 12, if we endure, we shall also reign with him. Repeatedly, the New Testament assures us, we shall reign with Christ. And remembering such promises encourages us in the Lord. That's what Jonathan did perceive for David. He reminded him of the sure promise of God that David would one day reign. Jonathan's visit was like an oasis in the wilderness for David, even as our Savior's visits with us every Sabbath day here in worship. are an o on an oasis for us in the wilderness of this world. It doesn't mean things got easier for David. In fact they got worse. Verse 19 tells us the Ziphites, when they saw that David had come to their region, immediately ran to Saul at Gibeah and told him David was hiding in their territory, and they offered to surrender David into the king's hand. Again, right decisions don't always lead to a happy outcome. David made the right decision to flee to Zif. The Ziphites made a poor decision to choose to side with Saul. Verse 24 says, before the Ziphites returned, David had moved on to the wilderness of Naon. But the Ziphites managed to locate David and sent word to Saul. So Saul was able to come right to where David was. Verse 26 says, Saul was on one side of the mountain, and David was on the other. Saul's men had David surrounded and were about to capture him. But suddenly, verse 27 says, A messenger came to Saul with news that the Philistines had invaded the land. There's something remarkable about this part of the story. The Philistines had invaded the land many times before. Some suggest perhaps the Philistines were invading the territory of Benjamin where Saul lived, that it was his family, his crops that were threatened. Some suggest it was an exceptionally large army of Philistines. Saul was afraid of losing his kingdom. But whatever. The situation turned out to be we can certainly see the hand of God. Putting it in Saul's heart this time to stop pursuing David and go fight the Philistines. It was God who worked David's deliverance here. David appeared to be trapped, but God just lifted David out of danger by taking Saul and his men away. The Lord works in many different ways to preserve his people. Sometimes David escaped by his own wits, hiding where Saul couldn't find him. Another time God delivered David by means of the priest's Ephod, warning him to leave town. In this situation, God intervened by sending a messenger to Saul, telling him to come quickly and fight the Philistines. So Saul abandoned the chase, evidently unaware how close he was to captur. And all these events show us the wonder of God's providence. David wrote in Psalm 68, God is for us a God of deliverances, and to God the Lord belong escapes from death. I trust you realize those words are true for us as well. It's the Lord God who has kept us in life and has not delivered us into the hand of the enemy. I'll close with the psalm that David wrote on this occasion, Psalm 54. It says a contemplation of David when the Ziphites went and said to Saul, Is not David hiding with us? Save me, O God, by your name. Vindicate me by your power. Hear my prayer, O God, give ear to the words of my mouth, for strangers have risen against me and violent men have sought my life. Behold, God is my helper. The Lord is the sustainer of my soul. Willingly will I sacrifice to you. I will praise your name, O Lord, for it is good. For he has delivered me from all trouble. Again, I trust you see in David a marvelous picture of our Lord Jesus. Who always trusted in the Father, who always did the will of the Father. When Jesus prayed willingly, will I sacrifice to you? He was speaking of his own self-sacrifice. He willingly laid down his life to bring us to the Father in peace, to reconcile us to God. Jesus has become our rock of escape. Through him we've escaped the wrath of God because he took God's wrath upon himself. And in him, in him, Jonathan's words have come to their true fulfillment. Jesus, the Son of David. Is king over Israel and we are next to him, reigning with him on his throne May the Lord help us take these words to heart that we too might be encouraged in God. Pray with me More truly your uh tab and state