That's a great privilege for me to be uh trusted with opening the word before you, and I bring greetings from a Reformed Presbyterian Church to a Reformed Presbyterian Church. The last time I gave greetings recently, uh I brought Presbyterian, Reformed Presbyterian greetings and I found myself in Estonia and it wasn't until I got home I found out it was World Baptist Day, but I can only bring greetings from who I bring greetings from I'd like you to turn please to uh the Gospel of Mark. We read Mark chapter 5, 1 through 20. Mark chapter 5, 1 through 20. They came to the other side of the sea, to the country of the Gazarenes, and when Jesus had stepped out of the boat, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit He lived among the tombs, and no one could bind him any more, not even with a chain. For he had often been bound with shackles and chains But he wrenched the chains apart and he broke the shackles in pieces. No one had the strength to subdue him Night and day among the tombs and on the mountains, he was always crying out and cutting himself with stones, and when he saw Jesus from afar, he ran and fell down before him. And crying out with a loud voice, he said, What have you to do with me, Jesus of the Most High God? I adjure you by God, do not tempt, do not torment me. For he was saying to him, Come out of this man, you unclean spirit. And Jesus asked him, What is your name? And he replied, My name is Legion, for we are many. And he begged him earnestly not to send them out of the country. Now a great herd of pigs were feeding there on the hillside, and they begged him saying, Send us to the pigs, and let us enter them. So he gave them permission, and the unclean spirits came out and entered the pigs, and the herd, numbering about two thousand, rushed down the steep bank into the sea. and drowned in the sea. The herdsmen fled and told in the city and in the country, and people came to see what it was that had happened. And they came to Jesus and saw the demon-possessed man, the one who had been, who had the legion sitting there. He had had the legions, and he was sitting there clothed and in his right mind, and they were afraid. And those who had seen it described to them what had happened to the demon-possessed man. And they began to beg Jesus to depart from their region. And he was as he was getting into the boat, the man who had been possessed with demons begged him that he might be with And he did not permit him, but said to him, Go home to your friends and tell them how much the Lord has done for you. And he went away and began to proclaim in the Decapolis how much Jesus had done for him, and everyone marvelled. Let us pray together. Almighty and most merciful God, who gave individual gifts to your apostles. To proclaim the word with power, grant to all of us who minister and preach in your holy name that same spirit of wisdom, love, and power, that the truth you give us to declare may search the continent. conscience, convince the mind, and win the hearts of those who hear it, so that the glory of your kingdom may be advanced in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Spirit. Oh man. There's a story told of two very, very evil men. And uh Everything they did was evil. You can just add all the they they they ruled the town and uh one of the brothers died and the other brother uh went to the pastor and he said, I want you to take my brother's funeral. And but I want you to tell the people that my brother was the saint. Well, I can't do that, said the pastor. Then the evil man said, well, I could contribute $250,000 to the building fund. fund if uh if you would. So the preacher didn't know what to do, you don't have an idea, you pray about it, so let me pray about it. So he prayed about it and the preacher finally said that he would do it Well, as you can imagine, the whole tur the whole town turned out to see how the preacher could possibly say that this evil man was a saint. And uh as he looked down at the car skid, he said, Billy, you're a cheat. You are a rotten liar, and you're rotten from top to toe, but compared to your brother, you're a saint. Now that's very humorous, uh, but we cannot get away from the fact that there is evil in this world and Jesus Christ has conquered it. So we don't need to be afraid. This the passage this passage is um about God's sovereignty and of course his compassion, but God's sovereignty and power over evil. You will never meet a man this complicated. If you remember nothing else, remember that since God is sovereign He can save and use anybody. Anybody. So don't give up praying for that hopeless daughter, that hopeless son, that hope hopeless husband, that hopeless Anybody that you know. This guy was the terror of the neighborhood, the most unlikely person. So this passage is an encouragement for pastors and teachers and Sunday school teachers, prison chaplains, psychiatric nurses. It's an amazing passage. And what we'll learn is that God, with His sovereign power, can save and use anybody. I'd like to look at this passage uh from this perspective. Um I'd look at it from the man before he meets Jesus, verses one through five, and the man when he meets Jesus uh verse six through thirteen and the man after he meets Jesus in uh Mark fourteen through twenty. We haven't been promised smooth sailing in this world, but we have been promised a safe harbor. And Jesus said in John 16, 33, I have told you these things so that you may have peace in this world. You will have trouble. But take heart. I have overcome the world. In Mark 4, 35 to 41, we have the story of Jesus stilling the storm. upon the lake, upon his creation. And now in Mark five, one through twenty we have the story of Jesus stilling the raging storm within this madman's heart. This guy's crazy. These two passages remind us that Jesus is both Lord of creation and Lord over His. creatures. So the man before he meets Le uh Jesus, verse 3, the man before he meets Jesus is lonely. The man lived in the tombs. Lived On his own. Don't do a democratic survey, demographic survey in the tombs. There's nobody there. Um he wanted friends, physically he was lonely He wanted friends and relationships. The problem with atheists is they don't have anybody to talk to when they're alone. And of course they aren't really atheists because they have the truth of God in their heart and they're mad at the God that does exist. That's their problem. He was lonely physically, he was lonely in his soul. Nothing satisfied him. Even going to big sports events, he was Lonely in a crowd. Without Jesus you you have to be lonely. You're always looking for something to fill the void. Whether it's shopping, football. One of the reasons I married my wife is she said she didn't like shopping, but I found out that didn't include shoes. So we worked through that. That's okay. Augustine said there's a God-shaped vacuum that in there's a God-shaped vacuum in man that only God can fill Only God can fill. Before he meets Jesus, he's lonely, but he's also in bondage. Verse 4. No one was able to subdue him, not even with a chain. He was in bondage to a power stronger than man. If I remembered everything my mother said, I'd probably be a lot wiser than I am now. No. But she had a little Irish saying and she said, Some say the devil is dead. Some say the devil is gone. But simple people would like to know who carries this business on? From Holy Scripture, we know that Satan, well Satan is the biggest loser that was ever created. However He's not insignificant. And before we dismiss Satan and his very real power, he does have a hundred percent attendance at worship services. prayer meetings and session meetings, Bible studies. He was in bondage. Now we've all been the in bondage Some of us may be in it now, some of us may be struggling. You may be addicted to alcohol or gambling or drugs. You're looking for something to fill the void and you it God hasn't revealed to you yet that He is the only peace, He is the only satisfaction. the only one that can fill the void. You may be addicted to sexual perversion or fantasies. You may be dishonest in business. You may want to get to the top, you may have an ambition that everybody has to get out of your way. And I tell people, I said, you don't need to go to the most influential church, you need to go to the best church, the most theologically the most compassionate church, and then you ask God to help you meet the kind of people he wants you to meet and prevent you meeting those people that he doesn't want you to meet. This man was lonely, he was in bondage, and he was in bondage to Satan himself. Job 1 7, the Lord said to Satan, Where have you come from? Satan answered the Lord, From roaming through the earth and going back and forth. Satan is the biggest loser that ever was created, but he's not insignificant, and you have to be aware of how Matthew four ten, Jesus said to him, Away from me, Satan, for it is written, that's where you get your strength from Scripture. Scripture from the truth. Satan is a loser, he will lose. He's got a terminal illness and he's gonna go down. But in the meantime, we've got to be up we've got to be strong and we've got to resist him and we have to resist him with Day and night he would cry out. He had many sleepless nights because of his problems. He didn't know how to cope. He didn't know who to turn to. He had a low self image of himself. He cut himself with sounds So that's a pretty miserable picture. One of the things that we as Christians can do, if people are lonely, one of the antidotes is we need to be friendly. It's a good thing to be friendly, just to uh encourage people, uh, listen to them. So a person before he meets Christ is in in a horrible shape and he doesn't know it, but he's always looking for something to take away the pain. And and nothing works. Well, he hasn't read the book And see we've got we've got the answer book. When I was a a student in a mathematics class and somebody said all the answers are in the back of the book, I was like, Oh, great, wonderful. Yeah we got the we got the book. This is all the answers you I was tempted to say we've got all the answers for this life and the next. I'm not think I'm not sure we need any answers for the next life. I think it's gonna be all things. Carroll. But then you see when man meets Jesus. This is an old illustration, but a man uh it was a Black Panther called Elridge Cleaver, and years ago um prison chapter and stumbled into his uh cell and he didn't really know what to say. Um but he said, well uh Jesus, uh this is Elridge Cleaver here And he says, El Rich, this is Jesus right here And uh that seemed to have an effect on him apparently. But in verse six he says, When he saw Jesus from a distance he ran And he fell on his knees. See, he acknowledged who Jesus was, but there was no devotion. He didn't worship him. That the church is filled with people who don't know enough about Jesus to trust him. They know who Jesus is, but they don't worship him. They go through the motions. And they're as lonely and miserable and in bondage as this sad man. So he acknowledged who Jesus was, but there was no devotion. He didn't worship him. And there's there's always a tension coming to Jesus. The closer you get to finding Christ, the more obstacles the devil puts in his way. But because he's a loser, he he doesn't really uh He can't beat God. He puts up a vain attempt. But uh if you're one of those people in the church who knows who Jesus is but doesn't know enough to trust him, I encourage you to ask God to help you. Help you see who he is and why you need him. Uh of course he is confused. Uh he was drawn to Jesus, he knows who Jesus is, um, but he was confused about his own own identity. Entity. When I was at uh Libri, I had the great privilege of studying under Dr. Schaefer. There was a very talented Australian uh no English actor, and at the age of twenty-one He was playing uh the lead role in the Pajama gang in the Pajama Gang in uh Sydney in Pitt Street and uh in uh New York and in uh Shaftesbury Avenue in England. And he was brilliant. He wasn't a believer, but when he became a Christian He suddenly realized who he was off the stage. He could play anybody. But the sad thing was he didn't know who he was. That's the problem. You can't escape just playing roles. But that's a wonderful testimony to the God who created the heavens and the earth I now know who I am when I'm when I come off the stage. That's the work of God. Of course there's a battle for his soul. Verse 8. Jesus was saying You know, for those who are interested in the Greek, we're reminded that A. T. Robertson reminds us that's a progressive imperfect, signifying that Jesus allowed for a gradual deliverance. Sometimes you have an instant deliverance, but sometimes it's gradual. But if God chooses to deliver you, deliver you deliver you you So many people today are confused. They just they just don't know who to turn to. They're not hearing that the church is in a mess, not this one. Most churches are in a mess. It's harder and harder to find a good church to go go to. And uh in God's providence I don't know why he would choose me, but I've been to a number of countries, a lot of countries, and everybody seems to know what a Pentecost is a good thing. And they all know what a Baptist is, but nobody's heard of Presbyterians. And I'm going, Well Lord, I'm probably not the most qualified, but I'd like to do something about that. Could you you help me? Well twenty-eight years ago um I got fired from a church for telling the truth and that's a long story and I uh prayed, I said, Lord would you uh well I had Dr. Ben, he called me and he said, I hear you're looking for work and I said Yes, sir I am. He said, Well there's not much money in what I'm offering you, but all the benefits they're just out of this world. I said, sign me up, sign me up. And I just prayed, Lord, would you give me people to talk to who would would pay me. Well, I could talk to people and they never paid me. Uh I got a job as a limo driver and that's how I started. But that is a tangent, that's another I do I will tell you one thing. God knows what he's doing. Um sometimes it's difficult to start a conversation. And one of the strange one of the most strange of my strange conversation And uh I don't know why talking to a complete stranger. You know Bahman and taxi divers, they can say anything they like and it's That's fine, people expect that. I said uh I don't I don't know what happened. I I've got a lovely wife, but I I was raised on bacon and eggs and my wife's got me on I w why would you say that? I don't know. And he said, Well you tell your wife for me, Congratulations. Because and you are? Well I'm the president of the American Heart Association. I had to laugh. I had to laugh You know, you gotta laugh sometimes. I I didn't know that. That's that reminded me that God was with me particularly that day. See, the thing is what makes people if you can't get somebody to talk to you and he's still standing there. You can easily get somebody, you can easily find a way to talk to him. One of the best ways to say, I don't know if you know that, but Jesus Christ is the only way to God. That makes people s So mad they are usually say something and then you've got a conversation. Then people say, Well how do you know when the conversation's ended? I said, if they walk away, that's a pretty good sign. Um I was sitting on a plane coming from Australia to Singapore and I sat next to this guy and I said, So what do you do for a living? He said, Well I'm in insurance and I said He said, Okay, what's your patch? You know and he goes, Southern hemisphere. And I said, Right, I believe that. You're sitting next to me in coach. How does that work? And he goes, Well actually all the money that I save, uh I do a lot of travelling. the money I save, I uh I put it into a fund and we travel as a family and because I was quite young and I was single and he said uh I I really love my daughter and my family and I thought he's got a daughter and it's probably okay I might be interested in that let's have a look and I said uh so but this is what God put on my heart I said, so you told me you loved your daughter, right? Well what what did you tell her about Jesus? Now that's not me speaking, that's Jesus speaking in me. I said, what do you what did you tell her about or about Jesus? He said, oh I sent it down to the Catholic priest. Well I'm sorry if you're a Catholic, but I said, wait a minute, how in the world do you know that he's going to tell it the truth? He said Oh, I never thought of it like that. And I said, Well if you really love her, you'll find out what the truth is and either you'll get to learn enough to tell her yourself or you'll find somebody you can tell But that's not love as far as I'm concerned. Well it was a long story and I had a bit of a conflict, but he said, Would you would you take two hundred cigarettes through the customs for me? And I said Sure. The re the reason that I did that, it's legal, is that I knew that I'd have to deliver them to his hotel, so I thought at least I'll get a free cup of tea out of it. Surely. And it I didn't, but that's beside the point. Jesus is the only way. to find God. All other gods they have it. You know the thing that all other gods have in common? They're dead uh they're no use to you. I depending on where I am, uh if if I hear somebody say, Well if Allah wills, and I'll say, wait a minute, how can Allah will if Allah isn't? What what kind of a statement is that? And then we have a good discussion. for as long as it goes. But on this particular plane, I I had talked to this guy for three hours. I was well prayed up and I knew I was going to give a report to this guy. church when I got back and I gave myself a half hour rest and I turned to the guy by the window and he was already doing this. I don't want to hear anything. And I go, okay, it's fine Um and then after a while it aggravated me and I said, Um, do you mind if I ask you a question? And he goes, Why not? Spoke to me I was a real ding dong trip. And i we weren't pr speaking to the crowd, but other people heard what we were talking about, uh because they had nothing else to do except for I don't know. Um The great thing about Jesus is if you if you have Jesus Christ in your life, when the sun goes down, you're standing on a rock. Without Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior, we're standing on a shifting shadow. And a shadow that disappears when the sun goes down. And if you have a personal relationship with God You cannot die without faith. If you don't have that relationship, you will die in your sins. And we were pointing out the seriousness of hell this morning, how you will burn in hell forever. And you won't be able to escape the flames. Because there's no no ground to stand on to remove yourself. You'd be burning like a an astronaut. And you won't have the privilege of losing consciousness and you won't sleep. I'm terrible after three nights of no sleep. Hell is just an awful place and it absolutely does exist. How do I know that? Because God says so. If you can tell me explain to me why that isn't so, I'll listen. But you don't have a biblical leg to stand on. And we we need to be gentle with people, but we don't need to let them get away with nonsense. They're badly ta' badly taught. We have the privilege of Well of course we have to say a little bit about the pigs here. But Psalm thirty-four eight says like this man did If you're not a believer, taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed or happy is the man who takes refuge in him. Who doesn't need peace and happiness in this crazy world? of lawlessness and corruption and evil. But Jesus is the Prince of Peace. He's offering us peace. He'll help us sleep at night. I'm not sure everybody needs to To sleep at night. Some people may do. I'm not the doctor. But if you have peace with Christ, it makes going to sleep a whole lot easier. Mark. eleven through fourteen we have to say something about the pigs. There was a large herd of pigs feeding on the hillside. And the demons begged Jesus, Send me among the pigs, allow me, allow us to go into them You see, God is not the author of evil. God cannot be blamed for evil. The devil and his demons, they have to ask God permission. And I learnt this early, we were witnessing on the street in Brighton years ago and I I thought, oh my goodness, I'm going to miss the last bus and I'm not in the mood to walk home. And I was talking to a witch and I thought, how do I get out of this? And I said, you know, the blood of Jesus Christ is and as she was gone. I thought, oh great, I catch So if you ever get in there and don't ever be afraid to uh witness to a salesman who's trying to one of the things that happens if you're out east somewhere Where you you get a cab. I always f I always negotiate the price of the cab the day before, so I can always walk away and say, Oh no, you know, it's stealing from me. I can't I can't pay that. Um but what happens is th they'll you the cab will take you, but first of all he has to take you to his friend who happens to have a big shop with lots of things that you're supposed to buy. And I always accept for two reasons. One I get a free cup of tea and a clean bathroom. And then I had to sit and listen to the patch uh the pitch, pitch, patch, patch, pitch. And uh when he finally says, um, when it's time for me to go, I say, listen, I don't know c can I ask you a question? Do you believe in miracles? I guess Well why do you ask me? I said, you're gonna need one, I don't have a cent. But thank you very much, uh beautiful stuff you have. And you just finished the conversation say thank you very much for teaching And go on. Anyway, that's a little uh little extra. But see, the the devil has no he's real and he's powerful, but we can be protected by God. Um we don't have to fear death. Unless you're an unbeliever, that's a different story, of course. Um what happened here is that Jesus allowed the demons to do their destructive work. God is not the author of evil. He cannot be charged with destroying the property of these pigs. Jesus was not guilty of breaking the eighth commandment. The mercy of this situation is that the pagan pig farmers only lost their pigs. They didn't lose their lives. This is a a a God of all power, but he's also compassionate. He's also interested in individuals. Mass mass evangelism is one soul at a time. And the church grows because God is busy saving souls. And it's it's very important to realize that in this particular instance if you study the context sometimes he comes across the lake just to see this one man. It's not as though this guy has anything to offer. He's not exactly uh a catch I mean he's he's a mess. He's very unattractive and he's demon-possessed. And Jesus goes across the lake just to minister to this man and then goes back. Jesus is the demon God of creation is interested individuals. He's interested in your husband. He's interested in your wife. He's interested in your wayward children. And so all the time you have breath You need to be praying for those that you love who you need to be saved. You have to stop when you die, but you don't have to stop before you die. And please Please don't stop because this man was changed very quickly in one day. So don't ever give up praying for those that you love. There are people who didn't give up on you. Well that's not why you pray, but um don't ever give up praying. Well now the man after he meets Jesus, um that's That's a different story. Gosh, everybody thought this guy was crazy and now he's in his right mind and he's dressed. Um sometimes we were talking about how to have a conversation Sometimes you can sit down and you can join in a conversation. I had a situation like that, uh not proud of it, but uh I actually bought some rollerblades way back and uh we all went rollerblading in Portland, Oregon and after an hour I said, I've got to sit down. I think I I want to be able to say I didn't fall over. Well I sat down, um the kids jumped in the fountain and Sheila and I sat down were right next to me. I couldn't help but overhear the guy said, Well everybody in California's uh it wasn't a very nice word, but the homosexual. And I said, Oh, uh I'm sorry, I I couldn't help but overhear that, but that's just not true He goes, What do you know about it? I said, Well I know it's not true. Well how would you know that? I said, Well I have a friend there who isn't one. Well how could that be? I said, Well he's a Christian. So you don't believe all that stuff, do you? I said Of course I do. Why don't you? Well what happened was he was being witnessed to by a young believer who he wasn't well taught. He was he was Dropping lead balloons and he was trying, he was failing, and he was learning. And it turned out that in his weakness he was rejoicing because he himself had been delivered that year from three things He was a um uh uh a drag queen that he'd been delivered from. He was a heroin addict for fifteen years, and uh he'd been in a witch's covenant for over fifteen years and God delivered him from all those things. J similar to this guy. So it was amazing that well it's just amazing that I got to sit down at that moment And then the the my problem then was one of pride because I said, I've got books in the car that this guy needs but if I go back I bet I fall over and I won't be able to say I didn't fall over and I tripped and fell right before I got into the car. But that was okay. I got the books, passed it on, and thank God that I was able to join in the conversation. conversation. But he'll teach you, he'll be there and he will give you things to say that you may have never said before. But he will not leave you, he will not hang you out So even as uh Christians we think we know better than God, um, but we don't. This man said, Well now I'm a believer, I I want to come with you. And Jesus said That's not my plan. Uh I want you to go somewhere else, want you to go home and tell your family. And if my uh biblical history is right, it turns out that this crazy man was converted and Jesus used Well, so we can say from this passage that God is sovereign over evil, and our God can save and use anybody. anybody here can have hope. And I do believe that you need to understand what you're doing as you become a Christian. But if you start looking seriously, I cannot believe that God will zap you before you are ready, before He's got you ready to to to follow Christ. There's an urgency because we don't know when our last day will come be. But uh if you start uh you if you want to understand what you're doing, I I can't imagine that God would just zap you while you're still looking. I I believe he will help you and and give you enough time. young boys and young girls, there's gonna be a huge gap between your age group and my age group. Uh and there's a real need uh for This church and I know it's a wonderful desire as we finish now, it's a wonderful desire that you have is to learn how to talk to people about Jesus outside the church. to the scriptures and the power of the Holy Spirit, and this is what sets everybody free with the gifts that He has given you. You don't have to be like anybody else. If if all you can do is bake a cake baker cape, give it to somebody and say that's from Jesus and see how far you go. Raise the subject, see how far you can go, and uh all that stuff can be learned and God can use Well, how do you plan on coping this week? Because the devil is hell bent on destroying you. Now he is the loser, but he is hell bent on destroying And I am convinced that my son Matthew is a believer. And I had a similar problem when I was younger. I had a breakdown. And uh I thought that if the devil knew what God had planned for me, which he probably did, it wasn't surprising that he tried to smash me. He didn't because God was holding me. It took me a while to get in line and uh that'll happen with anybody who has a breakdown. But God, that's not a problem for anybody. I gave uh Pastor Jesse a very helpful book. I think everybody knows somebody who has panic attacks or who's anxious. Um it's called Christians Get Depressed Too By Dr. David Murray. It is an excellent book. There's a spiritual part of the body, there's a part of the mind, and there's uh it it's it's y you have to understand that the the brain and I don't the brain needs chemicals uh and so there's there's a need for uh for chemicals to uh be balanced by a medication with from people who know. So it's a very helpful book. Let me just finish by saying this. I used to think that the hardest thing in the world was to squeeze toothpaste I think it is impossible, but I don't believe that anymore. You know, a half empty glass uh can no more fill itself than we can save ourselves. But I think the hardest thing in the world to do is to get Down on your knees if you're not a believer and tell God I've made a mess of my life. I think you know that. Uh you know what, you can't do that. It's impossible. That's why But if you get down on your knees and you ask him and say, I don't know who you are, if you exist, would you reveal yourself to me and would you help me become a child of God? What a wonderful thing. He's adopted us. We're never going to be unadopted. He's going to provide for us. We don't need a strinking rich uncle. We've got the God of the universe. Uh we don't need all the uncle's problems. Uh God is promised to feed us every single day. He didn't say you'd have a float in the bank, but he's gonna take care of every day. Every day. So when you die, there's no more days and you're fine. So don't be so anxious about how you perfect it's all you know what, don't listen to me, it's it's all in the book. I'm getting this from the book. So uh let's do that and uh you may not know enough about Jesus to trust him but ask him to show you. who he is and ask him to help you. Let's um just listen to verse six sixteen of Psalm 66. Come and listen, or you who fear God, let me tell you what He has done for me. So let us pray together. If you are restless, Jesus can give you peace with God If you are naked, Jesus can clothe you in his robe of righteousness. If you have an unsound mind, Jesus can prepare your mind for service in ministry. And it is because the only true and living God of the Bible is sovereign and almighty over all, that He can save and use anybody in His Service. I'm going to pray now the outline of my funeral sermon. I've always believed that people should hear their funeral sermon before they die, but that's not always possible. I trust this isn't your last day on earth But you should know that God is your creator. And one awesome day God will be your judge. Here is the question: Is God your Heavenly Father? When the sun goes down tonight, will you be standing on the solid rock of the Lord Jesus? Or will you be standing on a shifty shadow? Psalm 34, taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. This too is the word of the Lord. Amen.