God's holy word. If you have a copy of the Lord's scriptures with you tonight, turn to Psalm 119. We're going to continue on in Psalm 119. We're making progress. We're moving into the Zion stanza this evening. It's verses forty-nine through fifty-six. And even though we have just prayed as we were praying in our response in our confession, let us go again to the God of the Word before we go. to the word of our God. Let us pray together. Lord, we have just sung our Confession. And in that song, we confess that we have neglected your word. We have failed to do the good that you have put before us. And we know how good it is Father, tonight that is exactly what We are here to learn from your word what you would have us know, what you would have us solidify in our hearts, what you would have us Remind ourselves. And so we pray, Father, that you, in your grace and mercy, would come down to each one of us through your word, transform us more into the image of Christ, and make us lovers. Of our God, of you, Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. In the name of Jesus Christ I pray. Amen. I wonder how much thought each of you give to the importance of water. Do you think it's important? I mean, of course, we all know that we need it eventually. Or else we'll die. But most often it's not something we think about until we really need it It's somewhat strange that something so important is often an afterthought, if a thought at all. And there are dozens of ailments that many people suffer through. That can be the result of dehydration. Migraines, tremors, pains, gastric distresses. If you look it up, it basically seems like anything that could bother you is caused by dehydration And all of these issues are remedied by bringing up your fluid levels. And sometimes we can be so dehydrated that it throws us for a loop. It hits us hard. It forces us to stop. For some of us, this may mean time in a hospital. But after that big dehydration event, we take water more seriously, don't we? We take seriously this vitally important part of our life after it has knocked us to the ground. Brothers and sisters, I see a similarity between water and God's Word. The Word is something so vital, so necessary, and yet we can find ourselves completely neglecting it as long as everything just keeps working. I think that sometimes people can end up, and pardon the anachronism, dewordrated, which carries with it a bunch of problems for our life. And just like with dehydration, we can hit a point where everything grinds to a halt. And we can no longer ignore our scripture levels. And God brings us through a crisis, usually through His word or the application of it to us by His ministers. And then finally, we remember how important it is. We realize we need to take a more active and serious approach to this most vital part of our life. We need to keep our scripture levels where they should be. Now I want to remind you, because it's been a month since our last sermon in Psalm 119, that this whole psalm is a prayer focused on exactly that, our desperate need, the vital importance of God's own. Word. We must know it, we must keep it, we must love it, we must be changed by it. And by studying this prayer, Psalm 119, we are learning how we too can pray about our life and our life in the Word. How we can pray about our scripture levels. Just as the psalmist does. We've gone through six stanzas so far, and I think it'd be helpful just to quickly review the last two before we move into stanza. So we learned in the fifth stanza, the he stanza, that there is a huge chasm between the righteous and the unrighteous. One that cannot be bridged of our own effort. So we must pray, as the psalmist prays, that the Lord would completely transform us by his word. And then in the sixth stanza, the Vav stanza, we learn that we must pray for God to make His Word the central focus of our life. Everything in our lives must be founded on God's Word, and through His Word, God gives us power to endure our life. Well, as is often the case in Psalm 119. We are going to see together similar themes that are presented in this, the seventh stanza, the Zion stanza So let's read together. I won't ask you to stand since you're already sitting, but follow along in your copies of God's Word. We're in Psalm 119, verses 49 through 56. Remember the word to your servant, upon which you have caused me to hope. This is my comfort in my affliction, for your word has given me life The proud have me in great derision, yet I do not turn aside from your law. I remembered your judgments of old, O Lord, and have comforted myself. Myself. Indignation has taken hold of me because of the wicked who forsake your law. Your statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage. I remember your name in the night, O Lord, and I keep your law. This has become mine because I kept your precepts. Brothers and sisters, I hope that what we will learn from this stanza, the seventh stanza, is that We must pray as the psalmist here prays, and we must pray for God to sustain us through his word and to bless our faithfulness to his word. We must pray for God to sustain us through his word and to bless our faithfulness to his word. We're going to look at this in the two halves of the Psalm. The Psalm is broken up in verses 49 to 52, and we will see sustained by God's Word. And then in verses 53 to 56, we will see where we are blessed in faithfulness. To God's Word. So let's turn our attention first to that first half in verses 49 and 52 where we see that we are sustained by God's Word. God's Word is our foundation. And we see this in 49 and 50. Once again, we see this theme of central importance of God's Word. It is the most important thing because all we have and all we believe is found. Founded on it. God's word is the foundation of our faith. He gives us faith To believe his word. Look at what it says in 49. It says, Remember the word to your servant, upon which you have caused me to hope. The starting point of all true faith is that God is true to his word. So this almost appeals to God Himself. Remember the word to your servant. If God is not a remembering God who keeps his word, then is there anything in which we can have hope? Or as Paul put it in 1 Corinthians 15, 14, and if Christ is not risen, then our preaching is empty, and your faith is also empty. If the promise of Christ's resurrection is not fulfilled, then we have no cause to hope that we will be raised up, and our faith and God's promises will be proved false. But this is precisely what God does when He changes a life and converts a sinner into a saint. When he converts a rebellious slave into an inheriting child. He causes us to hope in his revealed character. And his will to hope in who he has revealed himself to be in his word. So in prayer, the psalmist reminds himself, saying, Upon which you have caused me to hope. So we see that God's word sustains us. I'm so sorry about that. When we pray, we must pray in the same way that this psalmist has prayed. We must found our petitions on God's word, hoping and trusting in his revelation that he hears the prayers of his people and answers them. And this is not the only place that tells us this. In Psalm 6, verse 9, it says, The Lord has heard my supplication. The Lord will receive my prayer Or in Psalm 65, verses 1 through 2, it says, Praise is awaiting you, O God, in Zion, and to you the vow shall be performed. O you who hear prayer, to you all flesh will come. God's word must be the foundation of our faith because it is also the foundation of our very lives. God gives us life through his word. Do you see this in verse 50? It says, This is my comfort in my affliction, for your word has given me life. Regardless of what may come, no matter the suffering or affliction, God's people do not need to collapse in despair. God's word is the source, the foundation of our life, and it never fails, it never crumbles, it never shifts. Now, brothers and sisters, hear this, and I hope your heart is warmed as it warms my heart. Consider that the Lord Jesus Christ is the Word And consider what it tells us in John about the Word: that He was in the beginning with God, and He was God. All things were made through Him, and without Him nothing was made that was made. In Him was life. And the life was the light of men. This is our life. It is in Christ. It is in the Word. And our life is not vulnerable. Our eternal life is founded in Him, in the promised Messiah, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world. And it is founded in the fulfillment of that promise that God has made, and that fulfillment we know of because it is recorded for us in the Holy Spirit. Scriptures. It's recorded in God's Word. It tells us that it is true. So we see that God's word sustains us as the foundation of our faith and of our life. It is the starting point of our hope and the source of our continued living. Well, next we will also see that we are further sustained by God's word because God's word is our strength. Look at verses 51 and 52 with me. God gives us strength to remain faithful even in the face of great personal suffering for it. It says, the proud have me in great derision, yet I do not turn aside from your law. It's not certain who wrote this psalm, Psalm 119, but I will tell you, and I'm sure it won't be hard for you to believe, that prior to the twentieth century it was almost universal. Agreed that David wrote the song. But since we don't exactly know, modern scholarship raises some questions, Dead Sea Scrolls and all that stuff But it's regardless because we can understand this kind of steadfast strength that God's Word provides if we look at an episode in David's life I wonder if you recall the encounter that David had with Saul in 1 Samuel 24. I'll summarize it for you. Saul's in a cave, doing as people do. It says, attending to his needs. Or nature's call, if you will. And while he's there, David's buddies clamor. They say, This is the day of which the Lord said to you, Behold, I will deliver your enemy into your hand, that you may do to him as it seems good to you. Do you remember what David does? He cuts off the corner of the Of Saul's garment in secret. He sneaks up there, cuts it off. And when he and his mighty men are about to leap upon Saul in his vulnerability and to kill him, David stops. He cannot lift his hand to the Lord's anointed. And even though Saul could surely be described as a proud one who had David in great derision, David would not turn aside from God's law. Even to end this derision, even to end the running for his life and the constant hiding and fear, David knew, as the psalmist, whoever he is, know That God gives us strength through his word, for his word gives us his utterances and his judgments, and it shows us God's justice and righteousness. And how he orders all of human history to bless his covenant people. It says in verse 52: I remembered your judgments of old, O Lord, and have comforted myself. David was a man after God's own heart, he trusted God. How did David know God? Through his word. He was raised in a Jewish, a faithful Jewish household. He was certainly taught the Torah. He was certainly taught what God had accomplished and all the wondrous things that he had done for his people. Well, after Saul's done his business And he leaves the cave. David follows, and he calls out to him, and he questions Saul. He says, Why are you pursuing me? Even though David admits that he's got no desire to harm Saul, and he proves it by showing that corner of his robe that he had cut off. David says, I will not raise my hand to the Lord's anointed. And do you know what his reason is? David's reason is that he trusts the judgments of Jehovah. It says in 1 Samuel 24:12: this is David's words: let the Lord judge between you and me, and let the Lord avenge me on you. But my hand shall not be against you. Therefore let the Lord be judge. Then verse 15, and judge between you and me, and see and plead my case, and deliver me out of your hand. David trusted God's judgments, as this psalmist trusted God's judgments, and we must do the same, brothers and sisters. We must in our prayers remind ourselves that God's judgment is always possible. Perfect. Remind ourselves that he loves his children. And though our personal situation seems dire and out of control, God can and will judge perfectly, and he will bring about his chosen outcome. As David trusted in the judgments of the Lord, so this psalmist trusts in the judgments of the Lord, and we learn that we must So the psalmist prayer reminds us that God sustains us through his word. It is the foundation of our faith and of our life. And through God's word, he gives us strength for faithfulness to it. But the psalmist isn't finished. This is just the first half of this stanza. He continues praying. And from the second half of this stanza, we learn how we too should pray Because we learn that we are blessed in our faithfulness to God's Word. This is in verses 53 through 56, the second half of the Sansa. And first we're going to look at verses 53 and 56, where we'll see that the faithful are blessed with burning zeal. Zeal for God's law means that we love it and we love the Lord who has given it. Look at verse 53. Indignation has taken hold of me because of the wicked who forsake your law As we see the lawless unbelievers breaking God's law, which we love, we are moved by the zeal that He has produced in us through His Word. We think things like this when we watch somebody flagrantly flouting God's laws, we say, how can you be so foolish? Do you not know what has happened to people who do these exact same things? Don't you know what awaits the unrepentant sinner Are you are you completely ignorant of God's commands? We think to ourselves that a person couldn't possibly be so reckless if they absolutely understood what was at stake. Well, here the word that's translated as indignation in the New King James, it's a Hebrew word and it it literally means hot burning. In other uses it's used to denote when uh when somebody gets hot in their skin and their skin starts to get hot. But it has an another figurative meaning. Which you can find in the King James Version, and that is horror. The King James says, horror hath taken hold of me. The Christian cannot be comfortable in the presence of such rebellion against our Lord. We've been taught by his word exactly what happens to those who scornfully disobey our God. We love God. We love his word, we love his law and his commands and his judgments, or we should. And so we cannot watch all of God's word being reviled and being broken and ignored without having some kind of reaction. Now, moving just from that thought into verse 56, we're going to see that that burning zeal is produced in us by our faithfulness to God's word. Do you see what it says in 56? This has become mine because I kept your precepts We must not think that this means that our obedience earns for us a reward from God and that the reward is zeal. No, our obedience produces in us Confidence in our Lord, confidence in his word. All the blessings of God, I hope you realize this, are yours through obedience. Christ's obedience Ultimately, it is our Savior's obedience that effectually saves us and makes us fit to receive the blessings of the Father. And so we should pray for such obedience. Oh Lord, that we would keep your precepts, that we would love your laws and your statutes and commands, and that you would produce in us zeal. and loving devotion to you and to your word. Well, in addition to zeal, those who are faithful to God's word are also blessed with constancy. They're blessed with constancy. And we see this in verses 54 and 55. This is what characterizes God's people. 54 says, Your statutes have been my songs and the house of my pilgrimage. When the psalmists talk about singing and songs, there's an element of joy here. Singing is usually accompanied with joy in the Psalms. And so there's a sense of the joy that comes from living a life faithful to God's statutes. They are the psalmist's song. They're his delight. Brothers and sisters, is God's word your delight? Are his commandments your joy? Do they fill your life with the song? And not only is God's word the psalmist joyful song, but it's his constant song. He says, in the house of my pilgrimage, and this is a common figure of speech that's just referring to your entire life. As long as you're a pilgrim on this world, and that's what he's saying, is that God's statutes are the song and joy, the delight of his life, all his lifelong. You see, there's never a time when the Christian is not aware of the Father's grace and mercy And this motivates constant and continued obedience and faithfulness. Look at verse fifty-five. I remember your name in the night, O Lord, and I keep your law. To remember God's name is to meditate on all that God is and has revealed Himself to be. In the night indicates that it's not just a time. That's set aside each day a little devotional time. Although those are not bad. I'm not saying that at all. But what this is indicating is that it's a constant activity of the mind, even at night, when laying in bed Trying to go to sleep, your constant thought is how good God is. Your constant thought is that God blesses faithfulness to his word and that his status Sheets are wonderful, and that his his laws are good. Later in this psalm, the psalmist is going to talk about waking up before the dawn. That he can cry to help with hope in God's word. He will also speak of his eyes being awake through the midnight watches to meditate on God's law. This is the common theme in this psalm. The constancy of the Christian life is a blessing from the Lord to those who desperately seek to keep his word, to be faithful to his laws, statutes. God's word sustains us as the foundation of our faith and life and as the source of our strength to persevere through adversity. As God works in us through his word, enabling our obedience, he produces within us the great blessings of zeal and constancy. It is our Lord Himself who gives us His Word, who gives us faith in His Word, and who revives us through His Word. Are we starting to catch on? Seven stanzas of telling us very similar things. We should start to get a picture that God's word is really important. Does it have this kind of importance in your life yet? When you feel weak, when you feel beaten down by the world And when you feel like you're the object of derision by the proud, the insolent, the godless around you, what is your most common response? Do you find your comfort in God's Word, as the psalmist does? Do you derive strength to hold your hand, to keep yourself from sinning, as David did? Do you find that strength by trusting in the judgments of our Lord? Does God's word make a difference in your life? Are you encouraged and strengthened by what He's done for His people? Do the accounts of God pouring out his justice on sinners cause you to fear for those you know who are flagrantly flouting his laws? None of us are as dependent on God's word as we should be. There's not a single person who trusts God's word as we ought. Our only hope is to rest in Christ's perfect and completed obedience. He has washed away our sin, even our sin of neglecting. His word. But just because it's been forgiven does not give us liberty to continue in such wrong thinking and practice, does it? Just because we got through a good dewordration moment, we got through the crisis, does that mean we can ignore God's word? No. We must do something. If only we would follow the psalmist's example and cry out to our God that He would sustain us through His Word, bless us in faithfulness to His Word. Word. Our God is merciful and gracious. He remembers his word to his servants, upon which he has caused you to hope. You can pray as the psalmist does. us and you can trust that our God will hear your prayer. Please let us pray together. I'm gonna pray in closing our sermon time, but then I'll move us immediately into our time of corporate prayer. And I hope that we can take some of the things we have learned from this passage with us into that prayer. And I would also like to call to your attention, just remind you about the Nolan family and the difficulties uh that are going on with the Nolan's granddaughter Anna Marie. Uh call to your mind Audrina and uh the coolies and their ministry there. And uh as is our custom Prayer is orderly and good. Let us pray together. God in heaven, holy, awesome Father You have given us your word for a reason. It wasn't just because you wanted to fill a bunch of books with words. It's not because you have an affinity for ink on paper. It's not because you like people to to make tiny writing. That's not what it is at all Lord, you've given us your word for a purpose. You've given us your word because we are helpless and hopeless without it. We would have no knowledge of Christ without your word. We would have no knowledge of your promises made to your covenant people. We would know who you are, we would know that there is sin in the world and that there is something bright Broken. We would know that you are originally good by the world around us because of all the ways that you've blessed us, even in the brokenness of this world, but we would not know you What you're like, how you behave, how you act on our behalf, how you act toward your people, how you act toward those who are in rebellion against you. We wouldn't know these things without your word. And so, Father, we pray that you would give us an increased desire for your word. And increase dependence on your word. Increase the way that we know we need to be in your word and to be encompassed by it, surrounded by it, filling our minds with it every second of every day. Lord, we know that there is much that we do that does not help us. We know that it's important, and just like with water, sometimes we we neglect what is important. And so we ask for your grace and your mercy. That you would spare us from any extreme difficulty because we have ignored your word, but that you would kindly, gently Gently nudge us and remind us, as a loving father gently reminds his children of the way that they should be. Help us, Lord. Help us to love your word May that produce in us a greater love for you and for your church. And now, Father, as we, your church, come before you to lift up our prayers and supplications, we ask that you will hear them. And we ask this, not in despair, but in great hope, for you remember the word to your servants. You've caused us to hope in them. Hear our prayers now, and we we ask that they would glorify you.