Gathered to him again, and as he was accustomed, he taught them again. And the Pharisees came and asked him, Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife? Testing him And he answered and said to them, What did Moses command you? And they said, Moses permitted a man to write a certificate of divorce and to dismiss her. And Jesus answered and said to them, Because of the hardness of your heart he wrote you this precept. But from the beginning of the creation, God made them male and female. For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. So then they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore what God has joined together, let not man separate. In the house, his disciples also asked him again about the same matter. So he said to them, Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her. And if a woman divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery. Let us pray together. Almighty and gracious God, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you have revealed yourself, your mind, your heart to your people, that you have preserved it. Throughout the ages that you have given it to us tonight. Lord, there is something in this passage that you want us to see. We know we cannot See it on our own with our own intuition or our own reason. And so we ask once again, Holy Spirit, lead us into the truth through this your holy word. And I pray, Lord, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer. We pray in Christ's name Amen. Please be seated. We're in uh a part two. Last week we we looked at this same passage in a very broad and general sense, looking at how the Lord Jesus used it. And we'll We'll see now a little bit more detail about what it is that Jesus really answers. But we need to ask ourselves, why is it important that we understand what Jesus is saying here to the Pharisees? We need what Jesus says here and to understand why he's saying this because We are told in Romans chapter 12, verse 9, that we are to abhor what is evil. We are to cling to what is good. That's been summarized through the church ages as we need to love what God loves, and we need to hate what God hates Well how can we know what God loves to love it with him? Or what he hates to hate it with him? There's really only one way, isn't there? It's God's word. We have to know what God thinks about things. And we have to know what God is doing. And last week, well uh a few weeks ago when we were looking at this passage together, we saw that this is not a trivial subject. Marriage is not a trivial subject. It's a very significant and important subject. And it's so important because, as we'll see from this passage tonight, marriage is not about us. The design of marriage, the purpose of marriage, it's not just about human beings. It is far more significant than that. It is about God. It's about his will, his plan, what he wants for his people. And why is this important for us? It's because Satan is trying very, very hard and has been for a long, long time, but it seems like he's trying even harder now. To attack marriage, to make marriage seem like something, well, something unnecessary. Or perhaps even if you were to look at some secular literature. Satan wants people to think that marriage itself is harmful. Can sin negate God's will? Can sin in marriage negate God's will for marriage? Does sin, people failing at marriage, mean that God somehow failed in his design for marriage? As Paul says, God forbid, may it never be. We've been going through the gospel of Mark because Mark has told us from the beginning what it is he's trying to do. He is trying to show us that Jesus of Nazareth is the Christ. He is the Messiah, the Son of the living God. And he's shown us this through those different snapshots. photographs, pictures of Jesus' ministry. Through the healings we've seen that He has the power that only God has. He can cleanse lepers. Who can do that? Nobody can do that. Through his teaching, he teaches as one with authority, not like the scribes or the Pharisees. In fact, it says he teaches as no one had ever taught before. But we've also gotten in the last few chapters of Mark the perfect revelation of God. Peter's confession in Mark chapter 8, when we looked at the parallel passage in Matthew, we saw that's not just something that Peter came up out of his own mind, was it? It was something that the Father had given him. It wasn't from flesh and blood. It was from God. To be able to recognize that Jesus is not just another prophet. He's not even a returned prophet like Elijah. He is the Christ. He is the Son of God. And if you recall, Peter, even having confessed that, showed that he did not understand what that meant. Remember when he tries to rebuke Jesus. Jesus begins after that point teaching of what will happen to him. He will be betrayed, he must be betrayed, he must be handed over, he must go to the cross. Peter didn't want that to happen. And Jesus rebukes him. But in his mercy, Jesus gives him another moment. A moment on the top of a mountain when the veil of his glory is pulled back. And Peter, James, and John were able to see the sun. They didn't just see Jesus, their friend, their teacher, their guide. They saw the Son of God. But they didn't just see it, did they? They heard the voice. This is my beloved Son. Hear him. Now they've come down from the mountain of transfiguration. There's been some events with trying to cast out demons. They have been learning. Ever since the confession of Peter, that Jesus must go to the cross. And from this point on, we will see everything that Jesus does has to do with his journey towards Jerusalem. He's going through the land that is not primarily Jewish, and yet once again there's a crowd that comes. Another crowd of people, and once again Jesus teaches. And once again the Pharisees come to test him. And I'll just remind you, it's that same word that was used of Jesus in the wilderness. It's the same thing that Satan wanted to do, to test him, to tempt him. to see if this Son of Man who is the Son of God could be tempted away from trusting in his Father. We learned that Jesus answers this trap of the Pharisees. By showing us that God's Word has the answers to life's difficult moral questions. He doesn't make something up that's a new. Instead, he takes us to the Word. Perhaps the oldest in the Bible. And then tonight, focusing on verses 5 to 9, I hope that we will see together, by God's grace. That God's mercy does not change his design. God's mercy Does not change his design. And so we're going to look at this under two headings tonight. We're going to look first at verse 5, and we'll see God's mercy. And then we'll look at the rest of this verses six to nine and see God's design. Let's jump right into it together. Verse five, and we'll see God's mercy. He says, and Jesus answered and said to them, Because of the hardness of your heart He wrote you this precept. God allowed Moses to permit divorce. Why? Because of the hardness of man's heart If we were to turn together, and let's do it, we did it the uh a couple weeks ago, but let's do it again. Go to Exodus chapter 24. I'll give you a second to turn there. Exodus chapter twenty-four. It's these first four verses. of Exodus 24 that are being referred to and that have been referred to because this is the only explicit place in the Torah where it mentions a certificate of divorce. He says, When a man takes a wife and marries her, and it happens that she finds no favor in his eyes because he has found some uncleanness in her, and he writes her a certificate of divorce, puts it in her hand, and sends her out of his house when she is departed from his house and goes and becomes another man's wife, if the latter husband detests her, and writes her a certificate of divorce, puts it in her hand, and sends her out of his house, or if the latter husband dies, who took her as his wife Then her former husband who divorced her must not take her back to be his wife after she has been defiled. For that is an abomination before the Lord, and you shall not bring sin on the land which the Lord your God has given you as an inheritance. If you notice there, it's not as though God says, Yes, in this scenario you must divorce. It's not a command to divorce. Rather, it's a it's a mercy. that God has given to his people. Notice what Jesus says. He says that it's because of the hardness of your heart Reminded me of Psalm 103. Psalm 103, verse 14. What does it tell us about God? He remembers our frame. He knows that we are dust. He knows who we are. He knows that we are sinners. And that because of sin, what will happen to marriages? They will fail. They will fall apart. And so the first thing that we really learn is that there's no such thing as no-fault divorce. No matter what the world is trying to say, the two people can simply grow apart. This is not how it works in God's design. But because of sin, God has allowed a mercy. Now we have other passages that inform how we're to understand what this uncleanness that Moses mentions is. If you recall the last time we were looking at this, I mentioned the two schools, the Shemai school and the Halel school, and I listen, there's no tests in case you forgot which one is which. I'll just remind you, it's the Hillel school that was really liberal and that was saying you can divorce your wife for any reason whatsoever. Anything at all. I read you a quote in which they say if she oversalts the meat or underheats it, you can get rid of her. Exactly. That's shocking. That's not the uncleanness that's being mentioned there. And we're told by Jesus what that uncleanness is. If you were to turn to Matthew chapter 5. To the Sermon on the Mount, you'd see that Jesus further explains that uncleanness Matthew chapter 5, verses 31 and 32, it says, Furthermore, it has been said, whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you that whoever divorces his wife for any reason except sexual immorality causes her to commit adultery And whoever marries a woman who is divorced commits adultery. Jesus is not contradicting the Torah. He is further explaining it for us. That uncleanness is Pornea, as it says in the Greek, or fornication, as we say in Old English, or as our translation has it in the New King James, sexual immorality. It's not just any reason. It's for that reason. This is a mercy. And you may be asking yourself, Bradley, how is this a mercy? Well, let's turn back to Exodus chapter 22. If you go to Exodus chapter 22, together we're going to look at verse 22. So we looked at this certificate of divorce. Now Exodus 22, verse 22. Look at what it says there. If a man is found lying with a woman, married to a husband Then both of them. Dude Ronnie, I'm so sorry. Did I say Exodus? Thank you. I'm I'm very sorry. Very sorry. It's Deuteronomy. It's a second giving of the law, not the first. It's okay. Deuteronomy twenty-two. I'm very sorry. Deuteronomy twenty. I'll give you more time to get there. Deuteronomy twenty-two, verse twenty-two. There it is. That'll make more sense. Words are hard. If a man is found lying with a woman married to a husband, then both of them shall die. The man that lay with the woman and the woman. So you shall put away the evil from Israel. Do you see how it's a mercy? If there's sexual immorality in a marriage, the command is that they die. But the Lord knows our frame. He remembers we are dust. He knows sin is going to get in and ruin things, even the good things that He's designed. And so in His mercy, He allows when that Which deserves death is what happens. That there is another path. And it's a merciful path. And why is it? Why is it that adultery is worth the death penalty? It's because marriage is so important. It is really that important to God. It's more than just two people liking each other. It's more than two people choosing to love each other. It's more than a choice. If someone thinks that a marriage can be ended for something trivial, they really don't understand marriage. And so when the Pharisees come to Jesus, he answers them. He answers their sneaky trap. And he shows them that God, in his mercy, permits divorce. They're trying to use God's word as a as a license to do what they've been already doing. And yet he says, no, that that's not how it is. It's not for any reason at all. His mercy doesn't change marriage. He doesn't change marriage after the fall. Do you realize that? And we learn this because Jesus goes to the answer that is God's design. And so we're going to look at that together. God's design, starting in verse 6 through verse 9. Back in Mark chapter ten. Look at what he says. But from the beginning of the creation That's how we know it's a design. And it's a design that goes even further back than the fall. From the beginning of creation, he made marriage. And if we were to turn there, in fact, why don't we? Let's just turn to Genesis chapter one Genesis chapter 1 and chapter 2 show us all about the creation from the beginning, the creation which God has made. If you just scan chapter one, you'll see so many times this is what God has made. And then he pronounces it good. This is what he's done, and it is good. Chapter one Starting with verse 26, then God said, Let us make man in our image according to our likeness. Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. Then God blessed them. And God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it. Have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over every living thing that moves on the earth. God made marriage good. It wasn't a mistake. And he made marriage good and designed marriage to be good because it serves his purpose. For those special creatures that he made in his own image. What we just read in verse 28 is commonly called the creation mandate or the cultural mandate. Pastor Jesse was talking about that last week, about being fruitful. This is what we're to do is to be fruitful, to multiply, to fill the earth, and subdue it. Well, how can that be done? Only through God's designed means. And God has designed marriage for that purpose, to fulfill that cultural and creation mandate. So let's look at his design. He has a very special design for the individuals in marriage. He says male and female. He created them. Male and female. They're equals. Equal in value. Equal in purpose. Equal in that the goodness for which they were designed. But there is a difference, isn't there, between man and woman, male and female? And that difference is also by design. It is God's perfect wisdom that said there would be man and woman, male and female If we turn just another page probably in your Bible, you'll see in Genesis chapter 2 that there was something going on with Adam, the man that he had made. Something that was not good. See what he says in verse 18 of chapter 2? And the Lord God said, It is not good that man should be alone. I will make him a helper comparable to him. And out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast of the field and every bird of the air, and brought them to Adam to see what he would call them. And whatever Adam called each living creature, that was its name. So Adam gave names to all the cattle. to the birds of the air, and to every beast of the field. But for Adam, there was not found a helper comparable to him. You may have heard this term. It's a Hebrew term, Ezer Knegdo. What it means is a help that is opposite. That's the literal definition in the Hebrew. It's a help that is not exactly the same. And there's a word that's been abused by some, which I even hesitate to use, but they complement each other. Male complements female. Female complements male. There is no subservience in there that is the same equal value that God has given the man and the woman in marriage It takes two in order to fulfill that mandate. This is how he's designed for the human race to reproduce. It has to happen that way. But it's not just for the individuals. Right? Companionship is not the only reason God's made marriage. That man would not be alone because it really is it w we are terrible when we're alone, ladies. We are just useless. Men, we really are. We are really good at doing a lot of things. But we will get stuck in our heads. We will get stuck in our hands. Have you ever uh known your husband to just go off into the garage and be there for 18 hours in a day trying to fix a thing? Some of the chuckles mean that I've hit a nerve. It happens that way. If there wasn't someone to remind us that we needed to eat food and we also have children that need our attention, men could at times. simply spend all of our days alone. But there's no way to fulfill the creation mandate that way. Notice what else Jesus says. Going back to Mark chapter 10. He says in verses 7 and 8, For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. So then they are no longer two, but one flesh. God has designed marriage for the individual. It helps, but it's not just for the individual. It's for the human race in general. It's for humanity Do you see what God does through this design of marriage? He creates households. Humanity is households. And there's two separate individual households, and from those households, two separate individuals leave each household. And when they join together, they're half house A, half house B? Is that how it works? No. That's not how it is. They actually form something new, something different A new household. They are joined together. They no longer have any kind of separation. They don't have a separation of status before God. They are simply one unit. As he says, they are one flesh. Now, as we saw in the Confession of Sin passage, we can apply that one flesh relationship to the sexual union. And so sexual immorality has deep consequences. But I want to talk to all of you young people out there, in case you have this misapprehension that That one flesh relationship is only talking about sex. That's not it. A lot of people they get caught up and think that, okay, marriage is all about when that becomes allowable. There's so much more in a marriage than that. And what you need to realize is that God has given that special act for the service of the marriage. It is a union that allows the marriage to remember that you are not separate from your wife or from your husband. You are one life, one flesh One body. Your partners in that purpose. That's why God's put you together. And that's exactly what Jesus says, isn't it? He says that it's not you who put each other together. Who is it? Look at verse 9. Therefore, what God has joined together, let not man separate. It's no good to think of marriage in worldly human terms. There's a a TV show I won't even name the show because it's probably better off I don't. But they had this concept in there that they talked about and said in every couple, and and really all they're doing is repeating secular social psychology In every single couple, there's a person who settles and there's a person who reaches. I see some of you nodding because you know the show that I'm talking about. One is a settler who could do better, but they decide to settle for the other one. And one's the reacher who really shouldn't at all be with this other person. They're stretching. That's how the world wants you to think about marriages. That's how the world wants you to think about relationships. But Jesus says that's nonsense. That's not how it is. If two people are joined together in that holy union, it is God himself who's done the joining. We believe this because we believe in a sovereign God who orders every aspect of our life to bring us to the place where we can fulfill his will for us. He works all things for good for those who love him and are called according to his purpose. He puts you together with the mate that you're supposed to be with, that you'll be able to fulfill his purposes. Yet again, I remind you, he knows us. He knows we're bad at being righteous. Nay. We are incapable of it His perfect design in marriage is important for us to see because we need to love marriage. Because God loves marriage. Do you know how much God loves marriage? He uses it to describe salvation. It is the church who will be married to the bridegroom Christ. You are united to Christ. It's not something you've done, is it? It's not something man does. It is what God does. And using that to describe the relationship between the church and Christ shows just how important marriage is to God. And it's not the first time he's done it. This isn't a new concept. Israel has been called his bride. When he speaks through the minor prophets, he's talking about how Israel has left their husband. Hosea is all about this. Take a wife of harlotry. Go off and do this. In Hosea chapter 3, he says, now go get her. In fact, uh it's worth it. Let's turn to Hosea chapter three, very quickly. Actually, you know what, let's start in in chapter two, verses nineteen and twenty. Hosea two, nineteen and twenty. When God is talking to his people, he says, I will betroth you to me forever. Yes, I will betroth you to me in righteousness and justice, in loving kindness and mercy. I will betroth you to me in faithfulness, and you shall know the Lord. That's what he's done in the church. But look at chapter 3, verse 1. He says, this is Hosea speaking. Then the Lord said to me, Go again. Love a woman who's loved by a lover and is committing adultery, just like the love of the Lord for the children of Israel, who look to other gods and love the raisin cakes of the pagans. If we don't understand how important marriage is, a statement like that means nothing. If marriage is just a man-made relationship that you can end willy-nilly for whatever reason, then why would there be significance that Israel is compared to an adulterous bride? This is why it's so important for us to see God's design in marriage. It is too important to let Satan and the world define what marriage is. And so we as Christians, part of our witness. As the church is going to be in how people will look at your marriage. If you are married, people will look at your marriage to see what does it look like? Do you love Christ? Do you love God and His Word? then your marriage is going to look a very certain way. And again, God is merciful and gracious, long-suffering, full of compassion. He knows your frame, he knows you will fail at living up to it. But that doesn't change the design. Perhaps you've made mistakes in your own marriage. I'm talking to those who are married now. Mistakes will be made. There will be reasons that you must ask for forgiveness And how many times does the Lord God tell you you should forgive your brother or sister if they come to you seeking forgiveness? It's only twice, right? No. Seventy times seven times. The marriage is so important that you should at least be Christian in it, willing to forgive when the other comes seeking forgiveness. But even if you've been in a marriage for decades And it's not living up to the standard of God's design. Don't despair. Do not despair. God is the one who puts you together. And no matter how hard it is, if the two of you love God and are called according to his purpose, You can survive. He can use your marriage even after whatever difficulty you've been through to glorify himself. And those of you who aren't married, now I know sometimes talking about marriage makes the single folks and the young people think, oh man, is there no place for me? No. Of course the Bible speaks about the extraordinary gift of singleness. But it is extraordinary. It is not ordinary. And God will show you why He's given you that extraordinary gift, if that is what He's called you to, to be single. It'll be to serve him. It's important that we understand God's design because it's important that if you are married, or if you hope one day to be, that you have the right expectations of what marriage is Marriage serves the purpose of God's glory. He is glorified when his people fulfill the commands he's given them. He's glorified when his people follow his ways and his designs And so remember how important households are for humanity. In Acts chapter 2, that's what Peter says. The promises are for you and for your children also. He has always worked through households. He made a covenant with Abraham. And just for Abraham? Nope. For his household. For his posterity. He made a covenant with David. Was it just for David? No. It was with that household. And remember the promise he gave to David. There will always be a king sitting on the throne. Forever and ever and ever. And he fulfilled that in Christ Jesus. This is God's design for marriage. The two equals who cannot fulfill his command on their life without each other will be joined together and become one life. One new household, and through that household, he will use you to bless the world. Christ loves marriage, and that's why he describes himself as the bridegroom in some of the parables That's why marriage is so important. I'll just end with this. If marriage were not important, God wouldn't have used it to describe what's happening between the church and with Jesus. And if it were legitimate that a husband or a wife could put away their spouse for any reason whatsoever Would Jesus have a reason to put us away? Would Jesus have a reason to put you away? If you're honest with yourself, it's true. You know you. We have been unfaithful to him. And if he could, he would. But he loves us so much. And he loves his father's plan. And he loves his father's design. That Jesus himself, what is he willing to do? He's willing to take the stripes. He's willing to take the spear to his heart. He's willing to suffocate under the weight of his own body on a cross when he didn't have to, because he loves his bride so very, very much. Know this, brothers and sisters. Remember it. Love it because God loves it. But more importantly, love God for it. Love God that He has given marriage to you. Please pray with me.