Will you please turn in your Bibles with me to Isaiah chapter forty And again, I urge you to have an open Bible and an open and active mind as we study these verses together. Isaiah 40 verses 1 and 2. I'm reading from the uh New American Standard Bible, but uh I think you'll notice there are very few wording differences, whatever's in front of you. Isaiah 40 verse 1. Comfort. Oh, comfort my people, says your God. Speak kindly to Jerusalem. And call out to her that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity has been removed, that she has received of the Lord's hand double for all her sins. Again, let's pray. Father, thank you for your word, for your promise, that your word will never return to you void. You will accomplish your good purpose in your people And in drawing sinners to yourself, your word abides forever. May it abide in us this hour richly. We ask for Christ's sake. Amen. When my sister Sandy was diagnosed with late-stage brain cancer a few years back, we were well we were all stunned. And after surgery, she was conscious for only a short time. And we were quite sobered. No time for goodbyes. The day before her funeral, I was sitting with my sister Martha in her living room in Philadelphia, talking through many tears about how much we missed Sandy. My five-year-old niece, Hannah, who was listening, came and climbed in my lap and gave me a big hug and said Don't be sad, Uncle Bill. God will make everything turn out all right. Well, I thanked her. For her words, I returned her hug and I told her she was exactly right. God will make everything turn out all right. He promises that in his word. That was what I needed. And it was also an aha moment for me. It hit me. It doesn't take a counselor to give comfort. The Lord has given to every believer, even five-year-olds, the ability to give comfort. And that will be the theme of our study this morning: the gift of comfort. Comfort's the word that the Holy Spirit uses to begin this chapter. The Hebrew is Nahmu for those Hebrew scholars among us. And it's a word that really should capture our attention for at least three reasons. First, the setting of the word is special. It's the first word not only of this chapter and verse, but also of this whole section of Isaiah 40 through 66. Which is the clearest revelation of the gospel in all the Old Testament. The Puritans used to call these chapters the gospel according to Isaiah. And in announcing his gospel here, the Lord first shows the effect that he wants his gospel to have, namely, to comfort his people. George Frederick Handel, you know, chose this text to introduce Messiah. And it may even be going through your mind right now. Comfort ye, comfort ye, my people, saith your God. Even before God sent redemption to his people, he sent out this call to comfort them. The Lord does not want his people In fact, Jesus said in John 14, I will not leave you comfortless. I will come to you, and I will pray the Father, and He will give you a comforter to be with you forever. We don't have to wait till we get to heaven to be comforted. The Lord would have us know his comfort here and now. And so he begins this announcement of the gospel. By calling out comfort, oh comfort, my people. Which brings us to the second reason the word should catch our attention, namely the Holy Spirit repeats it Nakmu Nakmu, the Hebrew reads, comfort, comfort my people. He repeats it for emphasis. The Lord is eager for his people to be comforted. And I like the way the New American Standard puts it. Comfort, oh, comfort my people. You sense the Lord's pleading, his earnestness, that his people know comfort. We actually find this Hebrew word Nacham all through Isaiah. The prophet keeps coming back to the theme of comfort for God's people. In Isaiah 66, verse 13 The Lord says, as one whom his mother comforts, so I will comfort you, and you shall be comforted. Isaiah 51 3 We read, indeed, the Lord will comfort Zion. He will comfort all her wasteplaces. In chapter 61 of Isaiah, which was the text of our Savior's first recorded sermon in Luke 4. We read that the ministry of Christ would be a ministry of comfort. Isaiah 61. 1 reads, The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me. Because he has anointed me to bring good news to the afflicted. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to captives and freedom to prisoners. To proclaim the favorable year of the Lord to comfort all who mourn. Jeremiah also announces that when the Christ would come, his ministry would be one of comfort. In Jeremiah 31. 11, we read, The Lord will ransom Jacob and redeem him from the hand of him who was stronger than he. Then the virgin will rejoice in the dance, the young man and old together, for I will turn their mourning into joy, and I will comfort them, says the Lord. Jesus came into the world to comfort his people. And we certainly see that, don't we, in his life? How often would he say to his disciples, do not be anxious? Be not afraid. Fear not, little flock, it is the Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. In Matthew 9. 36, we read Jesus looked out on the multitude and saw them distressed and downcast like sheep without a shepherd, and in compassion he comforted them. All through Scripture, we see the Lord's desire for his people to know comfort. And especially in the Apostles' writings. In 2 Corinthians 1, verse 3, Paul calls God the God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our affliction. In 1 Thessalonians 5. 11 he writes, comfort one another and build up one another, just as also you are doing. 2 Thessalonians 2. 16, he says, God gives his people eternal comfort. And then he gives this benediction. May God comfort your hearts in every good work and work. All comfort, eternal comfort, comfort in every good work. Paul not only understood God's desire, he shared God's desire. to see his people comforted. And the Psalms also show God's desire to comfort his people as a sign of his fatherly care. We read earlier, just as the Father has compassion on his children, so the Lord has compassion on those who fear him, for he knows our frame. He remembers that we're but dust. Those of us who are parents know what it's that that tug in our hearts when we see our children, especially our little ones, sorrowing for whatever reason. When their tender hearts or tender bodies are aching, we long to comfort them. If you follow any of the Christian news outlets, you're aware of the persecution of Christians in several different Muslim uh countries. I read recently that uh one of their practices is to force a convert to watch his child be tortured. They pull out his fingernails one at a time and then cut off the child's fingers one joint at a time, each time stopping and asking, Will you forsake Christ now and return to Islam? You can feel the tug in the father's heart as he watched this happen. He longed to comfort his son. And if an earthly father longs to comfort his child, how much more does our heavenly father care for his children's comfort? Well let me ask, have you come to share God's desire to comfort his people? I hope you have, because the third reason why this word comfort in Isaiah should capture our attention is because it's an imperative. It's a command. Comfort ye, comfort ye, my people. Not only is God saying he wants his people comforted, he's saying he wants us to do the job. The Hebrew makes clear, the comforters are plural. The verse is not just for Isaiah, but for all God's people. And again in 2 Corinthians, Paul writes, God comforts us in all our affliction, so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction, with a comfort with which we ourselves Are comforted by God. It's as if God is picturing a contagious disease spreading through the church But it's not this-ease, it's ease, it's comfort. The Lord wants you to catch comfort and then pass it on to others. Just as our Savior came to comfort those who mourn, we too have the privilege. Of sharing God's comfort. And all of us need comfort. Not just when a family member dies. Every day our faith and our hope come under attack. Even those whose faith has weathered some severe trials over the years are still prone to discouragement. We're all like sheep. We all go astray. We all have our anxious moments. We all have guilt. We all have fears. We all stumble in many ways. We all get impatient. We all have covetous thoughts. We're all prone to pride. And when our sins well up in us, and we feel wretched man that I am, who will deliver me? We need comfort. We all, as God's people, need comfort. Well, how can we comfort God's people? We see the answer in verse 2. Speak kindly to Jerusalem, literally if speak to the heart of Jerusalem. The way we comfort God's people is by speaking to their hearts. Now it's true we can comfort others by our actions, by showing kindness to someone who's hurting. Sometimes just being near someone who's lonely is a comfort to them. But the comfort the Lord gives us here to share with his people involves verbal communication. He says, speak to the heart of Jerusalem. The primary way we comfort one another is through our words. Think about that. God has made you and me in such a way that words can heal. our souls. Proverbs 1523 says, How delightful is a timely word. Proverbs 1225 says, Anxiety in a man's heart weighs it down, but a good word makes it glad. Proverbs 1624 says, pleasant words are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul, and healing to the bones. Just a few timely words can bring comfort to lift a heavy burden and refresh a soul. In 1 Thessalonians 4, after Paul speaks of our Lord's return in glory, he says in verse 18, therefore comfort one another with these words. Just speaking to one another about our Savior's return has a restorative effect on the soul gives comfort. Your tongue can lift a Christian brother or sister. Just be reminding them, by reminding them what Christ has done and is doing. And will do. Just think for a minute about how others have comforted you with their words. That Sunday school lesson is just what I needed to hear. Thank you, Randy. Or I really appreciated the message the choir brought, the special music. Or I want you to know that I've been praying for you. Or don't cry, Uncle Bill. God will make everything turn out alright. Pleasant words are sweet to the soul and healing to the bones. You can comfort others by speaking to them. Speak to the heart of Jerusalem. our text says. But our text is even more specific. It lists three truths in particular that form the basis of the comfort we should be giving one another. Notice them in verse two Speak kindly to Jerusalem and call out to her, one, that her warfare is ended, two, that her iniquity has been removed. and three, that she has received of the Lord's hand double for all her sins. The comfort we give to one another as Christians is not just a pat on the back and a cheery, have a nice day There are three truths that give comfort in particular to a believer. The first truth is your warfare has ended. The good news of the gospel is the war's over. The strife is o'er, the battle done, the victory of life is won. Remember our Savior's cry on the cross. He said, it is finished. And what was finished was the war between sinful men and the holy God. We who once were enemies of God are now at peace with him. Through the blood of Christ. The Apostle Paul comes back that acted this truth very often in his letters Romans he says, therefore having been justified by faith, we have peace with God. Christ is our peace. He says in Galatians, having abolished in his flesh the enmity, having put to death the hostility through his cross. And he came and preached peace to you who are far off, and peace to those who are near He made peace through the blood of his cross. Most of us in America have never lived through or under the shadow of death in a war zone. But imagine for a moment living in France during World War II, with German shepherds occupying your homeland, indeed occupying your home where you Couldn't even sleep at night because you feared every moment for your life and the life of your loved ones. Imagine living like that day after day, year after year. Only those who endured such terrifying conditions can begin to understand the relief, the comfort that millions of French citizens felt on may seventh, nineteen forty five, when news came over the radio that the Nazi High Command And it surrendered, that the war was over. Your warfare has ended. Isaiah says. That's the good news that citizens of Zion delight to hear. And that's the good news we bring to one another in the body of Christ. We no longer stand under the threat of destruction. The hostility has ceased. The enmity is removed. We have peace with God. The second truth mentioned here is related to the first. Call out to her that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity is pardoned. The war is ended because Her iniquity is pardoned. The sin that once separated us from God has been removed. We have peace with God because our iniquity, which caused the hostility, has been taken away. Jesus Christ completely propitiated God's wrath toward his people. Listen for a moment to Isaiah 53, verses 4 to 6. Pay attention to the pronouns. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastening for our peace fell on him. And by his stripes we are healed. All we, like sheep, have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. But the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all Sometimes we sing bearing shame and scoffing rude in my place condemned. He stood, sealed our pardon with His blood. Hallelujah, what a Savior. And that's the message we have of comfort to share with one another. And indeed it's a message we need to repeat often, because Christians need comfort every day. Every day Satan beats his hell drums to unsettle mansoul. Remember how Bunyan in his book Holy War put it, when Diabolus beat his drum, everyone in Mansoul was filled with darkness and sorrow, for no noise was ever heard on earth except the voice of Shaddai when he spoke That made man's soul tremble. So every day Satan seeks to unsettle us, to rob us of peace. But we can silence his hell drums and restore comfort to one another's souls by reminding each other the war is over. Our iniquity has been removed. The penalty for our sins has been paid in full. There is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. We need to hear that. Our children need to hear that. Even the most mature saint on earth needs to hear the old, old story. Again. Then there's the third truth that gives comfort to believers here in our text. Though curiously, many commentators skip over it. There's a strange silence when it comes to expositing the end of verse 2. Even Handel in his Messiah stopped short halfway through the verse. Why? Well, when you think about it, the end of verse 2 doesn't seem to fit in with the idea of comfort. Tell Jerusalem that she has received of the Lord's hand double for all her sins How does that give comfort? You're going to get double for all your sins. Hmm. This is a case where a little knowledge of Hebrew is helpful And if you will sit up and pay attention for a couple minutes, you can go home a little smarter than when you came. The word for here, for all your sins, is actually not a word at all in Hebrew. It's a particle. It's the Hebrew letter base, pronounced like our letter B. And it's a preposition, used as a preposition, that attaches itself to the noun that follows. In this case, it's the kol translated for all. But faith doesn't always mean for, it can sometimes mean in. It can mean in spite of. Or notwithstanding. And I believe that's what it does in our text. Let me point out a couple other examples. And here's where I really want you to have an active Bible in front of you. Turn with me. to Isaiah chapter 10 and notice verse 4. Give you a second to turn there. This opened my eyes when I first saw it. Isaiah ten. Starting in verse three. Now what will you do in the day of punishment and in the devastation which will come from afar? To whom will you flee for help, and where will you leave your wealth? Nothing remains but to crouch among the captives. Or fall among the slain. Now what's the next word in your translation? Most translations have the word for. For all this, his anger does not turn away, and his hand is still stretched out. That's a good translation. But it's not the usual way we use the word for, is it? What it's saying is, notwithstanding all these punishments, God's anger. is still not turned away. For all this, meaning in spite of all this and in fact if you happen to be using the New American standard, that is how it reads, in spite of all this, his anger does not turn away. One more example. Turn with me to Psalm seventy eight Where again the Lord is speaking of his people's hardness of heart, despite all the loving things he had done for them in the wilderness. He gave them bread from heaven to eat. He sent winged fowl to rain on them. And notice verse 28 of Psalm 78. He let them fall in the midst of their camp, round about their dwellings. So they ate and were filled, and their desire he gave to them. Before they had satisfied their desire, while their food was in their mouths, the anger of God rose against them and killed some of their stoutest ones. And subdued the choice men of Israel. Again, what's the next word? First word in verse 32. For all this. They still sinned and did not believe his wonderful works. Again, the Hebrew Bakol. You see how the words for all this are used here? It means in spite of all this. And so when we come to the last part of Isaiah 40, verse 2, when the Lord says to Jerusalem, or of Jerusalem, for all her sins, I will give to her double. He is really declaring his gracious intention to pour out on his people a double blessing in spite of all their sins. She has received the Lord's hand double, notwithstanding all her sins. See, now you're smarter. Let's think for a few minutes about that word double God promises to give his people double. What's it mean in the Bible when it speaks of a double blessing? One verse that gives us some insight is Isaiah 617. In fact, again, I encourage urge you just to flip over. We're still in Isaiah. Towards the end of the book in chapter 61, verse 7, the Lord says Starting in verse 6, but you will be called the priests of the Lord. You will be spoken of as ministers of our God. You will eat the wealth of nations, and in their riches you will boast. Instead of your shame, you will have a double portion. And instead of humiliation, they will shout for joy over their portion. Therefore, they will possess a double portion in their land, and everlasting joy will be theirs. See what God promises is his blessing both in this world and in the world to come. That's what Scripture means by a double blessing. Remember our Savior in Mark 1030 said, You shall receive a hundred times as much now in the present age, houses and brothers, sisters and mothers, children and farms. And in the age to come, eternal life. That's what it means, that we are doubly blessed. Well again, these are the three messages of comfort we have for one another in the church. Your warfare is ending. Your iniquity is pardoned, and you have received from the Lord's hand double in spite of all your sins. If you'd like to do some further study, You'll enjoy E. J. Young's commentary on Isaiah. He shows that this threefold basis for comfort in verse 2 actually forms the outline. For the rest of the book. There are 27 chapters from Isaiah 40 through 66. The first nine chapters, 40 through 48, speak of Judah's warfare coming to an end. The next nine chapters, 49 to 57, speak of her iniquity being removed. And the last nine chapters, 58 to 6, speak of God's double blessing on the speech. Well, in closing, let me mention again New Testament text on comfort. Paul wrote in First Thessalonians 5 11. Comfort one another and build up one another, just as also you are doing. And again, 2 Corinthians 1:3: Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort Who comforts us in all our affliction, that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction with the same comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. When God comforts you in any of your sufferings, He would have you pass that comfort along to others, every Christian who receives comfort. Can give comfort. And of course the chief comforter, the chief comfort giver is our Lord Himself. He was constantly comforting his disciples. Remember the night before his crucifixion, he began his upper room discourse with the words, let not your hearts be troubled. And he wanted to say, peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. And then after he rose from the dead, we read in John 20, 19, his very first words to his disciples in the upper room were, Peace be to you. Three times in John 14 and 15, our Savior promised He would send the Holy Spirit to be our Comforter. He said, It's good for you that I go away, for I will send you the Comforter. And again, I will ask the Father, he will give you another comforter or helper, that he may be with you forever, even the spirit of truth. Just as our Savior was a comforter to people on earth, so the Spirit of God is a comforter to us. And he's with us. Us forever. The God of all comfort, who gave us his spirit to be our comforter, is eager to see his comfort spread through his church I hope you come to share that eagerness, to see what a privilege it is to give comfort. And I trust you see that in order to do that, we need to spend time with one another. We need to make time in our busy schedules to get together with other believers, to speak to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. To build up one another, to speak words of comfort, reminding each other our warfare is over, our iniquities pardoned, and a double blessing is ours in Christ. My uh homiletics professor in seminary used to say the job of the preacher is to comfort the afflicted and to afflict the comfort. And I suspect there are some of you here today that what you really need is a good kick. You are too comfortable. Our Savior afflicted the comfortable Pharisees. He called them sons of the devil and hypocrites. But the chief ministry of our Savior and the chief calling of the preacher and the high privilege of every believer. It's to comfort the afflicted. That is the heart of our text today. Well, perhaps as you ponder these things, you feel inadequate. You don't especially feel up to this task. You don't know what to say, how to comfort others. You feel like your tongue gets all tangled when you open your mouth. Our Savior understood that. In Mark 13, 11, he says, Do not be anxious about what you should say, but say whatever is given to you in that hour, for it is not you who speak. But the Holy Spirit. It's not you doing the comforting. It's the comforter speaking through you. If a five-year-old can give comfort, you can. to praise God and comfort, oh comfort his people. Let's pray. Father, how rich is your word. We thank you for pointing us again to the glorious gospel that you have proclaimed that are our Warfare with you is over. We have peace with you, for our sins, our iniquities, have been removed. And truly you have doubly blessed us. With your promises that we enjoy on earth and the fullness of blessing in heaven. Lord, help us to fix our minds on these truths and to share them with one another. That we might grow to love you, to love your presence, to love your peace, to enjoy you forever. We bless you in Jesus' name. Amen.