Please turn with me to Deuteronomy chapter eight. And today will be a little bit of a longer reading. I will read all of chapter 8, and I'd ask that you please stand for that reading. We'll deal with the whole chapter, but I won't preach on every single sentence because a good chunk of this chapter has been dealt with in a sermon already in this series. But you'll see how it will unfold as we begin the sermon. So this is chapter 8 of Deuteronomy, starting in verse 1 Every commandment which I command you today, you must be careful to observe, that you may live and multiply, and go in and possess the land of which the Lord swore to your fathers And you shall remember that the Lord your God led you all the way these forty years in the wilderness to humble and test you, to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments or not. So he humbled you, allowed you to hunger, and fed you with manna which you did not know, nor did your fathers know, that he might make you know that man shall not live by bread alone. But man lives by every word that proceeds from the mouth of the Lord. Your garments did not wear out on you, nor did your foot swell these forty years. You should know in your hearts that as a man chastens his son, so the Lord your God chastens you. Therefore, you shall keep the commandments of the Lord your God to walk in his ways and to fear him For the Lord your God is bringing you into a good land, a land of brooks of water, of fountains and springs, that flow out of valleys and hills. A land of wheat and barley, of vines and fig trees and pomegranates, a land of olive oil and honey, a land in which you will eat bread without scarcity, in which you will lack nothing, a land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills you can dig copper. When you have eaten and are full, then you shall bless the Lord your God for the good land which He has given you. Beware That you do not forget the Lord your God by not keeping his commandments, his judgments, and his statutes, which I command you today. Lest when you have eaten in our full and have built beautiful houses and dwell in them And when your herds and your flocks multiply, and your silver and your gold are multiplied, and all that you have is multiplied, when your heart is lifted up, and you forget the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt from the house of bondage who led you through the great and terrible wilderness, in which were fiery serpents and scorpions and thirsty land where there was no water. Who brought water for you out of the flinty rock, who fed you in the wilderness with manna which your fathers did not know, that he might humble you, and that he might test you to do good in the end Then you say in your heart, My power and the might of my hand have gained me this wealth, and you shall remember the Lord your God, for it is he who gives you power to get wealth, that he may establish his covenant which he swore to your fathers as it is this day. Then it shall be, if you by any means forget the Lord your God and follow other gods, and serve them and worship them, I testify against you this day that you shall surely perish. As the nations which the Lord destroys before you, so you shall perish. Because you would not be obedient to the voice of the Lord your God. Please pray with me. Lord Jesus Christ, you are the teacher of the church by way of your spirit. We ask that You therefore would teach through the preaching of your word. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. I've already made a recommendation this morning in Sunday school. I'll make the recommendation to you that you need to see the documentary American Gospel. If you have not seen it, you need to see it. You can watch it with your children. It will be good for you to see what they're talking about and for you to become aware of the problem. The first part of the documentary sheds light on the error and danger of moralism. Christianity devoid of Christ-centered preaching and understanding morals in regards to the work of Jesus Christ. The second part sheds light on the error of the prosperity gospel movement. That was where my eyes were opened the most. I'm the least educated in that. I became extremely angry, had to t pause it a couple times based on what some people were saying in this world. It included a critique of folks that I had not really heard of. Kenneth Copeland. So far when I say that name, the older folks shake their heads. say I yes. Uh T D Jakes, Joyce Myers, Benny Hinn, if any of you read these folks and you enjoy them and you're ashamed you're uh angry with me now that I mentioned their name, just talk to me afterward because they're false teachers. Okay. And there were some others too I forget. There was one guy with dreads. I I don't forget his name But uh watch the movie and you'll learn his name. If you listen to the content of the Prosperity Gospel, whether you watch the American Gospel or not, you are bound to hear passages from Deuteronomy. Did you hear all of the prosperity language within the passage just today? And so we've got to be clear. We've got to be clear. They would take passages like this and like the passages that have been through this series on prosperity, and they would teach that today you can inherit your land Today you can inherit your car if you have enough faith and obedience. And that is a grievous and deadly misunderstanding of Deuteronomy. Those specific promises of lands, I'm being specific. It literally promises you pomegranates. If you're obedient, is the Lord going to rain down pomegranates for you? Is your pomegranate tree finally going to grow in the backyard? Some of you don't even grow grass well The specific promises of land and vegetables and cattle in the land of Canaan were a very sp for a very specific time and place. And that's the key. If you're going to read your Bible well, you must honor the original context and the authorial intent. The book of Deuteronomy was first and foremost not written to you It was written by Moses as a series of sermons to that generation that we read about in here. And that would enter literally the promised land and literally have pomegranate. And so you can ask if you want, well, then why is it that you're just basically letting us read other people's mail? Isn't that a federal offense? Lamno, it's not that simple. I said that this is not written originally to you It is still revelation from God, and if read responsibly, there is actually much to learn from it because we have much in common with the people. For example, we're under the same covenant. 2 Timothy 3. 16 puts it this way, that all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof. Now he's speaking specifically to Timothy as a pastor But it is true for you also that all scripture are those things, or all scripture is those things, and all scripture would include Deuteronomy. Our passage this morning is a great example of this. In verse 1, take a look with me Notice the specificity of it. In verse 1, they will literally go into a land. Every commandment which I command you to do This day you must be careful to observe that you may live and multiply and go in and possess the land of which the Lord swore to your fathers. Land. This is not a metaphor for them. In verse 7, they will literally get barley and pomegranates. And as I mentioned though, pomegranates are not promised to you You have to be specific and remember the first stop is our thoroughly intent to the original audience. Yet, overall, if you were to look through the passage, you will find truths that transcend That's the nice thing about this passage is that you see two uh examples uh uh present. You see this specific things that really don't apply any longer, and then you see things that Transcend. For example, when you look at verse 17, and you can see there was a sermon four or five times ago that I preached, and I used this section of the passage, so you can go back And you can listen to that section. It ties in well with the earlier section in Deuteronomy. Isn't it true that when human beings, even Christians, become successful, that they are tempted to forget God and become conceited? Verse 18. So I would say that's timeless. And the way that it's stated is a bit more timeless also. Some of the specificity is lost and it's a general statement That temptation is common, and I put it this way because this is the way the New Testament references it. That temptation is common amongst people of every age. And you can read about that in 1 Corinthians chapter 10 is the way Paul talks about common temptations that transcend There are two other parts to chapter 8 that are general statements that transcend, besides that one about wealth, which we've already dealt with in a sermon prior. And those are the two that I want to look at this morning. I don't want to look at pomegranates or promises of cattle to you because they're not promised to you. Prosperity is only promised to you either after you go to glory or when Jesus Christ Christ returns. Till then you must carry your cross. The focus of this morning is really verses 3 and 5, which are two general statements That also pervade this passage and that the people must learn, the people present here and the people present here in this congregation. It is equally true for us as it was for the Old Testament of the Old Testament people of God that one, we live by every word that proceeds from the mouth of the Lord. Not by bread alone. And two, just as a man chastens his son, so the Lord your God chastens you. Those are two truths, I'll leave it up to you, that are also found As direct quotes within the New Testament. Those are two universal, we would say, principles. Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of the Lord. Verse 3. Verse 5: Just as a man chastens his son, so the Lord your God chastens you. And the two are connected, which we'll get into. But those are the two truths from the passage that I just want to look at this morning Let's try to understand them in their original context and bring them home. Verse 4. I'm sorry, was it three? So he humbled you, allowed you to hunger hunger, and fed you with man, and this is verse three, which you did not know, nor did your fathers know, that he might make you know that man shall not live by bread alone. But man lives by every word that proceeds from the mouth of the Lord. That is verse three. The verses prior, which I've already read to you, show the historical context of the statements. God led the people, take a look at verse 2. God led the people for 40 years in the wilderness. Perhaps in Sunday school you've drawn a map. Kind of looks like unusual. uniform circles. They kind of went in circles. This included the journey not just after the rebellion, but before It included the journey from Egypt to the wanderings after the rebellion. And you can read about all of the events. One main event that is listed here later in the passage, you heard about fiery serpents and that kind of thing. Those are other events. But one main event that is listed right next to these universal principles is that God fed them with manna. And that should cue you that that is supposed to provide to you that original context to understand what is going on when God is talking about living by his every word that proceeds from his mouth and not by bread alone. I want you to notice a second thing, however, and that the emphasis really isn't on a description of all the events that took place in the wandering. That took place elsewhere in Moses' sermons, and it will take place again in future sermons in the book of Deuteronomy. The emphasis in these verses is on what is God's motivation in doing all of those things. Now tell me that we are not privileged to know the motivations of God Himself. That is what he reveals here, and he says that God took his people through the wilderness to humble them and to test them, verse 3, and to know what was in their hearts. So, in other words, verse 3, whether they would keep his commandments. Now, of course, since God is all-knowing, he knew what was in their hearts. It wasn't really the revelation that needed to happen Happen for him. It was really a test for them to see what was in their own hearts. And so I take the manna example as a test, because that's what it says in the Bible. And the more that I ponder, let me ask you, not by a raise of hands, I'll just look at your face to see if you look guilty or not. How much have you pondered the You need to just sit and have a day where you ponder the mana story. There are so many lessons in there about who our God is, and you can do so by reflecting here on the motivations that are revealed. The mana is a test, and the more I ponder the test, the more I praise God for his wisdom. And you can find this in Exodus 16. If you want to look at this later today, here's a basic summary or paraphrase. The people were hungry, and they began To complain. It seems that that happens so many times in the wilderness. And they say something like: Why did God save us from Egypt only to kill us in the desert from something else? And I just have to ask, just as a kind of digressive application, have you ever said anything similar to that? Why has God saved me from a life of just to kill me in a life of, or just to kill me as a Christian? It's a universal thing that tends to happen within us, so don't look down on these folks. It's only by God's persevering grace that any of us continue to stand. So God provided for them quail and a substance called manna, and it's described as being like a wafer made with honey. And here's the interesting part about the manna, and it was uh like a frost. If you've seen a frost on your front grass, it was thin like that. The interesting thing about manna is that except on the Old Testament Sabbath, meaning the Saturday, after the sun rose, the manna would melt. And by the time night hit, even if you kept it in the shade, the manna stored would grow worms and stink. So, do you see God's wisdom in his motivation and testing the people? He fed them every day. But still kept them in a situation as to learn what he wanted them to learn. He fed them, but kept them in complete dependence. I want you to think about it just for a moment. Think about it from your standpoint in providing for your family. Every day you would go out to gather, and let's say that You would get lots. This is what we tend to do. We like to store. We get a mana 401K plan. Just in case we lose power or there's a Y2K or whatever it is, we've got lots of mana in the cupboards. But here's the thing: every night, no matter how much you store, it all goes bad. And put you back in the same position. It's as if you invested in the stock market and every night you lose it all. Which seems Every single night, listen closely, every single night you go to bed, your pantry and your cupboards are bare They are empty or they stink because of the rotting manna. Every night you go to bed, your fridge is empty or it stinks because the manna is rotting. Every night you would have to say, Lord, tomorrow, when I wake up Would you please give us our daily bread? Every day you would have to wake up trusting that God would feed you, and every day God would feed you. Can you think of the psychology of what's go would go on in a person's mind? Think of the worry and the anxiety that would be present just within yourself. Think of the relief you feel when you have when you don't have to trust what God says, but He's just given it. to you. Think of the relief when it's finally in your hands and you can finally see it with your eyes. It says a lot about what's in your heart. It says that your anxiety subsides when your baskets are full, but not when God gives you his word. But this is what God wanted them to learn. He wanted them to see that while the basket was empty, he wanted them to say things like this. Even while your basket is empty, I am not anxious, because God said he would feed me. Even if I cannot see the bread, whatever God says is of more certainty than anything I can touch or feel. I will choose to live by belief in the words of my God rather than the sight of my eyes. That is maturity when a person can Can say that. And that is what God wanted to bring them to. Think of how important that would have been as they entered into war against the mightiest people in all the land. He wanted him to say this: I do not live by bread alone, but every word that proceeds from the mouth of my God. If he said it, then he said it. You can see how Jesus did that in the wilderness. Obviously Satan wanted to him to take some other trail, some other path that was disobedient, and Jesus was saying, no, I do my Father's will. Are these your words? A lot of different kinds of folks in here. Christian veterans, Christian beginners. Are those your words? I don't live by bread alone, but every word that proceeds from the mouth of my God. Sometimes Sometimes they are. Sometimes they're not. Isn't that right? Sometimes they are, and sometimes they're not. You have said that in some things, but there are still many areas in your life where you just want the basket to be full. So that you can look with your eyes and you can relax. Properly in context, it's nice to have a Fulfillment and a consummation. We're all looking forward to the new heavens and the new earth. In our glory, we won't have a problem with both believing the Word of God and having full baskets. But until then We are looking more for the full basket because deep in our hearts, when we are exposed and rev- we are revealed, we either do not trust God or we don't want to have to trust God. Him. We have a very difficult relationship with him, but God is teaching us how to relate better. I want you to ask yourself, and Brad already asked this during the confession time, where is God doing this right now? Well, in other words, where is he revealing to you that you do not trust what he says? You know what's included in that? You have no idea what he says, because you don't spend any time hearing Him from his word. Think through your life. Where is God revealing to you that you don't really trust him? And where has he done this in the past where he has taught you? Why is he doing that? Why is he doing that to you? Why is he exposing your heart? Well, that's the second point. Because the reason why he does this, the reason why he gives us manifests, even to this day, not in the exact same form, but as a general principle. is the second principle. Because just as a man chastens his son, so the Lord your God chastens you. That's the second principle that we see. And now you can see that there is a connection. The whole reason why the first thing is happening is because God is a chastening God. Now, what does the word chasten mean? We're into the second point. If you're making a sermon outline Or you're taking notes, we're into the second point. Just as man chastens his son, so the Lord your God chastens you. What does the word chasten mean? The word chasten has different connotations in our culture. It's funny to me, because I'm a nerd, to just look this up in the thesaurus and see what are all the ways in which our culture has used the word chasen. Here are some to subdue, to humble, to deflate, to abase, to flatten, to take down a peg or two. My grandmother used to Now those connotations are not all exactly what God is communicating here with the idea of chasten. Some of those The Latin root starts to strike better. To chastise is to make chaste or morally pure. That's more at the heart of it. But if you just want to bypass it all, keep your dictionary shut and just open your Bible to the book of Hebrews And you can see this. If you endure chastening, Hebrews 12, 7 through 11, God deals with you as with sons. For what son is there whom a father does not chasten? But if you are without chastening, of which we have all become partakers, meaning we're all being chastened, then you are illegitimate and not sons. Furthermore, we have all had human fathers who corrected us, and we paid them respect. Shall we not much more readily be in subjection to the Father and spirits and live? For they indeed for a few days chastened us as seemed best to them, but he for our prophet, that we may be partakers of his holiness. Now, no chastening seems to be joyful for the present, but painful. Nevertheless, afterward it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. Hebrews twelve, seven through eleven. Now here's some observations, just trying to understand the second point by way of understanding the word chasten. God always deals with his children by chastening them. It's a direct restatement of what you're reading in the Deuteronomy passage. This is typical. All good fathers make sure they raise up their children in the way that they should go. You thank your father in the end for it. How much more should you thank the Father of spirits and live? Number three, all discipline for our growth is our growth in holiness. Number four, no chastening is joyful. Everyone know that? It is all painful, yet in the end it is worth it because we become like our Heavenly Father and righteous. Righteousness, going back to the holiness idea. That's how it's understood within the book of Hebrews. Now, there is an image also given in Scripture to be able to understand this principle from Deuteronomy And the images of refining gold. In the refining process, raw gold is placed under intense heat. And that which is not gold, because when you first mine the gold, it is mixed with other minerals. That which is not gold will separate from the gold and will rise to the top Those impurities are then skimmed off so that what is left is pure gold. That refining process is best characterized as an intense Chastening heat. And so the refining process, if we were to put it in terms of gold, is our growth in the gold of righteousness. And holiness. No refining is pleasant at the time. The heat hurts, but it is worth it in the end as we become pure gold, as our heavenly Father is pure gold in heaven, to continue the analogy. And just as gold is refined, so too the Lord refines his children. Or just as our principle says here, just as a man chastens his children, so the Lord your God chastens you. Those are the two main principles of the The passage. They're universal. We looked at them in their particular historical context so you could see how they would apply to those people, but you can see how easily Even the New Testament writers themselves take them over into different times and places because they are stated so generally. We are being careful with scripture, and scripture is therefore able to be beneficial. And this morning it's obvious. The God of the Bible, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit relate to us just as He related to people in the past. He chastened them And he will chasten you, Christian. And those of you who are being effectually called into Christ's church, the chastening has begun for you too. Because you will no longer be an illegitimate child, but the child of your father who is in heaven. I don't know who's being effectually called today. But if you are, it's going to happen He chastened them and he chastens you. Why? So that you would become people that did not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds That's the total message when you put the two principles together that the Holy Spirit is communicating to you. you this morning that you could take that and apply it in a thousand ways. All of the ways All of the reasons, all of the thoughts and the words and the actions that God is chastening you toward in holiness It is true in so many ways. And God has communicated so much. And He's doing so much. But you know what's interesting to me is when we're on the road to Emmaus with the disciples and Jesus Christ, that Jesus points back to all of the law. Particularly Deuteronomy, and all of the prophets, and he says, God has communicated a lot. And he is chastening you so that you would accept and live everything that he has said. But you need to know one thing Thing. There is a most important truth that rises above all, and that all of those things are really about me. The Bible is about me. Can you imagine? They said something when they walked And this is what we need to realize also Christian and all who are being effectually called, those who are starting to be persuaded that Jesus is the Christ, God is chastening you in your everyday life so that you would realize that you do not live by bread alone But by the Word of God, who is Jesus Christ. Your life entirely depends on Jesus Christ. Everything about your life depends on Jesus Christ. That is what you must realize. Not what you can see. You cannot see him right now. Of course, you can see the work of his providence understood by his word, the work of his spirit understood by his word, but he still asks you to have faith. It is Jesus Christ who in the Gospel of John says, I am the bread who is sent. From heaven, and we are to realize that this is the ultimate way in which God the Father is fulfilling all of the promises That he will care for his people. God told you that he would redeem you from death, sin, and the devil. And you just learned, again, last week in Easter that he has done so through Jesus the Christ. And he will continue to do this through Jesus Christ. God the Father Has not placed in your hand a book where you are just supposed to save yourself through understanding well general principles He has given you a Savior, Jesus Christ, who through His Spirit will apply His word to your mind and your heart. He is a living, he is our living God, and he will teach you personally. You needed salvation from your sins. God the Father sent Jesus Christ and He died on the cross for you. There was the great exchange. He took your sins and he gave you his righteousness. A double imputation. You need salvation from your sinful nature because before everything that you did was inclined and bent toward evil. And God the Father, you know what He did. He sent Jesus Christ and his Holy Spirit to take your stony heart and to break it and make it malleable. He said to the dead bones, live You need salvation from your actual sins too, because from our sinful nature proceed all kinds of actual transgressions. And guess what God the Father has done? God the Father has sent Jesus Christ and his Spirit to begin working on you now. And when you enter into glory, you shall You need salvation from all of the evil in this world. Our brothers and sisters need salvation from persecution today. And God the Father will send again Jesus Christ to renew the whole world. Do you know how our brothers and sisters know who are being persecuted that they should not lose hope? Because they don't live by bread alone, but every word that proceeds from the mouth of God, and they understand even the terrible persecution in which they are in, as a chasting from God their Father It is the same lesson that we must learn also this morning. You should think of every single anxiety of your life, Christian. And you should say to yourself, aha, Eureka, I know why it's here. I know why I'm worn out about worrying about tomorrow. It's because God is training me to see what's really in my heart. I've got a lot of sin in there and I need a savior. Praise God for his exposure. God is training you as his child, teaching you to put all of your trust in his word, Jesus Christ. The goal of life is not comfort. The goal of life is not wealth. The goal of life is not even health The goal of life is holiness. And holiness is faith and faithfulness in all that God the Father teaches through the Lord Jesus Christ. And his spirit. Amen? Amen. Please pray with me. Lord, all of Scripture is profitable. We can see that this morning in these principles that you have taught us through your servant Moses, through your servant Peter, through your servant James through your servant Paul, who are all servants of our Lord Jesus Father, we ask that you would take these truths and that you would chasten them into us. That you would take the impurities out And I pray for all of us, Lord, that when hardship comes in the future, now that we know your motivation, we would not impute wrongful motivations to you. That we would say to ourselves and that we would listen that you were doing this out of a love for your children, just as any father loves their children. How much more do you love us? We pray that you would give us the persevering graces that we need in order to withstand your chastening And may our faith, which is more precious than gold and is refined by fire, may it be to your glory at the day that Jesus Christ is revealed in the clouds. We ask these things in your name. Amen.