First of all, can everybody hear me? Okay. If you get to where you can't hear me, do my wife a favor and yell at me He is always telling me that I don't speak up enough, so please do so As we come to this passage today, I want to put us in mind for it by just thinking that there are some experiences we never forget. Now I'm not talking about those excruciating memories that plague us when we awaken at 3 o'clock in the morning and cause us to cringe as we lie on our beds. But there are other experiences other than the ones that make us claims that we that are good memories that we like to remember. They're precious to us. One for me was when I was sitting in the library at Chesapeake Theological Seminary. I was reading my Greek text or the Greek Bible, studying for my class in Romans And as I started chapter three, verse twenty-one, it set me back on my heels. Remember it vividly I sat back in my chair and all kinds of emotions flooded over me and I thought and I said out loud something to the effect of wow I really never saw that before What struck me was how it was so emphatic in the original language. Now I'm not saying here that you can't trust your English Bibles. You can. But there are some things about the original language that come through more easily than the English, and one of those is emphasis within the text. The English translations are flat. It's the nature of the English language in its written form. English grammar does not provide a means by which you can emphasize words within a sentence unless you go outside of grammar and underline it or do something Like that. But the Greek language is different than that. And in the original language, the the words that have most emphasis in this particular passage are these Apart from law. Those are the words that are emphasized. That's what Paul was saying. And also in verse 21 to note that we'll pick up also the word law there is not the law, but just plain law. There's no definite article in it. And that meant a lot to me also. So here's how it came across to me. I'm going to paraphrase it in the English language. It's not a translation, it's a paraphrase. And here's what it said. But now, only apart from law. A righteousness of God stands as having been revealed. But now, apart from law A righteousness of God stands as having been revealed. It's been revealed to us. It's open to us. Now, when I think about that, what God is emphasizing here through Paul Is that he has provided a righteousness for us that doesn't have anything to do with law Nothing. It has nothing to do with moral law, right and wrong that we have done. Now, not just the law, there's no definite article there, so it's not referring back to the specific works of the Old Testament law. It's a righteousness that doesn't have anything to do with moral law at all Oh, that's interesting. Righteousness is not affected in any way whatsoever. By any moral transgression you have ever committed. Those things that make you cringe Your righteousness is not dependent on that. Righteous is defined differently. than in terms of the moral law. I realized at that point that I'd never really understood that. I'd been Christian for a while. I was a seminary. Like every seminary student, I thought I knew it all. But I saw right away, I got you, I saw right away that this insight colored and affected everything that I had thought. I hope that you've had a similar awakening. I'm not preaching to you today as if you've never heard this, but perhaps you haven't. And if the Lord gives me ability, maybe I can point you to see just how important it is to you as it was with me. To get to the full impact, though, of what we're talking about here, we have to read it in context. I'm not going to review all that Jeremiah has gone over. But everything that Paul says here in this verse and the following verses depends upon what he has said before. When Paul says, but now, he provides a contrast with the first part of the passage. Jeremiah set the stage for us during our time of confession and repentance when he very accurately produced for us an understanding of what those words say. I'm going to repeat just a few things He used that to remind us that every one of us has sinned according to the moral law. We are full of sin, according to that law. There is no standard of morality that we have not broken. We haven't kept a one of them. The entire moral law lies in shatters at our feet, or shattered pieces at our feet Now, that's not to say that there are not some people who are more moral than others. There are. In the Bible, Noah and Job were relatively less sinful than other people they lived around And of course we know that Elijah and Enoch both were called directly to God without going through the terrors of death. But brothers and sisters, those great men, great men of faith, were still sinners. They were sinners. And it's not that they were relatively righteous and therefore God loved them, because relative righteousness, according to the moral law, simply doesn't exist. It doesn't have it's not a part. It doesn't cut it. James says that anyone who breaks the least of any of these commandments has broken all of them. Now when you stop and think about that, a bucket with a small hole in it is not watertight. We can't treat it as watertight. It is relatively more watertight than others, but it ain't watertight. And when we equate that then to the things that we sometimes think of as being less of a transgression than others, let me give you a couple of examples. Looking at pornography, for example, is fornication, and if you are married and doing it, it is adultery. Both punishable by death, are they not? Outrage against other people who don't think like you do, which this week has been something I've kind of struggled with. I don't know about you. But outrage against other people who don't think like you do is murder. Hmm. Now that's what Jesus told us. So when we stop and think about that, Paul is telling us that our fallen birthright, our birth condition in this world, is that every one of us stands as completely guilty under the moral law. And brothers and sisters, none of us are good enough, as Jeremiah has told us. Now or ever. For God to save us because we're good. Now that's depressing news for some of us. Perhaps many of us. And you know, I have some words to say for you. It should be depressing It's a good thing that it's depressing. When we stop and think about that, if we start considering that our relative relative righteousness ain't going to get us into heaven, then depression is the right response. That we should have. As a matter of fact, Paul tells us in this passage that that kind of depression is what the law is intended to bring. Take a look at verse 20. Through the law comes what the knowledge of sin Well, what that's saying is it's not sin in the abstract. It's a knowledge of your sin, mine sin. The law's there to show me that I'm a sinner. Now, if we don't have any way out of that trap of being a sinner, it can be depressing. And it should be You might even have some thoughts along those lines as you lie in bed or other kinds and you think to yourself I don't know if God's gonna save me or not. I'm pr I've I'm I've done some pretty bad things I've known people in my counseling tours who have done some pretty amazing things or pretty outrageous things. And they really sometimes really can't believe that God would love them And that he could say them. But if it is on if you're on the verge of having despair, by thinking this way, I've got some counsel for you. Stop it. Now the comedian Bob Newhart made a lot of money doing a skit like that once upon a time, but it's true. The cure for depression that comes from judging ourselves according to the moral law and wondering if our relative righteousness is good enough is simply this. Don't go there Don't even think about it. I wish I could put on the Italian accent. Don't think about it. There's another righteousness from God. That has nothing to do with the law. And that is the force of Paul's words to us here today. Paul says, for Christians, the law should not make us depressed. Because the law cannot nullify the righteousness of God that has been assigned to you through faith. Amen. If you have faith in Jesus Christ, you have been assigned the status of righteous before God. And brothers and sisters, I don't care if you don't feel that way. Your feelings don't absolutely depend, have anything to do with your righteousness. Your righteousness is what God has assigned to you on the basis of faith. Do you believe that? We're halfway there. Now I need to explain that just a little bit. What Paul is saying here is that the law cannot nullify the righteousness of God assigned to you, is that the righteousness of God being apart from the law is not a new thing. It's not something that just happened in an absolute sense when Jesus came into the world. God hasn't changed the way that He makes and assigns people the status of righteousness. As Paul says, the law and the prophets bear witness to this righteousness that is apart from law. God has always saved people apart from the law. But the problem was that in the Old Testament this was not entirely clear. If you read it, and particularly if you read it through the eyes of the New Testament, you see it very clearly. In the Old Testament, it was only hinted at. It did not come through clearly, but it was there in the sacrificial system. But it could be easily mixed. People could begin to think that the sacrifices themselves are what made them righteous before God. But that's not the case, brothers and sisters, even a superficial look at the Old Testament now through the awakened senses that we have through Christ Makes that clear to us. Abraham was not counted righteous because he did a bunch of sacrifices. Abraham was counted righteous because he believed God That's it. He was not considered righteous because he is the father of circumcision. The law had its place in the Old Testament in exactly the same way that the moral law has its place in the New Testament. In verse 31, Paul says he's not making the law void, far from it. Rather, he is making sure we think about the law in the right way. The law today still teaches us that we're sinners if we need to be have that provided to us. And as a result of that, God's law Teaches us what we're supposed to be doing in our sinfulness. And for example, God's law today tells us that we ought to observe the sacraments Just like in the Old Testament, we were told to observe the sacraments. Today we observe the Lord's Supper instead of The Old Testament Passover took me a minute for that word to come. So, and also today we baptize rather than circumcise. But the bottom line is the law says do these things. So the law still requires us to observe sacraments. We just don't sacrifice sheep and goats. The point is, the law is important for us today, just exactly as it was for people in the Old Testament. But the law is not the basis of our righteousness before God. Nor has it ever been since Adam and Eve were kicked out of the garden. Paul is telling us to stop thinking that way. As if God might accuse us of being unrighteous because of the things that we have done in our life. Paul says there's no longer any reason for anyone to think that way, and this is a big deal to him in this verse Because it's a no longer a mystery. There's no reason anymore for it to be a a something that you don't think about. It's it's no longer uh a point of confusion about being saved with reference to the lie. Well, as it was in the Old Testament. God has declared it. He has made it known. He has done it in the most incredible, undeniable way. He's made it clear now. That's what Jesus did. As Paul says here, it stands as having been revealed. The new state of life, the the new condition that comes in this world is that it has been revealed for the whole world to hear That God accounts a person righteous based on one standard alone, does that person have faith in Jesus? If faith is present, the person is righteous. Done. Period If faith is not present, then no matter how relatively righteous a person is, that person, according to the law, is not righteous before God. And is subject to hear some of the most terrible words that Scripture records, to a judgment in which Jesus Himself says, Depart from me, I never knew you. Those are the stakes. But that's what the covenant of grace is all about This is how righteousness has been determined, as I said, even before the Gar uh ever since the Garden of Eden. The new covenant that Jesus initiated hasn't changed that. The new covenant Jesus initiated is part of the covenant of grace. The new covenant and Jesus has proclaimed it and made it entirely obvious and clear. However, it still leaves room for a lot of questions. I bet there's questions out there today running through your mind. And when we do that, we might think. What are what about this? What about that? Well Paul mentions some of the whatabouts that might come through your mind in verses 27 through 31, and I will address those very briefly because this sermon can't be too long. But I want to first address a very common question that many modern Christians have addressed to me. Let's deal first with the primary question of what is saving faith. Well, how do I know that my faith is real? If faith in Jesus if Jesus Christ is in us, then God has declared us righteous. We all know that now. And we had better be able to know with some degree of certainty that what we have is in fact saving faith. And when we look at that, we need to figure out what it is and what it is not. Let's start with what it is not. Faith is not just saying, I believe in Jesus that he's going to save me when I die. And that's it. Life after death is an important blessing that comes upon us through faith, but it is not the foundation of faith. The Bible says that for every man it is once to die and then the judgment. That means we're all going to stand in judgment one way or the other. Twas right and good to fear God and hope that he will save us in judgment. And that is a good thing. But that is not the essence of saving faith. Saving faith is a whole person, whole life orientation towards Jesus. If we believe he's going to save us in the end, as one English philosopher said, of course God's going to save me when I die. That's his job. And if that's your attitude that you go along living just about the rest of your life any way you want to, then the question that God's going to save you may not be his job at all. Saving faith is a whole person, whole life's orientation towards Jesus. It is understanding, brothers and sisters, that he's alive. He's alive. And he's real. And he's present in this world. That's a historical fact. And he's wonderful. He's beautiful. He's glorious. And hard as it is to believe he's doing great things. Verse 24 is very precise. Jesus has accomplished redemption and is bringing redemption also. By his blood, he has removed God's anger at those of us who have faith. That is his objective work of salvation. That's what he has done. That's the thing he accomplished. But his subjective work of redemption is still ongoing. He is in the world applying his blood to those God sent him to save. We serve a risen Savior. He's in the world today. We've sung that, right? Saving faith first blossom in us is the recognition and embrace of Jesus Christ as alive, and He is Lord. And that means that I can walk with him now in this life. And that he is my Lord now in this life. I am his to command. I am his servant in all things. If this conviction is not present, and saving faith may not be present. And that is not true. And all the previous verses we looked at apply to us. But we think about that, well Another question then comes, well, what about God's moral law? That is a covenant God made with man. Is God going to, you know, say that he's a liar because he requires the moral law If what anyone explains that the righteousness from God is without reference to his law, then just like they did during the days of Paul, then people will say, well, does that mean I can do whatever I want? Low ball law doesn't affect my salvation or my righteousness. Ah, diggity, let's party. You explain the gospel right, you're gonna get that response Paul alludes to this criticism in verse 31 when he says, I can says, am I making the law void? He speaks about it in detail in chapters 4 through 6 of Romans that I would encourage you to read. In chapter 6, verse 15, he rhetorically asks, Shall we sin because we are not under law, but under grace? And he his answer, roughly translated, is, are you crazy? Mm-hmm. Of course not If saving faith means we understand Jesus as our Savior and is our Lord, and that as our Lord, that means we're his servant. Does that mean we can do whatever we want to do, whether Jesus wants us to do it or not? Doesn't that kind of run against the grain of being a servant and we're supposed to do what he says? Through weakness, we may fall into temptation, both sides of this pulpit. That may happen. But it does not change our status before God Martin Luther paraphrased this by saying, if you're going to sin, sin mightily. He's not encouraging it, but he is saying this. Your sin does not affect your righteousness. Your faith determines that So even though we're righteous before God solely on the basis of faith, saving faith in us registers also as a hatred for sin. Through weakness we may fall into temptation But that distinguishing mark of faith is that it will bring about repentance, and as a result of that, a sincere desire to do what Jesus said. Follow me and sin no more. My closing point is this. Well, doesn't that then make God guilty of a double standard? Some people really can't understand how this idea of the righteousness of faith, which some have, is not, in fact, unjust. It sounds too easy for them, which shows their ignorance, and they say that. There is nothing easy about saving faith. A brief word about that. If you doubt that if you think that saving faith is easy, try to have it on your own. God just okay, I'm gonna believe that there's a hidden God, that he's alive in the world, and that 2,000 years ago some guy died on a cross and it saved my child. I I'm just gonna choose to believe that No, it ain't gonna happen. Because it's not dependent upon us. That belief that comes from that does not come within the power of the human mind to have. It is a miracle, brothers and sisters, that you have faith. If you believe what I have just said as true And you've committed yourself to God as Jesus as your God and Lord and Savior, God has done a miracle in you. You've been born again That's big news. Maybe we ought to be happy about that. You know, that whole idea that we're God's frozen chosen This simply shouldn't reflect the reality of our lives. So it's not easy. Saving faith is a miracle. God gives us that which He then uses to declare us righteous. What a good deal this is. God gives us faith and then says we're righteous because we have faith. Is that a good deal or what? Come on, folks. It is. And that should be how it strikes us. We should understand that. Which brings us back, then, since it's God's work in us, to that whole double standard thing. Now this is a tough one. Tough in my life, tough in your life. If God declares us righteous on the basis of the very faith he gives us, then isn't God unjust When he holds people who do not have faith to be guilty in the judgment, and as a result of that, saves others on the basis of their faith. How can God be both just and the justifier of those who have faith in Jesus Christ? And God dealt with this objection in a magnificent fashion. It's right here in front of us, we'll get to it. He declares a person righteous on the basis of faith without respect to the law. But just to prove that he himself is just in doing that, he did everything that was necessary to remove from those he saved the condemnation of the law. We're saved on the basis of faith, but brothers and sisters, the law has no condemnation for you. Jesus fixed that. Now, if we stop and think about that, how is that done? God dealt with this objection in doing this He took the condemnation of the law and he nailed it to the cross. Every sin a believer has committed. Every sin a believer is committing right now in this room, every sin a committer uh a believer will commit in the future. Was fully taken upon himself willingly and voluntarily by Jesus Christ. Jesus knew what he was doing He came to bear our sins. He took on our sins from the first breath he drew us as a born human being. And he carried that all the way to the cross. He was obedient even to the cross, bearing our sin. Your sin was imputed to Jesus Christ. Every stinking bit of it So he took that condemnation which you deserve. And he took the full wrath of God on himself for those particular sins. Every one of them. Every sin a believer has committed has been fully punished in the work of Jesus Christ. When you stand before judgment I am not preaching to you that this is the way it's going to be. But when you stand in judgment, and Satan stands wherever he's going to stand and says, this guy is the sinner. I know he's a sinner because I was there when he did this and this and this and this and this. That's his job, if you want to put it that way. He is the one, he's the prosecuting attorney. At that point, your brother, your big brother, the Lord Jesus Christ will say, I paid for those sins. There is no punishment left remaining for this sinner. It would be unjust for you, God the Father, triune God, including me. It would be unjust for you to punish this person because the law has no condemnation for them. That's where you stand. That's what it means when Paul says in this status and this grace in which we stand. You stand as being one of those for whom that is true. That sounds like a good deal. It's almost like good news. That's how God is perfectly just because he makes sure that the moral law has no condemnation against you. And yet he declares you righteous on the basis of faith The law is fully satisfied. Therefore, God is both just and the justifier of those who have faith in Jesus Christ. Brothers and sisters, where's our boasting and all of that? There's nothing so contradictory as an arrogant Presbyterian. An arrogant Christian. We have nothing to be arrogant about. Nothing to boast about. Our only boast is in what our God has done for us. Because we know that we don't deserve a bit of it. All in accordance for the law We never deserved our salvation. We never will deserve our salvation according to the moral law. And if you're worried about that, stop it. That's my message to you today. It is the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ that is your hope. And with that comforting thought fixed in our minds, I want you to prepare your hearts along with me to celebrate that hope here at this table. And as I pray, I would ask for you to consider that. Lord God, as we come before you, mindful of this great work that you have done, We're just astonished, Lord. There's simply no way we could have come up with this on our own, but you did. And that's the whole impressive reality of salvation. That is entire righteousness apart from law. It's so hard for us to think that way. We're so ingrained with the idea that it's really about how good we are It's not. It's about how good you are. Sorry, Lord and God, I ask that if there's any here today who are still troubled with those nagging fears or thoughts or and somehow or another they're looking around the room and seeing other people and saying, I'll never be as good as those guys. Remind us, Lord God. Not about righteousness according to some model of purity according to the law. It is about righteousness that you accord out of your sovereign will to do so on the basis of faith. And faith alone. I ask, Lord God, that you instill that in our hearts as the gospel of Jesus Christ as we approach this blessed table that you have provided for us. In your name we praise. Amen.