I'm getting Yeah you gotta go get two Bibles. Mr. AJ needs a Bible, so does Mr. Dennis. We're going to look at Psalm thirty-six together. But first let me just pray for us. Gracious God in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for this church. Thank you for bringing us all here in the the various and uh winding ways that you did. We thank you, Lord, that Through it all you have shown yourself faithful and true. And we pray that our attention that we give to you this morning, to your word, and to how you want us to evaluate human ideas, we pray that it will bring you glory. it pleases you. We pray above all things, Lord, that you would help us to love each other more as we love you. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Psalm thirty-six is what we're going to use as kind of the foundation or basis of what I'm going to talk about. I know we were advertised that it's all about communism and Christianity. I don't want to go too far into the communism thing because Some of you have lived through it and probably know about communism better than I do. All I really want to do for us this morning is to just give us an example of how we use God's word to evaluate human ideas So there is a lot of human imagination and ingenuity. Um most of the time, it's okay. Humans can let their imaginations run wild, you know? We wouldn't have like the Star Wars universe if somebody didn't have an imagination that they let run wild. But the problem is that human imaginations can go wild even outside of the realm of science fiction. I wonder if you guys are familiar with an idea called spontaneous generation. Did you ever hear of that? Back in the day, people thought that flies spontaneously generated out of meat. So if you wanted some flies, you just needed to put out the meat and it would transmography into flies. Or perhaps you're aware of the study of phrenology. You ever heard of that? That's where we study head shapes and People could tell you what your personality was like and how intelligent you were based on the shape of your skull. These are Wacky ideas that some people have taken to the extremes, and we have to figure out how do we as Christians deal with goofy, wacky human ideas We are Christians. Being a Christian means something. And being a Christian means that we all believe what Christians believe. And it means then that there will be some ideas that are just incompatible with what we believe. So we have to reject those ideas wholesale. So how do we judge human ideas? How do we rein in human imagination and ingenuity? And in order to do this, we must observe, interpret, and evaluate So we have to observe, we've got to have our eyes open, seeing what's going on around us. We need to be aware of these ideas and of the the wackiness that humans are trying to put on us. We need to interpret it, and that means we have to engage our minds, which also includes our imaginations, to make sense of what we've observed. And then we need to evaluate our own interpretation, right? We need to know whether or not how we are interpreting a thing is right or wrong. This is where we get to the trickiest part. Because uh well let me ask you guys, do you any of you have to do self-evaluations at work? I heard the chuckle. Aren't they a joke? Has anybody ever not self-evaluated themselves well? Personally, I thought I did a great job at every self-evaluation, a fantastic, the best possible job that could have been done So if we're going to evaluate our own analysis of something properly, then it must come from without us. It can't come from within. Right? 'Cause if I say, yes, I'm gonna evaluate my interpretation, I'm I'm always gonna tell myself I'm right. And so what we need is we need To figure out what is the standard. And as Christians, the standard that we all agree to, because the Holy Spirit's given us the faith to trust it, is the Word of God. So let's look at Psalm 36 together. I'll go ahead and read it for us, and then there's a couple verses that I just want to point out, and then we'll have a conversation about communism and find out how it's wrong. Psalm 36 To the chief musician, a psalm of David, the servant of the Lord. An oracle within my heart concerning the transgression of the wicked. There is no fear of God before his eyes, for he flatters himself in his own eyes, when he finds out his iniquity and when he hates The words of his mouth are wickedness and deceit. He has ceased to be wise and to do good. He devises wickedness on his bed. He sets himself in a way that is not good. He does not abhor evil. Your mercy, O Lord, is in the heavens. Your faithfulness reaches to the clouds. Your righteousness is like the great mountains. Your judgments are a great deep. O Lord, you preserve man and beast. How precious is your loving kindness, O God! Therefore the children of men put their trusts under the shadow of your wings. They are abundantly satisfied with the fullness of your house, and you give them drink from the river of your pleasures. For with you is the fountain of life. In your light we see light. O continue your loving kindness to those who know you, and your righteousness to the upright in heart. Let not the foot of pride come against me And let not the hand of the wicked drive me away. There the workers of iniquity have fallen, they have been cast down, and are not able to rise. There's quite a bit in this psalm that applies to what we're talking about. We look at the wicked man who flatters himself. His self-evaluation is always the best. He has no fear of God before his eyes. He does not evaluate human ideas against whether or not God has said this is true. Whether or not God has said this is what his people should believe. He devises wickedness on his bed. He imagines and uses his imagination for untoward ends. He is not living in righteousness. Yet we see that the Lord God does give great mercy. He gives great mercy to his people. His faithfulness reaches to the clouds. His judgments are a great deep. With his judgments, with God's judgments, with God's evaluation, he preserves man and beast. We as Christians are to put our trust under the shadow of God's wings, we are to trust in his words, we are to drink from his fountain. As it says in verse 9, by his light we So, if we are going to test the light or the darkness of a human idea, it has to be with the light of holy scriptures. We use his holy word. Now Has anybody ever tried that? Sometimes it can seem difficult. Sometimes it's a little bit easier. I think I've picked some low-hanging fruit for us this morning. We're going to look at communism. Is communism compatible with Christianity? Can a Christian believe what a communist believes? And the reason I call that low-hanging fruit is because It's pretty transparent. In case you're wondering, the answer is no. And now let's look at that together. There's a quote I'd like to give you from Ronald Reagan. Many of you are probably familiar with it. Socialism only works in two places. Heaven where they don't need it and hell where they already have it. Socialism, communism, Marxism, all of these things, let's we can think of them as synonyms. They're all kind of talking about basically the same thing. If we look at a definition of mm, capital C communism, like uh what you can find in the Webster's dictionary. It defines it as a doctrine based on revolutionary Marxian socialism in which private property has been eliminated and all goods are owned in common and available to all. You may have heard the communist slogan, from each according to his ability to each according to his need So basically the idea is all of society reordered in such a way that no one has more than anyone else. Everyone is doing their part and doing their share. There is no such thing as private property. Okay? There's a second definition, which we're not going to get too much into, which talks about it being a political system or an economic system. But the economics or the totalitarian system of government that communism represents is derived from that earlier definition, the philosoph the philosophical system. And so when we're talking about it being incompatible, what we mean is that it's incapable of association or harmonious coexistence Unsuitable for use together because of undesirable chemical or physiological effects incapable of blending into a stable, homogenous mixture. So I would say that communism and Christianity cannot mix in such a way that they will be a stable mixture, though we may have heard others, we might even know some, who try to have this communist Christian mix. and we notice the instability of that mixture. So s uh some people would say that um this is kind of uh apples to oranges argument, right? We're talking about a religious system versus a an economic system. or a political system. But the reality is that both Christianity and communism deal with metaphysical realities. They both deal with the nature of the universe and reality. They deal with mankind's relationships with the universe and with all other creatures. And they deal with the very end to which the human race is progressing. So in this way, we can see that communism and Christianity are actually competing philosophies, competing worldviews competing interpretations or evaluations of the universe. And because We can see that they're both dealing with the same subject matter. They're dealing with who we are, how we interact with each other, and where we fit in the whole plan of everything. We can see that they're They're going to be going head-to-head in these areas. So a little bit of historical background, not too much, because uh we just had a great breakfast, lots of gravy. It'll be easy for us to fall asleep. You've heard of Marx, Karl Marx, and you've heard of Engels. You've probably heard of the Communist Manifesto. Um there's a lot if you listen to any television program of today or talk radio or anything, you're gonna hear some communist ideas, so you'll have a familiarity with some of this. But it's important for us to realize that the the religious system of communism didn't come out of nowhere. All the guys who were involved in setting the foundation for hundreds of years, from all the way back in the 1700s, uh those historians and philosophers that Marx and Engels read, they were All Christians at some point. And they were Christians of a particular type. We call them heretics. There were Christians who ran away from Orthodox Christian belief, and they started with their own notions of what we should believe about God and what he requires of man, they started coming up with these different theories about how humans should interact. There's a couple of them that are really important. Hegel, you may have heard of Hegel, George Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel He was a philosopher. He created this system called dialectics and we'll talk about that a little bit. There's another guy named Feuerbach. He was a anthropologist, philosopher, and at one point a student for the ministry. He basically came up with this notion, well he didn't come up with it, he just embraced it, that there's only a material world. He's a supreme materialist And that the material world, with everything being in change, being in flux, always changing, it's materials and other materials fighting against each other. So uh there's contradictory elements in all things, and the he explains the universe and everything coming to be by them working against each other. If you know anything about communism, you'll see where that fits in, because Marx, uh who was a he was a Jew who was born in Germany His family history stretched back through a long line of rabbis, which might help you understand why Karl Marx thought the way he did. There are some historians who expect or suspect that he was under a lot of societal pressures, his family, and eventually the Marx family converted to Christianity. Carl himself was baptized at age six. He went off to university and showed himself to be a really smart thinker, and then eventually he completely rejected the faith There are some Karl Marx papers about different the uh uh uh theological topics which would actually impress you. That this is what the guy who founded communism wrote, some things with really great uh doxological uh statements. He's glorifying God for a lot of stuff. And then you can tell when he hits about the age twenty, he goes off a deep end. That deep end of human imagination. Uh Frederick Engels was his friend. He was also a German philosopher, but he was a businessman. He had the money to fund the There should be no private property treaties. But he, along with Marx, embraced something that's called dialectic materialism. Anybody ever heard that phrase? Dialectic materialism. It's what Marx and Engel uh put together. It's their synthesis of Hegel and Feuerbach's philosophies. And basically, just at the essential level, it means that there is nothing supernatural in the universe. Matter is all there is. There's nothing beyond that. And the dialectic is that idea that matter is always working against each other. There is a constant struggle. A versus. The nature of the universe and reality is a struggle of one thing against another. They are also embracers of atheistic naturalism, which means that since there's no supernatural world, everything is material, there's no need for a God. So they completely reject any notion of there being a higher power. And so um you may know of Marx's fav uh famous statement that religion is the opiate of the masses. He basically saw religion as having only one purpose, and it's a sociological purpose, and it was uh a negative purpose. Because what he thought religion did was it created a false hope in people, thinking that somehow their conditions could be improved. Because remember, communists, they're materialists, what are they worried about? They're worried about people. They're worried about the incompatibility of the inequity of human suffering with their idea that Um all of the universe is material. They recognize that people will suffer, there will be lots of pain, but they just think it's unfair that some people don't suffer as much as others So we could imagine that communism really is all about equality. It's about equal suffering for everyone. The communist understanding of the universe is as you may have already thought to yourself, completely incompatible with the Christian understanding of the cosmos. We know that it begins and ends with God. We know that He made both the heaven and the earth. He made the spiritual realm and the material realm. So we gotta reject the materialism. God is a spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in his being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth. If God's a spirit And that's true, and we get that from Scripture, then how in the world can we believe that there is nothing beyond the material? We know that by him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created through him and for him. So we can't believe that everything is gotten here by that constant struggle, right? If you're familiar with evolution and evolutionary theory, it's all about the struggle. That has to do with life and living systems. They struggle against each other. But this is even talking about atoms that struggle against each other and forces. And if you talk to if Jeremiah were here, we could talk about the strong force and the weak force. force and all those forces. They even believe that those are natural things that are struggling against each other. Now we also know that the universe is not the chance interaction of matter. We know from the scriptures. For example, in Isaiah chapter 46, it says, Remember the former things of old, for I am God. There is no other. I am God, and there is none like me, declaring the end from the beginning, and from ancient times things that are not yet done, saying, My counsel shall stand, and I will do all my pleasure We know from the Bible that everything that exists exists at God's pleasure and exists for his purpose. And so at the fundamental level the most foundational level of any philosophical or religious system, communism and Christianity cannot mix. They cannot coexist. Because what does the Bible command a good Christian to What does Jesus tell us is the most important of the commandments? It's Deuteronomy 6. 5, isn't it? You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul. And with all your strength. So a Christian cannot believe as a communist does. You cannot. You simply cannot be an atheist. It's not an option. And yet it is a requirement for communism. It's a com uh a requirement, not only because of the foundation of their system, materialism and all that, but as we'll see in just a minute, the methods that they employ. In order to get their way and to spread their message is entirely incompatible with their being a God So this fundamental incompatibility in how we understand the universe means that communism and Christianity are fundamentally incompatible. And they're also really, really off in their interpretation, not just of how the universe came to be, but how does the human race come to be the way that we are? The very first line of the Communist Manifesto says, The history of all hitherto existing society is the history of class struggles And if you know anything about communism, you've heard the term the bourgeoisie and the proletariat. So they see all of human history as being the struggle of these two groups, right? There we get that dialectic thing again And those two groups, the bourgeoisie, do you guys know who the bourgeoisie uh they're they're us, basically. We're wealthy can to them. We have so much money and we have if if you've ever bought something that you didn't need, you're a you're part of the bourgeoisie. And then the proletariat is the other side, and that's the side of the people who can never buy anything because they never have any any uh actual uh money or or agency we could say. And so it being this kind of struggle, it's always one has oppressed the other. The wealthy have oppressed the poor. The well-off oppress the the not well-off. The physically fit oppress the non-physically fit. And we can keep going. That's the Marxian way of looking at all human systems. Now we had already mentioned that communism in that definition it also does away with all private property. Well I don't know if you guys realized that it didn't just mean like you wouldn't be able to have your own TV. They also meant that you wouldn't have your own relations. You would not have wives. There would not be families. You could never say that's my father or my mother, because you would not possess them. They all belong to society. So you didn't have siblings, you didn't have any of that. It basically com the communist utopia would completely destroy the nuclear household. And the evils which the communists see in this world, they all see as the result of that class struggle between the two bourgeoisie and proletariat. And some of the things that they see though, some of the inequity they observe, it's reasonable to us We would hate it too. It's it's difficult when we see that um people become so selfish Right? People want to put their needs or their desires before everyone else. Christians agree that that's a bad thing. There's a competition because of the scarcity of goods. There's not not always enough to go around, but communists would say that this is artificially created by us. Who want to keep ourselves being rich and the poor being poor. They want to eliminate the struggle They want to just equalize everything. And as I heard one person say it, it it really stuck with me. You can't make all the grass grow the same height. So you have to cut it down. You have to cut it all to the same height. And this is part of how the communist uh message gets put out there. And we can clearly see how this is incompatible with Christianity. Right? We understand human nature because of how the word tells us that sin broke our minds and broke our bodies. People are selfish because they're fallen People are wholly given over to sinful desire, and unless Jesus Christ comes in and changes them, transforms their spirit, there's no way they can do anything else. We as Christians know that having all that we need is most often a recipe for needing all that we want. And so we'll simply uh be greedier and get more things even once we have everything So the the communist utopia of equalizing possessions and let everybody have all they need, we know that's not going to eliminate selfishness or greed. And as we evaluate some of the evils which the communist recognizes, we have to understand that it's the same evils that Christians lament. It is tragic that there are some people starving who don't have enough food to eat, and yet there are some people who have so much food that they can throw it away. It is tragic that there are some people in this life who have to forgo necessary life-saving medical treatments because they can't afford it. They just don't have the money. And yet there are others in this world who waste millions of dollars on a video game. In case you think I'm joking, that was real. There's a There's a uh a Marvel, it's called Marvel Strike Force, and I saw an article about a guy who's finally quitting after spending $1. 27 million buying resources in a little phone game. I I don't understand how they can lump us in with that guy as the bourgeoisie, right? But we do recognize there's a problem there. And the communists would say there's a problem also. But only we as Christians have a sufficient explanation for why there is this kind of disparity, and it's sin. Only Christians have a concept of sin and what sin has done to human beings. And so we don't dispute some of these things. We believe that human race is in a constant struggle between two groups, don't we? What uh anybody know what we call it? We don't call them bourgeoisie in the proletariat. We call it Christians and pagans. Christians and pagans. There's another term. We get it from Genesis three. Cain and Abel, did Cain and Abel were representative of a certain part of that. Seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent. These are the two groups that are in constant conflict. There's enmity between them. Seed of the woman being all of God's holy elect, and the seed of the serpent being those who are not. So we do see that there's a similarity, and yes, there is struggle that's always going on, but the way that it's evaluated and defined Must be different. What we understand is that uh a socioeconomic or you know how much money you have in the bank How much how productive you are for society, these are not the things that give you worth, that give you value. We know that the deciding factor And a human being's worth is that they are made in the image of God. And that the Lord God can change them into one of his children, can take him from being in the land of darkness and bring them into the light. Communists wrongly attribute the cause of human suffering to all of this material inequity, and that's why they want to do away with private property and private possession. So we can see now, we can start looking at how communism we've seen sort of ideologically, how that how does communism in Christianity, how can they be compatible if the entire nature of the universe they disagree on The reasons for why there's troubles they disagree on. We only disagree on the observation, right? We see that there's a problem, but we do not agree on in terms of interpretation or evaluation And practically, how we work out our philosophies or our religions, they are very incompatible. So as atheistic naturalists, communists reject absolute morality. What is permissible is determined only by what is required, and that can change depending on the circumstances. So what that means, if you read Marx's literature and the Communist Manifesto, or if you read um I forget the guy's name, Rules for Radicals. If uh what's his name? Yeah. Sol Linsky. If you read these books The talk about how to work out your communist philosophy. They say, you can lie, you can cheat. Manipulate anybody. Deceive anyone. Steal anything. Do whatever you can In fact, if we were to just look at the the last eighty years of human history, we see that communist powers, to get their way, killed millions and millions of people. They don't have a problem with that because their whole system has no problem with that. But this is not capable or compatible for a Christian. We know that we can't do this. And so let's just summarize everything. I don't want to keep talking. I'd like to have time for us to have a dialogue about it But if a communist says that there is no God, that right there should end the whether or not it's compatible with Christianity. Right? It's a first commandment issue. There should be no other gods before our holy God. And if you put anything else there, any other system, anything else, you're doing that wrong. But also, you're disobeying God if you reject Him. And so atheistic naturalism is not compatible with Christianity. But as if that's not enough, we can keep going. We recognize that God has created a hierarchy in human relationships The fifth commandment. We have it. There are superiors, there are inferiors, there are equals. We have different roles. that we play. It's not set in stone, right? You move from being a little inferior and as you get older you become a superior. It's not to say that you're better than someone else. It's to say that God is giving more responsibility. to you in your vocation. But the fifth commandment requires that we understand that God has made hierarchy, and that hierarchies are not inherently wrong. And yet the communists cannot hold to that. And so again, communism and Christianity incompatible on the fifth commandment. They're incompatible on the sixth commandment because communists have no problem with killing and with murder. Now, most I I should say the communist philosophers have no problem with it. The communist philosophy has no problem with it. If you talk to an actual human being, they're probably going to have issues and say, no, I don't believe he can kill anybody But when you actually talk about their ideas and how their ideas work themselves out, you'll get around to the ideas they support support the ability to kill them. So that's a violation of the sixth commandment. God's told us what we must do and how we interact with others. We are not allowed. to do anything that could endanger the uh the life of ourselves or others unjustly and whatsoever tendeth thereunto. You may have already thought about how the seventh commandment applies here. Right? We're talking about the doing away with uh all relationships, including a spousal marriage relationship. So if there is no possession, I don't think we possess our wives, but you know what I mean. If you can't say this is my wife and I alone am allowed to be with my wife, then you cannot have uh an adherence to the seventh commandment. Because there still needs to be children made, and the only way to make children in a legitimate way is in the marriage relationship. So, Christianity, because of the seventh commandment, we cannot we cannot truck with communism Probably the two most obvious, and I think the most important for me, when I think about communism and I think about Christianity It's got to come down to what is best for human beings. Now God has given us the moral law because this is the best way for us to be. He's given us the eighth commandments. He's given us the tenth commandment. And he's given them to us because to follow them is to live in the way that he wants human beings to live, right? The eighth commandment, you shall not steal. In that commandment is the implication that there is such a thing as private property. Because if you cannot take from someone else what is not yours, that implies that it belongs to someone else. And the Tenth Commandment, the Tenth Commandment, I think, I think it always gets a bad rap. I think that when we think about the Tenth Commandment, all we ever think about is don't be jealous. Does anybody think that? When you think of do not covet, it means just don't be jealous of others. But if we give it a little bit of a deeper thought It's not just jealousy. It's not that we're we're mad that somebody has something we don't have. What being covetous is really doing is saying, God doesn't love me enough to give me what I need. The tenth commandment goes against God and his great care for you and him providing everything that he wants you to have, right? We don't look at somebody with less and say, oh, they have less, it's all their faults. We understand that God gives some more than others. He makes some people wealthy. He makes some people poor. This is his plan. It's his prerogative. And so when we look at the tenth commandment that says, Thou shalt not covet, what we are really needing to understand is that we must trust God to give us everything we need. I love telling people who are having money troubles, you know what the easiest thing for God to do is to give you more money. It's easy for Him. He's got lots of people that he's giving money to on a daily basis. You can find money. God can find money. But how often is the solution to our problems throwing money at it? It's not that way. So the Tenth Commandment to me is the clincher of whether or not communism and Christianity are compatible because the Tenth Commandment requires that we trust God to give us everything we want and that at certain times in our lives there will be less. At certain times he may give us more. And when we're in those times of less and more, it's not for us to say, Oh, I have so much more I must now equalize. And let me let me try to save myself by giving away That's not what God wants from us. And when we're in a time of less, we don't go out and steal from others so that we can have more because somehow God made a mistake in what He's provided for us. That's the big deal. Communists, in a in a way, assume that God has made some kind of mistake, that he doesn't know what he's doing, and the human beings need to need to come in, step in and fix the mistake that God made. Now there's a lot of other things that we could talk about. I'm just going to pray right now to end the lecturing time and then let's just have a dialogue. We can have a conversation about anything that's going on Come up. Let's pray. God in heaven, you have given us all that we need. You have given us your holy word. You have given us minds that can be changed. We thank you that we can be changed. If we were stuck in our condition, there would be no hope for us. But because you've made us mutable, changeable, We know that you can in fact redeem us and regenerate our spirits. You can renew our minds and our will in Christ Jesus And so we thank you, Lord, that you have given us the faith to trust your Holy Word. We ask, God, that you will bless us as we continue to try to evaluate human ideas against your Holy Bible. But Lord, I also pray that you will give us a great love for the lost, that knowing that we have a superior Understanding of the universe does not give us big heads, Father, but that we would recognize that it is solely because of your grace and mercy to us. So God help us here at Severn Run to become a people who not only love you, but that we would love our neighbors so much that we will have difficult conversations. Challenging the things that they believe. But always, Lord, holding truth to your word, because it is our only true evaluator. We praise you, God, for giving it to us. We thank you in Christ's name. Amen.