Judea by the other side of the Jordan. And multitudes gathered to him again, and as he was accustomed, he taught them again. And the Pharisees came and asked him, Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife? Testing him And he answered and said to them, What did Moses command you? And they said, Moses permitted a man to write a certificate of divorce and to dismiss her. And Jesus answered and said to them, Because of the hardness of your heart, he wrote you this precept. But from the beginning of the creation, God made them male and female For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. So then they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore what God has joined together, let not man separate In the house, his disciples also asked him again about the same matter. So he said to them: Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her. And if a woman divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery. Please pray with me. Our righteous God, we thank you for your word. We thank you for your word even when it has difficult subjects, even when it says things that perhaps we would not come up with on our own. We thank you for it. And we ask your Spirit to guide us into the truth through it. Show us yourself in your word tonight. We beg you. And I pray, Lord, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. Well this evening service is just full of cliches, in for a penny, in for a pound. Why not another cliche? Have you ever heard the one the two wrongs don't make a right? That's a basic truth. Just because someone has done wrong, that doesn't give you the justification to do wrong to them. And if you want to deal with things that have been done wrong, you're not going to deal with it by doing things wrong yourself. In other words, sin is never dealt with by adding more sin to the situation. We've been looking at this Gospel of Mark. We've been seeing Christ showing what it is to be a child of God. If you recall he he gave some uh teaching to his people when his brothers and his sisters and his mother came to seize him because they said, oh, he's acting a fool. Do you remember what the teaching was there? He said, These are my father and my mother and my sisters and my brothers, who those who do the will of my Father in heaven. It's got nothing to do with blood. It has to do with the Father's will. He's been revealing the Father's power, revealing the Father's love. And every step of the way, whenever they get the chance, the Pharisees are trying to trap Jesus. Now we've had a couple sermons from this passage over the last few weeks. So I'll just remind you where we've been coming in this. We saw that though the Pharisees are trying to trap Jesus, the way that he answers them and the way that he springs the trapper Or removes the trap. Do you remember what that was? He didn't come up with something new. He didn't address them point by point in everything they said. Instead, he didn't even really address their lies. He took them back to the truth. The truth of God's Word. And so we learned that truth fights the lie. We also learned some Very valuable truths that Jesus himself believed Moses was a real person, that Jesus himself believed that Genesis 1, 2, and 3 are historical and true. We also saw that God's mercy does not change his design or his purpose for his creation. And him being merciful and permitting divorce did not change his design and his purpose for marriage. Well this is important for us. It's important for us to look right in the face of a scripture like this that talks about divorce. Why is it important People sin. Human beings are sinners, aren't we? And the sinning doesn't stop just because you got married. There will be sin in marriages, even in Christian marriages, there will be sin How are we to deal with the sin that arises in our marriages as Christians? What's important? We looked at the design that God has for marriage. And now tonight we're gonna we're gonna look at what's God's design for divorce. And I hope that we'll see together that divorce is not the answer to sin in Christian marriage. Divorce is not the answer to the sin in Christian marriage. And we're going to look at it in two ways. We'll first look at sin in marriage, and then we'll look at sin and divorce. So let's look together at sin and marriage. I'm just going to reread these last In the house, his disciples also asked him again about the same matter. And so he said to them, Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her And if a woman divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery. Sin is inescapable. Even though we're saved in Christ, there's going to be sin on both sides of a marriage. We just have to wrap our heads around this. Wives will sin against husbands, husbands will sin against wives. It will happen. Neither the husband nor the wife should be surprised when they find out that the person they married is imperfect. And when those imperfections rise to the surface, when sin rises in a marriage. They need to understand that it has to be dealt with, not escaped. Sin has to be dealt with, not run away from. And there are the potential for heinous sins to be committed in marriage. We had looked at Matthew chapter 5 last time. Let's turn there again. Matthew 5. I want you to see something that Jesus says. In Matthew chapter 5 on the Sermon on the Mount, he explains to us what that heinous sin is. Now if you recall, we did look at Exodus, or not Exodus, Deuteronomy chapter 24. We looked at verses 1 through 4, which was the area that those Pharisees had been looking at and saying, oh, Moses permits divorce. We looked at that and we saw that yes, there was a certificate of divorce. We saw that it had been something that God had allowed his people to do. And that in that passage it said that that divorce could be for an uncleanness that someone found in their spouse The issue that we had brought up was that there were two schools of thought amongst the Jews, the Hillel and the Shemai. There's no test. Don't worry if you forget which is which And one of those schools had said, uncleanness means anything you're unhappy about. And if you recall, I had given you a quote that was talking about oversalted and underheated of meat. Boy, how many of us would be divorced right now if we didn't cook everything perfectly? I kind of like runny eggs. That's just me. I'm sorry. But the Lord gives a little bit of extra information when he says in the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew chapter five, verses thirty-one And 32. He says, Furthermore, it has been said, whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you that whoever divorces his wife For any reason except sexual immorality causes her to commit adultery, and whoever marries a woman who is divorced. Commits adultery. Jesus is not going to contradict himself. And even though Matthew and Mark they record things slightly differently, we know that they're both true, infallible, God's perfect and holy word. That word that's been translated sexual immorality is the word pornea, from which we get our English word pornography. And it is an it's a catch-all term. It means all sexual sin. Doesn't just mean adultery. There's a separate word for adultery that's being used. This means any of that heinous uncleanness. that comes in and taints that one flesh relationship of the marriage. Just recollection that if someone had committed adultery a sexual sin against their spouse in Old Testament Israel. Do you know what the penalty for that was? It was death. And so divorce was a mercy that God had allowed to happen because anytime someone committed a heinous sin like that in a marriage, it would have resulted in death. And then that person who had been sinned against, well they would be free from the bonds of marriage, wouldn't they? Because the bonds of marriage only last until the death of the spouse. So they would have been free to remarry, because that person would have been dead. But God remembers that we're dust, he knows our frame, and he knew that there'd be a whole lot of dead Israelites In fact, in the Matthew parallel passage in Matthew 19, he's the disciples say, ooh, maybe no one should get married if it's this stringent. And that could be a natural reaction to think that God's expectation of marriage is so high and lofty that it probably would be better not to get married. But we know in other passages of Scripture that The word tells us that marriage is one of those things that helps keep us from sin, especially from sexual sin. So Jesus gives this exception in the Sermon on the Mount, he says it again in Matthew 19, the parallel passage. Because That Deuteronomy passage in Deuteronomy 24 was not talking about that kind of heinous sin. It was talking about all this other stuff. And so it is not okay for someone to put away their lawful, their covenant spouse for just any reason. Divorce is going to happen. Because people cannot remain pure But now we have to think about, is divorce really an option for Christians? Is it where we should go? I just want to remind you, the point I'm trying to make in this sermon is that divorce is not how we deal with sin in marriage. Marriage is final. That's what Jesus has been teaching. What God has joined together, let not man separate. Even your own sin should not separate what God has joined together. But do you notice what Jesus is teaching in our verses before us tonight? He's teaching that divorce is also final. Marriage is final. Divorce is final as well. Now this is strange to us, though. Sin is sin final? Is there no way to deal with sin once it happens? No. God is gracious. He gave the temple system, the sacrificial system to his people. That was how they dealt with sin in the Old Testament. And the Lord Himself has dealt with sin By giving his son to be crucified, to be the atoning sacrifice dealing with our sin So I want to just point out that though there will be sin in your marriage, not all sin is equal There are different aggravations that make sins worse. And I'll just focus on that one heinous sin, that sexual immorality that Jesus says. And just point out that there's plenty of other sins that are not punished by death in the Old Testament. Disrespect is not punished by death. Fits of anger and rage. They're terrible. These are terrible sins. But God did not say that that deserved death. Making bad choices can be a sin. Saying mean things, being overly critical, nagging, these are sins. But none of them are punishable by death. And that should teach us something. It should teach us that those kinds of things should not lead to divorce. Divorce is a last solution. It's the final straw It doesn't deal with the sin. It removes the occasion for it. So then how is sin dealt with in Christian marriage? It's not by divorce. Non-sexual sin. It's not dealt with by divorce. Because that just leads to more sin. Do you see what Jesus says here? What's the sin that a divorce for for any old reason like that would lead to? It leads to adultery. The covenant relationship is not actually broken. It's not actually put aside or done away with. If you divorce for any old sin, any old problem, it will lead to more sin. And so Jesus said that to his disciples. And we need to look now at the sin that can be in divorce. And that is the sin of divorce for an unbiblical reason. It'll lead to adultery. Can two Christians divorce? Perhaps that's a question that you've asked yourself. I believe the answer is no. And when we look at the scriptures, we don't see any examples of two believers, two sincere Christians being divorced. Christians forgive because we've been forgiven. Christians understand mercy. Christians understand sin. When there is sin that arises in a Christian marriage, it needs to be dealt with in the way that God says Christians should deal with sin. And what's the passage that we have that's always brought up at member interviews? It's always brought up when we're talking to somebody who's claiming to have an offense against them. The passage is in Matthew chapter 18. It's in verses 15 to 17, and I'll just summarize what it says there. It says that if somebody has sinned against you, there's something you're supposed to do. The very first thing you're supposed to do is to go to them one-on-one and confront them about the thin. When two Christians do this, it's one person who loves another person, who should also love them because they're Christians, confronting the other person with something they know their God is displeased by. And if the other person doesn't listen to that, do you remember what the next step is? Witnesses. That by the account of two or more witnesses, every truth would be established. And if they are not brought then to a sense of their sin through those witnesses and through that confrontation, the very final step is that the person's to be brought to the church. Brought to the officers and to the institution that they would be able to have a say to give the guidance, to equip them for the good work that God wants them to do, the good work in that case being forgiveness, mercy, and grace. If a person doesn't heed all of those warnings, they are not a Christian. They are excommunicated from the church, treated as a heathen and a tax collector, as Jesus says in that passage. Well then that takes us to another passage of scripture that we've got to look at before we can be done considering the topic of divorce. Let's turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 7. Because in 1 Corinthians seven, the Apostle Paul gives us some very amazing information. First Corinthians 7. There's so much in this chapter. We don't have time to look at all of it. I just want to look at verses 10 through 16. I'll go ahead and read it for you now. Now to the married I command, yet not I but the Lord, a wife is not to depart from her husband. But even if she does depart, let her remain unmarried, or be reconciled to her husband. And a husband is not to divorce his wife. But to the rest, I, not the Lord, say: if any brother has a wife who does not believe, and she is willing to live with him, let him not divorce her. And a woman who has a husband who does not believe, if he is willing to live with her, let her not divorce him. For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife And the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband. Otherwise, your children would be unclean. But now they are holy. But if the unbeliever departs Let him depart. A brother or a sister is not under bondage in such cases. But God has called us to peace For how do you know, O wife, whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know, O husband, whether you will save your wife? First thing I want us to notice is that there are there's two groups of people that Paul is addressing. First he's addressing the married. There's a reason for us to understand that he's talking to married Christians, married believers. And he says that what the Lord has expected of his people in marriage is that they are not to divorce. A wife's not to divorce or depart from her husband, to leave him, but even if she does, let her remain unmarried. Same thing that Jesus is teaching. There can be a little confusion because in verse 12 he says, but to the rest. And so we have to understand who are the rests here? And he describes it. The rests are not two Christians in a marriage. But a marriage that only one of the spouses is a believer. And when he says, not the Lord Right? He says, I, not the Lord. He's not saying that this is not a command from God. He's indicating that this is something new, a new situation that the Lord has not spoken about before. In the Old Testament, there was no reason for the Lord to talk about what Christians married to non-Christians should do. And all of the teaching to the Old Testament Jews, they were not to marry outside of the nation of Judah, of the Jews. They were not to marry outside of the faith. And so what Paul is giving here is some new information that's needed for the New Testament church. And what he's saying to them, to that new situation, is that Christians should not be initiating divorce, because divorce is not the answer to the problems even in that marriage. Being a non-believer is not grounds for divorce. Did you realize that? Your spouse not being a Christian doesn't mean that you can leave them. But look at what Paul says. If they leave, allow them. Allow them to go. Because the dominant principle there is peace. God has called us to peace. You don't force an unbeliever to stay with you If they decide to leave. But Christians Christians are always to be looking for reconciliation. When there is someone who has offended you. What is it that God wants you to do? He wants you to confront the sin, not to overlook it. He wants you to confront the sin and allow him to deal with it in the way that he has specified. by bringing it to the church, if it can't be dealt with on an individual basis. There is no time limit or statute of limitations on this thing. There is no, well, enough time's past and we've just grown apart. That doesn't equal a biblical divorce or a biblical reason for divorce. The sin still needs to be dealt with and divorce won't deal with it. And when we are confronting someone in that Matthew 18 pattern, it is the fruit of the Spirit that should dominate our interaction. And if it is If it's there, what sin can't be dealt with, even in a marriage God is said to have divorced Israel because of her harlotry. She gave herself to other gods. In violation of the covenant that was made with Jehovah, Israel left God. Do you see that? God never left Israel. Israel left him, left his protection and his provision, and Israel did this voluntarily He pleaded with her, he sent prophets to her. And if you read those prophets, they talk about it in this way. That Israel fled the protection of her husband to go after others who were not her husband. It's why the book of Hosea starts with Hosea being told You're going to go take an unfaithful wife, so that you know what it is like to be me. For I have married an unfaithful wife. Only God can deal with the sin in Christian marriages. And so we must not listen to what the world says. The world says divorce is an answer. It's not. It shouldn't even be an option for Christians. If you don't know what to do when you see sin creeping up in your marriage, go to God Go to those that God has given to the church to help you equip you for the good work of staying married, of loving your spouse as you should. We we've already looked at in the last sermon how Marriage is so important because that's how God describes his relationship to the church. And yet even that should give us a little bit of a uneasiness in our stomachs. Because husbands You'll never love your wife the way Christ loves the church. You will fail at that. And wives will never love their husbands the way the church is supposed to submit and be subject to the head of the church, the Lord Christ. It will happen where you will need help. And following the world's way, following the enemy's way, which says, you deserve comfort and you deserve happiness. And so that is the highest end your life can achieve. That is not an option for Christians. Don't listen to the enemy, don't listen to the world. No matter what your troubles are, you know that God can deal with sin And so I just want to leave you with this. No matter what, this is for all of you husbands and wives out there, no matter what is going on. It's not hopeless. It's not at the end. It's never hopeless for Christians. There is always the hope of reconciliation. There is always the hope because our God who deals with sin can deal with the sin even in your own marriage. If you love God and you want Him to deal with your sin, put all thoughts of divorce out of your mind, even in a situation of heinous sin. God can bring about marvelous fruit from the forgiveness that comes. Please pray with me.