You'll want to keep your scriptures open. I'm gonna since we're in um it's quite different to be in a New Testament letter versus an Old Testament story. So I'll be pointing out uh little prepositional phrases and that kind of stuff, so you'll want to keep your scriptures open. To follow along. Titus chapter 1. Paul, a bondservant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of God's elect and the acknowledgement of the truth, which accords with godliness. in hope of eternal life, which God who cannot lie promised before time began, but has in due time manifested his word through preaching Which was committed to me according to the commandment of God our Savior, to Titus, a true son in our common faith. Amen. Let us pray. O God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we pray that you would give us ears to hear and hearts to obey in the name of Christ and by His Spirit. Amen. You may be seated. The last thing that we had heard on Easter Sunday was this. In accordance with the scriptures, Jesus is raised to all authority, sending his church as his father sent him. We are on mission. Now, I'd like to make a few observations as we begin to look at a letter now of those who are on mission and a church who's in the midst of of that mission. Let's start with right in the beginning here. In Titus, I want you to notice that we witness Paul identifying himself with that same mission that we saw at the end of Luke into Acts on Easter. As you can see, Paul calls himself, notice right there in verse 1, that Paul calls himself the bond servants of God. This is pointing toward the mission. Now we gain insight into the significance of that title. from a cross reference into another what we call pastoral epistle. We have Titus and 1st and 2 Timothy, and they're very they're they're sitting in the same kind of genre. When we hear Paul talking to Timothy in 2 Timothy 3, 16 and 17, which I think is a very familiar verse for a lot of us, right at the end he says That the man of God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work. That man of God, that's what he calls Timothy. That man of God is equipped for every good work, and it's like a title. You are a man of God. And that title is very similar to what we're seeing here. It would really stand out if you were able to read the Greek language and see how close they are. This is a servant of God. We have servants of God and men of God. And I'm not saying there's there's no difference, but they're in the same kind of a category. And what Paul is doing here is he is aligning himself with a long tradition. of those who have been set apart as servants or as men of God. I want you to think especially of Moses And of David and the prophets and those like that. He sees himself as a part of that train of people and continuing the great work of salvation. Now, Paul refers to himself not just as a servant of God, but also an apostle of Jesus Christ. And this really connects us to the end of Luke. And connects us to Acts because that's ex Acts because that's exactly the way that they talked about those whom Jesus had sent out. Paul, therefore, is one sent by Christ who may act and does act as a first-hand witness of the resurrected Jesus of Nazareth, who is the Christ Paul also acts, therefore, since he was under the direct tutelage of Christ and given a special gifts of the Spirit, he acts as one who has an orthodox understanding of all of Scripture. Do you remember when those two things happened with the rest of the apostles, where Jesus showed them about himself throughout all of the scriptures and their hearts burned within him? The same thing happened to Paul. Paul is confronted by the living Christ on the road to Damascus, and he is taught the scriptures by him. So he ends up as an apostle, being a first-hand witness, given the same mission as the rest of apostles, which includes maintaining the orthodox understanding of all reality and truth. That's the first thing I want you to notice. And really, all we did was we looked at two words: servant of God and apostle of Jesus Christ. Now, here's the second thing. We also witnessed Paul identifying his work with that mission. Not just the titles or his office, but the actual work. The translation is a bit general in I'm I read to you the NKJV. It's a bit general, but you'll notice right there it says, according to the faith of God's elect. According to the faith of God's elect, it is meant to tell us What does it mean by according to? That is a really general way so that we can make up our minds here as readers and not translators. The translators left it general so as to not be too specific with it, like a dynamic equivalent translation. They have left it general for us to designate what is this telling us about Paul's mission. Let me put it this way. Let me make it simple. Paul, in other words, is giving you the purpose that Jesus Christ gave to him. He's telling you what he's up to with Titus and with those who are in the Cretan church. Paul, in other words, is saying here that he is seeking to further the faith of God's elect and to further the knowledge of that truth which leads to godliness. If you wanted to put it this way, you could just say he is seeking for this church to be healthy. Healthy in the Lord. And he broke it down into two main parts of health. He said, You need to be healthy in your faith, you need to be healthy in your obedience Both are connected, which is why we put the parable of the soils in the bulletin this morning, so that you could see the seed is planted. We accept and receive the word and it gives forth fruit. These are the two components that we see throughout the scriptures, especially in the pastoral epistles. He'll say to Timothy, faith and love. It's the same kind of stuff. Paul, in still other words, is seeking to ensure the vitality of the Church's belief that has been handed down to them from authoritative sources And he is seeking to do so in such a way that their beliefs blossom into fruitfulness for the glory of God and the good of mankind. A good, especially, of the church. That's the second thing. What he's after, what is he trying to accomplish here? Now here's the third thing. We witness the means which God gave Paul for that mission. Now, there are other means spoken of in the scriptures, but I want you to notice the one in verse 3. But has in due time manifested his word through preaching So that through there is showing you the means or the way by which something is accomplished, the instrument, if you want to put it that way. And notice what it is. That it is the preached word of God. So you can go ahead and think of all of the stories where some apostle stands up and says. They're not drunk. It's only this hour of the day. Instead, they're revealing to you what Joel the Prophet said. Right? Do you remember that from Acts? Or think of the all the other times when they are in cities and they stand and they preach. And then we hear that the Lord added to his church that day five thousand believers, or whatever it is. Sometimes it was just one. But here you see the preached word. Here, Paul is capturing that teaching. He's remembering those experiences. He's remembering what the Lord Himself taught him. And Paul himself will preach directly to cities or congregations. And Paul, in this case, therefore, reminds Titus of his preaching and the fruit which should blossom from his preaching. And he expects Titus to reap what he has sown. Paul sowed, he expects Titus to water and to get the fruit from it. And Titus also is to enter into a ministry of the word himself, and so too will Timothy. He tells Timothy, preach boldly, do not be timid. And he goes on with instructions like that. But that is the means which God gave Paul for that mission. And it is the means which he gives us, which is why I'm standing here this morning. Now there is a fourth observation, which I think may, the implications may surprise you a bit. But I am so thankful that the Lord has given us this series on Titus at this time in our lives. And you'll hear why in just a minute. The last thing I want you to notice is that we witness the device or a device which will be used against our mission. We have a mission from God, and there are people out there, even angels themselves, that want to kill it. Now, what is the weapon that they're going to use to do so, or a weapon? I want to draw out some implications here for you. I want you to notice in verse number two a little phrase. It says, according or according to the faith of God's elect and the acknowledgement of the truth which accords with godliness. In hope of eternal life, which God, now we're going to describe or attribute something to God, that he cannot lie. You see that? Now, if you're not paying attention to the total letter, that will just slide right by you. But I want to ask you this morning: why does Paul single out that attribute of God? There are many other attributes of God. Why does he want to focus on that one? Paul is not interested here in giving them a general theological education, so I'm just going to name some random attribute. That's not what he's doing. You can gain insight into Paul's total purpose if you look down or skip down to verse 12. So we're getting ahead of ourselves a bit, but that's okay. In verse number 12, Paul, just so you know, Paul is writing to Titus, and they are establishing a church called Crete. Or is on Crete. And the Cretians, you'll notice in verse 12, according to even their own poets, are known as liars. Therefore, Paul is mentioning that God does not lie in contrast to those who are liars. He is setting up a contrast and a competition, if you will, between the true God and idols. In other words, what Paul is pointing out is that the preached words preached words sent by God the Father through the Son, and then by His Spirit, filled the apostles with the truth of reality. But there are those who are out there who seek to contradict, like the Cretans, by lying. So it is important that he would remark, even in the beginning, because it's a major thrust of this letter, this one that I'm talking about does not lie like all of your countrymen. Lies, in other words, are the main device in competition with Paul's message and mission, and with the competition with the church there. It is lies and liars, in other words, let's just go ahead and tie this whole thing together in terms of Paul's purposes. It is lies and liars that will deaden the faith of the church They will choke it out. Actually, I think it's the first two steps in the parable of the soils where the devil just snatches it right away. That's how it can happen. It can also be choked out a little bit later by lies as to what your priority should be. Nevertheless, it deadens the faith of the church, and it is lies and liars that will lead to rotten and poisonous fruit in your lifestyle, in your Christian way of walking. Now, we are not apostles. Did you notice that? I'm not an apostle. You're not an apostle. Not in the special sense in which Paul is talking about it with himself. They did, in fact, have a special mission. I do not stand in relationship to you like Paul does. No way. Yet, this letter is preserved for us so that the church would have greater clarity of what our mission should look like. And how that message should impact us personally, and what we are up against. If you're going to go out in obedience to Christ thinking That it's just going to be skipping through a beautiful countryside and nobody's going to bother you, you have got another thing coming Now you can see why I'm so delighted about being able to go through this letter right now, because this is your situation. You are surrounded by liars and lies in our culture. And we need to learn how to live as Christians and to accomplish our mission in that kind of a country. You see what I'm saying? Yeah, so this is great news. He knew that God knows exactly what we need. So let's boil this down. Here is your doctrine this morning. In a world of liars, the church is called to preach the word of God for the furtherance of the faith and the practice of God's elect. In a world of liars, the church is called to preach the Word of God for the furtherance of the faith and practice of God's elect. That's a summary of these four verses. Now, I'd like to bring out some applicable some application points here with just two main points in children and adults. If you're taking sermon notes this morning, which we encourage, there's going to be two points of application. Preachers. And liars. Preachers and liars. Let's begin with preachers. I'm only going to share a few verses with you, but we all need to realize that from the beginning, the apostles We're on the same page as to the content of their preaching. It is important that you know that Paul did not have a different message than James. James did not have a different message than Peter. Peter didn't have a different message than Luke. I want to show you a few things, and if you don't want to turn there now, that's fine. But I encourage you to heed what Elder Matt Ball said this morning and that you would have conversation about these things. And so to point out to you what I'm saying here, that they never they're not arguing over the message. They were all preaching the same thing. I'd encourage you to look at 1 Corinthians 15, verses 3 and 4. And this is what it says. For I delivered to you, this is Paul speaking to this church, for I delivered to you, first of all, that which I also received. That Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, and that He was buried, and that He rose again the third day according to the Scriptures. This is the first point I want to make out to you in terms of this This preaching. According to the scriptures, is the emphasis here. As we read in Luke, Christ showed them the divine plan revealed in the scriptures. The Father would send the Son, who would restore his created order by way of his spirit. All that Moses said All that the prophets said, all that David and Solomon said was unified and shown to reveal the nature and the work of the triune God. Now, if you were to skip down a little bit in 1 Corinthians 15, 11, I just gave you the very basics of apostolic preaching. About who Christ is, that He's the one that was long awaited. He tied all the scriptures up there. And then in fifteen eleven, listen what he says. Therefore, whether it was I or they, so we preached. And so you believed. Do you see what he's doing there? I want you to notice the plural. That was not just Paul's message, in other words. Whether it was me or them, the other apostles, we preached all the same thing, and you believed. That's his message to the Corinthians. It was the same message preached by all of the disciples. This message is retained for us in the various letters of the New Testament. So when you when you go to the New Testament, and whether it is Matthew or Mark or Luke or John or Paul or Peter or James or Jude, they all stand there together hand in hand, delivering the same truth to you which God delivered to them, and that God had delivered to all of the authors of all of the Old Testament books As well. Now, are there some things in the Old Testament that were temporary? Yes. Let's give an example. What would be the greatest example you have on your mind that was a temporary institution? Blood of bulls and goats? Yeah, I knew I knew you had that on your mind. Right. But what does the author of Hebrews point out? Moses knew it was temporary all along. He was no dummy. Did he know that the that priesthood, the Aaronic priesthood, was temporary? Sure did. That's the point of the book of Hebrews, really. They all therefore had the same answers to the following questions. And I want you to think of all of those people. If we could bring every author of a book of the Bible into this room, it would be quite full. And if you were to ask them these questions, let's just line them up here and let them all be witnesses, we're going to ask them all these questions, and you're going to notice that they would answer all of the questions the same way. Essentially. Who is God? We're not going to see Isaiah step forward and say, well, actually I disagree with Jeremiah. That's not gonna happen. Because they're all looking at the same thing. What is he doing with his creation? What is God doing with his creation? They're all going to answer the same thing. What is he doing, especially with his creation called the church? They're going to answer the same thing. Now, that is what the Apostle Paul calls in our passage this morning: the faith of God's church or God's elect. That's what he means by elect here. He's referring to the church. That is what the Apostle Paul called the faith of God's elect. But Paul is not just concerned with the faith of God's elect. He is also concerned with the godliness of God's elect. And that is the same concern as Christ Himself, as we read earlier. But the seeds that fell on the good ground are those who, having heard the word with a noble and a good heart, Keep it and bear fruit with patience. We can really miss this as Christians. For some reason, there continues to be in every generation a divide between what we believe and what we do. Now I say every generation, I'm thinking all the way back to James when he says, don't just be hearers of the word, but doers of the word. And we can go back to authors that are way before that where there's still a problem. We could look at Adam and Eve if we wanted to, where they heard one thing and they did another. There's a kind of separation between faith and practice, but it is not meant to be that way, and it is one of the things that the Spirit is seeking to intertwine together within us as a church. That we would not just know, but that we would do in love. Now we can really miss this as Christians. In different ways, we have severed the intimate connection between faith and practice or belief and love. Sometimes when I see people try to resolve this, they enter into strange and complicated philosophy. I do not think that we need to do that. I think Basically, we just need to remember the relationship that we have with God. And this is why I believe that. We simply need to recognize That all the communication that we are receiving from God, from His Word, takes place within a designated relationship that He has established with us in our vocations. Let me put it this way. God speaks to us as a king, to those who are to serve him as vice regents. That's the communications that's happening. He's not doing a data dump and you're an empty receptacle. He's saying, I'm the king, and you serve me. And I'm going to communicate things to you in the midst or in the domain of that relationship. God also says, I'm the father, and you are my children. And I'm speaking to you as a father to my children. If I in the morning say, as a father, Jack, the half and half is still on the counter, am I just trying to give him facts about dairy products and their location? I am saying put the half and half back in the refrigerator when you're done with it so it doesn't spoil. Because you're driving your mother and me crazy. That's me communicating as a father. But God speaks to us also as the owner of a magnificent estate called the world, and we are the stewards of the estate. Do you remember that story? Story of the good stewards. God speaks to us as the Lord of all civil society And we listen as families, which are a civil institution. God speaks to us as the Lord of the church, and we hear and act as his worshipers, the new creation. God speaks to us as a husband, and we love and respect him as his wife That is the key. The key is to acknowledge the relationship that binds or frames the communication. That's how he's speaking to you. Now, let me ask you, how do you relate to God when you hear the faith and practice that He has delivered to us, the church? Many do not relate to him. Even when we are reading his word, it's not about him sometimes. And that is a great tragedy. We can read his word in order to impress the people around us. We can read his word to assuage our existential guilt. We can read the word so that we can dominate other people. That is not relating to him and his enscriptorated communication in the relationships that he has established. There is a better way. And it is spoken of in 2 Timothy 1. 13. Here's another point of your lunchtime conversation. Listen to this. Hold fast the pattern of sound words which you have heard from me, and do so in faith and do so in love, which are in Christ Jesus. That's how we receive the word. Now, that's preachers. But there's no such thing as a preacher out there who is not going to be faced with liars. We have a world of liars, and so now we need to talk about that a little bit l a little bit. We do not speak We do not hear. We do not raise our children. We are not married in a world without liars. We are not in an ideal world setting. We are in a world of liars and lies. Now, let me ask you just very quickly, do I need to spend time proving that to you? No. I do not think that I do. If you have any doubts, could you please take a look at Acts chapter 20, verses 29 and 30 as a model for how we should look at life? We don't need proof of the reality of lies and liars, but we do need to ask whether we live wisely in such a world. If that is your system, if that is your ecosystem, if that is your setting, if that is your situation, what does that require of you to be a wise human being? What will it require of you, being in that situation, to be a wise Christian? In other words, let's go ahead and start to apply the first point in the sermon. In what capacity does God tell you that lies and liars are in the world and they're in the church? I just told you that he's not giving you information. He is communicating to you as a father or as a Lord or as a sovereign, and he is telling you this morning by way of me His word through me as a preacher is saying to you, you are surrounded by lies and liars. So what it what does that mean for you as a moral agent? Being spoken to by the creator as his creature. How are you to receive that information? What are you to do Well, as the Lord of the church, does he not tell you these things so that you can steward the church in order to protect the flock? Officers, especially this morning, are you not to protect these people from lies and liars? That would be one application, wouldn't it? As the Lord, does he not tell mothers and fathers and grandmothers and grandfathers to protect their children and their grandchildren? Is that not how he's relating to you this morning? Is he not being gracious to you, telling you what your children are growing up in? And since teachers play a parental role, are you not also included in that kind of parental communication between God and parents? Now we can list other vocations, but I just want you to ask yourself what you will do with the revelation this morning where God says, you're on mission, but you're in mission, on mission in a world that's full of lies and liars. What are you going to do with that second part of the information? And that is an important question because even here, lies are in abundance. The world around us tells us that we should be tolerant. The world tells us that everyone deserves to be heard. Is that true in every situation? The world tells us that all of our communication is equal. The world tells us that we must never offend someone. With our words. The world tells us that as Christians, and they will throw this in your face really fast: oh, where is God's love in what you just said? Where's your kindness? Where's your politeness? And those end up becoming the chief virtues, and for some reason, the church ends up believing the world when they say that to us, and we become silent. They say that we should never say anything that may hurt another person's feelings. Is that true Do you feel those, the answer to those questions, the way the world answers those questions, do you feel a pressure to conform to their answer? even though you've never articulated the answer to yourself to those questions. I bet you that you do feel the pressure. I feel the pressure The problem with this is that if those statements are true, let me just get to the heart of the matter really fast. If those statements from the world are true, then Jesus Christ is a liar. You cannot have both. If those are true, then Jesus Christ is a liar because Jesus Christ himself hurt other people's feelings. Jesus himself mocked people. He called the church leaders in a public setting hypocrites. He called church leaders, he ridiculed them in a public setting, and he said, they are like washed whitewashed tombs with dead bones inside. Now let me ask you, before I give permission for you grumpy people out there to just go out and mock everybody Was ridicule and mockery the only tool which Jesus had in his tool belt? No. Did he nuke everybody? No. He had many tools. And that ends up being the bigger point in a setting like this. Christians are called to act justly. And this means giving each person and situation its due. And what that means is that some situations call for a serrated edge. Some situations call for flipping the table. Some situations call for a public rebuke. Some situations will call for ridicule. But there are other situations where it calls for a private reminder of that what that person is doing is destructive. Other times it requires you to just overlook it because it's not really a pattern. It was a once-in-a-lifetime blunder. But the specific point I am making here, because of this letter, and you will see this throughout this entire letter, is that as Christians, you must also have tools that include exposing, confronting lies, and liars I have been to dinner parties with most of you. I have been to sports games with some of you. I've been to a lot of different functions with you. Let me just tell you something. You are great at being polite You are very kind people. You are very considerate. I see all of those tools that you have. I see that you can be a sympathetic listener. You show empathy. There's all these things that are great. And all I'm trying to say this morning by way of this letter is that there are other tools that you will also need in your tool belt in this world. Where you were going to need to be able to stand before someone and say, you are lying. And if it got into a particular situation where there was massive destruction, You may even begin to ridicule or make fun of that person in order to save others. We see that with Jesus Himself. Now that's a special use, and I have only had to do that once actually in my life. But it is a use, it is a tool that we need within our tool belt. Sometimes you need to say in front of a whole room of people, you are lying. That is God's will. And the question is: will you have the courage to do it when the time comes? There's another tool that needs to be in the tool belt. Courage. Now, do you all have the courage to do this? Do you have the courage to face the lies and the liars of this world? Sorta. So let me just say that you're in uh the same spot as the early church that we see in Acts chapter 4, verse 29, and I would encourage their prayer to become your prayer. Listen to this. Now, Lord, look on their threats, and grant to your servants that with all boldness we may speak your word. There it is. You need to say the same prayer. That's Acts 4. 29. I encourage you in that prayer. Now, let me ask a more fundamental question. Brothers and sisters, how do you know what is true How do you know what is true so that you know what is a lie? We can really overcomplicate that Let's try to bring it down to earth. And I just want you to remember that you have been made a part of a sacred community. And within that community, there are people to your right and to your left that have the truth and are willing to stand up against lies. That's one layer. There are people in other congregations that are not here, but are in other congregations that have the truth also and they stand up for it. You'll know the truth through them. That's another layer. But the most important layer, the actual foundation, is that we have the sacred community who has been inscripturated because they were gifted by the Holy Spirit to give you words without error. They relay to you reality without error. So here's the kind of question that you need to ask when you are faced with things in this world. Let's ask a question that's pretty prevalent today. Is homosexual marriage permissible by God? Okay, well hold on. Let's ask the question. This is what I'm saying. What would your great-great-great-great-great-great-great grandfather David say? What would your great-great great great keep going Moses say? What would all of those prophets say? What would Lot tell you? What would they say? You have a huge family that is connected with the truth. Some of that family are protected from error to where you can trust them without question. And they have been enscripturated for you and encased usually in leather, and you have all of them right here telling you what is true. And we need to rely on them. Women, what is your role when you get married? Wife, what is your role with your husband? Why don't you ask Sarah? Why don't you ask Eve and see what she says? Because they're all going to give you the same answer. Now, how can I say that so confidently? It's because of this. When I look at the New Testament. What do I see the apostles doing? Who is their authoritative source for giving you the truth? Is it not one quotation of the Old Testament after another When Peter points out how a wife should be with her husband in certain circumstances, who does he appeal to? He says, we should be like Sarah. Do you remember what she did? And we'd have to read that correctly and not wrongly twisting it. But there it is. That's how we know the truth. We know the truth by the word of God, which is is another way of saying that we call upon our great-great great great great great great grandmother and we say, Grandma, what's the truth on this matter? And the way that the Holy Spirit has put this together is that when they word the truth, they will word it in such a way to where you will see it match up with a bunch of other ways in which it's been said by other authors in the scriptures. That's how we would know what is true. So let me ask you. I really want you to think hard about this. I want you to think personally about this. What lies right now are destroying your faith and your love? What lies are destroying your faith and your love? What lies are shipwrecking the faith and the love of those around you? What lies are shipwrecking the faith and love of those around you? And how will you respond in Christian wisdom to those particular cases? Which is another way of me asking you: what is the measured, what is the just, and what is the fitting response for yourself and for others when they're shipwrecking their faith and their love? What is the fitting response? I don't know who said this. It's actually debated, but it's applicable this morning. There's actually a saying out there that you'll recognize I'm adopting for our purposes this morning. The only thing necessary, brothers and sisters, for evil to triumph is for the church to keep doing nothing. In the words of Jeremiah, but put in the negative, we are not called to strengthen the hands of evildoers. That is not our doctrine this morning. It is this. In a world of liars, the church is called. To preach the Word of God for the furtherance of God's elect in faith and love. Amen. Let us pray