Our reading for tonight for our meditation As we use this as an opportunity together to meditate on the glory of God and the death of Jesus Christ, is taken from John chapter 19. And I'll start in verse 17 and read through 37, but I'll be really focused on 31 through 37. So I invite you to just listen since the lights are out. And he, bearing his cross, went out to a place called the place of a skull. which is called in Hebrew Golgotha. Where they crucified him and two others with him, one on either side and Jesus in the center Now, when Pilate wrote a title and put it on the cross, and the writing was Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. Then many of the Jews read this title, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin. Therefore the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, Do not write the King of the Jews, but he said, I am King of the Jews. Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written. Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts, to each soldier a part, and also the tunic. Now the tunic was without seam, woven from the top in one piece. They said therefore among themselves, Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be. Then the scripture might be fulfilled, which says, They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. Therefore the soldiers did these things. Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother and his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Clophis, and Mary Magdalene. When Jesus therefore saw his mother and the disciples whom he loved standing by, he said to his mother, Woman, behold your son. Then he said to the disciple, Behold your mother. And from that hour that disciple took her to his own home. After this, Jesus, knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the scripture might be fulfilled, said, I thirst. Now a vessel full of sour wine was sitting there, and they filled a sponge with sour wine, put it on hyssop, and put it on his mouth So when Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished. And bowing his head, he gave up his spirit. Therefore, because it was the preparation day, the body should not remain on the cross on the Sabbath, for the Sabbath was a high day The Jews asked Pilate that their legs might be broken and that they might be taken away. Then the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first and of the other who was crucified with him. But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs. But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out And he who has seen has testified, and his testimony is true. And he knows that he is telling the truth, so that you may believe For these things were done that the Scripture should be fulfilled. Not one of his bones shall be broken. And again another scripture says, they shall look on him whom they pierced. Amen. And let us pray. Heavenly Father, our request here this evening is that you would honor your Son. That you would glorify yourself and his death. We pray that you would do so through your Holy Spirit here in your bride tonight, and that you would do so through this Preached word. Lord, the preached word is but a jar of clay. But Lord, we ask that you would work through it. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. The most important things in our life are often approached with detail. planning. I think for example of all of the weddings that I have attended here for you and for your children. And I'm always, even with the bride and the groom, who are the most casual of people, who maybe have never planned anything in their life. When I go to the wedding, I see that they put a great deal of thought into every detail. I remember sitting at a a wedding, I think it was uh last about a year ago, maybe more than that now, I lose track of time. But the table was set just right and I really appreciate it because of how local it was. On my place setting there was an oyster shell. and the oyster shell had been buffed to be very beautiful and it had my name on it And I looked around and at each table setting, each person had an oyster shell, and it had their name, and you could just see that the path going to your table, the seat for your table, what was on your table. the order of events that everything had been thought through. And that experience reminds me of our passage here this evening. What you're witnessing here are not a random collection of historical facts. It is historical. These are all facts, but it's not random. Everything has been superintended by the Holy Spirit unto the glory and the purposes of God the Son and God the Father, and especially the Son's work. in his incarnation. I want to start by just looking at the details with you. I wonder if you scratch your head at some of the details. But I'm telling you right now, if we pay attention to them and we follow the thread that goes all the way through, what you'll discover is what you have discovered these past few times together Last night, we discovered the glory of the love of God. The Sunday before that, we discovered the glory of the who is our Him who is our resurrection and our life. And here the trail that we'll follow will lead to his glory again. And it's our great privilege that we get to meditate on this together. The first detail that you heard about was that, and perhaps this is where you really scratched your head. But the first detail was that the Jews requested that the bodies that were crucified, the three of them, we have two on the outer and one in the center, who was Christ himself. that the Jews requested for these crucified bodies to be taken down. Now if you remember they said that it was because it was the preparation day. And they went on to explain here in this passage in verse 31 that the body should not remain on the cross on the Sabbath. And there's a parenthetical remark. that the Sabbath was a high day in this particular case. And therefore, for all of those different reasons, the Jews asked Pilate that their legs might be broken, and we'll explain that in just a moment, that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away. In other words, that the crucified bodies would not remain. Now part of this is a general command that was given to the people of God in Deuteronomy chapter 21 Verses twenty-two through twenty-three. The law instructs. It says, if a man has committed a sin deserving of death, and he is put to death, and you hang him on a tree, his body shall not remain overnight on the tree. But you shall surely bury him that day, so that you do not defile the land which the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance. For he who is hanged is accursed of God. But piling on top of that, besides that general stipulation that is given to the people of God, this is an even more special time because you know that this is when a Sabbath is falling on the week of the Passover. That's what we saw last night within our passage, that there was a Passover meal, and then it had moved into a footwashing, and there was a lot of dialogue at that time, lots of preparations for the Passover meal and therefore this was a high day. Now, the other detail that might have us scratching our head is, well why is it that we have this this detail of We don't want the bodies remaining on the cross on the high day, which would be the next day. And this other detail of break all of their legs. Well, if you're scratching your head on that, that was a regular practice of the Romans. I'm going to probably misstate this or missay it, but the actual practice was called called Cru Ref uh Crew Rephragium. Crew Raphragium. Cru Rephragium. Now, I'll ask you to pardon me for a moment. I'm not going to be unnecessarily graphic, but I do need to list to you at least what's going on here with the crucifixion. In the crucifixion, I know that you have seen pictures and you've read details about it before, what ends up happening is that the human being struggles to stay alive The way that they stay alive is they keep pushing their body back up so that they can keep breathing. Eventually they will not have the energy or the power to do that, and they will suffocate under their own weight. So you see now why the detail of the broken legs If there's anyone who's still struggling, and there were two people still struggling who had been crucified on the outer area of Jesus. They would break their legs so that they could no longer push up, and it wouldn't be long until they they suffocated under their own weight. You know, there's actually historical archaeological evidence of this practice. I'm not going to repeat it again because I barely barely made it through the first time But there are reports that archaeologists have uncovered the body of a man crucified in the first century just north of Jerusalem. One of his legs was fractured, and the other had been smashed to pieces. And you see what they're trying to accomplish. They are actually giving into the request that the Jews have made, and they're making sure that they are dead. before they removed them from the cross. That was the that was the sentence, that they were sentenced to death, so no soldier could just let them go by And so we continue in our passage. By the time we get to verse 32, we can see this brutal practice of the Romans playing out. It says, then the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first and as the other who was crucified with him. That's in accordance with the account where we saw these three. But when they came to Jesus and they saw that he was already dead, you see there's no necessity in the breaking of the legs. In the earlier passage we had read, he said those final words and he gave up his spirit. Jesus had already died. And so there was no necessity in the breaking of his legs. And it continues in the passage. It says Uh to make sure basically, you see what the soldier is doing, to make sure that he has died. What he does in the passage in verse number 34 is that, but one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear. And immediately blood and water came out. So the soldier is doing his due diligence. There can be a situation here where they bring down a body, and then that body never real the person never really died. We're going to great length here within this account that is given to us from John to make sure that you realize here in this account that the person who was on the left of Jesus had their legs broken, they suffocated under their own weight, and they died. The person on the right of Jesus suffocated under his own weight and he died. Jesus had already died, and just to make sure, a javelin or spear was thrust through his side. And water and blood poured out. Jesus was dead. It goes to great lengths, and like a table setting at a wedding, no detail is lost. All of these different things end up having significance. And the significance here is that John wants to ensure That every succeeding generation would see the glory of God in the death of Jesus. All of this account of everything that has happened, the piercing of the side, the blood and the water, they're all now going to accumulate as to one scriptural evidence and representative sign after another. Of who Jesus is and the way in which God is glorified in this. You can see that emphasis in our passage by the time you get to verses 34 and 35 that John has set himself to arranging the table this way, looking after every detail in order to make sure that glory is given where glory is due. It says in 34 and 35, it says, and he who has seen has testified, and his testimony is true, and he knows that he is telling the truth, so that you may believe. Everything that had been said up to this point, here's the main thing that he's saying is, I saw it. I saw it with my own eyes. And the way that the Holy Spirit is superintending this, and the reason why I'm telling you about these details, and the reason why I saw the details that I did. Well, so that I could test to you testify to you from a first eyewitness account as to the meaning of what is being accomplished here. And oh, does it tell us of the glories? of our God. Have you thought about that before? Have you thought about the fact that in his own way, John is telling you, I was there, I saw this. Now you you wonder how did he end up there? Where are all the other disciples? If you read on in the account, by the time you get to chapter 20, all of the disciples are gathered in some place hiding from the authorities. We had read earlier in our accounts from Matthew that Jesus has denied, or that Peter has denied Jesus. We read even earlier than that that Jesus had seen all of this was going to happen and was fulfilling the scripture, the Old Testament scripture, where when the shepherd was struck, the sheep were going to scatter But here, we notice even in the details of the account that I read to you in the longer reading that I gave you, is it specifically points out in John 19, 26 that John was present. That John was there with the women to see what happened. So he could tell you, and then he could theologically interpret it for you. John does that. You ever read the book of Revelation? That's a lot of theology there, and he's the one who received that vision. It says in nineteen twenty-six when Jesus therefore saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved, standing by. And that's always the the title. That's always the title that John goes by. He said to his mother, Woman, behold your son. I remember uh a few summers ago, I say few, it could even be a decade at this point. That's how my brain is working. I remember I was we had a bunch of people over and we invited them and their children to swim in the pool and I was just kind of wandering around doing wandering things And I happened to wander over to the pool and when I looked down at the pool I noticed that there was a child on the bottom of it. So I I looked over at the parents of the child and they had no idea what was going on. So I jumped into the pool and I pulled the child up and the child was fine. They had been I don't really want to give you the picture of what was happening, but they were flailing at the bottom of the pool I put them on pool side. They were startled. I then called the parents' attention over and said, Your child was on the bottom of the pool. We need we need to keep an eye on our children here at this party But you know when you go back, why was I wandering by? Why wasn't I in the bathroom? Why wasn't I out front? Doing whatever I would do out front. Why wasn't I in the back room catching up on the score on a game? It's because of God's providence. God's providence had me at a particular place in order for me to be able to see a particular thing and to do a particular action out of a mercy and a grace. You know, I think that's a good way to understand what's going on here with John. Why was John here? Why didn't he scatter with the others? Why didn't he deny when the rooster finally crowed the third time? And why wasn't he distancing himself from Christ? Why was he here? John tells you, John was here so that you, even in your generation, could hear an eyewitness account. as to what happened on that day and the spiritual significance of it. That you really could see that this wasn't a mistake Jesus didn't swoon. Jesus wasn't Uh not he wasn't like a just a ghost or something that and it looked like he was there, but he really wasn't there. They're all these are different theories, by the way, that have come up in history And John, is is is there in order for you to be able to understand how God is glorified through this? And he puts it in his own way, and he says he who has seen has testified and his testimony is true, and he knows that he's telling the truth so that you would believe. So why don't we go ahead and benefit from God's providence? As I was wandering by, so too was John, so to speak. Let's benefit from God's providence. Let's hear what John points out to us. What does he want to see? What glory does he want us to see here? How are we supposed to understand? What are we supposed to believe? To what does John testify? To what does he point us to see God glorified? Now the very first thing that he points us to is the water and the blood. He doesn't say a general word like fluid came out of his side. That's not the detail that God arranged for this. He saw the water and the blood. The water and the blood as an eyewitness. And you know it's an eyewitness too. Primarily. I think there's multiple things going on here. There's always layers in these accounts. So many layers, because all of Scripture is coming together But here the primary thing I believe that John is focused on is he wants you to know, and we oftentimes forget this, that Jesus Christ, yes, he's God. But he is also a man. That Jesus Christ is human. That he went through more than any of us will ever go through in misery. And he died. You know, it's a little bit of a speculation, but he probably died earlier than the other two. Because of how many floggings he had received. I'd encourage you to take a look at the torture techniques of Romans. I don't know that anybody has ever said that to you in your life But you might want to look and see what he has going through. Why did Jesus die earlier than the other two? Well, if you see what he went through If you see what he went through, this is a person who has a body He's a human being. I know there's more to say about him. I'm not denying his deity, but this is John's concern. Now John has written multiple things within the scriptures. Sometimes we forget that. We have the Gospel of John. We have 1, 2nd, and 3 John. And then we have the book of Revelation. These are a lot of writings from John. This is a lot of eyewitness testimony that's coming together for you. And in 1 John 5. 8 In 1 John, John is focused on the humanity of Christ. He says this in 1 John 5. 8, he says And there are three that bear witness on earth. You hear the overtones of he's still very concerned about eyewitness testimony and evidence and those types of things He says in his writing in chapter 5, verse 8, he says, And there are three that bear witness on earth, the spirit, the water, and the blood. And these three agree as one. Now, what does he mean by that? They are a witness to what? Well, if you were to read a little bit earlier in 1 John, it says this, by this you know the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is of God. In other words, that Jesus is human. And every spirit that God has taken upon himself human nature is the ultimately best way to express that, but I'm emphasizing here the humanity because of the blood and the water. And it continues in 1 John, and he says, And every spirit that does not confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is not of God. And he goes on and he does not mince his words. He says, and this, the one who does not acknowledge that Jesus came in the flesh, this is the spirit of the Antichrist. Which you have heard was coming and is now already in the world. John already has that on his mind, and he's giving you his testimony, and his testimony is true, and he's making sure, even in the way that he Under the superintendence of the Holy Spirit Spirit arranges this account, he's making sure that you understand that Jesus Christ is God in the flesh. That he is a man. And you know how you knew that? Because in the ancient world, one way to talk about humanity and the flesh is to talk about what it's composed of. And they would think of it as being composed of two things, water and blood. And so there you see it. The water in the blood. That he has come in the flesh. Now Ask yourself the question: how is it that this contributes to his glory? I think that we could meditate on that for the rest of our lives. During the time of Christmas, we do meditate on the glory of his incarnation. That certainly could be done here tonight. That would be appropriate. But because this is different than the him taking upon himself human nature in his birth being conceived in the womb of the Virgin and born of her. Instead, this is focused on his humanity and the suffering that he received. And I think that makes a really big difference for his glory. You know, sometimes people these days try to reduce Jesus to someone that just has great ideas. That he's able to put things and act out things in a particular way where you're able to gain some insight on reality Now, let's be honest. If there are people in your life that help you to see the truth, if they help you to have insight into reality, there is a certain glory to them. That's true. There's a kind of a scene that comes along with being able to do that for people. It would be called like being a good teacher or something being able to help people to see what they're supposed to do and what they're supposed to believe. And there have been people within my life, and I see so far, I've got a few generations behind me now. I'm seeing in each generation, and as I read history books, I see in older generations, it seems like it doesn't take too long for there to be a generation to rise up and to not be concerned at all about the historicity or the flesh of Jesus. They're only concerned about the ideas that he has expressed. And so they would look at something like this, and they'd say, the important thing for us to focus on is that you've got to put other people before yourself. Or if you need to, or another idea would be, you know, the only way for humans to exist well is through self-sacrifice. That's the key to human existence. Or there could be something else about courage and what you're willing to do for the sake of God's will. And the interesting thing is that, you know, there's a reality to all those things. There's a truth to all of those things, but the thing that they have forgotten The most base reality that is a part of this passage is that Jesus isn't just teaching ideas. Jesus actually went through the flogging. Jesus actually dies on the cross, and it's proved by the javelin going through his side and blood and water coming out of him. He was doing far more than sharing ideas with you He was sharing his life with you. Now there is far more glory. And someone who shares their life with you than one who just shares their ideas. And that's the beginning of the glory that we have here. Another place that we could go is that Jesus here as the second Adam is, and we'll get to this in a moment. I'm only going to mention it briefly. He in the flesh is redeeming those who are of the nature of the flesh. In Adam all were lost And now in Christ all will be renewed, whom God has called to Himself. I can't think of a more glorious thing than that, than the saving of Christ. namely the race of human beings. Now John brings in another point that he where he wants you to see the glory. He doesn't just want you to see the glory in the sense of Jesus is human. He is God in, and the emphasis is in the flesh. I saw the water, I saw the blood, he died He also wants us to see that this, that the what happened to Jesus here in these details, the legs not being broken He points out in verse number 36 that his eyewitness to this is this is pointing out the glory of Christ's death as a sacrifice for you. Now this is quite unique. This is quite unique. It says in John 19, 36, it says, for these things were done, speaking of the legs. That Jesus' legs were not broken. For these things were done that the scripture should be fulfilled. Not one of his bones shall be broken. Last night we meditated on the fact of the glory of his love. Now, if this was just a courageous death that showed you a moral lesson that you too should be courageous in your service of God. That could be understood as a kind of love given to you. It was a love in revealing to you an important reality. But here we see that actually the depth of the love and that this death wasn't just a death in order to point you toward a moral point, that this death was actually an atoning sacrifice for you. Now, how is it that John brings that out? John brings that out by saying, not one of his bones shall be broken. And what he's doing there is he's quoting Exodus chapter 12, 46. And he's quote and also in similar passages from Numbers. And in each of those passages, get this, it's speaking about the Passover lamb. It's speaking about how you were to prepare for the Passover Supper and that the Passover lamb is not to have one of their bones broken. Now, do you remember the Exodus story? The angel of death goes from house to house. And what is it that's going to permit you and your children to remain? It will be because the blood of the lamb is upon your lintel. And though you hear him on the outside, You feel the change of the air pressure as the angel of death passes by. You hear the screams of others realizing what has happened to their home But it never crosses the threshold of your door. Because there was a bloody sacrifice. That took the judgment for you. Now we know that there is no remission of sins or reconciliation with God or atonement or propitiation or any of these things that we want to talk about. None of that comes from the blood of goats and bulls and lambs, that all of them are pointing forward to this moment in time where Jesus has taken where the Son has taken upon himself human nature, and he offers himself in perfect obedience to the Father as a spotless lamb, completely innocent in and of himself But he accepts his death on behalf of his people. Now that is glorious, and we'll get to that glory in a moment. I'm going to read to you a passage of glory with regard to him being the Lamb of God. But I know that you sing this sometimes. Sometimes we've we slide right over this in our songs, but listen to this song where we talk about the blood and the water and the and the revelation that this is a sacrificial Death for us, and therein is its glory, rock of ages, cleft for me. Let my hide let me hide myself in thee. Let the water and the blood From thy ribbon side which flowed, be of sin the double cure. Cleanse me from its guilt and power. You see that? And then the third detail I wanted to share with you that shows us his glory. We have the glory of his humanity and the suffering and his humanity. humanity. We have the glory of him being a sacrifice for us. And then finally there is the glory of him And his death being the fountain by which all nations are cleansed. The piercing That is eyewitnessed by John is a piercing showing forth the blood and the water, and it represents Christ's death being the fountain by which all nations are cleansed. Now this is where John points out in one of the verses, he says again, that for these things were done that the scriptures would be fulfilled. The first one he gave us I just read to you, not one of his bones shall be broken. But then he gives another reference and he says, and again another scripture says, they shall look on him whom they pierced. And this is primarily from Zechariah. John is summarizing several different chapters. He's pulling these things together. This is a chapter in Zechariah that has to do with the Messiah and the benefits that the Messiah will bring to his people as they covenant with him. And it says this in Zechariah 13, 1 through 2. Now I want you to get this. Listen to this relative to the blood and the water. In that day a fountain shall be opened up for the house of David. That's why our hymns say what they say. Before this in Zechariah, it talks about him who will be pierced. Then we get to chapter 13 and it says, in that day a fountain shall be opened for the house of David and for the inhabitants of Jerusalem for sin and for uncleanness. It shall be in that day, says the Lord of hosts, that I will cut off the names of the idols from the land and they shall no longer be remembered. I will also cause the prophets and the unclean spirits to depart from the land. It is the great day of the Messiah, and the cleansing, the sanctifying effect that he will have upon the nations. Setting them aside and translating them into a reconciled relationship with their God. Justification and sanctification are all being spoken of here in the water and the blood. And we hear this in our hymns also. One hymn says, Jesus, keep me near the cross. There is a precious fountain. Free to all, a healing stream flows from Calvary's mountain. The hymn writers before us, both men and women, boy, did they see this truth before we did But we've been singing it for a long time with the eyewitness of the blood and the water which flowed Now all of this comes together for us in other places of Scripture. We see the glory of His humanity, the glory of His sacrifice, the glory of him cleansing the nations and sanctifying them, justifying and then sanctifying them. And all of this comes together. This would be a great place for you to meditate on during this Holy Week. All of this comes together in another writing from John in Revelation chapter 5, 6 through 13. And I'm just going to read that to you and I want you to hear that John viewing all of these things that happened here As he was the eyewitness, the best way for him, the elders, angels, everyone who is an attendant in heaven, the best thing for them to do is to talk about how glorious it is. And I looked and behold in the midst of the throne and four live are uh and uh and I looked and behold in the midst of the throne and of the four living creatures And in the midst of the elders stood a lamb as though it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth Then he came and he took the scroll out of the right hand hand of him who sat on the throne. Now when he had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb. each having a harp and golden bowls of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. And they sang a new song saying, You are worthy to take the scroll. and to open its seals. For you were slain and have redeemed us to God by your blood out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation. And you have made us kings and priests to our God, and we shall reign on the earth. And then I looked, and I heard the voice of many angels around the throne, the living creatures and the elders, and the number of them was ten thousand times thousand and thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb who was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom And strength and honor and glory and blessing. And every creature which is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth and such as are in the sea. and all that are in them, I heard them saying, Blessing and honor and glory and power be to him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb Forever and ever. Amen. Amen. And it is with that, what a gift to John, who in God's providence was the eyewitness to the water and the blood. And the significance of that taught to him by the Holy Spirit through the scriptures, what a gift for John to see this vision and then to deliver it to us, so that all of us here this evening. Would behold the glory of God. We have beheld the glory of God as revealed in the death of Jesus Christ. Amen. Please pray with me.