John nineteen seventeen through twenty-seven And he, bearing his cross, went out to a place called the place of a skull, which is called in Hebrew Golgotha. where they crucified him and two others with him, one on either side, and Jesus in the center. Now Pilate wrote a title and put it on the cross, and the writing was Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. Then many of the Jews read this title, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin. Therefore the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, Do not write the king of the Jews, but he said, I am the King of the Jews. Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written. Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts, to each soldier a part, and also the tunic. Now the tunic was without seam, woven from the top in one piece. They said therefore among themselves, Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be. that the scripture might be fulfilled, which says, They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. Therefore the soldiers did these things. Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother and his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Clopus, and Mary Magdalene. When Jesus therefore saw his mother and the disciples whom he loved standing by, he said to his mother, Woman, behold your son. Then he said to the disciple, Behold your mother. And from that hour, that disciple took her to his own home. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I again ask that you would honor your name and the name of your Son by the power of your Spirit and the preaching of your word. That it would be honored among your congregation here and across the world. I ask these things in your name. Amen. I was a recently part of a photo shoot. This is That's probably the wrong word for it because it wasn't glamorous. It was just sports teams getting their photograph. And I waddled my way over to be a part of the team picture. And I heard someone say, let me switch with you. I want the camera to catch my good side. It got me thinking that it looks like we're all kind of trying for people to only see our good side. Uh things that we think might be admirable about ourselves. Maybe we think we have nice biceps and we accentuate them with short-sleeved shirts Or calves and we wear shoes to accentuate them. Or whatever it is, helping people to see our good side. Whatever's left of it. It's a seems to me like a pretty normal human experience for people to want to see the best of you. But it makes you wonder in light of that normal human experience, why is it that in a sense, John here in our passage shows The worst of Christ. Let me tell you another story. I was once in the hospital with a person who was getting ready to die. They had cancer for a long time And there were other visitors waiting and they said, Please don't let them come in. I do not want them to see me like this. Why does John want you to see Jesus like this? Well those kinds of questions are answered here as we work through the passage. John really isn't being very shy as to why he wants you to see the good side of Christ and why that good side is actually seeing him crucified. He begins by just giving us the details here. The details of the cross. By my count there's three main details. I'm sure you could divide that up a little bit differently. But the first detail of the cross here in 19 verse 17 is that he is bearing the cross. 19 verse 17 he says, and he bearing his cross. Now you have to wonder about that. Well why is he so short? Then we're going to talk about the geography of the place. Then we're going to talk about its translation in a different language, and then we're going to move into the crucifixion. But he just says in he bearing his cross, and he doesn't give you any descriptive vivid scene. And I wonder if it's in part because his original audience, they just knew what this looked like. It might be helpful to briefly just summarize what it would mean to say and he bearing his cross. Jesus was scourged and he was bleeding. You have seen this already in the readings. Really in an utter state of humiliation, stripped naked before other people. flesh ripped. We've heard these kinds of things before. He stumbles from the Praetorium. And you may not know this, but there's a heavy cross beam that he's given to carry. A lot of times in in art It doesn't match exactly what we read within history books of how this Roman crucifixion was done. In paintings, you often will see the cross beam coming across and Jesus carrying it with the long beam. But when we look at historical records and how Romans ended up doing this, there's a cross beam that he must carry, and the longer vertical beam is waiting for him on Golgotha. Well, while the vertical stake waits, planted at Golgotha's rocky hill outside of Jerusalem We read in these other accounts that you've heard tonight that he is too weak to continue. Jesus is too weak to continue. He falters. Roman soldiers grabbed Simon of Cyrene, forcing him to carry the beam to the groom, the grim execution site. Now it's a little bit just in 17 with he beared his crore his cross, and we keep going then and went out to a place called the place of a skull, which is called in Hebrew Golgotha. where they crucified him. At Golgotha then with the cross beam, Jesus is laid on the dust according to some commentators. His arms are stretched across the crossbeam. Nails pierce his wrists, or perhaps there's a there's a rope involved. The soldiers hoist him up, nailing the crossbeam to the upright stake. And then there is a small platform, usually within these historical accounts, there is a small platform That is fixed on the vertical beam where his feet are nailed. And it allows the one to who is being executed to push his body up. From the pain and from the asphyxiation. And you would think that maybe the reason why the little platform is there is because within the Roman heart is the virtue of mercy. But that's not what is happening. It's instead cruelty. The platform prolongs the torture You droop and you would die because you couldn't breathe, but as a kind of involuntary response, seeking to not be annihilated, one pushes themselves back up and they're able to breathe again and the torture continues. Forcing gasps of air, and it delays the death. All on purpose. It was probably worked out by engineers to be the worst and the longest execution it could be. Well it keeps going here just with the details of the cross from 17 where they crucified him and two others were with him, one on either side and Jesus in the center. It's interesting that John wants to take the time. But certainly he's got to have in mind Isaiah 53, 12 And perhaps other things. Isaiah 53. 12 says, Therefore I will divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong. Because he poured his soul unto death, and he was numbered, you could think on the left and on the right, with the transgressors. And he bore the sin of many, and he made intercession for transgressors. Now that's just the details of the cross. You can actually follow through this passage by just looking at where the camera is pointed. And it moves away from just the details or a kind of introduction of the cross over into above the cross. You'll notice in verse number 19, when you get a chance, and I'll just read it to you again, that above Jesus a title is placed. Pilate wrote a title and he put it on the cross and the writing was Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. And then many of the Jews read this title. You can see what's going on here politically. You can see that Pilate was had his hand forced a little bit in this. That they were going to have a stage an insurrection, that he was going to have to deal with this, that they were going to find out his commanders. And here he is with one little final jab and shot, or to be able to twist a knife He's going to call Jesus King of the Jews. And they know what he's doing, so they say, let's say he called himself the King of the Jews. Not that he is the King of the Jews. That's the whole problem. But pilot refuses. In fact Pilate refuses, and it's even given, not just in Hebrew, and not just in Greek, but also in Latin. And we see here trickling down through the Gospel of John elements from chapter twelve. And even before that, because we know that John is trying to put in front of our faces that don't be fooled. The one who's the servant is your king. And here we see up above his cross that Jesus is the king. And the Holy Spirit and in his providence has planned it out to where everyone in the known world would be able to read it and see that that is the case It's written above them in three languages, and there's this interesting phrase also in 19 and 20 where it says Pilate responds to the Jews and he says, What I have written, I have written. We see that same kind of language through the rest of the Gospel of John when we hear other people say, it was written. So it was written. And they'll be referring to Isaiah or something like that. And it's as if the Holy Spirit is using Pilate here. To establish authoritative declaration. What is written is written. What will be, will be, because God has decreed it. This is my son who is the king of the world. Well, we have the details of the cross that now I hope we have straight. It's a little bit different than paintings. And we have that title above the cross, but John then moves us geographically to below the cross. In John 19, 24, he says, Therefore, they or they said therefore among themselves, Let us not tear it. speaking of his tunic, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be, that the scripture might be fulfilled, which says, They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. And therefore the soldiers did these things. If you go back to the footwashing, you can really see the same kind of imagery that's happening here. There's been a lot of different speculations on why does John give us so much So many words in describing the tunic. And we could talk about some of the other interpretations another time, but it seems rather obvious that he still focused on this theme that was given at the footwashing. Do you remember Christ sitting at the table? And he rose, and he took off his outer garment, and he tied on uh he girded himself like he was a servant. If you were to reread this section, here it is again. That that outer garment is off, the clothes are off, and he is back at that foot the he's at the reality of what the the sign was given within the foot washing that he is In this act that he is doing, this crucifixion that has been planned by the Father and voluntarily entered into by the Son, it is in this act that he is cleansing his disciples. Whoever has been, whoever is, and whoever will be a part of his congregation. It's all planned. And it and to point this out John points back and he says, take a look at the holy vision in Psalm 22, verse 18. It says this very thing, they divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots You know, when you go through these details of the cross, when you look above the cross and you see that Jesus Christ is King, and when you see below the cross, what the king is accomplishing in his voluntary power through his atoning sacrifice. I think there's a major question that ends up arising and it makes me wonder. I I really hope to talk to John one day and just ask Is this the question that you wanted to be before your congregation in April of twenty twenty five at Severn Run? When trying to show that Jesus is king, did you want your congregation to ask, why did you reveal him as naked and humiliated? It's the same question I asked in the introduction. When trying to show Jesus as the King, why reveal him as naked and humiliated? We have if we go back to chapter twelve, we can have the beginnings of an answer there This is a very large theme through the Gospel of John, but I'll just point out chapter 12, 23 through 24 as an answer to this. But Jesus answered them saying, the hour has come that the Son of Man should be glorified. Now let me just ask you as a congregation If I just gave you that verse and I said to you again, the hour has come that the Son of Man should be glorified. And I said, Would you please tell me, what is he talking about? What would you tell me? Would you bring me to Easter morning? Well, certainly you would But would you bring me to any other time? When we look at that passage in John 12, 20 23 through 24, he continues, and he says, Most assuredly I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it produces much grain. Jesus Christ from chapter twelve, John pulling all of these themes and letting them rain down all the way into 19 and it will continue. is pointing out that the reason why he would show you the greatness of his king by the death of his king is because this is how the father and the son have decided to show their glory. The glory of God shown in Jesus Christ is his love for you, his people. I'm gonna say that again. What else ends up adding up to if you were to stack the numbers and carry the one and do all the sums correctly The glory of God shown in Jesus Christ is his love for you, his people, which is shown in his willingness to love you to the end. To love you to the uttermost. Even to the death of the cross. Now, does that sound strange to you? So does it sound, does that logic begin to make sense to you as to what John is doing? John is making an argument for you to say, and he has done this for the longest time, Jesus Christ is your king. And we're a little confused for a moment because he keeps showing us Jesus' bad side, not morally bad, but just the the grotesque humiliation that he goes through. Why would you ever Publish that if you want them to see how great your king is. But we're discovering now that his greatness and his glory is seen in this very humiliation Because he's doing out of obedience for his father and for the love of his people. What greater glory is there than this than that he has given his life up for you? Now that makes sense. That logic links together. We can get our heads around that. But let me just ask you, is that new to you? That God glorifies himself by revealing to you that he is love for you. It really shouldn't be that new to us It really should be reminding us of the other time. And there are many ways times that God has revealed his glory, but the other time when God specifically said, I will reveal my glory to you. Do you remember that time? It happened with Moses in Exodus chapter 33, 18 through 2023, one of the most well-known passages in humanity. He says this, and he said, please show me your glory, Moses speaking to God. And then he said, Then God says, I will make all my goodness pass before you. And I will proclaim the name of the Lord before you. I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion. In verse 20, God says to Moses, but you cannot see my face. Mark that. You cannot see my face. For no man shall see me and live. And the Lord said, Here is a place by me, and you shall stand in the rock. So it shall be, when my glory passes by, that I will put you in the cleft of the rock, and will cover you with my hand, and I will pass by, and then I will take my hand away, and you shall see my back, but my face cannot be seen Well, it goes on into Exodus chapter 34 where the revelation actually takes place. Do you remember this? Moses in the cleft of the rock, the hand guarding him from certain depth that he can't see his face, but only the back of the Lord. And he begins in 34:6, and the Lord passed before him, revealing his glory, and this is his glory. The Lord, the Lord God, is merciful and gracious. He is long-suffering and abounding in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands. Forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. And it goes on, but for the sake of this passage, I'm going to stop there. There's a revelation of the glory of God in speaking about his mercy and the forgiving of iniquity and transgression and sin. Well last night do you remember that I brought up Second Corinthians chapter four and I said As a reformed congregation, we certainly remember the first part of this one verse where it says, For we do not preach ourselves, but Christ Jesus as Lord. We often forget the second part where it says, and we preach ourselves as your servants for the sake of Jesus Christ. You know that passage continues? For it is God who commanded light to shine out of darkness, who has shown in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God. in the face of Jesus Christ. Do you begin to see the dots that are starting to get connected? Moses hid in the cleft of the rock, the word face repeated in that account, his glory being revealed in the forgiveness of transgressions and iniquities And here we see John pulling all of those various things together and saying, if you want to see and not be in the cleft of a rock, if you want the glory of God to pass you by, that you might see his glory Look to Christ on the cross. It is there that you see the forgiveness of our sins, his faithfulness. It is there that we see the exact phrase that was revealed to us that God is merciful, that God is gracious, that God is long-surf suffering, that God is abounding in goodness and truth, that He has kept mercy for thousands. He is forgiving iniquity and he is and transgression and sin. And you can see it all right there, summarized, in the Son of God, slam for you There's quite a bit going on here. The pace has been quickening from the beginning of the Gospel of John, and all of it's happening so fast. that it seems so condensed that John is seeing all of the pieces come together, all in Jesus Christ, for you. And it is glorious. Now last night we saw the glory of Christ and that He is our servant. But in that moment we realize that there is a human condition where we are resistant to receiving any help from God. And tonight you know there is a human condition where we have a very difficult time And sometimes we outright refuse to see the glory of God, particularly in this respect. There is an assault against the glory of God in his glory being revealed in his love in his son. There are assaults all day long on you. Every moment that you are stricken with pain. Every time you are sick for too long, every time you don't get what you want when you have prayed for months, when you see your friends and your family suffering, and it doesn't seem like there's any answer You could see the assaults on his glory because you are starting under the deceptions of the flesh, the world, and the devil to doubt That God is good and that He loves His congregation. It is a direct assault on His glory. Let me put it this way. Within all of pain and misery, we raise a question, why me? Well, how many different ways have you answered that question? Why me? Sometimes you think it's because you don't think you're good enough There are many different ways to answer that question, but one of the most assaulting ways to God's glory, to answer that question, is to say that because God is not good and he is and inconsistent he inconsistently loves. And what is being given to us here by the Apostle John, his beloved, Disciple our answers to be able to give back so that we are not assaulted. Have you ever answered the question, why knee that way? Because God doesn't really know how to love. Did your the way that you phrased it, maybe you didn't phrase it that way, but was it implied that if you were God you would love better than God loves? You would actually know how to care for people. You wouldn't leave them high and dry with no answers. God is not good and he doesn't really love. Let me just ask you honestly. Usually when you say that to yourself, when you say why me, and then you say, because God doesn't know how to love, you're usually by yourself and you're in your own head. So there's really no nobody to help you and to ask you some questions. So let me just ask you a question. Does that answer that God does not know how to love Does that really give a satisfactory explanation for what is going on in life I was reading earlier this week something from RC Sproll that I thought was really great. And it really connects with what we're dealing with here tonight, with assaults against God's glory as it's revealed in the love shown in His Son. R. C. Sproul writes about a different matter. We yearn for simple answers to difficult questions. We want clarity. We desire to cut through the entanglements to the heart of the question. Sometime the answers are simple enough in themselves, but the process of finding them is laborious and confusing. Sometimes the answers are simplistic, giving us temporary relief from the pressures and the burdens of confusing questions. However, there is a profound difference between a simple answer and a simplistic answer. The simple answer is correct It accounts for all of the data found in the complex problem. It is clear and can be easily grasped in its fullness. It abides being able to stand the test of rigorous questioning. But that's not the case with the simplistic answer. The simplistic answer is a counterfeit. On the surface, it appears to be the genuine article, but under closer scrutiny, it yields its bogus flaws. The simplistic answer may account for some of the data, but not all of it. It remains fuzzy. And worst of all, it doesn't abide. It fails the test of the deeper questioning. It does not satisfy in the long haul. And that is what is presented to you here this evening on this Good Friday. That God, when you say that God is not good and he does not know how to love his congregation, that is simplistic. It does not account for all of the data. It doesn't have all of the facts in mind. Why? Why doesn't it account for all the c the facts? Because you have forgotten that it was for you that he was flogged. Somehow you have forgotten that it was because of you he carried that beam that goes across, the horizontal one, toward the one that was waiting for him that's vertical. Because he was hoisted onto the vertical post for you. Because they stripped him naked. And they cast lots for his clothing for you in order that he could make you clean and that you would have a part with him. Isn't it amazing that in those moments we could entertain that God is not good And we could forget all that is given to us here in the Gospel of John, seeing that actually God is good. God is love. And he has loved you to the end. And in fact, John's main point in giving you all of this here this evening is to say he's not just loving like other people love. This is his glory that through all of the ages to every human being in his congregation He has given compassion to whom he has chosen to give compassion. And his son, he removes all iniquity. What you see on the cross is the glory of God. That's a little bit of a different answer from where we started, isn't it If John really wanted to exalt his king, why would he show you his humiliation? It's because in his humiliation you see the glory of God's love for you. This is what John wants you to see. That Jesus Christ loves you, his people, to the end. Amen. Let us pray.