Led him away, they laid hold of a certain man, Simon, a Cyrenian, who was coming from the country, and on him they laid the cross that he might bear it after Jesus And a great multitude of the people followed him, and women who also mourned and lamented him. But Jesus turning to them said, Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me. But weep for yourselves and for your children. For indeed the days are coming in which they shall say, Blessed are the barren wombs that never bore, and breasts which never nursed Then they will begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us, and to the hills, cover us. For if they do these things in the greenwood, what will be done in the dry? There were also two others, criminals, led with him to be put to death, and when they had come to the place called Calvary, there they crucified him and the criminals, one on the right hand and the other on the left. Then Jesus said, Father, forgive them, for they know they do not know what they do. And they divided his garments and cast lots. And the people stood looking on. But even the rulers with them sneered, saying, He saved others, let him save himself if he's the Christ, the chosen of God. The soldiers also mocked him, coming and offering him sour wine, and saying, If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself. And an inscription also was written over him in letters of Greek, Latin, and Hebrew. This is the King of the Jews. Then one of the criminals who were hanged blasphemed him, saying, If you are the Christ, save yourself and us. But the other answering rebuked him, saying, Do you not even fear God, seeing you are under the same condemnation? And we indeed justly, for we receive the due reward of our deeds. But this man has done nothing wrong. Then he said to Jesus, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom And Jesus said to him, Assuredly I say to you, today you will be with me in paradise. Now it was about the sixth hour, and there was darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour. Then the sun was darkened. And the veil of the temple was torn in two. And when Jesus had cried out with a loud voice, he said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit Having said this, he breathed his last. So when the centurion saw what had happened, he glorified God, saying, Certainly this was a righteous man. And the whole crowd who came together to that site, seeing what had been done, beat their breasts and returned. But all his acquaintances and the women who followed him from Galilee stood at a distance Watching these things. Amen. Please pray with me. Well, Father, we pray that you would honor your son here tonight. That you would glorify yourself. We ask that you would do so by your Spirit. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. Last night the self examination ceased. I wonder if it was for the first time in many years that you stopped beating yourself up. We moved away from self-examination and we yielded to the Lord's examination. We heard his verdict and his voice and his call and his evaluation of us. Has Jesus Christ chosen you? Has he revealed to you that he has chosen to cancel your debts? Has he shown you that he has bought you at a price and you are now consecrated to his service? If so, then in the supper we were not only instructed in the cancellation of our sins and of our consecration unto God But we were confirmed. We were like soft wax that he impressed, making his mark, showing that we belonged to him. Christian, your sin is pardon, and you are consecrated to God. Now, tonight we continue on past the upper room And into Golgotha. I want us to notice a few things here that have been carefully arranged by the Spirit by way of Luke. When you reach the crucifixion here in the Gospels, the Gospel writers, I actually say this to Brad every year, it becomes overwhelming. Because the gospel writers are evoking so many scriptures that it is impossible to follow every thread in a single sermon. It is as if every sentence is a reference to another part of Scripture. Tonight, therefore. Since I can't cover all of the threads, I just want to point you to one prominent thread that we especially see within Luke's mind and heart, and it is the trial of Jesus, who is the Christ. Now, that seems rather obvious, but I actually mean the trial of Jesus Christ with a play on words. Trial in the obvious sense would refer to Jesus' trial that we just heard read in each of the readings from the elders, before Pilate, under the accusations of the Jewish leaders. But Luke, however, is also working with a sense of trial, meaning temptation. What we witness, in other words, in these chapters Is Jesus subjected to satanic final temptations? The devil is doing everything he can to get him off the path. That he would once again, just as he had done in the garden, destroy the plans of God. Now let me explain more fully what I mean and why I would say such a thing. I hope that you're familiar with the beginning of Luke. If not, you're probably familiar with this account anyway. But Jesus goes into the wilderness and he is tempted by Satan. At each turn, the devil comes to him in his weakness when he's in a 40-day fast. If you are the Son of God, then prove it this way: do this or do that. There's different examples, and at each turn, Christ rebukes him from quotations from Deuteronomy, summarizing really in the whole temptation, by the end, having resisted Now Jesus Christ loves God with all of his heart, loves him with all of his soul and all of his mind, and the devil could not take him off from that. Jesus resists refusing to stray from his Father's will. That is unique among the human race When those trials end, nevertheless, Luke makes this editorial comment that Satan would wait for an opportune time to try again. This isn't the beginning of Luke. Read it for yourself. Now, think about last night. And the very first paragraph that we heard with Judas surnamed Iscariot, who was going to betray Christ for silver Right at the end of that scene, it says that Judas sought an opportune time to betray Jesus. Now it says he sought an opportunity, but it's the same Greek word behind there. And so we should be alerted that this is the time, this is the mark. That the devil saw when he should strike again. This is the trial of Jesus in that sense also. When will be the opportune time to try and make Jesus fall off from his Father's will, just as the devil has made every other human being fall off from the Father's will? It will be during his most vulnerable moment of pain and ridicule at the hands of the leaders and of Pilate. It will be when he hangs there and his own body weight is suffocating him and pushing him. the air out of his lungs. The devil is relentless. Now this being the case You would expect, therefore, you know, what I'm putting together here, constructing this puzzle and showing you there's a picture That Luke wants us to see, you would expect to start seeing this idea become prominent in Luke. And that is, in fact, what we find both directly and indirectly throughout these accounts. Right away, if you were to review the Lucan accounts, which I encourage you to do during this season, Jesus warns Peter. That Satan will tempt him and Peter will deny Jesus. Now Satan wanted more from Peter. He wanted to sift him He wanted to take him to a place that he could not return, and Jesus would not let that happen. Jesus will strengthen his brothers, or Peter will strengthen his brothers and sisters in the end. But for now Satan has begun. You can move just a few steps more forward in the record, and you would find that in the Garden of Gethsemane Christ enjoins the disciples to pray that they would not enter into temptation. Jesus himself recommits to drinking the cup of the Father's will for him. Not my will, but your will be done. He understands what's inside of that cup and what he must drink. And even in the face of the temptations of Satan himself Now those are direct words, and you can see more and more of that. Each of his followers betray him as we've even sung This night, all due to satanic temptations. Now, indirectly, those around Christ begin to tempt Christ as Satan's henchmen in the same form, the same kind of Cadence that we see Satan testing Christ in the wilderness. The soldier said, if you're the king of the Jews, then save yourself. Sounds very similar to Satan saying, if you are the Son of God or if you are the Son of Man, throw yourself down off of the temple, for it says that God would rescue you on angel wings Or one of the criminals said, If you are the Christ, then save yourself and us. Now that's a real temptation Because if you are being crucified and yet have the power to make it stop, as one of the gospel accounts said, he could have called legions of angels to put an end to this. You begin to see that coming out of the mouth of soldiers or coming out of the mouth of criminals are not just human words, they are words from demons. Testing Christ, putting him through a trial at every moment. And yet what we see is Jesus Christ resisting all and staying true to the determined plan of the Father. Well Luke then begins to point out signs that the faithful, voluntary work of Christ was coming to fruition He has not even taken his last breath, and his work is starting to bear fruit The first sign that we saw was that though it was daytime, darkness settled over the whole earth. He mentions that even the sun was darkened. And then Luke goes on to record that the temple veil was torn in two. And then, quite beautifully, and as a perfect summation of what is happening, Jesus Christ on the cross recites a line from Psalm 31. Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. I encourage you to read that psalm during this season. Read that Whole psalm and think of Jesus Christ and think of yourself. Having said that, Jesus breathed his last. Now the darkness over the earth evokes the final judgment over Egypt on the firstborn son. The torn veil shows that through Jesus' flesh or crucifixion we may enter with boldness the throne of God, being reconciled to Him again. There will no longer be an angel at the entrance of the Garden of Eden with a flashing sword where you cannot enter. You may go with him now into paradise. The recitation from Psalm 31 is a song of hope that his father will have the last word and honor his son. Jesus Christ lived by faith and not by sight. Faith in his Father, and his goodness, and his love. Now that's a a number of things that we've observed so far. Let's put it into something that we could perhaps remember. It would be something like this. Under satanic trial, Jesus Christ endured the cross in obedience to his Father Bringing cosmic harmony between creature and creator. That's quite the accomplishment. Let me say that again. Under satanic trial, Jesus Christ endured the cross in obedience to his Father, bringing cosmic harmony between creature and creator. Now, what I would like to do for the rest of our time together this night is I just want to look more fully at the obedience of Jesus Christ. This is an excellent moment for us to have a thick reading of what it means for Christ to be obedient. I want you to be able to look at Christ on the cross and see the profound sense of what is going on. Now, last night, in order for us to understand the sacrament of the Lord's Supper, I hope that you remember, because it was not even 24 hours ago. But we looked at the covenant between God and Adam and Eve, and we looked at the covenant especially in Exodus 24. I hope some of you got a chance to look at that covenant in Exodus 24 today. Those covenants helped us to see the two themes of the Supper, which were the two C's: the cancellation of our sin and the consecration of ourselves unto God. Did you notice in the readings tonight? Did you notice that those covenants stood behind all of the passages that we read? Could you see them beckoning through? Christ referred himself to himself as the Son of God. That too was the name of Adam. It was also the name of Israel, God's only son, or the son of God, what they were called. They covenanted with God in Exodus 24. There's those two covenants already in the readings. But now, what I want us to be able to do is to take another step forward, realizing that the obedience of Adam and Israel were but figures. Of the obedience of the only begotten Son of God and the covenant that he made with his Father And that may be news to you. You may be thinking of only covenants on the human plane, and forget that what we are witnessing here on the scriptures, with God's determined will And Jesus' voluntary action is the embodiment of a covenant between the Father and the Son for the salvation of his creation. Let me share a verse with you that is not often appreciated. In fact, if you're doing Bible reading, you probably read this verse and you just keep on trucking. It's from Hebrews chapter 10. And in that chapter, the paragraph right before what I'm getting ready to read you, the author of Hebrews is showing that bulls and goats This is a way to summarize the entire Hebrew sacrificial system, that that whole thing that was put into place was temporary. It was always meant to be replaced by Christ and his sacrifice as the Lamb of God. And now, with that in mind, the author of Hebrews goes on to prove his point, and he quotes Psalm 40. And he says this: listen really carefully to this. We're getting ready to head into the heavens here, literally. This is what he says, sacrifice and offering you do not desire, but a body you have prepared for me. In burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin you had no pleasure. Then I said, Behold, I have come In the volume of the book, it is written of me, to do your will, O God. Do you see what is happening in Psalm 40 that the author of Hebrews is bringing out? Do you see the insight that the sacred author has been given into the nature of reality itself? Let me ask you a question. I know you've just heard it, and it can be more difficult if your eyes are not seeing the words on the page. But this is a conversation between two people. Who is talking to who in Psalm 40? Because that's the whole point that the author of Hebrews is trying to make To that group of people then and to us here tonight, who is talking to who? And the answer is that the sun is talking to the Father, and the Father is talking to the Son. And here we are in Psalm 40. being let in to a heavenly scene in a discussion between two of the persons of the Trinity. This is a prophetic vision into the nature of what God intends for his creation and for his only begotten Son. The Son will take upon himself, it says, that body doing the Father's will. The Father has prepared a body. For the Son, and the Son voluntarily agrees to take upon himself that body and to do with that body what his father has always designed, that things may be restored. The Son will take upon himself that body and he will do the Father's will. It says he will do the Father's will. So what is his will? Well, you can read one more sentence in Hebrews 10, verse 10. It says this, by that will Speaking of the Father's will, we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. There it is The Father's will was for the Son to take upon himself human nature making a sacrificial offering for the sanctification or consecration of his creation. Do you see the profound significance of the cross? Do you see the significance and the scope of this revelation as to the meaning of the crucifixion? Now, let me give you something that I wonder if it will help to start to take what we are seeing in heaven. hearing between the Father and the Son, that we're seeing Luke record the manifestation of it in Christ going to the cross. Let me try to locate it here into something that hits our every day. I was just introduced the other day to an organization or uh rather it's an alliance that is entitled ARC. Has anyone heard of this? A R C. I say I think it's Alliance of Responsible Citizens or something along those lines. And they're definitely playing on the idea of our arc that we have in our scriptures because they say, welcome aboard. When you join. A brief explanation is that it is an alliance from around the world covering politics, business, the arts, and culture. And their ambition is to draw on our moral, cultural, economic, and spiritual foundations. To imagine a future where empowered citizens take responsibility for bringing flourishing and prosperity to their homes, their neighborhoods, and all sectors of society in their nation. They are citizens from around the world who recognize that our societies are at a turning point and that we are in danger of forgetting the fundamental principles Which have allowed us to flourish, and we need to develop a better story. This is from their website. And droves of people are signing up for this and wanting to be a part of it. They are calling, in fact, on public intellectuals to meet in London soon and to discuss six basic questions as a beginning of restoring order in the world. Would you like to hear some of those questions? Did somebody say no? No. Okay, talk to me later. Here are the questions. Can we find a unifying story? Well, let me let me back up I heard an interview with one of the main people that is putting this together. And the reason why there are these six questions is because they travel a lot and in each country that they go into, at least he says 30 people ask these questions. In many of the countries that he goes through. So, in a sense, what you're getting ready to hear are the questions that the world is asking. And here they are. Can we find a unifying story that will guide us as we make our way forward? How do we facilitate the development of a responsible and educated citizenry? What is the proper role for the family, the community, and the nation in creating the conditions for prosperity? How do we govern our corporate, social, and political organizations so that we promote free exchange and abundance while protecting ourselves against the ever-present danger of cronyism and corruption? How do we provide the energy and other resources upon which all economies depend in a manner that is inexpensive, reliable, safe, and efficient, including in the developing world? And last, how should we take the responsibility of environmental stewardship seriously? These are the questions that the world is asking. And here we are over here, apparently having an irrelevant service. About Christ on the cross. But what I'm trying to point out to you is that this service is the most relevant We stand at this very moment at the center of the world. What you hear tonight. To every single one of those questions. What should be underneath every one of those questions? Should be that if you view the body of Jesus on the cross with the eyes of faith Then you realize that we have an answer to every one of those questions. And do you know how every answer must begin? The Father has covenanted with the Son to take upon himself a body. So as to reconstitute and reconsecrate all of creation back to himself. That is the answer. Underneath every question. And it has been given to you as the privileged people of God. Did you catch that one little phrase in verse 49 of chapter 23 that we read here that I just read for you is let me let me reread it because you're sitting in the dark But all his acquaintances and the women who followed him from Galilee stood at a distance watching these things. We have from the beginning, I have asked you to picture yourself in the crowd, and I'm going to ask you to do it again. I want you to picture yourself with them. And there you are, watching in the distance. You see Christ here tonight by the preached word on the cross. When you stand at that distance with that crowd and those women, and you see Christ crucified, what do you make of him? What is his meaning? What is the significance of the site? Oh, may we see in him the very decrees and plan of the Holy Trinity to restore our world to order. When you look at the cross from that distance, may you begin to see that Christ is creating a place wherein God and man are at peace. That Christ is creating a place wherein humans, wherein humans with other humans are at peace. Christ is creating a place where humanity is even at peace with their environment. Under satanic trial, Jesus Christ did in fact endure the cross. And he did so in obedience to his father. In that eternal covenant of redemption. And do you know what the result will be? And has already begun: cosmic harmony between creature and creation. Amen. Amen