Matthew chapter twenty seven, verses forty five through fifty four. We'll meditate upon the death of our Lord this evening Now from the sixth hour until the ninth hour there was darkness over all the land And about the ninth hour, Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, Lama, Sabaksanai. That is, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Some of those who stood there when they heard that, they said, The man is calling for Elijah. Immediately one of them ran and took a sponge, filled it with sour wine, and put it on a reed and offered it to him to drink. And the rest said, Let him alone. Let us see if Elijah will come to save him. And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice. And he yielded up his spirit. And then, behold, the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom And the earthquaked, and the rocks were split, and the graves were opened. And many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised, and coming out of the graves after his Christ's resurrection. They went into the holy city and appeared to many. So when the centurion and those with him Who regarding Jesus saw the earthquake and the things that had happened, they feared greatly, saying, Truly, this was the Son of God. Heavenly Father, in the name of your blessed Son, we pray that you would honor your Son this evening. We pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that by your Spirit you would bring your holy word to your people through the preaching of your word, that it would go out, that it would take root. Ask, Lord, that you'd move our hearts, that our love would increase for you. In Christ's name, amen. Children, I want you to picture That you are having a birthday party and you have some friends over Your parents or your grandparents have decided to make your favorite cake for you. You have sitting next to you your brothers and your sisters and your friends and your parents. Dish out all the cake. You're so looking forward to finally getting a bite. You've seen it on the counter all afternoon. You turn for just a moment to say thank you. to the person who made it for you. And right when you do so, you you hear a little stuffling and then you turn back and your cake is gone And it was your sibling to do sitting to your side. And you say what? What do you say? That's not fair. And your parents don't do anything about it. No cake for you. And that just makes your heart boil. Now, why is that? Why does your heart boil at such a moment? Because there's something built inside of you as a human being that knows that life should be just. And that we should all have a do. And you know deep down inside your heart also that if you had good parents, they would say, Give that cake back to them. In fact, you give them your piece of cake that you haven't eaten yet. And in fact, I'm taking your cake away from you. Or something along those lines. Now that's a small example that we can see at the table on a birthday party, but you could elevate it to International level, if you wanted to. In World War II, after the defeat of Nazi Germany, there was the Nuremberg trials. Where they were held accountable for war crimes, crimes against humanity, crimes against the peace of the entire world. Imagine if you attended those trials and the judges refused to hold Nazi Germany accountable, your heart would scream inside of you. Because you know That justice must be done, and that if they were good judges, they would justly rule. Well that feeling of justice that we have within our hearts and in those different examples, we've we've looked at the justice at a birthday party or the justice of judges. For the Nuremberg trials, but what about God? Is God meant to be just? And if he is meant to be just, if we look to God for justice, for him to be able to give each of us our due, and then he's planted justice inside of us because we're made in his image How do we make sense of that when we put, on the other hand, how merciful He is and the forgiveness that he offers? I remember sitting in a seminary classroom, and one of my dear professors, that's more like a father, posed that question to all of us. How could God remain God and be just and yet let sinners go free? Well Children, brothers and sisters, those of you here just in attendance this evening, no matter who you are, in this passage that's what we see. We see a just God Who also justifies sinners. It is through, the Holy Spirit teaches us here that it is through the death of the spotless Lamb of God, Jesus Christ. That God is both just and He is the justifier. The passage begins with the justice of God, and then it goes on to see the justification or God justifying. You can't see it because you're in the dark, but in verse 45, I'll just remind you that we see first here the signs. That God is executing justice. It says, Now from the sixth hour until the ninth hour there was darkness over all of the land. Now these hours have been going on for a little while while I wonder if you've caught them in the readings that have gone before. If you were to go back and to read these sections, the Sanhedrin held court very early in the morning They were stirring up witnesses to be able to testify against Christ. They didn't care if he was just or if he was unjust. They knew he was just in their hearts. They just wanted him convicted of treachery. They move from their court to Pilate. Pilate calls him the just one, washes his hands of the matter. His wife had dreams that he should have nothing to do with this man. And he permits it. And at nine a by nine AM, perhaps the courts were held around five by nine AM They have already prepared Christ for crucifixion and then put him on a cross And then we have three hours according to this verse here, verse 45. Now on the sixth hour, which is noon, he's been on the cross for three hours already. And on that sixth hour to that ninth to I'm sorry, from that third hour, from the sixth hour to that ninth hour, darkness is over the land. That is a description of what's going on here, but what about the meaning? Well, this is a sign of God bringing judgment on the head of Christ. There is a great frown in all of the cosmos upon Christ We know this from other times that this same apocalyptic imagery has been given, for example, in Exodus chapter 10, verse 21. I know you children will remember this and when you think of the Exodus story and you go through all of those different plagues, the first, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth, the seventh, the eighth, and then you hit the ninth plague. And when we get to the ninth plague in verse 21, then the Lord said to Moses, Stretch out your hand toward heaven, that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt. Darkness which may be even felt. Can you imagine it being so dark that you can feel the darkness? The judgment that's getting ready to come upon that nation. We talked about this last night. Soldiers on one side, sea on the other. And we get to the song of Moses, the seas split, and the horse on its rider is dead when it's all over. And there's judgment on all of the firstborn. This apocalyptic imagery is being picked up and it's used here in our passage from the Exodus, but not just the Exodus, also in Amos chapter 8, verse 9. The same kind of language is used, this apocalyptic imagery, in the context of bringing judgment on Israel for their sins. Verse 9 it says, And it shall come to pass in that day, says the Lord God, that I will make the sun go down at noon. And I will darken the earth even when it's in the midst of broad daylight I will turn your feasts into mourning. And all the songs that you sing will become songs of lamentation. There's another apocalyptic image in the book of the apocalypse itself, Revelation, chapter 16, and verse 10. And this is the context where God gives permission for the bowls of the wrath of his judgment to go out on those whom he has condemned because of their unrighteousness. In chapter 16, in the tenth verse, then the fifth angel poured out his bowl of wrath on the throne of the beast, and his kingdom became full of darkness And they gnawed their tongues because of the pain. You have here from the sixth hour until the ninth hour, darkness over the land is a great supernatural sign. That judgment is coming down in the wrath of God upon Christ Himself, who is the spotless Lamb of God. But there's not just the signs of the justice that we see here within this passage. There are also the expression or the saying. That this has to do with God and His justice. Eli Eli Lama Sabakhtanai, that is my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Perhaps some of you know that Martin Luther reflected on this saying here. He prayed from 9 a. m. until 12 noon one day. And he arose from his prayer and he said, God, departing from God, who could understand it? And it is true, it's a great mystery. There are some mysteries in Scripture that have been revealed to us, and there are still some mysteries that have not been revealed. But what has been given to us here, whether we can comprehensively understand it or not, is this a direct quotation from Psalm 22. Christ leaves this here by his spirit that you even here this night Considering the darkness that has fallen over him, the darkness that has descended on him in judgment, invites you to enter into his agony. That you might understand perhaps from his view what all this looks like. If you turned on your own time, and I'll I'll read it to you now, if you turn to Psalm 22, Psalm 22 is like having a A body camera on Christ looking out at the scene. And I'd like to spend just a few moments there so that you could see with Christ what it looks like. I want you to look with Christ out on the scene. I don't want you to stay in your seats. I want you to look with Christ. And I want to look with you. He says, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from me? Why are you so far from helping me and from the words of my groaning? Oh my God, I cry in the daytime, but you do not hear. And in the night season and am not silent. But you are holy, enthroned in the praises of Israel Our fathers trusted in you. They trusted and you delivered them. They cried to you and you were and were delivered. They trusted in you and were not ashamed. But I'm a worm. And I'm no man. I am the reproach of men. And I am you could see him looking down at all the people that have been mocking him for hours now. And I'm despised by the people All those who see me, they ridicule me. They shoot out the lip and they shake their head and they say, He trusts in the Lord, let him rescue him. Didn't we just hear them say that? Let him deliver him, since he delights in him. But you are he who took me out of my womb. Look at the intimacy that he has with the Father. Even as he knows the father must forsake him in judgment. You made me trust while on my mother's breasts. I was cast upon you from birth, from my mother's womb. You have been my God. Be not far from me, for trouble is near, for there is none to help And he looks out of the different soldiers that are mocking him, and he sees them like they're bulls goring him. Many bulls have surrounded me. Strong bulls of Bashan have encircled me. They gape at me with their mouths like a raging and roaring lion. And I am poured out like water. All of my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax that has melted within me. My strength is dried up like pottery, and my tongue Clings to my jaws, and you have brought me to the dust of death Now we look at again and we don't just see bulls, we see dogs. We don't just see lions, we see dogs and wolves looking for something to eat. For dogs have surrounded me. The congregation of the wicked has enclosed me. They pierced my hands and my feet. I can count all of my bones. They look and they stare at me. They divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. But you, O Lord, do not be far from me. O my strength, hasten to help me. Deliver me from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dog. Save me from the lion's mouth and from the horns of the wild oxen When we are able to view this the biography of Christ, his affections and his thoughts, and to see what he sees upon the cross from Psalm twenty-two, what do we see? We see that Christ has met hell That Christ is receiving justice for sins that are not his own That God is just, just as we know in our hearts He should be, just as parents with birthday cake and Nuremberg trials with Nazi Germany They all get it from the Father who will not let unrighteousness and evil go. And it is here poured out on Christ. It is Christ who receives the darkness. It is Christ who is eaten by the dogs. It is Christ who is gored by the bulls. It is Christ who is forsaken of God. I recently visited with my children, some of them, the Holocaust Museum. And they try to get through to you what it was like in the concentration camps. And one way that they do is they have a woman who t who tells you a story on a video about how an American soldier finally showed up. And he referred to her as lady, and he opened a door for her. And it had been so bad and so degrading in the camps that by just holding the door open for her, she remembered that she was human. Another woman recounts that after leaving the camps, she saw by a tree lilies of the valley. And she hadn't seen anything beautiful for so long that she went over and she laid her body in the flowers. And what we are receiving here tonight, what we are finding out here by the descent of this darkness and the signs and the justice of the Father. Is that that concentration camp had more light on it than does the forsaking of the Father as Christ is introduced to hell? This is far worse. If you can imagine it being worse than a concentration camp, this is even worse. There was still the grace of God even in those camps somehow, some way. But here in hell, though God be omnipresent, he's removed. It's the darkest day that has ever happened. It is the darkest day. It is the justice of God upon those who have sinned not just against their fellow man. not just sinned against the peace of the fellow man, but who have sinned against God And I wonder how much this changes your view of what we did last night. I find it interesting in God's providence. I don't plan many of the things that go on around here. They're just being done by excellent workers. And we have here on the table tonight, instead of the Lord's Supper, we have a crown of thorns. When you witnessed the Lord's Supper last night and the bread was broken and the you had the cup Did you have an image like this in your mind of what it took for you to be able to eat that bread and to drink the wine? When I so nicely take homemade bread or whatever kind of bread we have that's so nice and neat looking, and I I tear at it and it just tears. And he says, My body is broken. What did you have in mind? Do you know what it looks like for a body to be broken under the wrath of God? For the sins of his people? I wonder if any of your bodies have ever been broken in any way. Do you ever break something? In the backfield playing with the kids, thinking I was younger than I was. I was running and I snapped my hamstring and collapsed And immediately a bruise and blood formed in the back and started dropping down to the back of my knee. And I felt like I was going to throw up. You ever had something hit you so hard or something break so bad that you're gonna throw up? You become nauseated This is my body broken for you. Is that what you picture? A broken body? Because this is what we're talking about here. This is what it took for justice to be met. And when you look on that When you see the crown of thorns, when you see the bread being broken, and it says, My body is broken for you, and you get the picture here of what it meant for a body to be broken. And then you look on the broken body and you and then you ask the question, why must it be that way? And then you have got to realize that when you when you pose the question, you have to answer Because that is what my sin deserves And then you and then you have to ask yourself also, well then why is it, if that's the result of sin, what I see p on the cross? Why am I so close to my sin? Why is it still a temptation for me? Why don't I hate my sin? Look at the result of my sin. And we celebrate the supper every Sunday. And we return to our sins. Perhaps now is the time for you to take your sin more seriously and truly, truly hate it. Look at what it has done. Look at what it deserves. May we, in the contemplation and meditation of the justice of God upon the head of Christ, Stop returning to our own vomit like dogs Now that is the justice of God. That is the sign of His justice, and these are the words that exactly what's going on here is justice. But the question has two parts. It's not just, is God just? Well, yes, he is. Here he is being just. The other part of the question is, how may he justify? And so we see the justification of God in the rest of this passage. And it begins with that smart aleck little comment that whoever made after the Lord, receiving the wrath of God, says, Eli, Eli. It appears that those hearing him say, Well, what's he doing there? They and they know full well that he's quoting quoting Psalm twenty-two, but they're They're so fulfilling the characters and the providence of God that they decide to turn it into a mockery and they say, Oh, is he calling for Elijah? And then they dipped the sponge, we see in verse forty-eight, immediately one of them ran and took a sponge and filled it with sour wine and put it on a reed and offered it to him to drink. And the rest said, Let him alone. Let us see if Elijah will come to save him. And then in verse 50, Jesus cries out again with a loud voice, and he yields up his spirit. These aren't just historical details for us to remember as history. And I said the same thing last night, and then in order to help you to understand. Not just the history, but the theological understanding of what is in front of you, we turn to the Gospel of John to see why was he telling his disciples about the betrayal? And we can turn to the Gospel of John again here this evening to see why are these details included About the Christ and the wine and the yielding up his spirit. And we read in John chapter 19, verse 28. After this, this making sure that his mother would be taken care of. After this, Jesus knowing that all things were now accomplished. That the scriptures might be fulfilled, he said, I thirst Now a vessel full of sour wine was sitting there, and they filled a sponge with sour wine, put it on hyssop, and put it to his mouth. And so when Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished. And bowing his head, he yielded up his spirit. Now do you see what's going on here? Now this is getting to the justification of God. We've dealt with the justice of God, and now we're looking at We're moving into seeing that God has both been just, but He'll also justify many. And you can begin to see this just with the way that John paints this picture for us. Did you hear those words, the way that Christ is viewing the whole thing? After this, Jesus, knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the scripture might be fulfilled, said, I thirst. Accomplished? You mean it's not just a gruesome death, there's meaning behind it You mean it's not just God pouring out his wrath, and that's the end of the matter? That there's an entire plan, and that the wrath is part of an overarching plan That something is being accomplished here by way of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Well then yeah, well, yes And we see Christ here with this thirst coming to the end of this passion plan that he might have one little bit of final strength. To go all the way to the end. And he says here in a loud voice, it is finished. Now, here's my question to you, brothers and sisters: what's finished? Is the only thing that is finished that God poured out his wrath on the Son? Or was His wrath poured out on the Son that He might justify many? Oh, isn't that the total plan? Isn't that what we read early in our bulletin from Romans chapter 3, verses 23 through 25? For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Well, how are they justified then? being justified freely by his grace. Well, how does that is that accomplished? Through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus Well, how does that work? Whom God set forth as a propitiation by his blood Through faith to demonstrate his righteousness because in his forbearance God had passed over the sins that were previously committed to demonstrate at the present time his righteousness that he might be just and that he might be the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. And if we turned to First Peter, or if we turned to any of the other letters that are given to us, we would find them talking about an eternal plan. A plan that we heard about even in the Psalms and in the many scriptures of the Old Testament, when we spent time together here on Sunday mornings, we heard about the Father meeting and coming up with a plan of salvation, an eternal plan with the Son and the Spirit. And that the Son voluntarily enters in to take upon himself human nature and to take it all the way to the end. And here you see that same son who has taken upon himself human nature saying, It's finished. As the spotless Lamb of God, I have received wrath that there would be justice. And I have set my people free that they may be justified. All by my blood. It is the final moment of the plan that we see here, and I'll just point out one more thing about that plan. Again, I I was in love with God's providence in that the song's name was the Father's Plan. And Brad and I did not talk about that. I want you to notice just one little last word here in chapter twenty-seven that we're looking at this evening. When the way that this is put here in 27, he says, and and Jesus cried out again with a loud voice, and then it says, and he yielded up his spirit. Jesus Christ is in control total control the entire time. Death has nothing on him. It is up to him and him alone and his sovereignty as to when he will say, this is the end of my passion. He has accomplished everything that was prophesied that he was supposed to do in accordance with the plan of redemption. He has seen it all the way through in terms of his passion. He looks and he sees, I have done it all, and now I yield my spirit. There is no one here in this room that controls death like that. And here he is, your Savior. There was never a molecule in all of the time that he was in his passion that was outside of his control. He saw the plan all the way through. As the choir sang, The Plan of the Father Now you have this plan of justification, where he may be just and the justifier And then we can move on here in the passage just very quickly with there's more evidence here that that's what's going on, that there are these witnesses showing that that is what Christ has in fact accomplished. The first thing that we see here is the witness of the veil that is torn. It says here in verse number 51: Then behold, the veil of the temple was torn, and two from top to bottom. And you can read about this in the book of Hebrews, where we may now, through the flesh of Christ, enter boldly into the throne of God. Before it was sealed off, you could think of the Garden of Eden after the sin had taken place. The angel is placed at the entrance with a flashing sword, and we may no longer have Communion with God. We descend from that moment from Mount Eden into the deep waters of the serpent with Pharaoh. But here the veil has torn. The Holy of Holies is open by way of the sun, and we may enter in. And we're not entering in because God forgave and forgets, or forgives and forgets. God is still totally just, but he has now, through his son, declared his people righteous, and they may enter in in full communion with him by way of the Son, because they are in the Son. And that's witness number one, if you're in the courtroom, by the way. How do you know this was for our justification? Well, the veil tore! It wasn't a piece of linen. It was thick. Watch the other witness. The earthquaked and the graves opened. And then after Christ's resurrection Those who were raised walked the city streets. And we could talk about this also being a fulfillment of the great work of Christ in him Justifying those who were even receiving his atonement virtually before he came in his incarnation. And then we have this final witness, two or three witnesses. have always been the rule for the scriptures to establish things. And here we have the third witness. It is the centurion. He sees all that is going on, the earthquaking, what's going on with the darkness at noon. And he says from his own lips, truly this was the Son of God. And it's the beginning of Christ not just justifying Israel. It is the beginning of Jesus Christ justifying all of his people from every tribe and tongue and nation. Those are the witnesses of justification. There I was sitting in that seminary classroom, professors having thought through these kinds of things. And they pose the question to all of us: how can God be just and justify sinners? Well, I present to you Matthew 27, 45 through 54. I present to you Christ Himself. I present to you that through the death of the blameless Lamb of God, Jesus Christ, God remains just and the justifier. Now I can't actually see everybody in this room. The lights are in my face. But I'm wondering if there are some of you that are out there hearing this, seeing this, who are not Christians And I'll ask you, what is your relationship with God? I want you to just for a moment inside your own head, I want you to answer that. You have not had faith in Christ. You have not sought forgiveness through Christ. You've chosen, I don't know, some something to ignore cr to ignore God. to think that it just takes your good works or if you do a few nice things. I'm not sure, but what is your relationship with God? I'm telling you right now That it is if it is you're not related to God by way of Christ and his sacrifice, then all of this talk that I have had here this evening about Christ receiving hell You will receive hell. And you're going to need to take this seriously. Many of the times I find that uh modern people don't believe that there's really anything that happens in the afterlife and and if they do believe it, they don't start to think about it until the final moments. I I was with a man once who never thought about the afterlife. And then I wonder, can people just go all the way to death and not think about the afterlife? And then about two minutes before he died, he was struck with terror. And I wonder if that will be you too. Struck with terror, refusing to think about it until you realize that your breathing is labored and there are people in the room getting ready to remove your body And you say, oh, that would never happen to me. Right. And the person who was still driving across the key bridge, they thought they were just listening to their radio and heading to work. Your life may be required of you this very day. And you will receive justice. You will receive justice for sinning against an all-holy God. So I ask you, what is your plan? And what you have heard in this sermon this evening is that there is only one plan That wherein God is just, and you may still be justified not being required the pangs of hell yourself. If you want to remember what this plan is, you could turn to the first hymn after you have some light when you get home. That's in the bulletin and it says this: Come ye sinners, poor and needy. Weak and wounded, sick and sore, Jesus ready stands to save you, full of pity, love, and power. You need to run to Christ, that you may be justified by God and no longer be at enmity with Him, but finally to be at peace. There are those of you here who have, by his grace, you have run to Christ. You have run to crest. And I wonder where your heart is this evening as you hear about what Christ has done for you. I wonder if you've forgotten. I wonder if you've received the benefits of the covenant, but you haven't spent much time seeing what it took to receive the benefits I was meditating on this passage. I finished the meditation for the sake of being able to speak here this evening. To preach here this evening. And when I had finished the meditation, I closed the scripture and I looked at the clock, and it was 3 p. m. And it occurred to me immediately, this is the moment when Christ, or the hour that Christ yielded up his spirit. My heart was just so full. It almost burst I had all of these thoughts, meditations about him, and now you have them. And I just want to know what is your heart doing? Is it full? And I want to know what do you want to do now? What do you want to do now that you are the justified? Another hymn writer in our bulletin reflected on the same thing. And I think we need to say these same things more and more. I encourage you to rehearse this. He says, with his heart full of the same meditations I suppose that we've had tonight, he says, We're the whole realm of nature mine. That were a present far too small. Love so amazing, so divine. It demands my soul, it demands my life And Jesus Christ demands my all. Isn't that true? Does it feel just like a duty to you? Or is it a great privilege that we get to serve Jesus Christ as his chosen ones? This Good Friday, I place before you the Father's plan. It is through Jesus Christ, the spotless Lamb of God, that your Father holds on to that which is very important to you, that there be justice. But he does so in a way to where you may be set free and be justified through Christ. May we, like all of the elders in Revelation, fall before the Lamb and sing His praises for all eternity as our Savior. The horse and their rider is dead. The sea has been split. We go through now as the people of God. And our next stop is the resurrection. Amen. Let us pray.