And follow along, even though the words are probably very familiar to you. So picking up chapter twenty-four, verse forty-five, reading down through chapter twenty Twenty five, verse thirty. Who then is a faithful and wise servant, whom his master made ruler over his household to give them food in due season? Blessed is the servant whom his master, when he comes, will find so doing Assuredly I say to you, that he will make him ruler over all his goods. But if that evil servant says in his heart, My master is delayed in his coming, and begins to treat his fellow servants and to eat and to be And will cut him in two and appoint him his portion with the hypocrites. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Now five of them were wise and five were foolish. Those who were foolish took their lamps and took no oil with them. But the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps. But while the bridegroom was delayed, they all slumbered and slept. And at midnight a cry was heard Behold, the bridegroom is coming. Go out to meet him. All those virgins arose and trimmed their lamps, and the footish foolish said to the wise, Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out. But the wise answered, saying, No, lest there should not And while they went to buy, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him in the wedding And the door was shut. Afterward the other virgins came also, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. But he answered and said, Assuredly I say to you, I do Do not know you. Watch therefore, if you know, for you know neither the day nor the hour in which the Son of Man is coming. For the kingdom of heaven is like a man traveling to a far country, who called his own servants and delivered his goods to them. And no one he and to one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one to another one, to each according to his own ability. And immediately he went on a journey. Then he he who had received the five talents went and traded with them and made another five talents And likewise he who had received two gained two more also. But he who had received one went and dug in the ground and hid his lord's money. So he who had received five talents came and brought five other talents, saying, Lord, you delivered to me five talents. Look, I have gained five more talents besides The Lord said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant. You were faithful over a few things, I will make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of your Lord. Talents came and said, Lord, you delivered to me two talents. Look, I have gained two more talents besides them. Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a few things I will make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of your Lord. Then he who had received the one talent said, Lord, I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you have not sown. Gathering where you have not scattered seed. And I was afraid and went and hid your talent in the ground. Look, here is here you have what is yours. But the Lord The Lord answered and said to him, You wicked and lazy servant, you knew that I reap what I have not sown and gather where I have not s uh scattered seed, so you ought to have deposited my money with the Bankers, and at my coming I would have received back my own with interest. So take the talent from him and give it to him who has ten talents. For to every one who has more will be given, and he will have an abundance. But from him who does not have, even what he has, will be taken away. And cast the unprofitable servant into the outer darkness. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. I grant you this is And perhaps it seems a bit tedious when you sit down and just listen to it. But there's a very important thing that we need to be asking about Why did Jesus say them? Why did he say them? This is a long section of scripture. It's the I believe it's the second longest section in Matthew. This whole Olivet discourse running in this all one big consistent whole. And Jesus said these things in such a way That everything he says hinges on how we answer that question. Why did he say it? Theologians in modern times and others who follow their lead, people like N. T. Wright, think that Jesus spoke this entire section of teachings here just to the people of his day They understand they are to understand his coming in terms of Jesus' arrival himself, and that he represents the Lord coming, and that all of the events of their life right on up to the destruction of Jerusalem would be that coming of which he speaks in these passages. Wright even goes so far as to confine the wailing and gnashing of teeth here to the fate of the first century Jews. There are two major reasons why I don't agree with this. I'm not gonna defend them in depth. We just don't have time. But first I don't go along with this because the early Church didn't understand it this day this way. Some of the earliest writings that we have of the early church, one of which just taken is the Didickee. It was written around ninety A. D. after the Jerusalem after The fall of Jerusalem, and they give a summary of these very teachings, of these parables that are here. And the conclusion that they draw is that the church needs to be prepared for the return of Christ. And secondly, the reason why I don't go along with Wright and with others who think this way is that if Jesus was speaking only to the early church, those people who are gathered around him and would Would be there during the period of time after his resurrection until the fall of Jerusalem, then for all practical purposes, these verses don't apply to us. They simply are there for historical interest. And it kind of lets us off the hook of quite a bit of our Lord's teachings. So I don't agree with Wright and others. I think these parables were spoken by Christ to the church in every age, and I think that he intends for every church and or the church in every age to apply them to themselves as they await his return. I believe these pe these teachings are given to us to the church. This is The reason why Jesus said it is because they are to shape the very tone and tenor of our Christian life, both corporately and individually. And that is why I want to approach them this way. All three of these parables have a common theme. That's why they all can be collapsed together. And I'd like to illustrate that. I hope to do so in a way that you might readily appreciate. Let's suppose you're a father and that you've got a bunch of teenage kids, teenage sons, for example. And we're familiar with that one. Now on Saturday it rolls around and just like most Saturdays, uh kids those those are pretty lazy days for teenagers. Now here it is and you as a father you have to go to work. There's something come up, don't normally have to go to work on Saturday, but that day you do. And so as you go walking out the door, you look over and there's all four of your sons and they are busy playing Xbox. There's virtual hair, teeth, and eyeballs flowing all over the place in that virtually death match that they do. And they're sitting there at the couch, not talking to anybody, just staring at them. I'm doing this. As you walk out the door, you give them some instructions. Hey guys, there's some chores that need doing. I have to go to work for a bit. Wash and vacuum your mother's car. Rake up the few remaining leaves in the front yard and clean out the gutters because it's going to rain later on. on this weekend. Now with four boys, that's really not a lot of work. Three or four hours working together, it could easily be accomplished. Then you tell them, okay, and when I get back home, we're gonna do some really neat stuff. Uh I'll leave it up to you to figure out what that may be. Depends on what kind of neat stuff you do with your kids. Well you come home. And what do you discover? They haven't moved. rats are still sitting there playing that Xbox. Now, what kind of immediate future do you think they might have right after that? But if you think of it that way, then all three of these parents Kind of fall in place. Each one of them is just a variation on that story. Each one of them is a is uh is Jesus stating the same thing I just stated, but stating in a situation a common time type of situation that the Jews of his day would have readily identified with, which we may not. I mean we just don't identify with ten virgins waiting for a bridegroom. That's just not big in our our culture. But kids would rather spend time playing video games than doing their father's will. That we can know. So So with that, I think we can build on that theme as we approach this this teaching. Now if Jesus is speaking to the church in every age, then he is teaching us something right off the bat that's very simple. specific. He is teaching us that the new normal is that he is going to be physically away for a while. In each one of these things, the framework of the master being away, or the bridegroom being away, is understood. understood. The master of the household, the bridegroom, the man traveling to a far country, they all had to go somewhere in order to do what what had to be done. And then they were going to return. So Jesus is here teaching his church embryonically as it stood there. there before him and through them to teach to the subsequent generations that I can't be with you physically any longer. The plan of God, the purposes of God, the beautiful, astonishing wisdom of God is such that I must be away. Now believe it or not, what he says is that this is what's best for you. He says that specifically in another, that it is good that I go away from you. for I will send a comfort of and and the whole plan of God requires this period of physical absence Now, believe it or not, the glory of God is here being manifested, and perhaps we hadn't thought about it this way. Because you see, Jesus is absent is a test of our faith. It is a probationary period, if you will, for his church. Think about Adam and Eve back in Now, while God was walking around with them and doing stuff with them, things were fine. I kind of think that, you know, uh my own understanding of Genesis Is that they didn't sin until after the uh second day after they had worshipped on the seventh day. And so I think there was some period of time in which they walked about and delighted. Delighted in each other and delighted in God's company. However, when he went away or absented himself in whatever way God does that in a perfect world back before sin It was part of the test that was extended to Adam and Eve. I am I'm going away for a bit. Don't eat of that tree Well the test of their faith was such, will you be obedient while I'm gone? And we all know what happened then. Jesus' absence is a necessary part of God's plan to prove his church, to prove his true church. It is part of the Are far from him. It is a means of testing in the same way that a refiner tests a rock in order to see whether it is true gold or whether it's fool's gold. That constitutes the witness of God. The perseverance of God's people in his Physical absence is that that constitutes the major witness of God through his church to the principalities and powers of the world All the angels in heaven, brothers and sisters, are astonished at this. That for thousands of years. Fallen sinners cling to a Christ they cannot see, feel, or touch. Who can explain it? How can you explain this idea of people who barely can walk and chew gum at the same time and yet they never give up? on the Christ who has given them their salvation. They may get close sometimes, but they never let go. I think perhaps Jesus is telling us here that the greatest test of our faith is whether or not we take it at heart. That faith is believing in what we cannot see. It is preeminently believing in a person we cannot see. And that it calls us to demonstrate allegiance and obedience to a Lord we cannot see. Here is faith. Here is the witness of the power of the Holy Spirit. That the people of God cling to their Christ and their Lord, and they seek to obey Him. They obey him in the very face of Satan doing everything in his possible power to convince them otherwise. Otherwise, they obey him even when Satan is whispering in their ears that he's abandoned you. It's all a mind game. And you're being foolish for giving up or doing things that the world calls you to do because of this fanciful idea that our Lord will return. Like the kids in my illustration, the temptation is to give ourselves over to distractions. That's all that playing X Games Xbox is. It's just a distraction It is a means of occupying time. I suppose my wife once said that she hoped that they gave Atari scholarships that my kids would be would make it through college in a heartbeat. Most of you probably don't even know what Atari is, but unless there's some such thing like that, the Xbox is not really fitting you for your future life. It's a distraction. It's a distraction from loving Christ and loving Him with all of our heart and understanding His Absence from us is for our good. And therefore, it is a distraction keeping us from doing things that are truly important. Because we We are following the desires of our own heart. Brothers and sisters, I ask you today, is most of your life occupied with distractions? Or is most of your life characterized by an earnest expectation that our Lord will return and that when he does Does it's gonna be good. Having said that, what do these parables teach us about what Jesus has commanded us to do? And is that And I think on the face of them they're pretty easy to recognize. Like the father who goes away and gives specific instructions to his son, I think our Lord is very clear here. Clear teachings about what he expects of us. First, he expects us to faithfully provide nourishment for those who have been placed in our care and our Acquaintance. Secondly, he expects us to be watchful for his return and to exhibit that watchfulness. And thirdly and lastly, he expects us to be profitable. with the goods that he has given into our care until he returns. I think these things are open, just plain on inspection. I don't see why it needs to be developed. I don't have time to go Go through a detailed exegesis on each one anyway. So let's glance at just these major teachings of each of these parables. The first parable teaches us that we're to provide nourishment for those whom God has given us Look at chapter twenty-four, verse forty-five. Jesus specifically sets up This parable in this way. That it's directed towards the question: who is the wise and faithful servant? Who is the one who has been given responsibility over the master's household. Why? In order to give them food in due season. The whole parable is built on that foundation. While the master is away, a man is charged with feeding the household, nourishing them, protecting them, preserving them. And the man doesn't do it. He follows the desires of his own heart. He abuses his authority and pays the price. When the master comes back, things do not go well. He has been tried, he has been found wanting. And therefore he has been proven to not be a true servant of his master. All that man can expect. Is wailing and gnashing of teeth. Now, Jesus is here teaching us, I believe, that each of us are in this same position. Now, there is no question In my mind, that this particular parable is directed first and foremost to those who are put in responsibility in Christ's church. Elders indeed Deacons, you guys who have just been ordained, you who have just been installed, and all you serving elders and deacons, take that to account. This parable has you directly in its sights All of us should need to recognize that. But I believe that it goes further than just the officers of the church. It applies to each of us in its turn. I'm going to say it even applies to you young people sitting in this this congregation thinking, who me, I haven't got responsibility over anybody If you have confessed Christ, if through the witness of the Holy Spirit and through the ministry of the Word that you have heard in whatever way it has, faith has been awakened In you. If you believe that Jesus is the Christ the Lord and He is raised from the dead, by that very Faith, young person, you have been given authority to speak in his name. That authority Has not been given to you to squander on yourselves. You have been given it so that you may care for and feed those whom God has put in this world who are within your acquaintance. Now what applies there applies throughout the entire range of the uh demographics in the Congregation. Jesus is calling us here, each of us, to care for each other and to the flock that He has assigned to us. The Church of Christ is our Lord's household Each of us, as he says here, are servants in it. The servant who has been given authority beats his thing Fellow servants. He never stopped being a servant. So each of us, when we have been given the gift of faith, at the same time receive a certain authority. And the first thing that Jesus hits here as he goes through these parables, the very first thing he brings out, the order of priority that he established it, is that this our faith has been given to us For the building up of his church. At whatever level that occurs. A young person maybe had Having younger brothers or sisters, or even the influence over their peers. You have been called to build up Christ's church. And often All the way up through the range of the more defined responsibilities we have, certainly heads of households, moms and dads, certainly within this uh Sunday school, certainly within the structures of the church. But wherever it has been given to us, each of us have a first and primary authority as we await our Lord's Return to be nourishing his people and to give them the food, the protection, and the care Which will cause them to prosper. Helping each other, teaching each other, serving each other. This should be the major Thrust of our lives. And in order of precedence, it comes first in the order of the parables. The Lord wants, when He comes back, wants to find us busy building each other up. Up, not beating each other up, not acting with trite jealousy, and seeking to elevate ourselves. Not using our privileges in order to satisfy some desire that certainly is far from Christ. This is what our Lord has called us to do. And that's what Jesus expects when he returns. What he expects to find among his people is a devotion to to his household. A desire to serve others. As Galatians teaches us, do good to all men. Begin With the household of God. And the understanding amongst them that the gift of faith confers upon us the authority to do so. Brothers and sisters, put it out of your mind that you have a private faith. Put it out of your mind. Your faith is not given to you. Just to get you into heaven. Christ could have saved you without requiring faith of you. He paid for your sins. So your faith is given to you in order to be a witness Witness to Christ and the witness to Christ that He desires from you is first and foremost directed to the nourishment, edification, and building of up of his church. If Christ were to return today, is that the priority he would find in our hearts? It's worth thinking about. The second thing Jesus commands us to do in his absence is to watch. Now we move In this parable, these virgins were expected to be ready. They were expected to be watchful. They were expected to not be caught unprepared. for the bridegroom when he returned. That meant that they were to have their oil lamp, which is in those days, was basically a bowl, and you had flames coming out at one end and you had a vent hole in the back. And it was supposed to be filled with oil and it burned oil. It gave you a fairly weak light. If you've ever burned olive oil, you know what it's like. And that meant that they had to have enough oil to have their lamps run ready when the bridegroom came. So that they didn't have to be running around trying to find a match somewhere to right light their candle or light their lamp. Now, the entire point of this parable is some were not ready. So Jesus wants us to be ready at an instant's notice for his return. Why? So we can enter into the feast. So we can party. So we won't be locked outside the door. Like the sons in my illustration, the father was thinking, okay, when I get back if you've done these things, hey, we'll go to a football game or a baseball game. And we'll go do something really neat. Jesus here teaches us that there's a party, a bridal party, that's going to be going down when he returns. And that only those who are wise Watchful, expectantly waiting, by having done the things that he wants to have done, are now and are now anxiously looking for his coming, only they will enter in the Now we have to stop and think, what is the significance of the lamp, and you know that they're train trimmed and ready. I believe here that the lamp is a lamp of Faith. Faith in many ways is like an oil lamp. And here it is that we have to have the faith that is prepared for a lamp. Long delay. Even in Peter's day, they ask the question, Where is where is he coming? I mean w they say he's coming. Where's the day of his coming? Jesus knew that the early church would expect his return right away. Jesus knew that some of them would go and sell all their possessions because they thought that he was coming. Next week at the latest. And therefore we just sell all that we got. It'll give us time to basically enjoy life with what few well as long until the money runs out. And uh but then who cares? Christ is coming back anyway, the kingdom's going to be established, we're home free. So they weren't prepared for the the long haul. Jesus did not grow, could did not come back in the way they expected right away, and they grew discouraged. Many of them fell away, many were lost. So Jesus Jesus has to is telling us here that our faith has to be prepared for the eventuality that He doesn't come back even within our lifetime. But that doesn't mean he's not coming back. It means, though, that we must watch and we must live with the urgent expectation, even if it doesn't happen right away. That we should live as if we are expecting him at any moment. And yet we must be prepared to wait We must as America we as Americans are probably the most impatient people on the earth. We hate waiting. It's hard to believe, but I actually get irritated at times. And one of those things that really, really, really irritates me is to get off an airplane, get my luggage, and then wait for my ride home. It's not one of my more commendable traits. I don't think I'm alone in it though. We Americans tend to give up on whatever we are waiting for if it takes too long. Brothers and sisters, when it comes to faith, that is deadly. If Jesus is delayed, it doesn't mean he's not coming. It means he has good reason for not coming. And our job is to live and to watch earnestly for him until he decides that it's right that he return. And we need to be prepared To watch for him throughout our entire life, if he so calls us to do. To do this, we need to have plenty of oil for our lamp. We need to Keep it charged up. We need to keep our faith lively. Otherwise, it will dim. Otherwise, we will find ourselves being Drawn into slumber and sleep, and given over to distractions like video games. We need to constantly remind ourselves of what Christ has said And we need to renew our the liveliness of our faith, replenish our lamp by participating wholeheartedly in worship, and by drawing close to God through the Holy Spirit. We have to keep the lamp of our faith burning brightly by keeping it filled with new oil, if you will, daily, weekly, recharging it. So As to have that earnest expectation of his return as a lively urgency in our life. Then and only then will Jesus find us waiting expectantly for him. And that is another way that the world distinguishes the true church. Lastly, I don't have time to fully develop this, but Jesus teaches us here that a true Christian A true church are those who devote their lives to making a profit for their master while the master is away. We see this in the parable of the talents, verses 14 through 13. 30 of chapter 25. Can there be any doubt what Jesus means here? Can we look at these passages and look at this teaching and say, well, I wonder what Jesus is talking about? You know, I don't have any talents in my pocket. Be heavy to carry in your pocket anyway. But here again, we're being taught that there's no such thing as a private faith. Our faith has been given to us as a valuable coin. A talent of silver was money. But it is given to us in order to make a profit And not just any old kind of profit, a profit in the same kind. Was not in sheep and goats. It was in more talents. Everybody see that? Anyone awake? Okay. The same kind of return, the same kind, is what is expected. Each one of the servants was given a talent of silver. Of silver. And it was expected that what the master would get back was more of them. So our faith is intended to be used in order to bring faith from others. This parable teaches us that the true Christian, the true church, is a witnessing Christian, is a witnessing church. How in the world can we consider this passage? A church that is only inward in its focus, with individual Christians who is in the first one, and I don't back away from that being our first But if it stops only there and all we do is feed ourselves individually or feed ourselves corporately, we fail in this last distinguishing mark of a true Church of Jesus Christ. We must do more than simply survive. We must bear witness. In order to bear fruit. All about us, brothers and sisters, are people who are devoid, whose lives are devoid of value, whose lives are devoid of value. Of faith. If I stopped here for just a brief moment and caused you to write down the names of four or five people that you know in your life who show no evidence of Christ and yet Somehow another they're open to you and you have a relation to them that you can build upon. I bet you there's not a one in this room that couldn't do that. All about us are people in whose lives we can Invest as God guides us to them. We have to open our eyes in order to see them in terms of investing our faith in them so as to get a return of faith from them. We have to open our hearts to love them. So as by investing our love in them, love is returned. They are there. There's no one here that can say they do not have any opportunity. There's no one here that can point to God and say, You've never put anybody in my path to bear witness to. I don't think God would take that particular statement very kindly. Every Every church, every Christian has been called to work in the harvest. And Christ wants us to be obedient in his absence by having that as as a distinguishing characteristic of our life. In order to yield a profit on the investment that He has made in us, He expects us to bear fruit in return, not just bring our faith back to him. I don't believe that bringing our faith, if it is a faith alone, back to him is true. faith at all. But that's the point of what he's making here. So brothers and sisters, here we see an overall view of the tone and Texture, not specific works, but the tone and texture of our Lord's commands. He wants us to live knowing he's coming back, even though we can't See him, to understand that that is part of the witness of our life that transforms our lives as well as bears witness to the powers and principalities of the air. He expects us to feed and to nourish his flock, to look at our brothers and sisters in Christ and see them as he sees them. precious jewel and to do whatever we can to build them up. He expects us to watch intensely With some degree of urgency, being ready for his return when he chooses to do so. And lastly, he expects us to take this faith he has given us And to invest that in others with the expectation of a return. When you stop and think about it, it's not all that much he's asking us to do And it is certainly worthy to do. Let's pray.