Four we'll only be looking at two verses this morning. Verses one and two will be slowing down over the next couple weeks due to the unfamiliarity of some of the concepts in the passage. This week we'll take the first two verses Please read along with me or look along as I read. Therefore, since a promise remains of entering his rest, let us fear Lest any of you seem to have come short of it. For indeed the gospel was preached to us as well as to them, but the word which they heard did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in those who heard it Please pray with me. Father, we ask that you teach us about gospel fear this morning. Help us to be motivated To a diligent attendance upon the means that you've given to us for our salvation. We ask, Lord, that this would be yet another confirming proof that your scriptures Give us everything necessary for life and godliness. I pray that we would become the envy of the world. In Jesus' name, amen. When some students go off to college, some students, not all, some of you are much better than myself. They will some of them choose one too many parties to go to, and that will lead to grades beginning to drop. Some of us have that college story. However, we also have a story that accompanies that where we remember our parents and the look on our mothers and our fathers' faces, and that they pay our tuition And we begin to bring our grades back up. That is what we would call a healthy dose of parental fear. Parents treasure that fear When that goes out the window, a lot of bad things can happen if you think about it. Think of how precious that fear actually is. Think of all the good use that it's put to Not with parents that are exasperating or harsh, but really know how to command a deep respect and reverence amongst their children. Think of how good that is For the children. We can see how fear fits in that example, and we see it's basically self-evident amongst us that that's a good thing. But what about in your Christian faith? When you think of Christian faith and fear, it's not always self-evident that the two should be present together, living in the same house house. Is fear allowed with faith that depends upon gospel grace? Can fear and grace sit at the same table together I think is a question that we in our day and age ask. We have already answered the question implicitly. We've been really riding upon the the uh uh the answer to this implicitly in the past with the past couple weeks. We have been considering the fearful, the threatening example of the wilderness wanderings. uh from numbers. We looked at the fearful nature of sin, its deceitfulness and what it can cause, and we looked at the fact that this fear should strike church in the in the heart of or strike fear in the heart of the church and is not speaking really outside of the church like the fear of black widow spiders. So we've been assuming fear. Well let's talk about it directly this morning because that's what the author wants us to do. He points out two things of fear this morning. Gospel fear has a profit and it has a purpose. That's what he teaches us this morning. We'll look at that in three parts. You can see the outline in the bulletin. The kinds of fear, profit, and then purpose. So let's begin in verse one with the kinds of fear. Therefore, since a promise remains of entering his rest, let us fear. So this topic of fear is present. There's not an actual development of the kinds of fear in the passage. But in order to be able to be or to be oriented, we have we can look through the scriptures to see, and this is really where we can go wrong. When a person, when we see the word fear in scripture, we could assume that there's just one kind of fear, and that's where you You really start to get confused. There are a lot of different kinds of fear. I'm not even going to talk about all the kinds of fear this morning. I want to talk about the kind of fear which is most relevant to you as a Christian. There's all other kinds of fears for non-Christians. And then we even have different different categories of persons in those different stages and different kinds of fear for them. You can end up with quite a taxonomy in a catalog. But for us One of the things we can notice throughout the scriptures, just in looking at the wilderness example, is a kind of fear called the fear of insecurity. We've seen this in the example that just passed in chapter three. The first kind of fear is the fear of insecurity. The people of God know the promises of God, but they are insecure about those promises being filled for them personally. The Israelites in the wilderness struggled with this fear. It's the premier example. They knew God was powerful. anymore? Well they're multiple choice tests. How about that? They're multiple choice tests. They knew that he was powerful, they knew that he was faithful, but they were insecure about that. They were insecure that God would be powerful or faithful to them in particular. Now, this can't be the kind of fear that's being spoken about in this passage because this fear in this passage is commanded. Fear. Fear is what he says. It's a command, and he would never command you to have the fear of insecurity. It's the exact opposite of what the purpose of the execution Secondly, there's a fear of reverence. Now this could certainly fit the bill, couldn't it? The fear of reverence we see throughout the scriptures is the second kind. Moses talks about the fear of reverence in Deuteronomy. If you do not carefully observe all the words of this law that are written in this book, that you may fear this glorious and awesome name. the Lord your God, then the Lord will bring upon you and your descendants extraordinary plagues, great and prolonged plagues, and serious and prolonged sickness. Now talk about fear and talk about the fear of reverence. Now it even goes deeper here, really. If you notice it mentioned the Lord your God. That's a compilation of several names that are happening here. Yahweh Elohim. So the it's pointing out specific characteristics that are to be feared, which is why this is the fear of reverence. The Lord your God means to it's meant to be reminding the people of the God who created Elohim and the one who redeemed them using plagues and signs of Egypt. I think The plagues and sign here are a call back to that for them to remember and to serve him in reverence. The very existence of him who is Yahweh I am causes a great fear of reverence And the author could in fact be using this as a fear to motivate them. But I don't think it's particular enough. I think that this fear of reverence should permeate all of your Christian life and it should be used to motivate you But there's a more particular fear here in this passage, and it's the fear of diligence. This might be an unusual fear that you might not have paid attention to before, but we see it all over the new Testament, a fear of diligence, or one being nervous onto diligence The New Testament writers appeal to this kind of fear quite often. For example, consider Philippians chapter 2, verses 12, and then we'll look at verse 16. In verse 12, it says, Work out your salvation with fear. And trembling. Now, when we try to locate that kind of fear, we go to verse 16 and we see what he's talking about. You would work out this kind of fear by holding fast the word of life. In other words, you would have fear onto making sure you're using the word well to be able to confirm your faith. Or consider 2 Peter. Therefore, brethren, be even more diligent to make your call and election sure, for if you do these things, you will never stumble. And then he says later on, but also for this very reason, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue. Here's a fear that issues forth in a kind of diligence to where you're adding to your faith and you're becoming very, very fruitful. That's the kind of fear that's being spoken of. Or in 1 Peter 1. 13. Therefore, gird up the loins of your mind and be sober. It's the idea of fear here. And then he says in 17, conduct yourselves throughout the time of your stay here in fear. So sober-mindedness and taking things seriously onto being diligent is the same thing as fear. In the writing of the biblical authors. The fear commanded in this passage is the fear of diligence. Think of the example that was given He's asking them, or really commanding them, to attend to the example that he has laid down. Use it until it's useful. Be diligent about your reading of the example. And we'll get into this more in a minute. If you combine this with the passage from last week, in other words, he's saying this as a paraphrase. It is your obligation to give a diligent fear to the example of the wilderness, the deceit of sin, the pernicious punishment, and the danger of unbelief. Work it in you. Work it in you. Knead it like dough. Now, there's a question that arises after this first point with the kinds of fear. What is the purpose of the fear? What is the purpose of a fearful diligence? You can already begin to imagine what that would be, but let's answer it. The purpose of fearful diligence is to keep us from even the appearance of falling short of the promised rest. Now that is explicitly stated in verse 1. Therefore, since a promised rest remains of entering his rest Promise remains of entering is rest. Let us fear lest any of you even seem to have come short of it. You see that seem word there. We often read right over that. Now talk to let's talk first about the meaning of rest in that verse. The immediate promise rest, as you'll remember from the wilderness example, is for the Israelites to enter into Canaan and to have a freedom of settlement and worship of Yahweh. However, the author intends far more than that physical rest if you just look in verse 2. In verse 2, the author draws an exact comparison between those in the New Testament age and those in the Old Testament age referring to both have heard the gospel. Both have been evangelized with the gospel. Now that's a that's a great lesson there, that they had the same gospel as us. Very interesting Both had the gospel preached to them and to us. Both those in the wilderness and those in that Hebrew congregation, and we here at Severn Run are given the same promises of rest, the same gospel. And although the particulars aren't developed in this particular passage, you can then infer that the rest being spoken of here, the ultimate rest, is the rest of peace with God through Jesus Christ the Son. The great reconciliation. And this is the remedy to the Adamic fall that everyone has been waiting for. Adam sins. Adam is ashamed, and he hides. God curses him. Adam's children despise God. But the whole story changes. Being united in Jesus Christ, God shows up in the garden, so to speak. If you were with him and you were to have a conversation, it might sound like this: God would say to you, Where are you? Why are you hiding from me? And you would reply, I'm ashamed. And God would say, Is my son your high priest? Are you united to him? You would say, Well, yes. Course I do remember that. I yes, that's my belief. Then God would respond and say, In Christ you have no shame. Period. You have no shame. I accept you perfectly. I am your father and you are my child. And now you can think of the prodigal son picture there of the two embracing The fear of diligence puts you in the mindset of making sure that you don't even appear to fall short of that rest that we just talked about with reconciliation. Now, I suspect that when we begin to talk about fear this way, that there can be a confusion that enters in where you think that there is a questioning of your assurance of salvation. I brought that up last week and I'm going to bring it up again this week because we're we're on the line here and people Now remember in chapter three, verse one, as I reminded you last week, that he refers this co to this congregation as brethren and as partakers of the holy calling And those are two designations that actually strengthen their assurance of salvation. He's not trying to make it uh faulty or getting them to doubt themselves. The author wants this congregation to be show so shaken with what happened to their fathers that they don't even appear to entertain the same attitudes and actions. That's what's going on here. The emphasis is not upon assurance of salvation, but rather upon do not even seem like this is the case Don't even allow there to be an appearance of evil within you. Don't play with danger. Don't play with fire. The fathers in the wilderness felt the pangs of hunger, and they decided that they would flirt with this idea. God is an incompetent provider And what he's saying here, he's not trying to call your salvation into question. He's saying don't flirt Don't flirt. The author says if you suffer, then don't even entertain such a thought, but with fearful diligence, work to avoid that evil. Do you see where you would need to be diligent? given your human heart, where you'd have to be sober-minded about these things and realistic and not become complacent or lazy in your spirituality The fathers in the wilderness daydreamed of better days from their past, and they envied the prosperity of the godly. This author says: if you have a humble income and you're not well off, Then don't even seem to tolerate such a thought, but guard your thoughts with nervous watchfulness. That's all that he's trying to point out. That's the purpose of the fear. Now let me give you an example again. Remember the example of Noah that I gave you last week. God promised salvation to Noah, and Noah had assurance of salvation. He had the blueprints to the ark. It was a sure thing. Yet Noah was moved with the fear or nervousness onto diligence, and he prepared an ark. It's exactly what you're supposed to be doing. John Owen put it this way, apprehending the severity of God, believing his threatenings. His mind, Noah, was influenced into that fear which put him with diligence on the use of those means whereby he and his family might be saved and preserved. And you two are called to use that fear for the same diligence. Who in their right mind would want to even appear to not entertain it? Let me give you another example to prove that. The same can be said of Moses besides Noah. Moses was certain of the salvation of Israel. Wouldn't you agree? He was certain that they would be released from Egypt. It actually was a decree of God 400 years earlier. Yet he still instructed them to blood their door lintels. The means by which they would be saved. And they did with a fearful diligence. I mean, can you just uh picture that? Imagine painting the lintel. Let's say that you and I were painting our lintels together that day. You ever paint a lintel? Let's say you and I were painting our lintels together and I just wanted to put a little dab on the lintel. I think what it's saying here is you better, because of your fearful diligence, you wouldn't leave a spot on the lentil that was not covered with blood, so that it wouldn't be mistaken for a lentil that had not been made bloody. I think that's the point that he's trying to make it. Wouldn't you cover every square inch of the lintel to make sure that the angel of death would always pass by your door? Even though you knew he would. Just the terror of the night and knowing what was getting ready to happen. Having already seen all the plagues and the signs and the miracles of God and what and what he's capable of. Wouldn't you cover every square inch? You wouldn't even give the appearance of wood beneath blood. You'd only show the blood Now that's the same thing here. They don't he doesn't want you to give the angel of death in the thought that you are not under the blood of Lamb, because of unbelief. Now here's the last question. The last question that we have to ask is: how do we exercise fearful diligence? In other words, how do we profit from this fearful diligence? You can see the kinds of the fear. You can see the purpose of it. It's to stir you up so that you're not quenching the spirit, would be another way that this is talked about But how do we profit from it? He now gets into that. The prophet is in verse 2. For indeed the gospel was preached to us as well as to them. So he's calling us back to that example, and he's saying, listen. We've already talked about this. It was the church. You have a lot in common with them. Where did they go wrong? And now he wants you to learn from that so that you don't miss the prophet. And this is so he continues. He says, but the word which they heard, it didn't profit them. Well, what was the problem? It wasn't mixed with faith in those who heard it. And that's what he wants to learn here. He wants us to see that fear profits the church by aiding her in assimilating God's word. Verse 2 reveals a plaguing human condition that you have. They heard the gospel. But it did not profit them because it was not mixed with faith. In other words, the church has a mixing problem. Mixing here refers to the assimilation of God's word, particularly the promises. Now you can think about this in terms of gardening. Just as the rose assimilates food from the soil and increases in size, vitality, and beauty, so too are God's people to assimilate or integrate the word into themselves. and that will require a fearful diligence. As newborn babes, desire the pure milk of the Word that you may grow thereby, if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is gracious Thus, God's people, here's the problem. God's people, like infants, can mouth the milk, but they can spit it out or never swallow. And it is a fearful diligence that is called on that you would actually swallow the milk. The picture is really absurd, isn't it? Can you imagine having dinner guests over, and all they ever do is put food in their mouth, but they never swallow? Could you imagine? I mean how would you handle that socially? We could talk about that later. The picture is absurd. Never never always chewing and never swallowing. It's what the author is warning us of here, and he's showing us through that warning the prophet. That we engage in this absurdity with God's word. Here's another image. You have food on your plate, but you don't eat it because it's not appetizing to you. So you got two kinds of people there then, both dealing with food. Some put it in their mouth, they chew but never swallow. Some would spit it out, some would look at it on the plate and never want to take a bite. We struggle with all those conditions as Christians. We have major eating problems here. Do you struggle with that? Which one would you say you were? Maybe you're not all of one, maybe you're a new combination of them. But how would you talk about that? How would you which condition do you struggle with? If you had two plates and one plate has God's promises and the other has promises from this world, which food do you find more appetizing? It's a good question to ask yourself today. Don't we have a mixing problem? And now he teaches us how to profit with a condition like this. It's called fearful diligence. The Spirit knows this. He knows our problem. He gives us the fear of diligence to reevaluate our hunger and the digestion of God's promises. Are God's promises still on the plate? Are God's promises still in your mouth? That's the question we want to ask. Have you left the promises on the plate? Have you been chewing? But you have yet to swallow some of God's promises. And what he's saying here, if you really want to profit from this, have a diligent fear until you eat. Have a diligent fear until you swallow. So that's his point here. He has two. The gospel fear has a profit and it has a purpose. The fear is a fear of diligence, which we're a little unfamiliar with, but that's present throughout the New Testament And really the whole whole of scriptures. The purpose of fearful diligence is to keep us from even the appearance of falling short of the promised rest. And the profit of fear is to aid you in your mixing problem. Fear stirs you up to digest God's promises. Now, I want to end with some ways to promote the fear of diligence. I hope that some of this strikes a fear in you that moves you towards diligence. First Remember that your unbelief can, because he's a good heavenly father, awaken his temporal punishment. There are plenty of instances within the scripture Scriptures of those who belong to the church, where because of God's loving fatherly hand, He will chasten you in discipline which is never enjoyable. Now, you're never to despise that discipline, but I don't think you should ever beg him for it either. Or put yourself in a compromising position. Remind yourself of Anairis and Sapphira. In unbelief, they lied to the Holy Spirit and they were killed. Live in fear. Remember that unbelief is also the cause of all your pain and your sorrow. Why snuggle with something that has caused you so much personal pain? Why don't you just leave him? He's no good. Remember that it is still your old, it is, you have this old nature that is calling you back to the abuser, wants you to have unbelief. Be fearful of that. Be fearful of being complacent. Stir yourself up by remembering the pain and the sorrow and the abuse so that you don't go back to the unbelief. Thirdly, remember that unbelief is the cause of the eternal ruin of those we love. Why would you tolerate the very thing that causes the eternal ruin of those you love? Why would you want to be anywhere near it? Why are you making friends with him? Why not rather hate unbelief? Why not fear? Number four, lastly, remember that arrogance, entitlement, and complacent complacency, laziness. Leads to withering. And withering can encourage and promote unbelief. Laziness with your faith is the opposite of a fearful diligence You must be motivated by remembering that arrogance, entitlement, and complacency always leads to decreased fellowship with Christ, and decreased fellowship with Christ leads to malnutrition. You may not see your malnutrition, but it will sneak up on you. Spiritual poverty comes upon us like a thief in the night. If you gave flowers for Valentine's Day, for instance, I'm sure they were beautiful, but by now they are withering. Why? Because they have been snipped from their source of life. If you are not fearfully diligent, connecting yourself to your source of life by the Spirit through your word to Jesus Christ, then you too will wither also. Be afraid on to diligence. Therefore, since a promise remains of entering his rest Let us at Severn Run fear lest any of us even seem to have come short of it. Let's pray. Father, you are so good to us in sending us your promises, your threatenings, every mode, sermons or homilies like this. in Hebrews and historical accounts, you you layer upon layer give us different motivations to cling to you and to hold fast to Jesus Christ in a world that's asking us to Do the opposite. We ask that by your Spirit that you would create in us a diligent use of the means of grace, that you would give us sober-mindedness, that you would give us. uh an eagerness that we would endeavor in the grace of the Holy Spirit to live as becomes the followers of Jesus Christ. And we pray these things in his name. Amen. Let's stand and respond.