When your son asks you in time to come, saying, What is the meaning of the testimonies, the statutes, and the judgments Which the Lord our God has commanded you when he asked that question, then you shall say to your son, We were slaves of Pharaoh in Egypt. And the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand, and the Lord showed signs and wonders before our eyes, great and severe against Egypt, Pharaoh, and all his household. Then he brought us out from there, that he might bring us in, to give us the land of which he swore to our fathers. And the Lord commanded us to observe all these statutes, to fear the Lord our God, for our good always, that he might preserve us. Alive as it is this day, then it will be righteousness for us if we are careful to observe all these commandments before the Lord our God as He has commanded us. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for what you have revealed here. You've revealed again your mighty hands, the great things that you accomplished. And of course, this gospel story that we read here has been Was was really a shadow of the ultimate thing that you would accomplish for your people. And we pray that that would be revealed to all of us here today. In the name of Christ. Amen. You see that. Happy spring, I think. I wake up in the morning and it's twenty-four or thirty-one degrees or something like that, but that's Maryland. We're just coming out of our winter. I have If w once by the time it is uh one o'clock in the afternoon or two or three, it's just warm enough even uh in this past winter before it turns spring To get a good mountain biking ride on Bacon Ridge done. During the winter, uh it is more particularly difficult for me. It's strenuous I look forward to my little pit stops in the woods to have a sip of water. One of the last times that I went, I reached for my water bottle and my bike carrier and And there was no water there. So I then began to really look forward to finishing the ride and getting back to my truck. When I arrived at the truck, I picked up the bottle of water and it was frozen. Which means it was totally useless to me. Although it was right there. It was the ultimate tease. It was water right there in my hand and I was I was about to die and it was frozen and I I could not drink. That um uselessness of that frozen water, I think, is a good representation of what can happen to the human heart. Whether you're a Christian or you're a non-Christian Being frozen in the heart is a universal human phenomenon, particularly towards God. I understand that the human heart can be warm towards lots of things But toward God in its natural state, we learn very quickly that human hearts are frozen towards Him. What I mean by frozen, that's a metaphor. It could be indifference, apathy, one of the main things that I see today, especially within the church, is indifference and apathy, lukewarmness, bitter, or uh you could be outright angry Those are all different states of being frozen. That's the problem. The problem, however, compounds because we're not supposed to be frozen towards God. I mentioned earlier in the service, I don't know if you caught it in the prayer, our hearts, your heart is restless until your heart finds its rest in God. So you could actually be in a situation where where the the very thing that you need for life you are hardened against. That actually is our human condition. Our greatest sense of significance is found in being connected and devoted, consecrated to our God. That's the condition of the heart universally. Have you felt a little frozen this past week to You know, our sermon series has been going on for a while now about how we really find our happiness and loyalty to Him. But is that what you have found this past week? Frigid that you have been cold or that your relationship with God is chilly. I just wonder that out loud and I And I'd encourage you to think through that. And while you're thinking through it, remember that this is really just another way of discussing what we've been talking about over the last few weeks. We are to relate warmly to God with our motivations, with our emotions and affections. That's the inner Circle, we are to relate warmly to God in our external actions, our behavior, and we are to relate loyally and warmly to God, even with everything that we own, all of our property is meant for Him. His glory, the possessions. Last week, that was two weeks ago. Last week we learned that one of the things that makes that difficult, if you wanted to get into the specific ways in which we uh can can run into dangers of becoming frozen or chilly in our relationship with him. We saw three dangers in the passage. There is the danger as when you become prosperous or successful of forgetting God Do you remember that image of the the uh arrogant young man in his Corvette? It was his dad's car, and yet he took We can all gain that kind of heart attitude. That was the first danger. The second danger was that we can begin to think of the creature, the things that are around us that we make and that God has made, that we can think of those things as more Important than God Himself, even our human relationships. And then the last danger is that when things become difficult for us, we can call God's character into question. That was great. Forewarned is forearmed. Right? That's God's grace to give us those dangers. This week the concern is still a danger, but it's focused on positively what can we do about the danger. The ultimate danger is really throughout the scriptures forgetting our God. There's different ways to forget Him. And so what we see in this passage this morning is. How can we always remember? And how can we make sure that our children remember who God is? That's the ultimate question. How can you and I keep ourselves and the next generation from forgetting God? You know, earlier in the passage it spoke about different means to do that. Uh wherever you go, make sure that i hi it's written on your doorposts and remember that conversation that we had earlier in this passage. Well we're going to return to a similar conversation, but he gives us different means on how to always remember. In a word, two words This is the answer. Gospel conversations. We can remember our God, not forget him, and we can help others to not forget him by constantly having gospel conversations. And this is how it's broken down in this in this passage in verse 20 really to 24 is what I'll focus on, a question and three answers. And so that's how I've broken this down. It begins with a question and then we'll have three answers on what it looks like. This is a basic template for you to work out specifically in your life on how to have a gospel conversation. So that you and the people around you don't forget who God is and what He has accomplished. So let's begin with the question. You can see this in verse 20. When your son asks you in time to come, saying, What is the meaning of the testimonies, the statutes, and the judgments which the Lord our God has commanded you? Now I want you to think about this for a moment. We don't have the picture painted for us as if this were a modern-day movie, but these are real human beings asking these questions. Think of the presuppositions and the assumptions that are involved in what's going on here. Just think for a moment of the scene. The next generation, in order to ask this kind of question Must be seeing two different things. The very first thing they must see is a culture that does not remember God. A culture that disregards being loyal to him sees really no use for God within their life, except for maybe some religious exercise once or twice a year. They see a culture that has different values than their Christian parents or the Christians that they know, a culture that has different social practices, a culture that has a very different way most of the time. Looking at the world. They see a culture that does not follow God. Here's the other thing that they see, based on this question. People that do Now, I don't know if this is dawning on you, but in order for this question to arise, there must be people that are counter Cultural. There must be peculiar people and unique people from the culture. There must be light in the midst of the darkness in order for the question to arise, which immediately gets that to our our lifestyle and not just uh some abstract conversation. This is what I'm saying. In order for the question to arise with ourselves or the next generation, in order for the conversation to even begin, the next generation must see a difference between the world and the church community. And you can think of that within those concentric circles. Do they see a difference in the motivations and the affections? What does the Church of Christ love that is different than what the culture loves And how does that come out in behavior and the use of property? That's just using our concentric circle. Do you have some examples of this in your life of someone asking you, because you're so peculiar, asking you questions about your God? Why is it that you do the things that you do? You know, this I had a young man just tell me recently this happened to him, and he converted to Christianity because of how different Christians were around him He said from a I asked him actually from a human perspective, why did you convert to Christianity? Why did you become a follower of Jesus? One of the most unpopular things to do in America. Today. Why did you do that? And he said, it all began when a Christian friend told me that she was going to wait and keep herself for marriage And then he said, I couldn't believe it. That sounded crazy, and it made me have tons of questions. Isn't that interesting? So the way that that young lady decided to look at intimacy in relationship to Jesus Christ was so counter-cultural that he had tons of questions arise within him. His soul, and that was then used by the Holy Spirit to make this gentleman a follower of Jesus Christ. That's exactly the kind of situation that we're seeing here. That's where the conversation begins. The peculiar lives of a peculiar people generate questions Now once that question arises, what Moses does now is he says, you notice in the text he says, this is the question that's going to come up, not what are the commands, they knew the commands, but what Why are you following them? And then he gives three basic answers. That's how I'm going to divide it up, just to make it simple. He gives three basic answers once The peculiarity of you arises. Questions begin. Here's the first answer. God brought us out of slavery. That's the first answer that he gives. Notice that in verse 21. We were slaves of Pharaoh in Egypt. And the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand, and the Lord showed signs and wonders before our eyes, great and severe against Egypt, Pharaoh and all his household. Now I want to honor the contexts, but we have moved beyond this context, and I want to honor that too. For this particular group of people to which to whom Moses is giving this motivational speech This was their story. They were in slavery for 400 years, literally in Egypt. And then God, speaking to Moses through a burning bush and raising up him and Aaron, sent him to Egypt Ten plagues, especially the angel of death, the splitting of the Red Sea, the pillar of fire and smoke, were all before this generation The Mount of Fire, the Ten Commandments, all of these great things that they saw as a part of their national history and their exodus. And we can still celebrate that. We bring the language and the story into our songs because it reveals who our God is. Even though we were not literally a part of the Egyptian example. Exodus, we recognize that it's the same God that that is a part of our Exodus. Now we see our Exodus in Luke 9, 28 through 31. At least that Jesus is going to be the one who performs it. Let me read this to you. And if you want to, you can flip there because I'm actually going to point out a word. Luke 9, 28 through 31. Good Protestants with your Bibles, proud of you. Now it came to pass about eight days after these sayings that he took Peter, John, and James, and he went up on the mountain to pray. Of Jesus. As Jesus prayed, the appearance of his face was altered, and his robe became white and glistening. And behold, two men talked with him, who were Moses and Elijah, and that's very significant. That all of a sudden Moses has showed up, the man who was a part of the first Exodus, who appeared in glory, and then this is, and they spoke of his. Now my translation is the NKJV, New King James. version it says and it spoke of his decease which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. Do you know what the Greek word is there? Exodon. When you get a chance to study this and you read others who have studied it, I haven't found anyone that disagrees with this. Everyone that reads this observes that Jesus is the one who will lead The new Exodus, and he thought of his work as a kind of exodus. The last great exodus of people from slavery. And he would be the one as the mediator and as the great high priest who would accomplish it all And it was God the Father in his mercy who sent him to do it, and it will be the Holy Spirit who effectuates it. The disciples were expecting to be released from their slavery to Rome, some kind of event Exodus in a political way, which ultimately will happen. But God the Father, through the life, death, resurrection, and ruling ascension of Jesus, conquers his people's slavery to death, to hell, to sin, to misery, to blindness, and the list goes on. Anything that's evil, Jesus conquers it. And here's the news about slavery. Jesus is still alive, and he is still leading people out of misery and sin. I just shared a story with you about how Jesus led a young high school student. out of misery and sin based on the convictions of another young high school girl. What this means is that you, because Jesus is still doing his work of releasing people from slavery is that you can say the same thing. God has brought me through Jesus Christ and His Spirit. Spirit out of slavery. Now think of it. Think of the different parts that we see that are a part of the slavery points. Think of how Israel would tell their Egypt's We were enslaved. One day God sent Moses to deliver us. Upon his arrival, God worked many miracles through him to show his might and his mercy, and look at what he look at how he has freed us. And now you can start turning to the New Testament and seeing echoes of the exact same story and gospel conversation in every single book of the New Testament. Enslaved. Even so, we, when we were children, were in bondage other than the elements of the world, Galatians 4, 2 through 3, speaking about how the Gentiles of that time were given over to to uh the Aphrodite cults and that kind of thing under Roman religion. But then he sent Christ to deliver us. But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of a woman, born under the law to redeem us. Galatians four, four through five And upon arrival God worked through Jesus, Acts 2 22. Men of Israel, hear these words, Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested by God to you by miracles, wonders, and signs, which God did through him in your midst He is the great Messiah, the Lord of the world. You can see the exact same story and template is used throughout all of the scriptures because of this gospel conversation. Up to the point of Jesus Christ, I want you to think back for a minute. Has anyone here decided to send their blood to the government with Ancestry. com and all that? That sounds really safe, by the way. I'm just joking. I'm not a you know has anyone done the Ancestry dot com thing to find out if you're Scottish or Native American or whatever you are yet You don't you don't have to admit that. But I want you to th I want you to think for a moment. About your ancestors. Some of you take pretty decent pride within your family history. I've actually seen some people around here so proud of their family they're even still willing to wear a kilt. And play bagpipes in honor of their Scottish past. Up to the point of Jesus Christ. I'm not talking about the Jewish people in their history now. I want to talk about the Gentiles. The Irish, the Germans. Our ancestors were enslaved to paganism. Look back through the books. Read biographies on their history and see what they were enslaved to. Jesus, by his spirit, ever since his ascension, has from Jerusalem, Judea, and to the outermost ends of the world, by his spirit has been moving from nation to nation and tribe to To tribe, liberating people from bondage and slavery, to giving their lives over to things that aren't really alive and can't really help them Jesus is saving them and rescuing them from that. In this new world, we don't have literal idols like uh Celtic pagan gods, but we can still be enslaved Jesus is moving. I'm telling you right now, Jesus is moving from secular city to secular city, releasing people. From slavery to a modern mindset, back into service to God. I wonder if you are not a follower of Jesus Christ, if you're here because he's seeking To release you starting now. If you think so, will you talk to me afterward? Let's have a conversation. Jesus is on the move So when someone asks, Christian, why do you live the way that you do? Do you see what the first answer has to be? Because we have been rescued, me and my ancestors All his people from useless and frozen ways, we have been rescued from the futility of the thoughts of this modern society. You could even say it this way. I once was lost, but now I'm found. That would be an in line with this first answer. That's the beginning. The beginning of our conversation starts with that question because they see a peculiarity within us. Why do you live the way that you do? And the first answer is, amazing grace, how sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me. And now we have answer number two, beginning in verse 23. Then he brought us out from there that he might bring us in to give us the land of which he swore to our fathers. I love this. He brought us out to bring us in. Remember that. That's part of his story. He didn't just take us out and then drop us off on the side of the road and then he kept driving. He took us out to bring us in. This was quite literal for Israel. God brought them literally out of Egypt. We've been reading the story and the recounting of it. And yet, just as the exodus from Egypt was a shadow of the great exodus of the whole world through Jesus Christ, so too is the promise of the promised land just a shadow of what God offers This was just a temporary shadow of the full reality that God had planned for all Christians. Jesus not only delivers us from sin and misery, but he delivers us to being good people and to a great future. This is how it begins. The promises start in that He will restore us in the image of God as we were meant to be. We will be real humans again, not half-hearted. Not like wraiths, barely alive. Listen to how Paul tells this story. For the grace of God, you I I hope that when you read the New Testament now you can just see this gospel conversation on every single page. This is the temple that is followed by all The apostles. Listen to this. For the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lusts We should live soberly, righteously, and godly in the present age, looking for the blessed hope and glorious appearing of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. Christ who gave himself for us that he might redeem us from every lawless deed, and purify for himself his own special people, zealous for good works. See that? Who gave himself for us that he might redeem us from every lawless deed, and that he would purify for himself his own special people onto or zealous for good works Becoming a new creation is another way that he puts it. God working in us now is a great blessing. But there's even promises within the scriptures where you You have not received hardly anything of what He has promised you. You have received the guarantee of the Holy Spirit, you have been made a new creation, but He has promised for you the meek who are in Christ to inherit the world. We see this particularly in Hebrews 13, 14. The verse just flies by, but it says by volumes about the hope of a Christian. For we this is this is what he says in Hebrews chapter 13 verse 14. For here we have no continuing city. These are people that just got killed kicked out of what has been known as the city of God, where the temple was located. They thought this is the promise that had always been made to them and it would be restored to them. And here the Hebrew, the writer of Hebrews, straightens them out. He says, here on this earth we have no continuing city. And then he says, we seek the Lord. One that is coming. Isn't that interesting? And then when we turn to Revelation 21, when we see the consummation of God's plan all coming together, there is a city pictured there A city as the renewal of the whole earth, the new heavens and the new earth, the new Jerusalem, where we see no more sin, no more misery. That is ultimately the fulfillment of the promised land that we see here within this Passage. And we've gone over this before. But that's how we have to see this gospel story and the gospel conversation for us. God brought you out of slavery, Christian out of sin and misery to bring you into being truly in the image of God and blessed for eternity. Those are the promises to you. He has given you some of that now. Not all of it. Don't get confused. There are some churches that think we have more now than we actually do. Don't get confused. She's given us some of it now, and there is much more that remains for the future. But that can be part of your story, right? We have no continuing city here, but we're waiting for the one to come when they ask. No, of course, everything is still a bit miserable here, isn't it? We don't have our hopes on this ship. He gave us some of that now, but still much remains for the future. So why do you live the way that you do? We were slaves, but God, through the mighty work of Jesus Christ, rescued us from sin and misery and into righteousness and blessedness. That's the story. He brought us out to bring us in. The song continues like that too. Did you notice? I wonder if the author was thinking of a gospel concept. Conversation. Amazing grace, how sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me. I once was lost, but now I'm found. I was blind, but now I can see. Went from two. Now we move on to answer number three. This is the third part of the conversation, and I consider this to be extremely important. All of them are important. I'm going to place emphasis on this one because of how I've heard the conversation go in the past. Here's answer number three from Deuteronomy chapter six. Verse 24. This is how I paraphrase or summarize. In response to everything that you have heard about what God has done and his mercy and his might towards you, serve him out of thankfulness and gratitude Serve him out of a heart that is thankful for the love that he has shown for you. Those who have been forgiven much will love much. That's a similar story here that Jesus was teaching that Pharisee. And the Lord commanded us to observe all these statutes, to fear the Lord our God for our good always, that he might preserve us alive. As it is this day. Let me read it one more time. In light of the question, why do you do what you do? Because the Lord commanded it. Get on board. Just do it. When I this is how the conversation usually goes within the church. Why do you do what you do? Well, just do it. Why should I do what you're doing? Just do it. I mean, listen, Christian, you are not trying to promote the Nike slogan. We want a gospel conversation. I want you to notice the context of what's happening here. Could Moses the mediator have immediately answered the question? Question in verse 20, just do it. Did he have to list the mercies of God first? No, he did not. He chose, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit and by direction of God the Father, to place the mercies of God first and then the commands of God second. Because he's interested in motivation. Remember, it's not begrudgingly serve the Lord your God with all your heart. It's love the Lord your God with all your heart and your soul and your mind and your neighbor as yourself. That's what God is after. We have finally arrived at what we would want to say all along, just to get people to conform. Why do you live like you do? Because God commanded it. Just follow his commands. His commands are great. I just preached on them But note that God through Moses told us to tell the story in a particular way, and that way is repeated throughout the rest of the scriptures. It's even repeated in Deuteronomy chapter 5 verse 6. I want you to look at the verse real quick. In chapter 5, verse 6, before any of the ten commandments are given, what is stated The mercy and the grace of God. Serving God with all of your heart and obeying his commands always takes place in the context of his grace and his mercy to you. He has sent you his Holy Spirit to change your heart. Therefore, serve him. That's always the story. That's how Paul and Peter told the story. That's how Deuteronomy 5:6 tells the story. And that's why this context is so very important for us. We are to see especially the grace of our God, and from a heart of gratitude, we are to obey Him. And it will not happen like a turtle falling off a log. You need to rehearse in song and in whatever way you possibly can the graces of God. I wonder what your favorite Christian band is, for example, that reminds you of how merciful God is to you. I wonder what stories you tell during the day to the people around you. Can I give you the New Testament counterpart? Yes, I can The New Testament counterpart to this last answer is in Romans chapter 12, verse 1. Amen. Some of you, this is your favorite verse. Romans chapter 12, verse 1 says this: after he got done talking throughout all of the letter of Romans of the mercies of God through Jesus Christ in the Spirit Present your bodies a living sacrifice holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. Do you see that? He has reasoned with you. And he has reasoned with you in his love and his mercy. And by the power of the Holy Spirit, we can see how good those reasons are. And our hearts, Christians, are committed to Him. I understand that we have our backslidings, but we endeavor to live for the Lord Jesus Christ. From the beginning, Paul tells of the great mercies, and in remembrance of these mercies, from the great and awesome Trinity. That's why we obey him. That's the whole story. That's it. Didn't you think the gospel would be much longer? If you typed in gospel on Amazon, there are so many books. It just a question and three answers. Don't know why there's so many books. Our initial question when we started is this. How do we keep our hearts and the hearts of the next generation from forgetting God? The answer is gospel conversation. We live counter-culturally so that questions arise. Why do you live differently? Mommy, daddy, why do we have these practices? Friend, why Why do you do things that way? Why don't you do that? These other things that I see my friends doing. And then once we have that question, we answer. We answer throughout our lives, not just once, but every day if we can. Telling the gospel story. We were slaves to sin and misery, but God acted with power through Jesus Christ to rescue us. He brought us out to bring us in to a good life. And we have some of that now, but one day we're going to have it all in Jesus. Will be blessed. And therefore, because of his great power, because of his love, because he died for me, because of all his mercy and his love that I see demonstrated not only in my life but in all the lives of the Christians around me. I can see his authority in the right light now. And because of his great mercy and his might, I truly want to do everything That he commands. And that's why I'm doing these things that you've just asked me about. That's the gospel conversation. If we have these conversations, I have to give you a warning. This is not like God has just in the book of Deuteronomy given you a magical wand where now you say the gospel conversation and then people all of a sudden join the church. Church. It doesn't work that way. It's never related to us like that within the scriptures. It does not act like a magic wand. It does not just make people thankful and loyal to God. It is God's job to persuade the human heart of his goodness for them to be able to taste and see That's God's job. Don't try to take God's job. It will really stress you out. Don't take God's job. However, you must not neglect your role either. You do have a role. Let me read to you Romans chapter ten verses. 14 and 15, because this tells you your role. But how can they call on him to save them unless they believe in him? And how can they believe in him if they have never heard about him? him Christian and how can they hear about him unless someone tells them Christian and how will anyone go and tell them without them being sent And this is why scriptures say how beautiful are the feet of the messengers who bring good news. You have the privilege, Christian, of participating with God in his work through Jesus Christ and the Spirit by bringing gospel conversations to the people that are within your life. How beautiful are the feet of those who keep having Gospel conversations. Amen. Let's pray. Father, you characterize us as sheep. Sheep literally are dull and dumb animals. And Lord, we admit that. And so we need a simple template in order to be able to live, to be able to share that which is most important to us. And you have given it to us in this question and answer format. It is literally a catechism before us what we're calling gospel conversations. We ask, Lord, that you would help us to take this general template and to bring it into the specifics of our life. Life. Help us to be able to share gospel conversations. Help us to live peculiar lives that raise questions from this world. And then help us to take the light that you have given to us and to speak And we pray that you would give us over to prayer. I pray right now, God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you would have mercy on our unbelieving children. And I pray, God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ that you would have mercy on our unbelieving neighbors. You have had mercy on us and we didn't deserve one drop of it and they don't either, but we just asked Ask for mercy that you would pour it out on our country, that you would bring people to yourself across the globe, that they would know you and no longer be enslaved. Set them free that they might live in liberty. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen.