Moving on in the Gospel according to Mark, we'll be looking tonight at verses 14 through 20. Please follow along in your scriptures, and then you might want to keep them open as we'll be referring back to this passage. Mark chapter 1, starting in verse 14. Now, after John was put in prison, Jesus came to Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God, and saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent. And believe in the gospel. And as he walked by the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew his brother casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. Then Jesus said to them, Follow me, and I will make you become fishers of men. They immediately left their nets and followed him When he had gone a little farther from there, he saw James, the son of Zebedee and John his brother, who also were in the boat mending their nets. And immediately he called them, and they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants. And went after him. God's holy word for God's holy people. Please pray with me. Lord, this is your true and infallible word. We know that it will go forth and it will accomplish your purpose. We trust you in this. We believe you. We pray, God, that you would transform us and make us more like Christ in the hearing of your word. And I pray, Lord, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight. O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. God is so good to us, giving us a whole day and seven to rest. to rest in his peace and to worship him. And I'm so glad that it has been his plan for all of you and for myself that we would gather here together again to continue on in the Gospel of Mark. We've already seen so far in this chapter that God prepared his people to receive the Christ. We saw that he did this through all the Old Testament prophets, but Who was John the baptizer? And we saw that Christ himself was prepared for his life and his ministry. He was prepared for the calling that God had on him. The sins of God's people were put on him. He was driven into the wilderness and he was tested by the enemy. And he proved that he was indeed the spotless lamb, the perfect sacrifice to take away the sins of the world Well, tonight we will see all that preparation coming together as Jesus' gospel ministry begins. Jesus Christ comes and he preaches the gospel. He preaches the good news. And we'll see in our passage, verses 14 through 20 tonight, that the good news, the gospel requires a response from you which will transform your life. The good news of God, the gospel Requires a response from you, from which God will transform your life We're going to look at this in three short sections. We'll look at the good news, which is verses fourteen and the first part of fifteen. We'll look at the response, which is the rest of verse fifteen, and then we'll see in verses sixteen through twenty the transformed life So let's jump right in together and look at the good news, the gospel. We see this starting in verse 14. Jesus came preaching. Look at what it says in verse 14. Now after John was put in prison, Jesus came to Galilee preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God. We notice that this was after the last Old Testament prophet had finished his ministry. John was done doing what he was called to do, and he was now in prison. And we see where this calling happened. It was in Galilee. And you may be familiar with this from your many listenings to the Messiah, if you're anything like me. From Isaiah chapter 9, we're told that it's in Galilee of the Gentiles that the people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwelt in the land of the shadow of death, upon them a light has shined. This is what Jesus preached. He heralded, he proclaimed with authority the good news of the kingdom of God, that he came to bring light, hope, and understanding to those who are in darkness. And that light is the gospel. And look at what Jesus preached as the gospel. He says in verse 15, right there in the first part, the time is fulfilled. And it's important for us to recognize that this time here referred to as not just the passing of time. This is a different word in the Greek, which means A historic time, or we could think of it as an age, right? There's the Bronze Age or the Industrial Age, and it's characterized in a certain way. This is the pre-Gospel age And he tells us that this time is fulfilled. This age is fulfilled. There's no more space. There's no more room in that age for anything to happen. And we can understand this easily if we've ever looked at a history text and we see that there's two divisions for history. We have BC and AD, we have before Christ and Anodomini, the year of our Lord. It marks a change. One age ended, and a new age began. He also preaches that the kingdom of God is at hand The people of God had been waiting for the Messiah since the fall. People, they understood that the Messiah, the anointed one, would be the king of all God's people. And they knew that that king would be the king even over the Gentiles. The whole world would be under one king. The whole world would be in one kingdom. Isaiah 44:6, thus says the Lord, the King of Israel. And his Redeemer, the Lord of hosts, I am the first, and I am the last. Besides me, there is no God. This is the kingdom. It's not a political kingdom. It's not a political nation, as some thought it would be. It wasn't a restoration of the old kingdoms of Israel and Judah. This is something new. And he says that this kingdom of God is at hand, literally, come near. It's close to you. It means it's the next thing that's going to happen. It's the next age. It's why we call it the year of our Lord. Well, that's the good news that he preached. But we want to look now at the second part of verse 15 and see that there is a response. Which is required to that good news. Jesus declares the information. He gives the light, and then he gives us two imperatives, two commands, which are how the people of God must respond to that light, to the good news he preaches. He says, repent. And believe in the gospel. So let's look first at repent. To understand this, we can look at that Greek word, it's a fun word, metanoia. It means quite literally changing your mind. And Jesus commands it because though we may think we know and understand who God is and what he requires of us, The good news that He preaches to us, the light comes and purifies it, enlightens our understanding No matter what we may have thought previously, Jesus has come bringing the light to refresh our minds so that we can really know the real God, our Father in heaven And when we are confronted by the good news of God, we must respond by turning away from what we previously thought about God. And believing something new. And that's the second command. We have to believe in the gospel. We change our minds from what we used to think to what God has now revealed. God has sent His Son to baptize us with the Holy Spirit, to take away the sin of the world, to bring God's people out of every tribe, tongue, and nation into one holy kingdom, ruled by his anointed King, who is the Lord Jesus Christ. We must believe this because it is the truth. To believe what is untrue is to remain in darkness, seeing nothing and knowing nothing. But he comes with the light, and he brings us out of that darkness into the light. He commands us to change our minds and to believe the truth because he loves us. And he wants us to live with the hope and the joy and the peace that can only come from turning away from our old ways and following Christ, following the gospel in truth and love. This is the end which Christ wants for us, that our lives would be transformed. Ultimately, they will be transformed. They'll be transformed into perfect lives, everlasting lives, eternal lives. Lives which will never end, lives which will no longer lack anything. He is transforming us through the gospel into people who can dwell in the house of the Lord forever. And for this to happen, for you and me, our awesome God knew that we would need guides. We would need Jesus' teachings recorded and explained. He knew that we would need the apostles. And so here we see Jesus calling the first of the twelve apostles, and we see their response to the gospel transformed their lives. So let's now look at the transformed life in verses 16 through 20. In Mark's account of the calling of Simon and Andrew, we see how their response to Jesus transformed their life's purpose. Starting in verse sixteen. And as he walked by the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew his brother casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. Then Jesus said to them, Follow me, and I will make you become fishers of men. And they immediately left their nets and followed him. They were fishermen. This was their livelihood. This was their identity. They had fishermen plans and fisherman training. They had fishermen tools and fishermen schedules and fishermen goals. They had fishermen lives. This is how they fed themselves, clothed themselves, kept a roof over their heads, and provided for their family. But Jesus comes and immediately they leave their nets. You're not much of a fisherman if you don't have any nets if you have no way of catching fish And the whole purpose of their lives was transformed in an instant because of their response. No longer were they fishermen whose life's purpose was centered around gathering fish They were now on a journey through which Jesus Himself would make them become fishers of men. Their lives would be given a new and transformed purpose, the purpose of gathering men into the kingdom of God. Similarly, Mark tells us about the calling of James and John. And in this account, we're able to see something a little bit different. Their response to Jesus Transformed their life's priorities. Look at verses 19 through 20. When he had gone a little further from there, he saw James, the son of Zebedee and John his brother, who also were in the boat mending their nets. And immediately he called them, and they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants, and went after him. James and John, in this account, are dutiful sons. They're working hard in the family business that their father had established. This was their future. And they likely had wanted to follow in Zebedee's footsteps running the family business. This was their plan for supporting families of their own. It was their way to fulfill what they understood was God's calling on their lives. And not only that, but it was likely that this was Zebedee's expectation for his sons, that they would take up his craft. After all, that was the most common way that uh people moved into a vocation at that point in history. They followed after the footsteps of their parents. But Jesus calls them and they leave all that behind and they follow after him. In a way, though it sounds strange to us, they left behind their future. They had no way of knowing how it would turn out, becoming disciples of this unknown man calling them from the shore. Their life's priorities were completely transformed by that call. No longer would future stability or their father's expectations be the most significant concern for them. Following Jesus' call meant that they would have to prioritize their lives in a very different way. And when the Lord Jesus Christ calls to you, Preaching to you the good news of God, you must respond, and that response will also transform your life This is not just true for the first disciples of Jesus. This has always been true for the people of God, for those who follow after the Alpha and the Omega. There's so many examples of this from the scriptures. We don't have time to go into detail for them all. You could think about David, he was just a shepherd boy, the youngest in a family of a bunch of sons, had no hope for an inheritance from Jesse. And yet what happened? We know that he was called to a very different life. He was called to very different priorities, to a new life that God had planned for him. But I think if we're honest with ourselves, probably the best example for us is Ruth. And it was most likely very clear in my mind because Pastor Jesse recently took us through the book of Ruth. And it's a powerful example of this truth. Her life was headed in a particular direction. Though she was a Moabite woman, she'd married into a good Jewish family and expected to have children and a life with all of them But you remember that changed dramatically when all the men in her family died and left her and her sister childless. Now, if she'd wanted to, she could have still had that future. She could have stuck to her goals. She could have left Naomi and found another husband. She could have had all that which she thought she wanted. But do you remember that God called her to something else? He called her to himself. She couldn't return to that life. Her life's priorities were transformed. How could she leave Naomi? How could she leave Naomi's God? This was now her God. She would follow him. She would go wherever Naomi went. She would worship wherever Naomi worshiped. She would not return to her father or her mother's house. She would not return to the false gods that she had worshipped. The future God called her to, the future with Naomi, did not seem to be a future That had that same goal that she had, the future of motherhood and family. Yet we know that God planned to give her exactly what she had wanted, just at a different time and with a different husband. Ruth is really important for us to remember because she's a lot like Simon and Andrew, James and John, and all of the examples, all of them together, are important for us because of something we may often overlook. I think it's absolutely clear to all of us that when we're told to repent, we must turn away from sin. I don't think anybody here would dispute that. But we have to see, and Ruth and these disciples help us to see that when God calls us to follow Him, when He gives us the good news and the faith to believe it, He calls us to turn away from everything Even good things to follow him. He completely transforms our lives and our priorities. And that doesn't necessarily mean that our lives and our priorities were 100% evil. It means that they were not ordered in exactly the way that God wanted them to be. When He gives you the gift of faith and the power of the Holy Spirit, the righteous response is shown to us in this passage. It's to repent. To turn away from our own will and our own way and to submit to Him, to His will and His way. He'll transform your life into what He wants it to be. He'll transform it into something that he can use, to something he will use for the benefit of his people. That's what he did with these men, and that's what he did with Ruth. I think you'd agree that we'd be foolish if we thought the message of this passage was that being a fisherman was evil, and that God called these people out of evil livelihoods. That's actually going to become a lot more challenging in the future in Mark when he calls some disciples from different occupations. What we need to recognize is that God's call on each of us is specific and particular. He moves in our lives according to his timing and in his way. He does this for you. He does it particularly for you. He didn't call all the fishermen in Galilee to leave their boats and leave their businesses and go and follow him. He called these particular men. And there will come times in your life where God calls you to something different than what He may call your brother or your sister to. He may call you to college. He may not. He may not call you to college, but he'll call your best friend to college. That doesn't mean that one of you is wrong. He knows exactly what is perfectly right for each of you. Kids, it may be hard for you to believe, but before your parents became parents, they were called to something else. Because God, at times in our life, will call us to different things based on the timing where we are. Now, before they were parents, they were called to become worthy spouses. They were called to order their lives to make themselves into someone that God could trust with another person's life. They were called to be prioritizing all of their time and all of their money and all of their efforts into forming a godly marriage. But then that calling changed, and you know how they knew that calling changed? You know how they knew they were called to become parents? They got some good news. They found out they were pregnant. They were having a baby. God gave them the baby, calling them into an entirely new path, a new plan for their life. They were called to parenthood. And this is what God does. He calls to us. He calls us to follow Him through the gospel of Jesus Christ, and He expects us to respond and to have our lives transformed by Him and for Him. Can you see this in your own life? Has Jesus called you to follow him? If he has, there will be things, good things, that you'll have to turn away from. If you want to submit to his plan for you and for your life, and if you want to be useful in his kingdom, you'll need to turn away from some very good things. It could be the hardest thing you ever do. You might have to give up the life that you dreamed of for yourself. To follow him, you may have to give up on your goals and your plans. Now, obviously, you're going to turn away from sin. We all agree on that. But following him may mean more than that It may mean turning away from something that you've longed for. Maybe a particular career. God may not want you to be a professional euphoniumist. God may not want you to be a professional carpenter following in the business of your father. God may not want you to be a university professor or a chef or a cop or a fireman or a fisherman. He doesn't call you away from that plan because it's a wicked plan or an evil life. It could just be that that's not what he wants for you. That's not what he's planned for you. But also remember that it may not always be that dramatic. When Christ calls us, it isn't always a complete 180-degree turn. It may be that at first, right? When you first convert and become a Christian. It might feel that way. But for some of you, that happened when you were really, really young. You've been living for a decade now as a Christian. There may be many small turnings, turnings away and turnings toward that God's going to do throughout your life. For example, many of us love things, right? You might love sports. Maybe sports are something that's very important to you at this phase in your life. Soccer or football or baseball. At this point in life, it may feel like your identity. It could feel like your whole purpose And it's not a bad thing. Certainly not a bad thing to play soccer well or to sail. But God In calling you to himself, calling you to follow after him, you may have to turn away from it. It doesn't mean you turn away from it and give it it up entirely, but you will need to submit to Christ and let it have the proper place in your life Let it be in the proper order. If you're called to be a good and successful university student, you're studying for a future. You want to use the things you learn there. Could your top priority still be playing soccer? Can your top priority still be, well, for some it was parties and things like that? It can't be. You'll need to turn away from those priorities to follow after Christ. Do you feel like God might be calling you to marriage If God's calling you to be married, then there will be a whole lot of things you have to turn away from. You'll need to turn away from spending all your time and money on yourself. You'll have to turn away from acting like a single person, right? Can't flirt with anybody. You have to be committed to the one that you're called to be married to You'll have to save the best of yourself for them. You won't be able to spend it on others. You'll have to become the kind of person who can be trusted in a marriage It may be hard to hear this, but a marriage is something in which there are equal partners. That means equal responsibility for doing the dishes. That means equal responsibility for raising children, if that's what you end up called to. You'll be prepared by God now if you turn away from those selfish things that make you only think about yourself and you start working. To become one who thinks more about others. You'll be called to turn away from an old identity, an old plan for yourself, a single plan And you'll be called to be engaged in living a life with the goals that are necessary when two become one flesh Brothers and sisters, believing the gospel, the good news that Jesus Christ is the King over your life will require a response from you. And it's not easy. You may have to turn away from some things that are very, very good. But I promise you, the transformed life that God gives you, the transformed priorities and purpose that you'll have. Will be worth it. Submit to His plan and His order for your life, and He will transform you. Please pray with me.