We're going to continue today through our study of the Gospel of Matthew, and we're picking up today with Matthew 9, verse 14, reading down through verse 26. Yes, I know it's Palm Sunday. And yes, I recognize that I'm not uh preaching on one of the traditional Palm Sunday passages. And I thought about that. Well next week is Easter and I will not be preaching on the uh next passage in Matthew next week. But as I thought about this uh this passage, uh it occurred to me that there are things that tie them together. So I'm going to presume today that as uh people who are somewhat versed in the Bible, you're familiar with the uh with the Palm Sunday story, and we're not reading that, but we are going to see that what we're covering here today does apply in in some ways and has the same basic theme. So bear with me. I know I'm departing from tradition here and that's always dangerous. But we will uh we'll go ahead with our Matthew passage today and do uh a separate Easter passage next week Matthew chapter 9, picking up in verse 14. Then the disciples of John came to him, saying, Why do we and the Pharisees fast often? But your disciples do not fast. And Jesus said to them, Can the friends of the bridegroom mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then they will fast No one puts a piece of my untrunked cloth on an old garment, for the patch pulls away from the garment, and the tear is made worse Nor do they put new wine into old wineskins, or else the wineskins break. The wine is filled, and the wineskins are ruined. But they put new wine into new wineskins and both are preserved And while he spoke these things to them, behold, a ruler came and worshipped him, saying, My daughter has just died, but come and lay your hand on her, and she will live. So Jesus arose and followed him, and so did his disciples. And suddenly a woman who had a flow of blood from twelve years came from behind and touched the hem of his garment. For she said to herself, If only I may touch his garment, I shall be made well. But Jesus turned around, and when he saw her, he said, Be of good cheer, daughter. Your faith has made you well. And the woman was made well from that hour When Jesus came into the ruler's house and saw the flute players and the noisy crowd wailing, he said to them, Make room, for the girl is not dead but sleeping. And they ridiculed him. But when the crowd was put outside He went in, he took her by the hand. The girl rose, and the report of this went out into all that land. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Rejoice in the Lord always. I say again, rejoice. It's Palm Sunday, folks. Easter's right around the corner. Let's get happy. The question that's been rattling around in my head all this week is that why aren't we Christians more joyful in the unordinary conduct of our lives? Why are we, and I am certainly including myself in that statement, so bloomin' serious Why do we walk around acting more often as if we're participating in a funeral procession than not? Is it possible, I ask you, if the Lord is looking at us and saying, come on, people, lighten up. We profess our belief that God is sovereign, that Jesus is Lord, and yet our lives often are characterized by a sense of impending doom. Or else we may think that serving Jesus has is such a serious business that any touch of frivolity coming into our life might somehow mean that we don't take God and that we don't take Jesus seriously. In my experience, and this is certainly nothing but anecdotal uh statements, in my experience it seems that the non-Christians are better at enjoying their lives often than the Christian ones. Now certainly they are deceived, and when the axe falls, as it always does, they find that their enjoyment of their life is built on superficial grounds and they become even m more miserable. But when you get right down to it, often it is the pagans that teach the Christians something in this regard to be able to to ca to embrace that which the French call choix de vivre, the joy of living. Perhaps if we have to be serious, if we have to be serious, perhaps we ought to seriously consider this. What are we going to say one day when Jesus looks at us and he says, as he is quoted in saying in Matthew 11, just a few chapters yet to go, I came and I played the flute and you didn't dance. Why not? If the gospel is good news for our entire life, why are we not rejoicing in it? Perhaps as we think about Palm Sunday today, with its theme of rejoicing, of shouting Hosanna, and throwing palm leaves to welcome our King as he comes to his throne, perhaps we ought to look at our lives and simply ask this. Are we more fasting in our life than feasting when it comes the way we live? Certainly feasting, joy in the Lord, lies at the center of these verses that we're speaking of today. Now I don't know if it's the same meal or not, but Jesus was in the previous passage we talked about last week, sitting with his disciples eating, and the tax collectors and all, and the Pharisees came and asked a bunch of questions about him eating. But all three Gospels essentially place this story about the disciples of John coming to Jesus. They place it after that event, immediately after the story of Jesus sitting with the tax collectors. So they seem to have some kind of sequence associated with it. It seems to be a that Jesus used this sequence as a teaching moment, if you will. Another thing that ties them together, the previous passage and this one, is that there are questions raised, although from different parties. The Pharisees ask in the previous passage, why are you eating and drinking were these tax collectors and sinners. We talked about that. And here we see the disciples ask the disciples of John asking a question. Why are you eating and drinking and feasting at all? So the common thread here seems to be that of having a meal with Jesus and the joy that is present at that meal. These folks were having a good time. Now that raised questions for the professional religionists of the day, as we spoke about last week. It was a major feature of the Pharisees' life and of their uh belief system and what they were doing that they had to publicly fast one day a week. They went around and sat cloth and ashes and and it was one of the duties that they undertook to model repentance before the eyes of the w the uh country. But it also raised questions in the minds of people who were not professional religious religionists. like the Pharisees, it also raised questions in the minds of serious people who were seeking after God, the disciples of John And and they're looking at Jesus and his uh disciples having a great time, and they have been taught by John the Baptist that they are to be uh mourning and grieving for the sin that is in the world, the sin of Israel that is keeping them separate from God. And they're they're asking Jesus here, don't you get it? Oh, what's going on here? Aren't you missing the point? To the disciples to John, now was the time of sackcloth and ashes. Israel was still in exile. God was seemingly, manifestly turning his face away from his people. And until they repented, until the grief that they had for their sin was evident to him, until they actually turned away from the wickedness that was in their lives They believe that God would not send his Messiah, God would not restore his people to favor, God would continue to frown upon them. And when he frowned upon them, all their hope for the future was obviously lost. And so the disciples of John were serious in the sense that they they wanted To serve God. They were not doing it hypocritically. And they are wondering why. This is not showing up in the way Jesus and his disciples are doing it. So they ask, why do we, like the Pharisees, fast and fast often, such that this this is the character of our lives. When people see us, they see us day in and day out as people who are mourning for Israel, who are who are demonstrating by our life and our conduct and our message that we are we are in serious trouble and we need to grieve over the state that we are in. And how why is that not your lifestyle? Why is this not the teaching of your disciples? This is a serious question, and I think Jesus takes it seriously. There's a change in tone in my reading of this. passage from the way he responds to the disciples of John and the way he responded to the Pharisees previously. Not every Pharisee was a hypocrite, but many were. And certainly John's disciples were not hypocrites. They were serious people, serious Jews, serious Israelites, and because they were grieving over God's ancient people, Jesus answered them compassionately. And we should see in these disciples. We should see in them an attitude perhaps that many of us ought to take over Christ's Church today. appropriately grieving over the sin that is in it. And appropriately looking at how God is manifestly showing his displeasure often with his church today because of the manner in which it is losing contact with the world around it and is not having the effect upon people's lives and the culture that we live in as it should. So Jesus saw that this was a serious question. And he answers them politely and with compassion. Now, as we move into how Jesus answers these disciples, I want you to just note as a sidelight that here is the first instance of him beginning in the Gospel of Matthew to start speaking in parables In the Sermon on the Mount, he used illustrations, and he used them often. But they were very clear illustrations of a point which he explained. He did not close the truth in words that had to be explained and then just leave them without explanation. But now opposition has raised its ugly head, the lines are hardening, and the Pharisees are are probably hovering in the background as he's speaking to John's disciples, and so he doesn't answer it directly. Jesus speaks compassionately to John's disciples, but he speaks in metaphors. He says that these people that he are gathered around him are like the sons of the bridegroom, if you will. And he says something very important. I highlighted it in my notes. It struck me when I first started examining this passage closely The words that that are used there is that while the bridegroom is with them, the sons of the bridegroom must rejoice. He doesn't say that they just rejoice. He says they can't do anything else but rejoice. They they are they have to rejoice. It is of the nature of the whole situation such that that joy springs out of them. That's the only thing they could do. But he doesn't tell them right away how they're to understand that. He talks about patching a garment and pouring wine into wineskins, but he doesn't explicitly tell us or tell them how to understand those things. But he tells them enough. He basically gives them something to think about. And he knew that if they thought about it long enough, as we think about it long enough, we will come to the right answer. Because both John's disciples and the Pharisees were students of Scripture, and if they humbly, humbly Search the scriptures, they would come to the right decision, they would come to the right understanding about what Jesus has said. Jesus had previously told the Pharisees, go And search out what this means, quoting Hosea 6. And so here implicitly, that's what the disciples of John are to do to go and look at what the scriptures say about bridegrooms. And then understand this in terms of that. So as we read this, we should notice that Jesus is changing his teaching style and he's responding to the heat that he's getting from around him. Now, but though he said all of this in a parable, we, like John's disciples, can be pretty confident that we know what he meant. It is clear here, even on surface inspection, that Jesus is saying, Hey, my disciples and I. Or like the disciples are like the f the sons of a bridegroom, the companions of a bridegroom, and that means I am the bridegroom. Those who love the bridegroom should rejoice with the bridegroom as he is in a time of joy. Now, weddings are times of great joy. To some extent, even more than the birth of a child. Now, this is in ancient times as well as modern times. Children are mostly a family thing and a child is born and boy everybody gets all worm and cuddly and it just is great, you know, and all that fun stuff is going on. But they're the there everyone is happy for the new parents. But at weddings Particularly at the reception, it's time to party. And that's what you see happening. It's time to rejoice. It's time to be glad. If you were to sit around a wedding reception, we've got one coming up here in the near future, if you were to sit around a wedding reception And you were dressed in sackcloth and ashes, and everybody came up to you and said hi and you were like this. That that bride is going to come talk to you real quick You know? How come you're not happy? I mean this is a wedding day. If you can't be happy, get outta here. At weddings you're supposed to rejoice. That's the order of the day. And it is a picture as a picture of joy that weddings are are held up to us in Scripture. We also hear of other feastings that go on. We hear of a rich man who throws a party and he hauls people in to share in his joy. But most importantly, Matthew is, he quoted Hosea 6. 6 last year, last week And I think in that passage, and in this week, I think he is explicitly looking at Hosea 2. In verses 16 through 20 in Hosea 2, God speaks there that one day his people are going to call him their husband. That there would come a day, a wedding day, that God would betrothe his people to him forever. So even on the first inspection, people who would be familiar with that passage and other teachings like it throughout the Old Testament, that when Jesus said, Hey While the friends of the bridegroom are with the bridegroom, everybody's supposed to be happy, they would have immediately said, hmm, what's he talking about? Is he just giving us a broad illustration or is he pointing us? Toward what the Old Testament has said as being how we recognize the Messiah, that there will come a day when Jesus, or when God will be our husband. So Jesus is the promised groom. We know that now. He is pointing out in this passage, that's exactly how you're to think about me. The wedding has begun. The disciples are celebrating the beginning of the wedding party. It is the time of the marriage between the Lamb and his church, who is his bride. In the old days, marriage feast would go on for days if a person was wealthy. If it was for a great king, it would last seven days. Brothers and sisters, I challenge you to think of Palm Sunday to Easter as one big wedding celebration. For in essence, that's what it is. Jesus tells the disciples and all who heard him that now is the time for feasting. The bridegroom has come. Let all the world be glad. It is time to put away mourning as a fact of our life, as the feature of our life, as the character of our life. Certainly, he says, in here, my disciples are going to mourn for a few days while I lie in a tomb, but their joy is going to come in the morning. And there will be an even greater joy in that day. I am the groom. Let us rejoice and be glad in that. The next thing I think we should see here is that we should be rejoicing because it's time to throw out the old cloth. And the old wineskins, we need to put them in the trash because Jesus has come to put new cloth and new wine for his people. in order to make them glad. Jesus points to these sons of, or to these disciples of John and he says, Look, you guys are sons of the Old Testament prophets. John was the last of the Old Testament prophets, and he was the greatest of them. But whether it was Jeremiah, whether it was Isaiah, whether it was John the Baptist Their message was that of repentance and grief. God was angry at his people. Repent. God is ha is not having compassion on his people. Repent God is disciplining his people. And like a scolded puppy, it's time to bow down and put our head between our paws, if you will, and hope for the best. But that's the old garment. Brothers and sisters, that is the old garment. That is the old wineskin. The joy that Jesus brought doesn't fit in that. We cannot grieve because God is withholding compassion with his people when he's showing compassion to his people. That's what Jesus came to do. God is in through Jesus showing compassion to his people. How can we grieve because God is not showing compassion to his people when that's exactly what he's doing? That's the old garment. The new garment can't be uh sewed to that You cannot be begging God for mercy when God is showing you mercy It just doesn't work. God's love and his mercy cast out fear, and brothers and sisters The joy of the Lord comes after a night of mourning, but when the joy of the Lord comes in the morning, the darkness is put away. The gospel is good news, not bad news. And therefore it is to be received with gladness. If we don't receive it with gladness, you have to wonder, have we received it at all? Jesus makes it clear that the time of rejoicing had come, and was in the process of coming, and that in his person and in his message there is grounds for joy in all things. Therefore, those who are his people are to show forth joy in their lives. Because the disciples of Jesus are the sons of the bridegroom. They are the ones who have been especially allowed and invited to eat with him at his wedding feast. They are his chosen compassion. They are his beloved friends. And it is to be their joy to see his happiness. And brothers and sisters, you who know Christ, that's you. Christ has been ever.