So he prayed to the Lord and he said, Ah, Lord, was not this what I said when I was still in my country? Therefore, I fled previously to Tarsus, for I know that you are gracious and merciful God, slow to anger and abundant in loving kindness, one who relents from doing harm Therefore, now, O Lord, please take my life from me, for it is better for me to die than to live. Then the Lord said, Is it right for you to be angry? Let us pray. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I pray for your congregation that you would reveal ourselves to us And mostly that you would reveal yourself to us. Help us to see what you're doing, that we might keep in step with you. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. I want you to picture a celebratory wedding. The ceremony has been done, the wedding party has been introduced, the dinner is over, and the DJ opens the dance floor. I want you to picture how celebratory that is, and then I want you to go ahead and pretend that you're able to freeze that moment. Just freeze all your friends on the dance floor. One of your friends has their tie tied on their head that seems to be going around. You freeze that dance floor and then I I want you to to to to pretend that you have editing software And you can manipulate reality where you take that scene, and I want you to pull it over on the screen, and I want you to drop it into another scene where there is an open casket funeral. And then I want you to hit play. And what that does, you can even hear it in just the audible reaction to pulling the one over into the other is It's a practical way to get at the truth of what the preacher was getting at in Ecclesiastes. Well, many authors in the scriptures get at it, but there is a different time for different things. There's a time to laugh and dance, and then there is a time to mourn. And one of the marks of wisdom is knowing when One time is for mourning, one time is for dancing or laughing. And when you get that wrong, you have that audible reaction that we heard here this morning Let me just ask you a question as we continue on in the sermon series. What season is this? I know it's spring. But I mean in terms of God's redemptive plan, what season are we in? And you can ask yourself even further Are you, and the way that you're conducting your life and interacting with the people around you, are you in that season or are you in some other season? Are you in sync? Or are you out of sync? Are you in step or are you out of step? That's a question I want you to keep on your mind as we go through the 4, 1 through 4 here in Jonah. And we're able to do that pretty quickly because the passage is shorter this time around. But we're using this as an opportunity for us to see what God is doing. And we're especially focused on what is he doing in terms of gathering people from the world by his mercy. So would you follow along with me in the scriptures here, keeping that question in mind, just what season is it? And let's step through these verses. The first thing that I want you to notice, because our faith is built on the Word of God, it's really important that we look at the Word. I want you to notice that there is an anger problem in the passage This anger problem actually has there's a theme going on in Jonah. I don't want to spend a lot of time on this, but all the way from the beginning, like in verse number two, if you were to consistently translate the word in Hebrew The same word every time, not really taking into context, you see that anger shows up from the very beginning. Sometimes it is translated as evil Sometimes it's translated as disaster. It depends on the context. The translators are doing a good job But it's all the same word, ra'a, or for anger. It's in a verb form or in a noun form. And we start to see it really start to accumulate here In 4. 1 and just prior. If you take a look, for example, in 3. 9, you should be able to just glance up the page depending on how your Bible was set up But you'll notice that the idea of the anger of God is present in the mouth of the Ninevehite king and his declaration. He says, who can tell if God will turn and relent and turn away from his fierce anger? So that we may not perish. And then lo and behold, we see in 310 the use of the word anger again, answering the question of the king. He says, Then God saw their works, that they turned from their evil way Again, that's anger, actually. And God relented from the disaster that he said he would bring upon them and did not do it. You could say God relented from his anger. That's the same that's the same word there if you look at it the in the original languages. So what we have here is the king seeking for repentance To relinquish the anger of God, sometimes we call that wrath, and it's a summary term for God's judgment and all that includes Then we see that God does in fact receive the repentance and he says, I will remove my anger or my judgment from this nation. And we so we have set up this little theme of anger. Now when we go to our chapter, notice the contrast. I mean that the narrator is doing this selectively and on purpose because he says in 4. 1 But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he became angry. Now listen, you know you have a problem that if God acts one way and then you act another way, like this out that's just not a good place to be. So here we have God not angry, or removing his angry, and Jonah exceedingly angry and displeased with this. So there's an anger theme that's going on here that's important for us to pick up. And you can even see at the end of our some of you started laughing At verse number four, you see it again, is it right for you to be angry? Now why is it that God is raising this question? God is raising this question and the author here, by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, wants us to go ahead and connect what I did for the introduction and this anger thing together, and we and he wants us to ask the question. Is it the season of anger? Is it the season of anger? Or has Jonah And can the people of God or the congregation of God, can they get out of sync with God in a lot of different ways, especially in the way of wanting judgment to happen now, when now is not the era of judgment. We can begin to see this even more when we keep going in our passage. We see that there's an anger problem in 4-1, 3-9, and 310. But then when we go to verse number two, we can see that the narrator wants to continue to contrast the way Jonah is versus who God reveals himself to be. Take a look at verse number two with me. I wonder if some of you recognize verse number two from another part of the Bible, by the way. It says, So he prayed to the Lord, and he said, Ah, Lord Was not this what I said when I was still in my country? Now we're finally realizing why is it that Jonah fled to begin with, right? This is a delayed literary uh technique. We had suspense all the way to this point. Therefore, I fled previously to Tartius, for I know that you are gracious and merciful. slow to anger and abundant in loving kindness, one who relents from doing harm. And then he says, I'd prefer you if you would just take my life. So what we end up seeing here is that what that the Holy Spirit is doing is revealing another contrast between God and Jonah. We're asking the question: is this the season of anger, Jonah and congregation? And then we see here a contrast in saying, well, wait a second, what we see is God is revealing himself even to the Ninevehites to nations that Jonah didn't know he was going to do this. He's revealing himself just as he revealed himself earlier to the Israelites. The Israelites, God revealed Himself to the Israelites in especially Exodus 34, verse 6, in almost these exact same words and in this same formula. I am a God who is full of mercy and loving kindness and grace. And do you remember what happened in Exodus 32? Exodus 32 was the golden calf incident. So here we see that in that context, I'm sure there were some golden calves in Nineveh of some work some kind of idol worship. Here we see that God revealed Himself as merciful to His people Israel. God is now revealing Himself as merciful to the people of Nineveh, and that's contrasting with Jonah in that Jonah is calling for there to be a season of anger instead of there to be a revelation of mercy. And God is going to wrestle, or really Jonah is going to wrestle with God on this. And it's going to happen with an object lesson next week. You're going to learn about a little tree that comes over him. lesson it's that we need to learn. In Exodus 34, Moses is hid in the the cleft of the rock in 34-6. God reveals himself. By the way, I'll just say this on the side. Did you notice that Jonah didn't include the entire quote from 34? If you read Exodus thirty-four, God also says, besides being compassionate, that he does not let the guilty go. That God is able to be both merciful and just perfectly. He is both, the New Testament will put it like this, under the writings of Paul, he is both the just and the justifier. depending on the angle that you're looking at it there and what he's seeking to solve. But Jonah leaves out the justice part because I I think that's what J Jonah is wrestling with. How can this be just of you to do? And that's why God is saying, are you justified in being angry? And we hear from Paul, I give mercy and compassion to whom I give mercy and compassion And we see this throughout redemptive history. The other thing that I think is going on here, just to beef this up a little bit so you can see all that the Holy Spirit's pulling into this passage, the divine echoes, if you will. is that what Jonah is doing here is he's doing a reversal of what happened in Exodus thirty f thirty two, thirty-four and and following, in that when the Israelites did commit idolatry with the golden calf and every other sin, if you read that passage. God reveals that he will bring his judgment, but then Moses steps in as a mediator and he says Paragraphing, would you please take my life instead of taking their life or letting it be poured out on them? There's a reversal going on here within Jonah. So Moses calls for his own death. Jonah calls for his own death. Moses calls for his own death so that God would give his mercy. Jonah calls for his own death so that God would give his justice and no mercy. Instead of letting these people go, instead of being merciful, why don't you take my life and then be just to them? There's something like that going on here. As Jonah is a prophet, both Jesus says that, and we see that in 2 Kings, and acting like a prophet or picking up on the prophetic tradition, he's trying to persuade God. to move forward with Nineveh and to destroy them. But here's the main thing that we end up discovering from this passage, by which you've already discovered earlier Just with the contrast between God and Jonah is that Jonah has gotten out of sync with God. God has declared that this is an age of mercy. Not an age of judgment. Are there times when God interrupts with judgment and removes entire nations? Yeah, we read that in In Deuteronomy, for example. But here he's declaring that he has the sovereignty to say, no, you know what? I'm moving forward in mercy with this nation. And that's the question that that I posed to you in the very beginning, as I'm just asking, what age is this? Now, Matt has answered that for us in pointing out just in different passages that this is the age of mercy. Sometimes in the New Testament they'll say this is the day of salvation. And it doesn't just mean the one day today. It means an entire age. Of salvation, where God is gathering in by His mercy the nations And you have to ask yourself, are you in sync with God? Are you in step? This is the age of mercy mercy and of gathering. That's our main lesson from this passage, and I just want to lay out a few things to develop that. That this is the age of mercy. The first thing I want to do in terms of establishing that this is the age of mercy is I'd just like to read to you a few statistics Now, you know, you have to go to school to figure out what statistics you should actually accept. A lot of these are from a guy named Tom Raynor, I believe is his name, and he runs LifeWay. And um some of this is from Pew Research and so you will have to be discerning in your understanding of this, but the numbers are so high and what I'm getting ready to communicate to you, I think you can get the main point in terms of The age of mercy. I want you to hear about God's mercy. Just statistically speaking, in surveys that have been done in different nations as how God is working among them and gathering them to himself. In the 1900s, in 1900s in Africa, there was uh an estimated 10 million Christians That was 9% of the continent's population at the time. In 2025, doing a newer surveys, 660 million. That's approximately fifty percent of the population. Asia, nineteen hundred, was twenty-two million Christians. 2025, 350 to 400 million Christians. Again, you have to take these things with a grain of salt, but you see the difference in the numbers, and all I'm trying to establish is that this is the age of mercy. It seems really obvious just from an experiential level, an evidentiary level here, from extra biblical sources, that that is true Latin America, 1900s, 60 million Christians, 2025, 590 to 600 million Christians Europe in the 1900s, 368 million Christians, 2025, 550 to 560 million Christians. There's actually in Europe right now a decline. due to secularization and actually there's also a decline due to uh lower fertility rates, 1. 5 children per woman That is not true in Eastern Europe, however. North America, in 1900, approximately 80 million Christians 2025, 260 to 265 million Christians. There is a decline in North America actually in terms of the rate of population with younger generations identifying as nuns. They have no religious affiliation. And um so we do see some declines in certain nations. That probably doesn't surprise you in certain places of Europe and North America But you can see where the spirit is moving in other places in Latin America, Asia, and Africa. And I haven't even given you, if this were to continue statistically trending the way that it is, what the numbers would be. The mercy is immense. That God is showing, just at this evidentiary level that's extra biblical. Evidence of His mercy Now, give all I wanted to do there and just showing you that is let me just ask you, is there any was there anything going on in Africa where God could have in complete justice just brought judgment? Ever since the nineteen hundreds? Is there anything that happened in Asia? Europe? North America? But we don't we see God interrupting people and certain nations so that they can't get totally out of control. And that is a kind of judgment But we see that even that is for the sake of keeping things under control so that this may remain a day of salvation. to where the church doing their mission may continue to proclaim repent and be saved So it brings up for us that since this is in fact the age of mercy, what would be some good pictures for us to know exactly how we're supposed to walk through the world? What is the posture that we should have, or the paradigm, or the model, if you'd like to think a little bit more abstractly? If you'd like, turn to Mark chapter 6, beginning in verse 34. I just want you to see a picture here of how I think This still continues for today in how we would posture ourselves. In Mark six, beginning in thirty four And Jesus, notice notice the continued theme here from this even earlier in my sermon. And Jesus, when he came out, saw a great multitude and was moved with compassion for them. And then he puts this in terms of a very long-standing and ancient image. He says, because they were like sheep not having a shepherd. So he began to teach them many things. There's the teaching ministry, but then this compassion continues in verse uh 36 when he said when he says I'm sorry, in 35, when he says, when the day was now far spent, his disciples came to him and said, This is a deserted place, and already the hour is late. Send them away that they may go into the surrounding country and villages and buy themselves bread, for they have nothing to eat. But he answered and said to them, You give them something to eat It's so interesting to me just thinking of this in terms of a paradigm or as a model or as a picture of how the cur the church is located and postured relative to Jesus Christ That Jesus Christ, out of his compassion and out of his loving mercy, is now going to move forward and speak to his disciples that they might go and do his work underneath of his power. And that's the same thing that happens with us as his church today. I mean, can you hear him now? This is the age of mercy. I proved it to you in the way that Jesse has exposited the passage. and showing you the statistics. How many more people in Africa do I need to save for you to know that this is the age of mercy? And then the second thing that I'm that we're pointing out here is he says, can't you even hear Jesus Christ now saying, you give them something to eat. It's your turn. So then they, just like you know we would, look at how they reply in the next verse, and they said to him, Shall we go and buy two hundred denarii worth of bread and give them something to eat? You can see Some of us like a group of moms from Severn Runs saying, There's not even enough bread in Aldi to do that. And it's too expensive at BJ's. I mean we really gotta shop. But then that's not what Christ is thinking. He said to them, How many loaves do you have? And let's say a few of you brought up um five. And let's say that uh the Vaughn boys had been fishing in the Eastern Bay and they were like, hey, we got a couple fish. So then he commands them to make them all sit down in groups on the green grass. And I love this little picture. It's like he said that he's the shepherd and their sheep all sitting out on the pasture And he's going to take care of them. So they sat down in ranks and hundreds and fifties, and when they had taken the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven and he blessed, and he broke the loaves, and he gave them to his disciples to set before them and the two fish he divided among them all. So they all ate and were filled. And they took up twelve baskets full of fragments and of the fish. Now those who had eaten the loaves were about five thousand men. And this is that picture or that paradigm where we see that since it is the age of mercy and we are the disciples of Jesus Christ. That Jesus Christ, by his authority and his power, he is sending us out in his name to feed the nations, and he will have the power. And he will give us the power in order to keep offering people his mercy to feed upon That's something that we need to hear as a church. And the the second part that I want to point out in terms of a paradigm or a model or a posture towards the world is, do you know we have this quaint little picture of God's people as sheep on a on a a verdant hill. But you know, when we get to what the way this looks as history starts to unfold, think of Peter's sermon in Acts chapter 2 That's an inductive sermon. Peter gets to the gets to the point of his sermon, in other words, at the end of the sermon, which I've been warned against trying to do because I'm just not that good But in Acts two, at the end of his sermon, he says in Uh verse number thirty-six of of Acts chapter two, he says, Therefore, let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made this Jesus whom you crucified, both Lord and and Christ. Do you see what's going on there? This is so much the age of mercy that even those who are responsible for the murder of Jesus Christ After Jesus Christ's ascension, are given the opportunity to repent and receive mercy. Peter is giving a sermon and offering mercy in the age of mercy to those who murdered Jesus Christ. Not just those on the verdant hill. They had become sheep that rip away the flesh. And one of the first things that Christ does in being given all authority in heaven and earth, and after instructing his disciples for 40 days, is he sends his disciples to offer forgiveness to his murderers? Surely this is the age of mercy, brothers and sisters. And that's a part of the that is a part of the model for us, is that even if it is people who have bitten us, We, as a congregation and as individuals, need to keep going to them and figuring out a way to go to them to offer them mercy in the age of mercy and salvation in the day of salvation. I think one question that ends up coming up during this time when we talk about an age of mercy and we think about, okay, well what does it look like For us. Can you give us a picture of what that mercy would look like? Well, it looks like being under the authority and power of Jesus Christ and going out as he has commanded us. And it also looks like talking to our enemy And his enemies. One of the things that ends up coming up, inevitably, is a question of, okay, right, but what about the murder that they committed? Shouldn't they be held responsible for that? I mean, do we just condone everything? Is that how we move forward? Is that what mercy, love, and love looks like? Matt said earlier, love your neighbor. What that means, if you were to drive through your neighborhoods, is it doesn't matter what anybody does. Just overlook it all and love them. But that's not what we see in the Acts 2 sermon. For example, let me continue in Acts 2, 36. Therefore, let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made this Jesus whom you crucified both Lord and Christ. Now, when they heard this, they were cut to the heart. That's the first step of mercy. Is that the Holy Spirit is working in the people's hearts around us, and they're cut to the heart as to what they have done in their life. Against God. And they said to Peter and to the rest of the apostles, What are we supposed to do? And they respond, repent. And let every one of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins. There's no condoning. There's calling a spade a spade because unless you call a spade a spade, there's no need for Christ anyway. From what do you need atonement? You know, I remember this is a hard lesson to learn. It is a hard lesson to learn. That Christians are responsible in the preaching of the gospel to call people to repentance. That is a hard lesson to learn, not only for the Christian, because it's a fearful thing to do. To tell people they're wrong is not fun. To show them they're evil, not fun. You know it's hard on the other side too when Christians call you to repent. Because then you have to really face yourself. And when you face yourself honestly, the only place you could turn for the kind of cleansing and detergent that you need is Jesus Christ. So the Holy Spirit has to work on the heart. I remember this happened to me. You have heard different parts of my stories. story at different times and I'll never give you my whole story. It's just too depraved. But I was remembering this morning it just popped into my mind. I had totally forgotten. I told you that I had gone to juvenile detention and that I had become a Christian in a juvenile detention facility. Do you know what God used for me to begin to come to grips with my sin and stop my rebellion? There was a Christian in my high school, I just remembered it this morning, who had when I had made it through football season, we were starting lacrosse season, he had noticed in my in my lacrosse locker, in the locker room, that I had stolen a bunch of stuff from a lacrosse store. Children, do not steal. I'm just telling you the wrong thing here that I had done, that Christ gave me grace in. He had noticed and his friend, a family friend, had owned that lacrosse shop. So I had stolen from his friends. You know, he told his friends that I had stolen. And then they told the police. And then the police showed up at my high school and they arrested me with all of that gear inside of my locker. And then I was sent away to juvenile detention. It was there that I had to come to grips with my sin, of what I had done And I had to a part of that was repentance and then seeing that Christ was offering his mercy and his love to me. You want to hear something really cool? Jack went away last uh a little while ago, like about not even a year ago I think. He went away to Delaware on a like a Christian conference trip where you'd hear a lot of preaching and you'd sing. And he told me that the main teacher was this guy, and it was the same guy who had turned me into the cops. Now ministering to my son. I Facebook messaged him and I told him, Do you know that you turning me into the police led me to Jesus Christ? And we praised God together. That is the way that this unfolds. We're not condoning sin. And although it is hard to do repentance yourself and it's hard to tell people to repent. That is necessary in this model that we have here on the verdant hill with Christ and his sheep, Christ sending his disciple to his murderers. and Christ calling for their repentance that their sins might be remitted. You know, that's captured all very well in 2 Timothy 2 verse 24 and I'll let you look that that up another time. People often get confused by 2 Timothy 2, 24, because it says, be gentle, and then in the next word it says correct. And how are you supposed to be gentle and correct people? And we can talk about that another time. But all of it is right there. That we are gentle, we are praying for people. We are correcting them because this is the age of mercy. Now what I'd like to do now, just with the remaining couple minutes, is to just say to give you some what I have found to be useful principles. for carrying this out. I've given you a picture for you to be able to work through and a model, and I've given you a verse in 2 Timothy 2. 24 to guide you generally speaking, but I want to give you a useful principle as like boots on the ground here. As we seek as a church to acknowledge and stay in sync with God that this is in fact the age of mercy, and therefore we're going to keep offering mercy, even to murderers. We've got to figure out exactly, well, what does that end up looking like? And a useful principle, I think, is this, that we have to have this verse in our minds, perhaps in a little bit of a different way than we have in the past. As far as it depends upon you, be at peace with everyone. Now the way that we usually read that is we say, well, I'm a they're gonna be a snot to me, but I'm not gonna be a snot to them. And here I want to expand that and draw out an implication to state it like this: As far as it depends on us, let us be at peace with everyone. That is to say, let us not Let us not unnecessarily burn any bridges in our relationships so that there is always a path to take to keep offering the mercy of God in Jesus Christ to the people that are around us. And though the useful image that has helped me with this in different cases that I have seen throughout the years, and I'll bring up one case in just a moment, is the Chesapeake Bay Bridge analogy. One of the problems with the Chesapeake Bay Bridge is you never know if you're going to be stuck in traffic for hours. And that will depend if there's three lanes open, two lanes open, or one lane open. And it is the same thing within your Christian life as you keep the bridge open in your relationships. You will have to make a determination if you can have three lanes open with a person You'll need to determine if you can have two lanes open with that person. You will sometimes have to drop two one-lane relationship with that person because they're causing so much destruction. And heaven forbid that there would be no lanes, because then they are cut off from the mercy of God. One lane, keep sending that birthday card. That's keeping the bridge open. Send the letter. Send the birthday card or the gifts to the grandkids or whatever it is, even though the kids that you raise won't talk to you Whatever that is, that's the one-lane, and there's the two-lane and there's the three-lane. We have to keep that in mind because why? Because this is the age of mercy. So we want to keep those bridges open. How patient and long-suffering is Christ with this world? How many lanes does he keep open? He continually sends his disciples out, every single generation, in order to keep those lines of communication open that they would hear about his mercy. We had to deal with this with there was a a gentleman early on in my ministry here who was addicted to heroin. And that guy and that guy Oh, he was beautiful, really. He was so talented. So talented. And we watched him steal from us. Lie. Lie to his family, steal from his family. We would have three lanes open with him when we could. But if he sold from the back shed or whatever construction equipment, we'd have to drop to two lanes We'd have to drop to one lane if he was really ripping through his life. But uh I know that some of you know who I'm talking about. I just want to commend you because we always kept the lane open to him. And he's dead now. He overdosed But we kept the lane open to him and we were able to continually show him the mercy of Jesus Christ. And we not only showed it to him, we showed it to his wife and we showed it to his children. This is the age of mercy, that's why we did that. You know how much easier it is to just cut off and sever the relationship with a heroin addict? But this is the age of mercy. I wonder sometimes if we remember the Timothy sermons that I had given. Where we are called the pillar in the ground of the truth. Or the pillar and the foundation of the truth, that we have the deposit, it says, Of faith. Does anybody remember that? We have the deposit of faith. I was just watching a documentary which is excellent. I think it's called How to Save the World. Is that right? Is that the right title? Jimmy, is it How to Save the World? How to Save the World in eleven simple steps. I really enjoyed it. And uh the teacher uh says one of the steps is that we have to go out into the world with authority. And the reason why we have to do that is because we have been given the deposit of faith. And as a church, we have to ask ourselves the question, has God given you his Has God given you a message? Do you believe it? Do you think you should share it with other people? You know, Jonah's in that same situation. Jonah, as a prophet, has received the counsels of God. The council, this secret council had specifically told him his relationship to Nineveh if Nineveh repents. Do you know God has given you his secret counsels? The Apostle Paul says that God in Jesus Christ has in these last days given to us the revelation of his mystery. That the church shall consist of both Jew and Gentile, and that He is gathering in all the nations. And you have that mystery. You have that deposit. And it is our responsibility, like Jonah, being sent, to then take these things and to share them with people. Think of all of the mercy that is present within the scriptures that you could share with the people that are around you. What's the mercy that he has for families? What's the mercy that he has for women What is the call that God has for this world, for everybody to be able to flourish? Is repentance a bad thing? Is turning from evil and misery a bad thing? Aren't you saying, I have secret counsels from God that this is the good life? Let me share them with you. And it's not only the good life in the future in the sense of no longer having his anger or wrath hanging over our heads like a sword, but it begins even now with Jesus Christ as our commander-in-chief. He's going to introduce you to a new life. It's a life of abundance. But it begins by going out with authority. That's one of the steps on how to save the world in eleven simple steps. Now you can look up the other ten. And this is important for us to do. Let me just ask you to make sure that you've been following. Why is it important for us to take God's counsel, his whole counsel, to the people that are around us? Whether in Andoron County or Howard County or whatever it is, your neighbors, why is it important for you to do that right now? Because it's the age of mercy. Today is the day of salvation. Some of you are pretty skeptical. You're thinking God isn't saving anybody these days. Not around here. That's not true. I gave you an example a couple of weeks ago of someone being pulled into the kingdom by the irresistible grace of God. I had another congregation member tell me this morning that with much fear and trepidation and skepticism, she invited her neighbors to a Bible study, and three actually said yes. God is on the move. And it is an age of mercy. So you can go ahead and you can ask yourself, are you in sync with God? Are you in step with the spirit? Let us pray.