For uh our scripture reading this morning which will which is from Acts eleven. So please turn there in your scriptures. And now we'll read the first eighteen verses. Now the apostles and brethren who were in Judea heard that the Gentiles had also received the Word of God. And when Peter came up to Jerusalem, those of the circumcision contended with him, saying, You went in to uncircumcised men and ate with him? But Peter explained it to them in order from the beginning, saying, I was in the city of Java praying, and in a trance I saw a vision, an object descending like a great sheet, let down from heaven by four corners, and it came to me. When I observed it intently and considered, I saw four four footed animals of the earth, wild bees, creeping things, and birds of the air, and I heard a voice saying to me, Rise, Peter, kill and eat. But I said, No, not so, Lord, for nothing common or unclean has at any time entered my mouth. But the voice answered me, again from heaven, What God has cleansed, you must not call common. Now this was done three times, and all were drawn up again into heaven. At that very moment there stood, three men stood before the house. where I was, having been sent to me from Caesarea. Then the Spirit told me to go with them, doubting nothing. Moreover, these six brethren accompanied me, and we entered the man's house. And he told us how he had seen an angel standing in his house who said to him, Send men to Japah and call for Simon, whose surname is Peter, who will tell you words w uh by which you and your whole your household will be saved. And I began to speak. The Holy Spirit fell upon them, as upon us at the beginning Then I remembered the word of the Lord how he said, John indeed baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit If, therefore, God gave them the same gift as He gave us when we believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I that I could withstand God? When they heard these things, they became silent, and they glorified God, saying, Then God has also granted to the Gentiles repentance to life. Let us pray. Father, it is our faith here. This is our hope and our love. We thank you for our repentance to life. We pray that those whom you will call, that perhaps you would do so even this morning We thank you for those who you have already called and the glory that you have given those like Janet, whom you've given repentance to life. We thank you for the hope that we have in that. And we pray that you would help us to know, at least in part, what does it look like to really receive this truth today. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Last week we finished our sermon series on the basics of Christianity And the way that we approach that, though there are many ways, is by way of the five vows of membership. And this week we return to Acts. I want to begin by just going through the passage and pointing out a few things. I do not feel the Necessity of pointing out everything because, as you have probably noticed, what Peter just said was a review of what we preach through in chapter 10. So let's just make a couple observations, however, so that we can see what Luke is emphasizing this morning in this passage. It's quite obvious, and really I'm just making an observation that you could make here in verse 2 that Peter is reporting to those of the circumcision party. There's obviously confusion. There is something new that God is doing, that human beings haven't they just haven't caught up with what God is doing in the world yet. They are concerned that Peter is violating a law wherein he is not permitted to eat with the uncircumcised. Now there's a lot behind that, but that's right there on the surface. And what this does, however, the fuller significance in God's providence, is that this provides Peter the opportunity to explain all that God has revealed to more people than just himself. Peter knows what God is doing now. Cornelius knows what God is doing now, but the other Jews are not clued in on what God is doing yet. So here's the perfect opportunity. And you'll notice in the next major section of your scriptures here in Acts, we're going to move right into Barnabas and Paul. And you can see that's going to be Paul's ministry. Paul is going to learn from Peter what God is doing, and eventually Peter himself will even learn from Paul. But Peter summarizes what's going on here in verse 17. He says, if therefore God gave them the same gift as he gave us when we believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, Who was I that I could withstand God? Now that should remind you of an earlier statement by Gamiliel. This is another example of the Jews getting on board with what God is doing, and that he is calling into his kingdom a group of people that have not ordinarily been called. Gameliel, when he was giving his speech to the Sanhedrin in chapter 5 of Acts, he basically says, For if this plan or this work is of men, it will come to nothing. But if it is of God, you cannot overthrow it, lest you even be found to fight against God. And that is the main emphasis here, first, that I want you to see. I want you to see that God is putting Jew and Gentile on equal footing and having an equal basis for being members of the kingdom. There are no second-class citizens. Later you will see Paul developing this when he says, There is no Jew or Greek, there is no male or female, there is no slave or free, but all are in Christ. That's what he means. It's just the same kind of thing. This is the beginning of that development. And so that's the report. And that's the major reality that comes out of that first section. Now here's something else I want you to see. The second thing, besides seeing the report and the opportunity of the report to the circumcision, I want you to see what Luke is highlighting. And Luke is highlighting the sovereign election of God. In verses 17 and 18, the concept of giving or granting is repeated. And I'd encourage you to keep doing work on your own on what it means for God to grant something. It's equivalent to decree. Here we see in verse seventeen that God gave them, verse seventeen, the same gift as He gave us, verse seventeen. And then you can see the shift in the language, which is synonymous. Then God, verse 18, granted to the Gentiles repentance to life. What I need you to see here is that Luke is going out of your his way to show you that this is a sovereign activity. And the Jews really needed to know that. Remember, this corresponds with what I just told you. Peter is learning what God is doing. And here, Luke is continuing to emphasize what God is doing. He's doing sovereign acts according to the good pleasure of his own will. And here he is granting to the Gentiles repentance to life. Now what's going to happen a little bit later, I can't wait for us to get to Acts chapter 15. But in Acts chapter 15, there's a it's a famous section called the Jerusalem Council. And the Apostle James is going to provide for us even more background to what's going on here with Peter and the Jews. And this is basically what James says. And after they became silent in a kind of Presbyterian debate, James answered saying, Men and brethren, listen to me. Simon has declared, that's Peter, has declared how God at the first visited the Gentiles to take out of them a people for his name. And then he quotes Amos chapter nine to substantiate what God is doing in the world. I will rebuild its ruins And I will set it up, so that the rest of mankind may seek the Lord, even all the Gentiles who are called by my name, says the Lord, who does all these things. So even when you get over into Acts chapter 15, the way that each apostle is understanding what is going on in front of them is not the good-hearted nature of mankind, but instead the sovereign acts of God. And I want you to see that emphasis there. And you can see it in the way the language is used, as well as just doing a little bit of cross-referencing. You can see how each person is thinking about it and making sense of what's going on. So let me summarize before we get into some lessons I want to focus on this morning. Combining Peter's vision and experience With the lens of Amos 9, that's a minor prophet that James is using, we realize that God sovereignly grants repentance and life not only to a remnant of Jews Because he did not grant repentance to life to every Jew, but only a remnant that he had chosen. And he also grants that same repentance to life. He divinely selects a group from all other nations. Tongues and tribes and nations. So now he's gathering his harvest, so to speak, from the whole world. And it is a harvest that he has grown, it's a harvest that he selects So you end up seeing here this major reality right in front of our face that makes all the difference in the world. And I could, like a good Puritan this morning, have 66 points of application But I have only chosen sixty-two. So no. I am lazy. Thank you so much, Puritan. Whether Jew or Gentile, whether slave or free, whether male or female, all become God's people for the same reason God sovereignly grants them repentance to life. That is the main reality that we see here. And so what I want to do is I want to unfold this a little bit. And drive it down a little bit deeper by way of two main lessons, history and humility. Let's begin with the first age, which is history. Now, one of the errors that the church can partake in is to think that We just look at this one passage and we make up our mind about how God is acting in the world, and then he does so through sovereign election But I gotta tell you, though, that truth is definitely here. I just said it to you. It is not just one passage that convinces you of these things What you always have to do is you have to look at the whole recorded history of what God has done with humanity and his people. And that's why the first point is history. The idea that God chooses or elects whom He will, that God sovereignly grants repentance to life is actually deeply embedded in biblical history. Actually, there has never been any other way in which God makes someone a member of His people. No other way. A full member, a communion member. Now, I was reminded of these kinds of thoughts when I had a very strange experience, which I might have told you before. I was reminded of how deep our history goes with election. With this strange experience I had more than five years ago, uh a pastor friend of mine, any of you know Brian Lapiccolo, who's a very good friend of mine And he has a church plant up in Westminster. He and I decided to go out on a boat one afternoon and we Came back in, we were safe, and we noticed on the way in that the neighbor to where our boat was was having a kind of rock star party. Apparently, like every rich kid in Anoreno County who owned a boat, tied them together in Plum Creek and decided that they thought they were in lifestyles of the rich and famous. The music could be heard across the Severn. So we just notice it and think, ha, you know, glad we're not there anymore. You know? Uh then we get in my truck and we start to head out of the neighborhood and we notice on the left hand side two quite intoxicated people And they are trying to take their car out of the neighborhood. So we stopped this young girl and her boyfriend and say, why don't we give you a ride instead? And they agreed So they hopped into the back of my truck, not the very back, I let them in the cab. And on the way to their place, I guess, you know, they were still civil uh but smurring, they asked, what do you two do? I mean, you know, I just I thought to myself for a moment, like, this is gonna be the worst thing for you ever. Of all the things that could happen to you today. We're both pastors. We were really living it up. And then I think as just like a way to cut through the tension She announces like in celebration, I'm Jewish and I'm a chosen of God. And I I thought, well, that's Interesting. I have never met a Calvinistic Jew before. Oh dear. No, but what it made me do as I was sitting there, you know, uh I was reflecting on it then and I was reflecting on it even afterward is I thought, you know, there's something interesting there. That she would even use the language as a Jew of being chosen. Now, any of you who know Jewish families or have been a part of communities that are truly Jewish, you know that that language is there, that they are the chosen people. And the point I'm trying to make to you is that even within that girl, even in the midst of intoxication, her catechism lasted, in a sense. Because what she was revealing to me was this influence, this deep influence of the history, for example. I know that she had to be taught the Torah. Well, the Torah is ours She learned the Torah wherein God takes sovereign initiative. I don't know that she would be able to quote Deuteronomy chapter seven, verse six. I don't care if she could or not. But her Bible teachers would have tapped into, for you are a holy people to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for himself. A special treasure above all the peoples on the face of the earth. And this same type of thing is quoted in 1 Peter for the church throughout history. So there's a deeply embedded history that was revealed in her. And maybe if I would have given her a cup of coffee and talked to her later, maybe she would have remembered God choosing Abram. And taking her out of Ur. Maybe God would have helped her, Ur would have taught her about Isaac and about Jacob and not Esau. Just as God elected, just as God chose, just as God granted those ancient people to be His. So too God now grants people from all nations to join him. You want to know why? That there's a sovereign granting of repentance to faith? Now with the Gentiles? You want to really know why? Because it's always how He has done it. Same God from generation to generation doing the same acts of salvation. And that's the history. We have a deep, deep history of understanding this. Now, I want to move to the next point, which is humility. Went usually if you're not keen on this whole idea of God having a a sovereign grace, for example, of God sovereignly granting repentance. If you're not keen on that, if you don't give yourself over to that, one of the reasons usually is because those who confess that teaching are arrogant And sometimes you call them the frozen chosen, which I can't explain. I don't know it. If you're, you know, if you have grace, you should be worshiping like crazy. Shouldn't be frozen. So I want to address a true response to getting to know that you have received your repentance to life by a sovereign act of God, that the very first thing that should happen to you is humility And all the days of your life, you know what should happen to you. It is humility. And even at the end, it should be humility. Since God grafted you, Christian, into the rootstock of His people, you should be fundamentally humbled. In each of your circumstances, and I'm going to bring out one in particular. As God increases our understanding of Himself, which inevitably happens because He's such a great teacher As he increases, as he shows us how to live well in his creation, which happens because he's such a great heavenly father. And as we gain confidence, we oftentimes sinfully fall into arrogance, thinking we were the ones that have done this I know because I read more and I'm smarter, and because of my education. Those thoughts start to pile up, and you start to exude arrogance. Boastfulness. And of course, that is addressed throughout the scriptures, especially in Paul's letters. We forget that everything we have is from God. And that we do not deserve to boast, at least not in ourselves. We can boast in the Lord, though. We did not repent of evil and join the realm of life and light. That is not what our passage says this morning. We didn't do that because we are morally superior or smarter, and neither did any of the Gentiles that are in this passage. It wasn't that Cornelius had insight into reality more than others, and so God blessed him. Everything granted to us in the past, and everything granted in the present, and everything in the future is given as a gift from God's sovereign good pleasure. And this has got to be a foundation stone in all of the decisions that we make as a Christian people. Paul's letter to Titus is built on this exact same reality. Let me read this to you. Remind them. And he mentions a few things to remind them about, but then he says this. To summarize it, show humility to all people. Why? For we ourselves were also once foolish But when the kindness and the love of God, our Savior, toward man appeared, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to His mercy, He saved us. And what Paul is writing to Titus to teach the whole congregation is allow that fundamental reality to pervade and to be assimilated into the congregation in every thing that they do in all of their conduct. Well one place of conduct that you don't find much humility these days is in controversy. In debate, and uh the kind of debate I'm talking about, you know, like a Facebook debate. Uh no it doesn't deserve the term. Arguments disagreement, whatever it is. Controversy, you get the picture. And actually for Father's Day, Marcy and I put a little booklet together by John Newton called On Controversy. I I look forward to seeing a change in how the men conduct themselves when they don't conduct themselves well. But this is in a basket in the back for you all to grab, okay? Let me know what you think I enjoy John Newton. Does anybody know much about him? You better know, because you're the choir director. Amazing Grace. He wrote Amazing Grace, and he was a slave trader from the Ivory Coast, and God granted him repentance to life. I enjoy reading from this man because he is totally convinced of God's sovereignly granting, and he is convinced that it should humble you. John Newton once wrote a letter to a young Calvinistic man who was engaging in public debate. And he says this. If your opponent is an unconverted person, in a state of enmity against God and his grace, He is a more proper object of your compassion than of your anger. Alas, he knows not what he does. If God, in his sovereign pleasure, had so appointed, you might have been just as he is now. And he, instead of you, might be standing for the defense of the true gospel. You were both equally blind by nature. If you attend to this, you will not reproach or hate him, because the Lord has pleased to open your eyes and not his. Of all people who engage in controversy, we who are called Calvinists are most expressly bound by our own principles to the exercise of gentleness. and moderation. If indeed they who differ from us have a power of changing themselves Or if they could open their own eyes, or if they could soften their own hearts, then maybe we can be offended at their stubbornness. But if we believe the contrary to all of these things, our part is not to strive, but in meekness to instruct those who oppose Quote, if by grace God will grant them repentance to the acknowledgement of the truth That is humility. That's humility worked out in controversy, at least in part of it, and the rest of that letter is included in here for you. The reality present in Acts chapter 11, verses 1 through 18, is fundamental. For all of Christian life, God sovereignly elects or grants repentance to whomever He wills. And the very first thing that we saw is history This is not a new truth revealed by Peter to Luke or Peter to Paul. This is a reality deeply embedded in the history of God's work with humanity. For as Paul says in Romans chapter 9, 15 through 16, for as God said to Moses, I will have mercy on whomever I will have mercy. And I will have compassion on whomever I will have compassion. So then, it is not of him who wills, nor of him who runs, but of God who shows mercy. That's a deep reality. He went all the way back to Moses. That's the history. But there is also a humility. This is not a reality leading to arrogance. It is not a reality that leads to confidence in ourselves. It is not a reality that should lead to self-righteousness. It is a reality that leads to deep humility. Even when we are correcting the most stubborn person on the face of the earth, we who are called Calvinists are most expressly bound by our own principles to the exercise of gentleness and moderation. Let us pray.