Now it came to pass when Jesus finished commanding his twelve disciples that he departed from there to teach and to preach in their cities. And when John had heard in prison about the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples and said to him, Are you the coming one, or do we look for another? Jesus answered and said to them, Go and tell John the things which you hear and see. The blind see, and the lame walk. The lepers are cleansed and the deaf hear. The dead are raised up and the poor have the gospel preached to them. And blessed is he who is not offended because of thee. As they departed, Jesus began to say to the multitudes concerning John, What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind? But what did you go out to see? A man clothed in soft garments? Indeed, those who wear soft clothing are in king's houses. But what did you go out to see? A prophet. Yes, I say to you, and more than a prophet, for this is he of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you Assuredly, I say to you, among those born of women, there has not risen one greater than John the Baptist. But he who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. And from the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven suffers violence, and the violent take it by force. For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John. And if you are willing to receive it, he is Elijah who is to come. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. When I grew up We had what are now called superheroes, but we didn't call them that. We had Superman and we had Batman and we had the Black Hawk Squadron. I bet there's not many remember that one. We had Flash Gordon, you know, these were all comic book heroes. And I love those guys. Like most boys my age, I often fantasized about what it would be like to, you know, do things like they did. Blackhawk Squadron was my favorite at one time for about two j two decades, it was the second most popular comic in the United States next to Superman. I think uh all of us at some level Tend to have those kind of fantasies when we we wish we were not so ordinary. You know, normal is just so normal. Life consists most of the time of just putting one foot in front of the other. And I think all of us at some point wish we could rise above ourselves and be something truly great. I suppose that you've all heard of Walter Middy and And his uh fantasies about see being something other than he is, and I think all of us have a bit of Walter Mitty in us I have heard similar thoughts expressed about the characters in the Bible when people read about the Old Testament and they see all of those great names that are in there, Joseph and Abraham and Moses and David and the others. We think about the great works that these men did and women too, and we think of Hannah and her uh work. We see the great faith that they displayed, and it seems that they, you know, are just kind of super Christians. We kind of think, boy, I wish we could be like that. I wish I could be like that. We fall into thinking of them in terms like this. They were the supermen and the superwomen of the Bible. And we think that somehow we just don't measure up to that. We think, I wish I could be strong in my faith. I wish God would use me the way he used them. And then we think, well, that's never going to happen, because after all, you know, I'm just me. I'm stuck in my life. I'm stuck in my limitations. That's just who I am. And then we come across a verse like we see in verse 11 of our text here today. John the Baptist says Jesus goes out of his way to say with great emphasis And with incredible clarity, John the Baptist was the last and greatest of all of the Old Testament prophets. Yes, he shows up in the New Testament, but his life is the continuation of the Old and constitutes the end of it. He was the greatest Old Testament prophet that was ever born. Assuredly, however, Jesus says. Assuredly, make no doubt about this. He says it very emphatically, in the original language, you see it. I mean, he's really nailing this home. Take this to the bank. He who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than John the Baptist. And we think, wow. Whoa, now wait a minute. Now I'm in the kingdom of heaven. I've accepted Jesus as my Lord and Savior. I struggle with my faith, but I'm sincere in it. I'm no great sheikhs as a Christian. I would be the first one to admit that. My faith is not always as strong as it ought to be. I stumble in sin. I I find myself doing stuff I don't want to do. And I don't do things I know I ought to do. I am more foolish on occasion than I really ought to be. And I worry, and I have doubts, and I'm not as loving as I ought to be. And, you know, if I were a really good Christian, those things wouldn't be, I wouldn't say those things. I don't measure up to David. I'm not in the same league with Moses. I'm certainly not in the same league with John the Baptist. And yet Jesus says here. That one who is least in the kingdom is greater than those guys And if I am anything in the kingdom of God, least probably applies to me pretty well. And what does this mean? I think this kind of thinking points to a significant problem that we face as Christians in our modern world. I think we Christians have pretty much lost sight of who we really are. And among other things, because we do not really know who we are, we often fall short of being a witness to the Lord Jesus Christ that Christ has designed his church to be. Because we have lost sight of who we are, we have also at the same time lost our grasp and our ability to be the kind of witness. to Christ that he intends for us to be. Let me explain that in this a little bit. In this passage we have to remember that this passage is e entirely concerned with a change in the world. You have to see through all of the details of John the Baptist and all of that other stuff is going on to see what Jesus is driving at. What Jesus is primarily concerned to talk about in this passage is that a new day has dawned. Things are different now than they were before. At its root, the passage really isn't all that much about John the Baptist. He provides the occasion for it. He is about the changing of the guard. That is what John the Baptist represents. And it's about the difference, the qualitative difference, between the era that is encapsulated, terminated, and fulfilled in John the Baptist, and the era that has commenced with our Lord Jesus Christ coming into this world and those twelve disciples, minus Judas Those twelve disciples, including Paul, that are then going to take the words of our Lord Jesus Christ and turn it into the church that is now representing him throughout the world. This passage is about our Lord Christ and not so much about him as a person, but about what God is doing in him. And that is what John here, John the Baptist, didn't recognize. That's why Jesus answered him the way he does. Let's review real quickly. John is in prison. It's only a matter of time. We know he wasn't sure of this, but we know it's only a matter of time until Herod will have him killed. Now he's thinking there. He senses this increasing probability that he's going to be killed. He's beginning to see his life as as being increasingly at risk at that. And he starts thinking. Now, unless this Jesus is the Messiah, and unless he goes and establish his kingdom, I'm going to die. I think John maybe have been thinking exactly like that. I can't state it categorically for sure, but I can imagine John sitting there saying Now what's going on here? I baptized this guy, Jesus. I was there. I was there. I baptized him. I know the Holy Spirit came upon him. It's question as to whether John the Baptist actually saw the dub or not, but the the he was there. He he recognized the power of this man. John remembers back to what his mother told him, that while he was still in her womb, he recognized Jesus in Mary's womb when she walked into the room. John's thinking, I'm the one who through the power of the Holy Spirit saw Jesus walking and said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. I've known this man literally all of my life. And this man is the Messiah. I think. And if he is the Messiah, he's supposed to be ushering in the kingdom because that's what the prophets, that's what the prophets that I am the last of have all been proclaiming. He's supposed to be bringing in a kingdom of righteousness. A kingdom that is going to do away with people like Herod. And it's going to take people like me who are imprisoned for righteousness. And he is going to vindicate us and he's going to bring us out of prison. We are not going to be condemned in the kingdom that he brings because his kingdom is not unjust. That is what we have been looking for for hundreds and thousands of years. That's what the prophets have been saying. And if he's the Messiah, then these things ought not to be continuing to go on. He ought to be getting on with it. If he's the Messiah, he needs to be setting people like me free. By the rights of true justice, I ought to be released. I don't think John's particularly selfish here. I think he's going through a crisis of understanding. By rights, I am the type of person that ought to be vindicated. And I think Herod and his ungodly marriage to that woman Should be repudiated. I think day after day, as John sat in jail and the conditions in which he was sitting there I think he was thinking along these lines, and he's wondering what was going to happen to next. As things got increasingly tense for him as he saw the day getting closer and closer and the change in relations as As it begins to be felt that his day was approaching, I think he began to wonder, what is really going on here So he sent his disciples to ask a question. Are you the one who is coming? Using technical terminology that a prophet would speak in. Are you the one on whom Israel has been waiting for centuries? Or should we expect an entirely different kind of Messiah than you are? In other words, are you the first step? Is the Messiah coming in a two-phase process? Are you the first guy and another guy's coming afterwards? But he is entirely different. You're coming saying a bunch of nice things. This guy's going to come with a sword. John is asking, look, are things going to change or are they not? Is it the case that all we can expect of you, Jesus, is more of the same? Or has the kingdom of heaven truly arrived Jesus answers these questions with words and in-words that John the Baptist as a prophet would certainly understand. He speaks John's prophetic language. He speaks the language of the Old Testament prophets. Jesus uses the language of perhaps the greatest of the Old Testament prophets, Isaiah, and he says, look, look at the things Isaiah said were going to happen. Look and see that they are happening. The words Isaiah said were going to be spoken or being spoken. The blind, that Isaiah said, would have their sight restored, are walking around without having to be led. The lame have taken up their beds and walked. Lepers are being cleansed. The deaf are hearing. Dead people are being restored to life. And the poor. The poor. The unjustly treated, those who are at the bottom of man's arrogant heap, those on the bottom of the food chain They are hearing good news. Now this is what Isaiah said would happen when Messiah came. And what Jesus is really telling John here is this. John, get your eyes off of those prison walls and see the world as it really is. Look at what's really happening and think, what is the only possible explanation for what you actually see? The works that I am doing, the words that I am saying, what is the only possible explanation for that? I am the one. I am the coming one. And the new kingdom that Isaiah spoke of is here. It's a matter of how you look at things as to whether you see it or not. If you look, if you really look, you will see it. But it is only there to be seen, and it is only there to be heard. By those who have eyes to see and ears to hear. I think this is the only context in which we can really understand what's going on in this passage I think it's the only way we can look at this and then have grounds on which to understand how in the world can the least in the kingdom of heaven be greater than John the Baptist? Now, brothers and sisters, we have to start with this. The kingdom of heaven is here. It is present. This is the great teaching of our Lord Christ. The kingdom is here. That is the gospel he proclaimed. And when he sent out his disciples, he said, That's the gospel you're going to preach, and that is what the church down to this day should be focusing on. The fundamental proclamation of the people of God is that Jesus has come and has established his kingdom and is calling people into it. And yet we look around and we look at the world around us and we see it and we say the kingdom of heaven is here and we like John are tempted to say, Is this it? Really? Like John, we may look around and we see injustice and corruption and evil all about us. We see criminals using their public office. to sidestep the laws and to accumulate vast fortunes. We see perversions in our society being held up as normal We see people forcing themselves upon others in very sensitive situations like restrooms and requiring that they accept their perverted way of life. We see a requirement that those who are deviants are to be held as normal and above reproach. Like John, we see lives of people we love steel still being assaulted with deadly diseases. Accidents happen and our lives can be transformed overnight. They come crashing down on us in the space of seconds. Children have to be watched constantly because it is no longer safe for them to simply play outside by themselves. We look about us and we see the world in flux. We see things no longer stable. We see great powers like the United States of America teetering on the brink of bankruptcy. We see other powers which by rights should be smashed like grapes for their evil conduct. And we see them rising up and filling our news with hideous images. Like John, we look about us, and all we see are our prison walls. And so like John, we ask. Jesus, are you really the one? And right there is where we face what it means to be least in the kingdom of heaven. Because one who is least in the kingdom of heaven, one who has eyes to see and ears to hear does not see the world in terms that John saw it. The one who is in the kingdom of heaven sees Jesus. And he sees Jesus through the walls of his jail cell. He sees Jesus through the distractions, the lies, the sleight of hand that Satan tries to put in front of us to distract us from the news of the kingdom of God. He sees Jesus doing greater things in this world right now than what is filling up our newspapers. He sees things which the newspapers do not think is worthy of notice. A person who sees Jesus sees the kingdom of heaven ministering to the poor, to those who truly are being oppressed by the ungodly structures and people of our society. He sees the church of God in its manifest form reaching out into some of the darkest places on earth To help those who are just not trying to take something from somebody else, but who rather are being squashed by the lack of jobs, the lack of trust. The desperate fight for survival that many face. A person with eyes to see and ears to hear sees these folks still hearing the gospel of the kingdom, and they see it taking root. And they see how even in the face of persecution, the Church of Jesus Christ in this world is still the largest religious uh or a religious body in the entire nation in the entire uh population greater by far than the next next three combined A person with eyes to see and ears to hear sees the kingdom of God taking root upon many and sees people coming out of drug addiction. And that they're leaving behind their abused and abusive past. And they're stepping out timidly at first, but with increasing confidence into new lives. A person in the kingdom of heaven sees the lonely people of this world, discovering all of a sudden that they have a family. That they are welcomed into that family where they find, perhaps for the very first time, that they are actually loved. And they are accepted. They're tolerated in Christian love That doesn't mean they're never confronted when they do wrong, just the opposite. But rather that even in the confrontation, it is the love of Christ in the confrontation which is their greatest impression. A person in the kingdom of heaven doesn't just nod their head about this and say, yeah, that's a good idea in the abstract. But let's get practical. It doesn't really work. A person in the kingdom of heaven recognizes that these things are not the exception. These things are the rule because there is a presence in this world. That is not just a mind game and is not just a fantasy. And a person who is in the kingdom sees that this is the true reality. The prison walls are the delusion. The prison walls that restrict our vision are that which is passing. They have no substance. They're going to go away. It is the bad things in this world, the lack of justice, and the intolerance of man to man that are, in fact, the elements of a bad dream. And though in this bad dream there is real suffering, and sometimes, like is the case with John the Baptists, we really do get our head cut off. If that doesn't change the facts, Jesus is the Messiah. He has come. And now the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear. The dead are given new life, the poor, the poor of this world, those who are poor in spirit as well as poor in their circumstance. They hear the good news. And even in the midst of their poverty, they are glad. Brothers and sisters, that's what it means to be least in the kingdom of heaven. It means we simply see it. We know it. We recognize it. It's a way of looking at the world in which we see everything, everything in terms of Jesus Christ and His kingdom. And the least person in the kingdom has this because that's what it takes to get in. You don't stay the least. You grow from that But if you walk through the door of the kingdom in the status of being a least, that is what you see. Someone who does see this is in the kingdom, or else they wouldn't see it And when they do, they see more than Elijah ever did. They see more than David ever did. They see more than Moses ever did. And therefore they are more blessed than those prophets. They're more blessed even than John the Baptist, although I think before he died he probably saw it too. Brothers and sisters, today and for the rest of our lives, God wants this from us. God wants us to stop looking at our prison walls. And he wants us to break out of our sense of being chained by the evil that is in this world and bound by it. We are not. God wants us to stop thinking that Satan is winning and that Christianity is just a mind game. God wants us to stop looking at the walls and start looking at Jesus. And he wants us to see him, even now, moving in this world, moving through his church Moving through his Holy Spirit, and he wants us to be glad. He wants us to get excited, and he wants us to be filled with a holy resolve. To get on board with him and the work that he's doing. Let's pray. Our Lord and God, even as we think of this great work that you have done, this finished work of establishing your kingdom and And starting the ball rolling, the roll of the ball that is going to cover this entire earth, we pray, Lord God, for your continued blessings on us, your people. We pray that you give us a sense of your impending blessing.