And our reading this morning is chapter six, verses twenty and twenty-one. O Timothy, guard what was committed to your trust, avoiding the profane and idle babblings and contradictions of what is falsely called knowledge. By professing it, some have strayed concerning the faith. Grace be with you. Amen. Let us pray. O Lord, may we not just be hearers, but doers of your word. I pray that you would work through your word now by your Spirit. And that we would have that we would love what you love and that we would hate what you hate. We ask these things in your name. Amen. May be seated. Last week we talked about money. We've seen within the letter to Timothy, this first letter. We'll be going into the second letter starting next week. We heard Paul say that money can be the root of all kinds of evil. We heard that earlier in the letter. Last week, we realized that as for those filled with the Spirit, That does not always have to be the case. As those filled with the Spirit, we may live new lives by the power of the Spirit. Even financially, and think financially broadly in all of your resources. In fact, what we I hope became convinced of was this: that as healthy people and as a healthy church We may put wealth in its proper place. That's what we're called to. Now we have our final two verses here this morning, so I'd like to begin as always with just a few observations and then I have uh three questions for us to consider by way of application today. So take notice with me of a few things within your passage. You'll you can look right down at your scriptures I just want you to notice first that Paul ends his letter to Timothy with one final summary charge or command. Oh Timothy, guard! Timothy, Paul says, is to guard what was committed to his trust. Now I'm going to get into what Paul means by committed to his trust, what that involves. But for the time being, just to get at the start to get at the nature of it, I want you to imagine parents leaving the country and giving you guardianship of their children Now, this starts to get at what Paul is talking about. Those parents committed their children into your trust. You could even say they deposited them with you. That's really what we're getting at with the idea of deposit. That's the first thing I want you to notice is that there is this final summary charge of guarding what was committed to his trust. Now, here's the second thing I want you to notice. Paul next tells Timothy to avoid the profane and idle babblings of false teachers, and sometimes this goes by the name of knowledge. Some people, he says, have even by entertaining this, you'd have to think about in what way would a person have to entertain it to actually stray from the faith? Then you can start to get a picture of what he's warning Timothy against And Paul is very practically speaking to him at this point and is just giving him the one way in which he could guard that which had been committed to his trust. If you look at your passage again, take a look here. Oh Timothy, guard what was committed to your trust. We could go ahead and insert. How am I supposed to do that? By avoiding the profane and idle babblings and contradictions of what is falsely called knowledge. Well, is it really that serious that I have to avoid them? Yes, by professing it some have strayed concerning the faith You see that kind of conversation that's happening there? And that is a second observation that I want you to see. And here's the third. Paul ends this letter with the final farewell, praying that Grace would be with Timothy. This prayer is fitting, given that if Timothy as a branch does not receive sap or grace from Christ, the vine, then Timothy does not stand a chance. He will wither up and he will die. I hope that you heard particularly in our confession of faith and practice. It's why we chose the confession of faith and practice today from larger catechism, question number 75. I wanted you to focus especially on the very end there of what Christ is doing in sanctification. And you're welcome to re-reread that on your own time, but you see that he is giving you grace And then stirring up those graces that you are a work of art that he is forming and shaping onto a particular end. And that's what we see here at the end of the letter. That's grace be with you. Of course, yes, grace needs to be with him. It is in the grace of God that we all live and move and have our being in all of the particulars. And so I'm so thankful that he ended this. And then may it be so. Amen. Amen. Now When we look at these, these are pretty brief observations, which is nice. It's easy to get our heads around. And we were to we could summarize it in this uh specific doctrine. A healthy church guards what is committed to their trust. Now that's really obvious, right? Right there. A healthy church guards what is committed to their trust. So what I'd like to do in unfolding that doctrine, a healthy church guards what is committed to their trust, or in applying it to you like a doctor applies medicine I want to consider three questions. Now these questions are a little bit long, so if children, especially, if you're trying to take notes, sometimes you come to me afterwards and you say, You said a lot and I couldn't catch it, and then you moved on. What am I supposed to do? You could write Question one, question two, question three. And then if you want, talk to me afterwards and I can repeat the specific questions. I'd love to be able to do that for you I'll give them to you right now though. The first question is, what is the deposit, or that which has been entrusted? That's the word that's being used there as deposit. What is the command? And then this is the longer question. What can help me guard the deposit which Christ has committed to me? Deposit command guard. Maybe you could do it that way Maybe that'll help you to remember. A healthy church guards what is committed to their trust. And the first question I want us to consider is, what is the deposit? Take a look at verse number 20. He says here in evocative, O Timothy, and then he says, guard what was committed to your trust. Now If all of us had the gift of being able to have the Greek text in front of us, we would see that when he says, Oh Timothy, guard. He then is going to give one word after that. He does not say literally what was committed to your trust. That whole phrase there, what was committed to your trust, is trying to unpack the meaning of a single term. And that single term, perhaps you have a translation, and it just says, guard the deposit. I don't know if you have that or not. It's a translation of a single word, deposit or trust, and this word was quite familiar to those that he was writing to. It was a word that was a regular part of their language in that ancient society, and it meant something like that you give someone something to take care of in your absence, and then they're going to return it without defect. And perhaps, depending on the contractual relationship, it will be even better. Now that should remind you of why we chose in the bulletin that parable of the talents. Earlier I used the example of a friend entrusting or depositing their children with you. And so our first question then is, what was committed or entrusted or deposited to Timothy? And then we can start to ask the same question about us. In this passage, we know that it's something the false teachers could steal or corrupt, and so it is at least, well, because he says right here in 20. and twenty-one that you are to avoid these things. They could steal that steal this deposit that I've given to you. So whatever it is, it's something the false teachers could steal. So it is at least The apostolic teaching that Paul has passed down to Timothy, that Timothy's mother has passed down to him, that Timothy's grandmother has passed down to him And that perhaps there are other influences because there were more people than just Paul at Timothy's ordination. There are a lot of people that invested in Timothy, and Paul is saying That this is a deposit that has been given to you, this sacred teaching, this apostolic teaching. I want you to remember that as soon as we acknowledge that this is at least part of the deposit We have to remember that apostolic teaching or teaching from the apostles is not religious instruction invented by the apostles. This is not saying, oh, Timothy gets the benefit of the New Testament and gets to put the Old Testament aside. That's not how this whole thing is configured. It's not how it works. The deposit that is given to them is an authoritative apostolic understanding of all of the scriptures at least. And all of that is handed down to him with Jesus Christ right at the center. Jesus Christ is the great key to unlock what all of the scriptures mean, in fact. Everything consummating in him. Now when you take that into account then, the deposit is all the doctrine of the apostles which must be received, and not just received as propositional truths But apply to himself and the church over which he watches. And that encompasses now the entire letter is summarizing or giving him a clue as to what that deposit is And all of the instruction that you've seen in 1 Timothy on the roles of men and women in worship of widows, elders, false teachers, etc. , all of that is a part of the deposit. It is at least the apostolic faith and life deposited or passed down to Timothy. That's the first answer to what's the deposit that he has. It's at least the apostolic faith in practice. You could go back to Acts if you wanted, and you could see that everyone devoted themselves to the apostles' doctrine and the breaking of bread and prayer and fellowship. The same thing is happening here With Timothy. But if you search further, it seems fair to say that the deposit also includes the gifts that Jesus Christ gave to Timothy in order for him to be able to perform this task. And the graces. Like faith, like love, like hope, but also pastoral gifts for him to be able to ever have a chance as a shepherd. You could see this if you wanted to at another time by turning to chapter 4, verse 14. Paul specifically speaks of the gifts that were given to him in order to be able to fulfill this ministry. Equipping him for the works of ministry. And that is a gift from Jesus Christ, and it is a part of the deposit And so if you summarize, it is fair to say that the deposit is all those things which Christ entrusted to Timothy, to steward, until Christ returns. There you have the parable of the talents again. And this includes the sacred apostolic teaching. This includes the sacred apostolic way of life. This includes the specific congregation members in Ephesus that were given to Timothy as a shepherd. And it even includes the spiritual gifts that Christ poured out on him that he might be able to be apt to teach, for example, and preach. And that, my friends, is the deposit. specifically applied to Timothy. Now, I want you for just a moment to stop and I want you to think about what that means for you. Our doctrine is a healthy church keeps that which Christ deposited with them Given our definition, what has been deposited to you? It includes some of what has been deposited to Timothy. It doesn't include some other things, and sometimes it includes more. What people, for example, has God entrusted to you? What spiritual gifts did Christ pour out on you? And have you ever looked at your life this way before? Grandmothers, for example, did you know that Christ gives you a certain relationship with your grandchildren as a deposit? Or what about all of us and our various spiritual gifts? Do you know that those are like talents that have been given to you that are meant to be in the service of Christ and he will ask you one day, what did you do with the gifts and graces that I gave to you? Paul tells us that this church body, if I'm going to make an inference, this specific church body has a ton of different gifts. That's the way that he puts it. It's how he encourages us to think. Some of you are afoot Some of you are an ear. Some of you are an elbow. Some of you are a mouth. Some of you are an eye. And whatever part you are, Christ gave you those gifts as a deposit. And so you can ask the question generally, all of us can ask this: how is your stewardship going with the deposit that has been given to you? That's the deposit. That's the deposit for Timothy, and I think you start to get a sense, generally speaking, what that deposit could be for you. It's a lot of different things. Now that's the first question. What is the deposit? I also want to ask, what is the command? We know what the deposit is, both for Timothy and for ourselves. What is the command? The command here is simple. We are to guard the deposit given to us by Christ. With Timothy We've already seen one way for him to do so is to avoid getting involved in a certain way with false teachers. If Timothy ran I gave you this example Example before. Timothy ran into some false teachers in Food Lion while he's picking something out, you know, trying to get a chicken on sale or something. Paul's not talking about that. He is talking about it in a way where Paul where Timothy could come under a an uh unhealthy influence, however But that's him. You too will need to avo avoid the influence of false teachers, of course, but you will need to guard the deposit given to you as family members, church members, and citizens of the United States in a lot of other ways too. Because that's the command. Guard. Guard the deposit that has been given to you. Now, easier said than done, right? I want to give you a uh perhaps a picture here to help us move towards this idea of guarding. To help you guard those things which Christ has committed to you. I want you to consider something. There's a good friend of mine. He's moved away from here now, but we're still good friends. He wrote a logic book. And in it, he talks about, I forget if it's the practice of the Greeks or the practice of the Romans or both, but they had a practice, I wonder if you're familiar with this. They had a practice of they would have statues, let's say, in their front lawn, so to speak, but people would would uh find their statues valuable and steal them I don't know how you get away with that. How do you hide a statue? I don't know. They have to be small. But whatever the case Uh he brings up this example of that then the Greeks or the Romans or both of them would chain down the statues so that people couldn't steal it. Now I doubt that has anybody here actually been in that situation? Have you had to chain down a statue? No, you haven't But I bet you that you I bet you you do have situations where you have had to use chains or locks in order to keep thieves from stealing particular things. I wonder if some of you, for example, have chained down a bike Depending on where you had to leave it, or if you've locked up tools that are expensive in a metal job site box. Contractors often have a job site box, or if you lock your car Or if you make your children hold your hand when you are in a a crowded, unfamiliar area, they are chained to you. And some of you actually might have the kind of child where you have a leash. I don't know. I've I've seen pictures of that where they have a little harness. And uh you that's crazy. But you're not crazy, it's that I'm just getting used to the idea. So these are all different examples of chaining something down to make make sure that that that which is valuable to you is not stolen from you. And my friend who wrote this in his logic book wasn't writing this just to talk about all those particular inst instances. He was giving this argument because The flesh and the world and the devil seek to steal our beliefs, and his point was we've got to chain them all down, and one way to do that is through a logic course. That's what his point was. But I'm introducing this to you here now, not to get you to take a logic course, though that would be a good idea, but to give you an image of guarding or keeping that which has been entrusted to you. I want to ask you, what has Christ deposited to you? I've already asked you that. Now here's the second question that couples to that. Are you chaining it down? So that it cannot be stolen. That's essentially what Paul is telling Timothy to do. Chain it down by avoiding. That's one way. That's w that's one path that sometimes you have to take. That was good advice. Let me ask you students who have grown up in the church, are you chaining down the truth and the way of life in which you were raised? Or are you letting your teachers and your professors steal it from you? Sometimes my children come back to me and they tell me what their teachers have said And sometimes I say they're wrong and they're just people. You always have to check things according to a good understanding of the Word of God. That was me chaining it down. But I'm asking you students, when you head off to university or college or whatever it is, Are you chaining down the way of truth and the way of life that has been deposited to you? Do you realize what has gone into this? Do you realize how many hours the entire church community, depending on the community, has put into you handing things down to you? Raising you up in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord was a community affair. Your mother and your father and your grandparents especially have put a tremendous amount of effort into you. And the temptation is that as soon as you go away to university and college, is that you're just going to let it all be stolen? Can you imagine doing that if your parents gave you your great-great-great-grandmother's wedding ring? And then you came back from college. And you're having some turkey dinner and you decide to bring up at the uh the dinner table. Uh uh where's the great great great great grandma's ring? Oh I don't I don't even know. Uh some professor said I just don't even need it anymore. It was a stupid idea to begin with. What is more valuable? The ring or what has been handed down to you, which is essentially eternal life. And I'm asking you the question: are you chaining it down? I don't know what you think the schooling was for. If you just had to get through the grades, if you just had to take a logic class because some weird nerd came up with this curriculum. Sometimes that's partially true. There's weird nerds among us. But the reason why we're giving you all of these things is so that you can chain it down at the very least. So that you can keep the faith. So you can make it to the end. And so I'm asking you, are you chaining it down? Or are you just letting teachers and professors steal it from you? Family members, are you chaining down the gifts that have been given to you? It is a gift to be a father. It is a gift to be a mother. It is a gift to be a husband and a wife and a grandmother and a grandfather and on and on. All the different kinds of familial relationships. All these things are gifts that are given to you. And are you tying them down. Do you know how many different ways we go ahead and just hand over our familial relationships? You know how many different ways the devil uses to steal those things from you? I just wonder right now, who of you out there are letting your familial relationships be stolen because you don't know how to control your drinking I know there's some of you out there because I know human beings When you have too much to drink, and it doesn't mean you're stumbling all over the place and you're slurring, it just becomes means your personality changes a little bit. And it affects who you are as a husband or a wife. Or a father or a son. It hurts the relationship. You've allowed something to get in that's starting to steal away something that Jesus Christ has given to you. Or what about anger? What about unbridled self-pity? How many times has that way of thinking gotten in the way of your relationships? What about entertainment? What about pornography? What about simpler things like your lack of exercise? When you get older, if you do not keep constantly moving and exercising, it will begin to affect your relationships negatively because you will not be able to do anything and you'll become a fragile little tiny piece of China where you where you're scared to do anything. I understand that it's more complicated than that, but that is at least part of the picture. I checked with older people on this. I'm not just going off my own experience. What about our diets? What about the bitterness that you hold in your heart? What about the envy that you have? What about the jealousy? And what about the greed? All of these things are a part of the human world that want to steal away from you the deposit that Jesus Christ has given to you so that your familial relationships are not flourishing. And I'm just asking the question, not just the students, but everybody here, are you chaining it down? What is it going to take to finally realize that some of these things are not a good idea? And that's the point. The point is that we must chain down or guard our callings. We must chain down and guard our gifts. We must chain down and guard our graces, so that which has been entrusted to us is not stolen, and this is in the imperative. This, my friends, is the command. It encompasses the whole letter. What is the deposit and what is the command? That's the first two things that I've considered with you. And now I have one last question. What can help me guard or chain down those things which Christ has committed to me? We all need help in this. We all need the grace of Jesus Christ to chain these things down. Now, there's a lot of answers to this. You could actually answer, going back to that logic book, you could answer that this was the purpose of liberal education: to make us free, to serve Christ. But I want to go a step deeper than that. And I want to go a step deeper. Let me rephrase it. Let me give you the question again. What can help me guard or chain down those things which Christ has committed to me, those deposit the deposit? I want to answer that by giving you a quote from G. K. Chesterton. And if you want this quote later, I'm happy to send it to you by text or whatever. It is fantastic. You this deserves to go on your fridge. And if you could make a t-shirt, it has to be a real long t-shirt because it's a long quote. But if you could do that, it would be great. This quote from G. K. Chesterton first appeared in an Illustrated Weekly News magazine on January 14, 1911. And this is what he says. The true soldier fights not because he hates what is in front of him, but because he loves what is behind him. I'm going to say it to you again. The true soldier fights not because he hates what is in front of him, but because he loves what is behind him. Now, I want you to take that quote and add the word guard to that. The true soldier fights for guards. Not because he hates what is in front of him, but because he loves what is behind him Now the image is of an enemy or a thief that is out in front of you, and that which God has deposited to you, your family, your friends, your church, your nation, it's all right there behind you And you're protecting it. That's why you're out on the front line meeting the enemy so that the enemy can't get to them. That's the picture that he has here for us. And that's that's really always the situation. What he's given to us here really gets into the nature of human beings and how we function. Let me just ask you the question. Why do we protect or guard or chain down anything? Why do we guard or protect or chain down anything? Isn't it Always at the bottom, isn't it always because we love or we treasure or we value those things enough to protect them? We don't want to lose those things. It's an aspect of of of speaking to the love that we have for them. If you have a rusted bike with no seat, and boy is that uncomfortable, I bet you when you go inside to get some coffee, you're not going to chain it down. You're hoping somebody steals it from you So that you can have an excuse to get a new one with a seat. I think we see the self evident nature of this truth here that at bottom, all the way down, isn't it because we love and treasure and value those things? That's why we guard, that's why we protect. Love. We will not get that far if it's only hate for what is in front of us. And so the big question then becomes do you love what is behind you? Again, we're getting at the heart of this letter with this last sermon on 1 Timothy. Do you love that which is behind you? Do you love your family? Do you love your church? And do you love your friends? Do you love your country or your nation? We have become quite cynical on that last one, giving up on the nation. But when I speak to missionaries and they're in other nations, Or if it's a someone who has been converted to Christ who is from that nation, they want to see good for their nation, and I would encourage the same thing for you. Do you love your country? But actually that's not even fully the point. You can't just say, do I love my country uh what do you mean? Like as it actually exists? I detest it. I don't like the I don't like where it's going. That's not what I'm getting at here If you wanted to have a more precise question, it would be this. The full point is: do you love the family which Christ is forming as a part of his new creation? Do you love what Christ is doing in and for the church as a part of his societal vision for the renewal of humanity? Do you love the vision which Christ has and has come to enact for every tribe and nation on the earth? He's already begun it. We're not waiting for him to get started. He's already s already started moving his new creation across the whole globe. Are you in love with what he's doing? Do you, this is the largest question I think that we could get to, is do you love Christ's vision for this world? And the way that He's enacting it? Do you? I expect some of you know most of you are saying yes. Well let me give you a test here to see if you really love, okay? This is a tough sermon today. But let me give you a test. I don't know if any of you get these notifications on your phone, but I get notifications that let me know if something bad has happened around me. So I know if somebody's getting shot in Annapolis again or whatever it is. Well, I just got one that said in Brooklyn Park someone invaded a woman's home. Anybody else get this? Nope, well this has just happened. I'm so sorry. In Brooklyn Park, someone invaded a woman's house holding her at gunpoint and demanding money. She refused, and he hit her with the butt of the gun. Now, that's a real event. This is what I want you to imagine. I want you to imagine that her husband is there. The husband is is she's standing there, she's confronted with this gun, he's demanding money, and the husband is standing over here, looking at his wife. And he says to her, honey, I really want you to know that I hate this kind of stuff I really detest what this person is doing. This is against everything that God says. I've studied so many different theology books, and what this guy's doing, hun, he's not supposed to be doing that. What has this country come to? I can't believe it. Back in my day, this never would have happened. There had never been a home invasion. And this is why we need to get involved in politics more. Let me ask you a question. Does this husband love his wife? Not yet. Not yet. How would you know if he did? He would have fought for her. Now what does that look like? It could look like a thousand different things. You need wisdom in those particular situations. Let's not escalate things that don't need escalation, that kind of stuff. But uh but I think we could all put the tag on it that he needed to fight for her and not just talk about things he believes And so let's state the question again that we're considering with this particular case in front of us: do you love what Christ is doing in the world? Now how can I answer that, Jesse? Well, this is how you answer it. Here's the second question. Do you fight for it? I understand that fighting looks a lot of different ways, but I'm just asking you to be honest in your own conscience and your own heart. Do you fight for it? Because that tells us what our loves are. This is a step-by-step argument, and I'm leading you somewhere here. I hope you see it. Do you love what Christ is doing in this world? Do you love what he is doing with families? Do you love what he has done and will do in this church? If you really do, then you will fight for it and make sure that the flesh and the world and the devil do not steal it from you. And this is going to be tricky because the flesh, the world, and the devil are going to come up and they're going to say, Oh, this is the good thing that Christ has given to the family, the church, and the state. Um, I'm not stealing this. I'm not actually taking it. And then we as Christians can either be naive and say, oh, you're right, you're not taking it even though you just took it Or we can become wise as an act of guardianship over the stewardship that Jesus Christ has given to us. If you love what he's doing in families, if you love the way Christ loves children and the vision that he has for them Then you would fight for it. That is the message that Paul gives us with Timothy. If you really do, then you will fight for it. You will not stand by and say, oh. I hate this sort of thing. I've read theology about this. What can help me guard or chain down those things which Christ has committed to me? I've given you the answer. Love. How do I know if I love you love what you fight for? In the words of Paul, I wonder if we, brothers and sisters, Have been neglecting to fight the good fight in certain areas of our life. You know that's a phrase in the letter, right? If so, then the deepest problem that we have is our love. We don't actually love the world he's building. I understand that our growth in love is progressive. I'm not saying it's an event, it's definitely a process, but I'm exhorting you here to start moving in a particular direction with your love and with your hate. I have a friend who resolved last year to seek to love what God loves and to hate what God hates. And it's my prayer that you would take up the same resolution. He had that resolution for last year. I hope he has it for this year too. And I hope that you do. If you look at that sanctification article from Larger Catechisms, question number 75, those graces and gifts need to be stirred up continually, renewing and refreshing our loves for that which is good. And that happens as a community. It happens as a community in the word and in prayer and in worship. It happens as a community in avoiding particular things because bad company corrupts good character. And that includes the tremendous amount of entertainment that we digest. Is today the day that you will take up your commission from Christ and soldier for him as a true soldier? You're going to need to decide what you think this world should really look like. You're going to need to decide what you think is really good for human beings. And we're making the profession of Christ, but of cr as Christians that we believe that whatever Christ is doing is good and we're willing to fight for it. And as true soldiers, therefore, we fight or regard not because we hate what is in front of us, we fight because we love what is behind us. And all of this, brothers and sisters, is just another way of saying that a healthy church guards what is committed to their trust. Amen. Let us pray.