All right, good evening everybody. If we could make our way into the sanctuary, that'd be great. A little bit of a different service today. But nevertheless, we are going to open in prayer, so I'd ask that you'd join me, please. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, thank you for this beautiful day that you've given us. It is a beautiful day, and it is a beautiful day because it is your day beside. Lord, we thank you for all that you bring to mind when you set aside such a day as this, all that you have done, all that you are doing, and the future that we have. Lord, the faith, the love, and the hope. We thank you, Christ, and we pray that this would be a time of many things that are directed by your Spirit. especially the recounting of your wondrous works, that we might glorify you. We pray, Lord, that you would also give us an excellent and strengthening time in praying for uh the Wilkinsons. I thank you, Lord, that you have brought them back to where we can fellowship with them. It's been a quite some time, and it is great to see that you have been with them and their family. I pray, Lord, that you'd bring blessing on them too as they enter into our fellowship here. I pray that you would cause your people to receive them as brother and sister, those who have never met them, as if they've always known them. And I ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Let's stand for our call to worship from Psalm 146, verses 1 through 2. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord, O my soul. While I live, I will praise the Lord. I will sing praises to my God while I have my being. Amen. Let's sing together lavish love, abundant beauty. That is not beauty, basically for man. Light that kills so I forgot. Why interest yourself? Through my soul to breathe your despair. I can do my body. Say, can you lose me to your glory for yourself in every part? So in for my soul. May I never read that we could stand for the Amen. You may be seated. This is a reading from Titus 3:1 through 8, which will lead us into a confession of sin. Remind them to be subject to rulers and authorities, to obey, to be ready for every good work, to speak evil of no one, to be peaceable, gentle, showing all humility to all men. For we ourselves were also once foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving various lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful and hating one another But when the kindness and the love of God, our Savior toward man, appeared, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. through the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Spirit, whom He poured out on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior. That having been justified by his grace, we should become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. This is a faithful saying, and these things I want you to affirm constantly That those who have believed in God should be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable to men. Amen. Let us pray together. Lord, you cover many things here. It is a passage full of your wisdom. Lord, as we read it, we celebrate the great work that you have done. Look at all the glorious deeds that you have done, Christ, in the sending of your Spirit. Look at the people that you have raised up in your name. Look at your bride and how she is arrayed Lord, we also read this and we see that we have fallen and stumbled into the same things that are of concern so long ago. It's as if they cycle through each generation, and they do, where we become conceited, where we forget our place, where we forget that we are to be a light before the nations Lord, that is the location of your teaching here with good works, that it is profitable for men, that it is good for people to see that the household of God is good and is healthy. Lord, sometimes we become too narrow-minded. We become too narrowly focused on our own lives. We become too selfish. And we forget that the things that we do, the lives that we live, the decisions that we make, the things that we say with our mouth or dwell on in our heart are not just private affairs, but they become public and they affect the way that people look at your kingdom. Lord, it is a great embarrassment to us to bring shame on your name at any time. Our role and our calling is to always show the worthiness of the call that we have received by showing the greatness of the one who has called us. Oh Lord, please forgive us. I ask that you would hear your people now as they go into a time of confession, as they've pondered on this passage and heard these words I've spoken I pray that you would lead them into a time where they can acknowledge their sin before you. And I pray that you would lead them into repentance. Lord, hear our confession in Christ, and may you sanctify us in Christ and by His Spirit. In his name. Amen. Our assurance of pardon is from Isaiah 45, 22. Look to me and be saved, all you ends of the earth, for I am God, and there is no other. We look to him as we see Christ placarded in the preaching of the gospel, and Christ has been drawing people to himself across the face of the earth. What good news! What assurance of pardon. We're now moving into a a brief um uh reflection on Christ's word from Proverbs chapter three, uh verses thirteen through eighteen, and then we'll sing a song and we'll have the benediction. Um but we want to have some time also for the Wilkinsons to I always want to put the N in your name. Is that like a common Yeah, it's common. How do you even say it without the N? Wilkeson. I did it. That was pretty good. Thank you. Yeah. Um it's been a long time and it's great to see your faces. So yeah, and all your kids are old now. So I want to read from Proverbs chapter 3, 13 through 18. Happy is the man who finds wisdom and the man who gains understanding, for her proceeds are better than the profits of silver, and her gain than fine gold. She is more precious than rubies, and all the things you may desire cannot compare with her. Length of days is in her right hand, in her left hand riches and honor. Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. She is a tree of life to those who take hold of her, and happy are all who retain her. pray please Father I pray with this brief uh word preached that you would illuminate the hearts and minds of your people Pray that you get them walking down a path to think about what you are accomplishing with human beings that have a valuation problem. And ask these things in your name. Amen. Last week we read through the same set of verses. I hope you recognize that. We saw that the biblical idea of wisdom ends up covering many spheres. So when you see a passage like this, we're not just talking about one kind of wisdom. If you were to go through the scriptures, there's all kinds of things that are called wisdom that are given by Christ. For example, we went through Timothy and how the word wisdom is used there. Wasn't it interesting to find that Timothy, by way of his family, became wise unto salvation? Perhaps you hadn't categorized it that way, but that's what it says. And then just a little bit later, in continuing to speak about wisdom, Timothy could become wise by way of the word for every good work it says. You can read that on your own in those letters. What we end up recognizing here, in addition to that, and how wisdom covers every sphere, including salvation through Christ. Is that there is a difficulty that human beings face, and that is, and you recognize this if you've ever spent any time with trying to disciple anybody. They do not naturally, even we ourselves do not naturally find Christ and His wisdom valuable That's the real challenge of the passage, because you have the Father who has entered into wisdom, pronouncing to the children of the covenant community that all of the wisdom is valuable, more precious than all the things that people work for. And yes, that's the toughest lesson to learn. That it really is more valuable than rubies. If the sun is going to grow in wisdom, then the prerequisite is that the sun would begin little by little To find, and this applies to daughters also, the son or the daughter would little by little find Christ's wisdom valuable enough to pursue, embrace, and hold on to it all of his wisdom throughout all of the scriptures. It reminds me of an illustration given by a famous Southern Presbyterian. It goes something like this. If you ask three youngsters to help you dig a 20-foot hole, then their first question would be what? What is my reward? What am I going to get out of this? How much are you paying? If you told them That well if you help me dig the 20 foot hole then you can keep all of the dirt and rocks that we come upon Then you're going to find that many of them do not pick up a shovel and if they do it won't be here for a long time If, however, you told them that there is gold once you hit 20 foot and that they can keep all that they can carry, then watch how quick that hole is dug. It's a it's a it's uh addressing motivation within human beings. And that ties into this Proverbs passage. The wisdom of salvation and the wisdom of doing all of our vocations for the glory of Christ is in fact. Greater than gold. But natural humans see it as dirt and rocks. That's something we have to take away from this passage. Now, in the spirit of our guests tonight. Imagine being a missionary in that situation. Can you do it? Imagine being a missionary in that situation, having to work with those kinds of beings. Missionaries call aloud in the street, so to speak, saying something like we see here in Proverbs, come get Christ's wisdom. It has better profits than silver. His gain is greater than fine gold. He is more precious than rubies. He is the tree of life. And whether you're in northern Africa or in Florida, the problem ends up being the same. Human beings do not assess Christ's value as you have proclaimed it So what do you do if you're a missionary? What should you do? Tonight, I think in hearing from Andy and Najma, we'll hear some of what they do, what Christ has led them to do. in part and partly answering that question. And I think the other thing that needs to be a part of our service a little bit later is to do what we know we can do, and that is to pray for them and for their family. for their mission. And so we will take our prayer time that we usually have in the evening and we're going to dedicate it to them and ask the Lord to bless them. Really, our prayer should begin with something like this. May the Lord make the work and the words of the Wilkeson family. family effective unto salvation. May those who hear their voice, may they see Christ in his salvation, and they may they see that Christ is in fact more precious than gold Amen. Amen. Let's stand and we're going to sing together, praise the one who breaks the darkness. Rais on one, bring on heart, we got liberating mind. Break the one, break the writer, turning point into time. Praise the Lord, praise the gospel, in the maker. Coming storms and beating thousands with the very bellies. Resum Praise for God, grateful God too. From the twelve comes every water, every birthday, every man. Jesus I am cross for many every day of God by praise. Praise the one reading in glory. Praise the one who is all. Amen. And now may the peace of Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. You may be seated.