And may the Lord give you understanding in all things. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Christ, we have already begun our prayer in the reading of the scriptures that you would give us understanding in all things. And of course, Lord, we know that understanding does not just remain in the mind, but it goes out into the hands and the feet and flows from the heart. That we in all of our being, heart, soul, and mind, go after you in love and go after our neighbor We ask, Lord, therefore, that we would be attentive to your word today, that we would hear the priest's word as your word and from you from heaven. And we ask, Lord, that we would not just be hearers, but doers. We ask these things in your name. Amen. May be seated. Children. And students also I want you to raise your hand for me if now this is going to seem a little silly if you're older, but you can raise your hand anyway, just to be fun. Have your parents ever left you home alone? Or if you're if you're older and you're like, this is baby stuff, please stop. Do you I'll s I'll put it this way for you. Do you remember when your parents first left you home alone? Yeah. I actually see some adults adults nodding. Raise your hand if you've been left home alone. Well, I mean for the kids, but Yeah, right. Okay. Now, when your parents would leave you home alone and um And and your mom is uh putting her final things in her purse and and the and the dad is um moving his keys like this. Well what were some of the things that they said to you before they headed out the door? I just wonder. They said things like, um, if someone knocks on the door, don't answer it. Or if um if the phone rings, just let it be. Let it go to the answering machine. That's an I th that dates me right there. Uh yeah. Um Another one, I wonder if you could think of a few. Another one that was uh pretty uh always said to me is um early on it was don't even think about using the stove. And then as I got older and at least looked responsible on the outside, they said, make sure you turn the stove off. Especially if you use the boiler. There's something along those lines. And as I got older, maybe this is true for you when you got older, it moved from the basic stuff of like make sure you turn off the stove to make sure the plants are watered. Make sure the dog is let out and make sure, make sure, make sure, make sure. Now why is it that the the parents are doing that, children? It's because they've left the home to you, and they want the home to be well kept, and they want you also to be safe. Now, if you were a parent, fast forward, and you needed a home to be kept safe and and for people to be kept safe, what are some of the things that you would say before you left? Now, I want you to move a little bit by way of analogy, and just I want you to picture the church as the house of God. And Paul as having established that house, the Apostle Paul, but then he's going to be absent for a while and he leaves charge of it to Timothy. If you were in Paul's shoes telling Timothy to take care of the house of God while he's away, what do you think are some of the things that he should say to him? It's not make sure you turn off the stove. It's other things. And it's those other things that we've seen listed throughout this letter of which I just read the first seven verses of the s of the second chapter. But if you were to go back just by way of review to chapter 1, verse 6, you can begin to see some of the things that Paul has to say to Timothy, because Paul is absent. He says, make sure you stir up the gifts of God which are in you. In verse number 8, he says, Therefore, don't be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord. Don't be ashamed of me. Don't be ashamed of the Lord is another thing he says. in seeking to keep the house in good order. Or you could turn to verse 13 in chapter 1 that says, Hold fast the pattern of sound words which you have heard from me. These are the things that the Apostle says. To make sure that the house of God remains in order. And we're not moving into something different this morning. There's just further admonitions. Same kind of admonitions that parents leave their children. Paul is leaving further admonitions here, and the ones that we see in our text this morning may be summarized in this way. And this is what the Spirit wants us to know this morning. That in the Great Commission, or in the managing in the household of God, but especially in as we do the Great Commission, We must be strong in the grace of Jesus Christ. And we must be deeply committed to his service. These are the things that Paul says. In the Great Commission, we must be strong in the grace of Jesus Christ and deeply committed to his service. Now, I would like to look at this at just under those two main parts. We're going to look first at this passage and understand this passage by way of looking at being strong in his grace. And then we'll look and understand this passage in being committed to his service. So make sure you have your scriptures out in front of you because we're just going to step through each of these verses so that when you get home you can see where the sermon came from. And that's one of the benefits of listening to an expository sermon. Let's begin then in understanding what the Spirit has to teach us this morning by looking at being strong in his grace. What does that mean? Strong in his grace. You can see it in verse number one. He says, You therefore, my son. That's quite affectionate of him. He says, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. What does that mean You know, the more you study that, the more you can feel conflicted, like uh being strong and then uh being in grace are two it's like oil and water and the two aren't supposed to mix together. And I understand that that struggle. And one of the reasons why you may struggle to understand this verse is because you may not realize that there's different meanings to the word grace. What one thing that Paul could be saying here is, hey, listen, when you are taking care of the house of God and you're continuing in the Great Commission, you can't be self-sufficient. You need to realize that you're not sufficient for these tasks and you must rely upon the grace of God. Now that certainly is true, And that is taught elsewhere in Scripture, but that's not exactly the meaning that Paul has here. Another sense of the word grace is those things which God sends to his people freely That they then are going to be empowered by in order to be able to conduct his service What are some of those things? What are some of the things that the Lord would have sent to Timothy? That Timothy would then need to be strong within those things. Well, it would be things like his faith. It would be things like hope. It would be things like love. It would be things like perseverance when things get really tough. It would be things like, well, you can't be timid anymore, Timothy. You've got to be courageous. These are the things that you must be strong in, and that's the that's the that's the meaning Of strong in grace in this particular context. Now we could better understand that if we just consider for a moment the very final portion of this first verse where it says you're going to be strong in the grace. Don't just say strong in the grace. It says strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. That is in Christ Jesus. Well, you know, we've seen this strong in the grace in Christ Jesus before, earlier on in this exact same letter. If you take a look in chapter one here. Let's get out of the notion, let's get out of the idea that Christianity is just words on a page and another philosophy that men and women have to offer. Christianity has a risen and glorious Savior who has been given all authority in heaven and earth. And though he be in heaven, he has sent his spirit, who is active in your life right now. He was active in the life of Timothy, giving him graces. And you can see that in verse 5 of Timothy's story of grace. Listen to this. This is Paul, and Paul's affectionately remembering his son in the faith. And he says, When I call to remember remembrance, the genuine faith that is in you. Which dwelt first in your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice. I am persuaded that same faith is in you also. Isn't that a beautiful memory of Paul going out into the Gentile world and then preaching the gospel. And here are these these Gentile women. That hear the word of faith, and Jesus Christ decides by the power of His Holy Spirit to grant those women faith. And Timothy, then, in God's providence, is going to be raised in a household of faith that at one day Timothy would pastor the house of God. And it began in those initial graces of just faith, sorrow for sin that were in his mother. They were in his grandmother, and Paul is convinced that they're absolutely in Timothy also. But those weren't the only graces. It wasn't just the what we would call If you went to seminary, they'd say the theological graces, faith, hope, and love. It's not just those graces. If you keep reading, notice that he says, Therefore I remind you to stir up the In your Bible, I bet you it says gift, does it? Well, this is a it has the same root as grace. To stir up the grace of God which is in you. And then he points out that moment when Timothy was ordained before the Presbytery and they laid hands on him. You see that there? In that same verse? Therefore, I remind you to stir up the graces or the grace of God which is in you through the laying on of my hands. Now what would those graces be? Well, he would have been given uh he would be apt to teach. He'd be all those things that we see him listing out here on the qualifications of the elders in 1st and 2 Timothy and the qualification of elders in Titus These are all of the different graces that Timothy has got to be strengthened or strong in in order to do this work of the Great Commission and the taking care of the household of God. And brothers and sisters, though this is immediately with reference to taking care of the household of God and this particular vocation that Timothy was given. Boy, is this relevant for you in each of your vocations? Have you ever thought about that? That if that if you were to take a look from God's point of view, that God, in the same way that God poured out his graces on this family, in order for these women To do their vocations and then for Timothy to be able to do his vocations to his glory. Have you ever thought that God and that Jesus Christ through his Spirit is doing the same thing through you and your families? That God has poured out his graces on you, that you would serve him well in whatever service he has called you to. Service as a brother or as a sister. Service as a daughter or as a son. Service as a husband or as a wife. Service as a mother or as a father Service to each other as brothers and sisters in Christ and mothers and fathers in the faith, and service in the civic realm. All of this begins first with God pouring out His grace in you that you would be strong to be able to do those particular tasks. Now Why does Timothy why does Paul say, be strong in it? Because Paul is speaking to something that we're all very familiar with, isn't he? Is that it's because we can be weak in his grace. Now that's a reality that we have to come to grips with, that though Christ poured out his grace on us And if you were to picture that as him lighting the flame inside of you, sometimes the flame can get really low. Did you notice that the earlier admonition with regard to graces, therefore, from the Apostle Paul to Timothy and of course the Spirit to you, is that therefore you must continually stir up the graces. This word, if you were to look up the idea of uh stirring up, you could find it actually in the Greek translation of the Old Testament, which is known as the Septuagint, you could find this same Greek word of stirring up. From a story about Joseph and about his father finding out that he's alive. Listen to this. He says, Then they went out, they went up out of Egypt and came to the land of Canaan to Jacob their father And they told him, saying, Joseph is still alive. Imagine if you thought your son was dead and then you find out he's really alive. And he is not only is he alive, but he's the governor over all of Egypt. And Jacob's heart stood still. Because he did not believe them. But when they told him all the words which Joseph had said to them, and when he saw the carts which Joseph had sent to carry him, The spirit of Jacob, their father, was stirred up or revived. And what we are called to do, just as Timothy was called to do, is to be strong in the grace that Jesus Christ has given to us. And when we are weak in those graces. We must work to stir them up, that our hearts would be revived. We must work by way of metaphor here to continually bring the carts of Joseph before us. We need to bring the card of his word, remembering what the Lord has said. And one of the most important things for you, by the way, is to remember that Jesus Christ is always with you. If you lose your hope, you'll feel like you're rotting out in your bones. And you lose your hope when you believe that Jesus Christ has left you. But brothers and sisters, he hasn't left you. He tells you in his word that he is with you till the end of the age. He knows every hair on your head. And if we spent a half an hour together and I asked you about your life, I could point to you specific ways in which he's acting actually in your everyday experiences. Do you see what I just did there? I'm trying to stir it up. Trying to stir up your hope and put before you the carts of Joseph, the cart of his word. Under and by his word, understanding our experiences. Well, that is uh the first thing that we have to understand here. When we're seeking to understand that we must be strong in the grace of the Lord and committed to his service, we need to understand what it meant to be strong in the grace of Christ. And we also needed to realize that sometimes we get weak and we've got to stir it up. And I'll just leave this main point by asking and leaving you with a question of uh What are the graces that God has given to you? And what needs to be stirred up? And how may I help you? But there's not only being strong in his grace, we are also in taking care of the household of God, and in the Great Commission, we are to be committed to His service. Now you can begin to see this in the whole rest of the passage, but you can begin to see it in verse two of our passage. He says this, and the things that you have heard from me among many witnesses Commit these to faithful men who will be able to teach others also. And this gives us the under the uh the opportunity to understand Well, we're committed to his service, but what does the service look like? Well, here you begin to see what the service looks like, and it is captured in this phrase, things that you have heard from me You are to take and you are to preach and you are to teach these things. That's really straightforward right there to Timothy. But what does he mean, these things that you have heard from me? I think what we could do is we could turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 15, and we could look at the preaching outline of Paul and the rest of the apostles, and I'd encourage you to do so. What was their preaching outline? You could read their different letters and you could see what were the things that they taught in front of many witnesses. But if you do that, there's one uh there's one Defect about that way of pursuing this topic. And that is that when you look at things that way, you stop At seeing just the message of the Apostles, and you don't go back to the fountain of the message I want you to turn with me very quickly just so we can see the real thick sense in which Paul means the things that you have heard from me. I want you to turn to the Gospel of John chapter 17 If you don't want to turn there, you can just listen because I'll read these things. But it's good for you to know where different things are in your Bible. And students, in John chapter 17, what's the title of this, by the way? Anyone remember? It says high priestly prayer. Yeah, very good. And when we look at this first section, one of the ways in which we often misinterpret this first section of the high priestly prayer is we get a little too quick in the application, thinking that Jesus is talking about us. But the very first group of people that he's talking about is the apostles. And if you look in ch in verse chapter 17, verse 8, you can see that he has that Christ is talking about the same thing that Paul is talking about in 2 Timothy. He says this In verse 8, he says, For I have given to them the words which you have given to me. And they received them, and have known surely that I came forth from you, and they have believed that you sent me. So we have both the teaching and the practice of what we call Christianity that is coming directly from God. It's in the heavens. But then it is given to the Son, and the Son reveals it to the apostles, and the apostles have believed this word. That was the first step. Now you can see that's what Paul's talking about. Paul received that word as one born out of time, he says, but he received that word and believed that just like the rest of the apostles had done But then take a look at this next step because this relates to exactly what he's seeking to give to Timothy. Now scan forward a little bit and look at verse number 20, because the Because Jesus Christ isn't just concerned about the apostles, he then moves on to all those who will be under the apostolic ministry, and that includes you. Look at verse number 20. It says, I do not pray for these alone, but also for those who will believe in me through their word. You see this you see how it all is unfolding. Right there in Jesus' prayer Jesus knows exactly how this is going to go according to the great commission that he gives the church, beginning first with the apostles. And then there will be those who hear the apostolic message and they believe. And do you know who is among that number? Timothy. And do you know now, just as the Father sent Christ and Christ sent the apostles, and the apostles now will send Timothy, do you know what Timothy must do now? In understand if we are still seeking to understand this service. You can see if you go back now to 2 Timothy, you can see beginning with the fountain Verse number two must commit these same things to faithful men who will be able to teach others also. And that kept happening and happening and happening and happening and happening Until one day the scarlet thread of the apostolic word, one way or another, landed in your ears, and Christian, you believed. I think it's important for you to see that it originates in Jesus Christ. Because I want you to see how Jesus Christ, how good He is to you. That though he worked through means, he is the cause. And it was the love of his heart. If you go back to that high priestly prayer, the Father gave you to him. And he is taking care of you by making sure that you get his word. Though you are halfway across the world. That's what it means, this service. It's what this service means. When we say that we must be strengthened in his grace, but also committed to his service, this is the beginning of what that service means, and that's why I said, in the Great Commission, because that's what we're saying. really at the forefront here. It's not just taking care of the church. It's the great com it's the great commission and a part of that is taking care of the church. But I have got a question for you. In order for that scarlet apostolic teaching, scarlet thread of apostolic teaching to get to anybody, or to get to you, I just want to ask this question. Was that easy? What did men and women of the faith have to go through to get that message to you? If you were to just take a look at human history, what is it that human beings have had to do? In order to keep the word pure and to get it out to the nations. And I'm just asking you, was it easy? We have to have that on our mind when we move into the next part, because we not only need to understand his service, we need to see the pictures of his service so that we would understand it more deeply. The answer to my question is no, it's the hardest thing in the world. And you can see that when you start to look at verse number three. He says, you therefore must endure hardship. And you've got to do this in three main ways. He gives these different metaphors now. Take a look at this the rest of the scripture with me. You therefore you must endure hardship, how? As a good soldier of Jesus Christ. And then if you were to skip down a little bit, how else might this look, us trying to serve Christ with this great commission? Well, it's going to look like an athlete. Do you see that there in verse number five And then he says, well, how else might it look for us to carry out the Great Commission when it's not easy and it's difficult? Well, it's going to look like a hardworking farmer. And so we have those three images that are given to us, and I just want to briefly go over them because they're here, these are again from Christ to you to help you. to realistically serve him and to be committed to him in his service. The very first thing he says to you, Christian, first to Timothy, but by way of consequence to you, is that if you understand the service that you've been given And the kind of commitment that is needed in the in the uh moving forward in the Great Commission is that you have got to begin to think of yourself as soldiers Now, do you notice that he says you're meant to be good soldiers and not mediocre soldiers? Or soldiers in name and uniform only, but whenever there's a battle, you're nowhere to be found. I have a good image in my mind of um uh a soldier that's not a good soldier. I was not a real soldier. I was um a young boy and went to a Pennsylvania candy shop. And in that candy shop, they made little chocolate soldiers. And I was so excited about them I was so excited. Until the next thing came up and I was excited about something else. And I left my chocolate soldiers in my grandmother's new car in the middle of the summer And we went back out the next morning because I wanted my chocolate soldiers. And there they were, melted all over her seats. She loved me for that. She loved me. And this is a good image of what we're not to be. We are not to be chocolate soldiers that melt in the heat of battle. If you truly understand the service that Christ has given to you, the kind of commitment that you're going to have to show is the kind of commitment that is the commitment of a good soldier. And not just a good soldier. If you take a look back down at the verses, he goes on to talk about a soldier that is also ordered. A good soldier and then also an ol an ordered soldier. An ordered soldier, he puts it this way, he says no one engaged in warfare entangles himself With the affairs of this life. Instead, he's consumed with pleasing the one who enlisted him. Guess who enlisted you? Guess who your chief commander is? It's Jesus Christ. And your main concern and priority is to please Him in the service that He has given to you. And that means that your priorities have got to be right. You don't use this verse to say that we should all be in a monastery. That's not what it's saying. It's talking about priorities, that the Lord's priorities are your priorities, and that you are not distracted and choked out in your service by the cares of this world. Now that's just one image. There's also the athlete, and he's really making the same point here. He says in verse 5, and also if anyone competes in athletics. He is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules. This is so obvious it's difficult to understand. But it is a general principle for all people. You can see that even the way that he phrases. He says that The point is that the athlete must compete by whatever rules there are in order to gain the desired goal. If you cheat as an athlete, if you do not compete according to the rules, you will not receive the crown, you will be disqualified This was illustrated in one of my children running cross-country had a race, and the pain that I watched these kids running cross-crunchy, I just think this is why I don't do that But but then when you think the pain can't get bad enough, they set up the course to where there's this huge, steep hill at the very end of it. And I'm thinking in my mind We uh uh uh we have got to get over on that hill and cheer them up this hill because they look like they're hurting on flat ground. So we had somebody post it on the top of the hill. We had somebody posted in the middle of the hill. We had somebody post it down on the bottom of the hill. And why? Because we knew that even though they had put in all that hard work, if they don't make it up that hill and through that finish line, then they would be disqualified because the rules of the game are you gotta finish the race. And that's the same point that the Apostle Paul is making here. How many people have you seen Excited about the Great Commission or about Christianity, not really realizing the nature of the kind of service that Christ has called you to, how many people have you witnessed just drop out of the race? Is there any crown waiting for them? No, there's not. So we must begin to see ourselves as lawful athletes. Athletes who go all the way to the end. Athletes who will have treacherous terrain and steep hills awaiting us. But we must make it that we might be crowned. As a soldier, that our commanding officer would be pleased. As a runner, that we would receive the laurels. And then finally, there is the farmer. And these are, again, as a similar point, there are the rules of the farm. If a farmer wants a crop, then it is going to take hard work. You could take a look at the parable of the soils very quickly, and you could see that that farmer throwing out the seed Except for the very last instance, face trouble all along the way. And if any of you have tried to keep a garden, you know how many things are against you. And it is the same thing here. It requires hard work for you to sow in God's field. And God's people are God's field. That is a realistic picture of the service that you are to offer to the Lord. You are to be strong in his grace, and you are to be committed to his service like a soldier. Like an athlete and like a farmer. Now, I want you to do me a favor and take a look at chapter 3, verse 1, of the same book We're not here yet. I'm not going to start a new sermon now. But I do want to point out to you a list here as to why Paul is so realistic in his description of what it's going to take for you. It's going to take the grace of God and it's going to take a deep commitment to his service for you to do the Great Commission. Take a look at what we're up against. But know this that in the last days perilous times will come, for men will be lovers of themselves, lovers of money, boasters, proud Blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, unloving, unforgiving, slanderers, without self-control, brutal Despisers of good, traitors, headstrong, haughty, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying its power This is just the beginning. And I'm going to elevate the degree of the severity of this list. Just to try to get you to see how much of a soldier and what kind of a runner and the kind of farmer that you are going to need to be with what Christ has given to you. This list will describe some of your friends that you went to school with and then changed after graduation. This list, perhaps even more grievously, is a list that describes and will describe some of your very own children. And that will be the most difficult of all. To be honest about what your son or what your daughter has become. I'm still early on in the raising of children. I have one that's going away, Lord willing, to college in August, but that's still very early. Any parent that's been around longer than me knows, oh Jesse, it's early Let's see what's going to happen here. But I can't help to remember holding my children when they were firstborn. And something switched in me, and I thought I would do anything for this child. Now the Bible teaches us in various places that God gives us an attachment to our children like that, so that even in their depravity we still love them. We're still there for them. But you know, those attachments, we can see those attachments staying with us as we seek to raise them in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord and all of the various decisions that we have made, all of the sacrifices. That we have made in order for them to know the Lord. All of us have worked hard at that. And then there can be this moment. When we see that despite all that we have done, they choose a path that we know leads to death. They choose a path to be a part of a company of people that are on this list. Now, some of you have personally experienced that. Some of you have worked very hard, and your children have denied the faith, for example. Some of your children have chosen to enter into active homosexual lifestyles. Some of your children have chosen all different kinds of things. And this passage this morning is made for people like you. I just have a question that I want, if I may. Number one, I'll just say you are a blessing and an honor. And you have been working so hard, and the Lord knows it. And I will say this I just want to ask you a question. Is Jesus Christ still moving us out in the Great Commission? Because if he is, I know that you've been praying for your children for a long time. I know that you have been doing this or that or the other thing. And that maybe you have begun to give up, though your heart still be attached and tortured when you have trouble falling asleep at night, thinking about that one son or that one daughter Or that one grandson or daughter, or it could be a friend of the family, or it could be your father, or it could be your mother, but you lose sleep over it. And this passage is for you to remind you that Jesus Christ has given you the grace to continue on the Great Commission to these people. If you do not feel that way, then it's time for you to have the graces stirred up. Because here is the reality of your situation. You giving the gospel to these people is not going to be easy. You're going to have to start to think of yourselves like soldiers. You're gonna have to start thinking of yourselves like elite athletes. And you're gonna have to start thinking of yourselves as hard-working farmers who didn't never gave up. on the field of God, who is my boy or who is my girl. That's the message of Jesus Christ to you this morning. Oh, isn't that good news? Isn't it good news that Christ pours out his grace that you might do this task for the people that you love? Is Jesus Christ with you? Of course he is. Does Jesus Christ give you the grace to do what you need to do in this situation? Of course. You water, you spread the seed, and it is God that makes it grow. May we be inspired by Augustine's mother, who prayed for forty years for her son. Mothers, you keep praying. Mothers, you keep sowing seed. You are warrior women. You are soldiers for Christ. It is time to remember a forgotten truth about the Great Commission, and if you forget it, you'll become discouraged. The truth is, it's hard. It's the kind of work for a good soldier, an athlete, and a farmer. It is good for us to remember what the Spirit seeks to teach us this morning, that in the Great Commission, even to our own families We must be strong in the grace of Christ, and we must be committed to his service. Amen. Please pray with me. Oh Father, I thank you for the patience of your people. I thank you for their attentiveness in listening to your word. And I pray, Lord, that you would minister by way of your word to your congregation sitting here now. They face so much in your name, Lord. Lord, they are such precious and treasured people. They deserve honor, but instead they are disgraced. They deserve peace, but instead they are stricken with worry. Pray, Lord, that you would be with them. Let them know that you are not against them. Let them know that you stand for them in the fight. Let them know, Lord, that you do make things grow. I pray, Lord, that you would strengthen our hearts, that we would be strengthened in your grace, that we'd be strengthened for your service. In the name of Christ, amen.