Okay. What is that? Put that up there. Put it in the back of your mind. What is it that's bugging you? Now, what is the biggest joy in your life? Which one of the what is that? Put that up there too. Now, this is the question. Which one was easier to think of? Which one came to your mind most easily? That which is bugging the tar out of you, or that which is the greatest blessing that you have in your life. With that, let's go to the passage. Picking up in Matthew as we continue in our study of Matthew with Matthew 9, verse 27, and reading down through chapter 10, verse 3. When Jesus departed from there, two blind men followed him, crying out and saying, Son of David, have mercy on us. And when he had come into the house, the blind men came to him, and Jesus said to them, Do you believe that I'm able to do this? They said to him, Yes, Lord. And then he touched their eyes, saying, According to your faith, let it be to you. And their eyes were opened. And Jesus sternly warned them, saying, See that no one knows it. But when they departed, they spread the news about him and all that country. As they went out, behold, they brought to him a man mute and demon-possessed. And when the demon was cast out, the mute spoke, and the multitudes marveled, saying, It was never seen like this in Israel. But the Pharisees said, he cast out demons by the rulers of demons. And Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in the synagogues, preaching the gospel, the kingdom, and healing every sickness and every disease among the people. But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion for them because they were weary and scattered. like sheep having no shepherd. And then he said to his disciples, The harvest truly is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore pray the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest. When he had called his twelve disciples to him, he gave them power over unclean spirits to cast them out and to heal all kinds of sicknesses. And all kinds of disease. Now the names of the twelve apostles are the are these. First, Simon, who is called Peter. Andrew his brother, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother Philip and Bartholomew, Thomas and Matthew the tax collector, James the son of Alphaeus, and Lebius, whose surname was Thaddeus, Simon the Canaanite, and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. There comes a time Or there are times maybe in our lives when our troubles seem really just to be overwhelming. It could happen at any age, but It seems to be very evident as you get older. Problems and difficulties come at you it seemingly from left and from right, and as soon as you fix on one thing, you deal with one thing, you pay off one debt. Three others spring up to take those place, their place. I see this often in young moms, and I think these that's kind of a paradigm that you could use with with young mothers, uh though it applies to everyone, the more kids, the more this is evident. One child gets sick And it's so while you're tending to that one and while you're paying attention to that child then the problem then a problem develops with the plumbing and you got water overflowing in the toilet Or you discover that the milk has gone bad and you have to run out to uh to get milk or something to replenish the refrigerator, or at that is the time when the other siblings decide that they are going to wreck the house with something Basically, it's all just seems to be crashing. You can't seem to get your handle on anything. This could be true of everyone, whatever the life situation. Singles have to be faced have to face their life without a helpmate with them. And older folks, as friends and relatives begin to decline and require more support, You may find that the problems are building such that being able to deal with the problems as they come at us can be a bit overwhelming. It can lead us to ask questions. When is this going to end? When am I going to get time to breathe? We need to keep that in mind as we are reading this, because I think that's something like that is going on here with Jesus. Jesus is human like you and I are human. Of course we talked a few weeks back about how he is human like we are, but he is also God. And here I think I see him and identify with him as feeling that kind of weariness without falling into the sin of despair. Think about his life as we see it developing in these verses. Matthew has already told us in preceding context about Jesus raising up a man's daughter from the dead. If also told us that he healed this woman who had a flow of blood. And as he's departing from the house where he has raised the man's daughter from the dead, here come two blind men after him. And the picture that Matthew paints for us is he's walking on, and they're in the background, back behind him, saying, Jesus, heal us, heal us, heal us. But he keeps walking. And he goes on to the house. He doesn't heal them right away. But they follow him into the house, begging for him to heal them. And so he heals them. And for the first time in Matthew's gospel, For the first time, he tells them, don't tell anyone I've done this. It didn't work. They blabbed about it all over the countryside. Which is exactly what I'd have done. But Jesus said it. Don't tell anyone. Now in Mark's gospel, you see this kind of thing happening often. There's even a theological term for it. It's called the messianic secret. And in that gospel, in the Gospel of Mark, it is one of the major themes that we approach that Gospel in interpretation. But here in Matthew, you don't see that theme With all the healing that Jesus has been doing, this is for all practical purposes, the first time he said that. He's healed a lot of people, you know, somebody from the dead. But now we see him beginning to say, don't tell don't tell anybody about this Now there was a time back in Matthew 8 where he did say something similar to the leper, but at that point it was more to fulfill the Mosaic Law than it was to keep it a secret or to not tell people. So here, what I think we see is that Jesus is coming across as being worn out. Don't tell anyone else. I need a moment or two just to breathe. He didn't get it. What Matthew shows here are the crowds keep pressing on to him. A man comes to him right away, mute, unable to speak, demon-possessed. Jesus heals him and casts out the demon. The people are amazed. Well, that was an that was that probably took some energy. That probably was tiring. And so he he does this And what happens? The Pharisees say, ah, he casts out demons by Beazelbub, by the power of Beazelbub. Can you imagine the expression on Jesus' face? Really? I gotta put up with this too. You know? Couldn't you just say, yay? No. Everything's gotta be criticized. I think the sheer weight of his ministry must have threatened overwhelming. In verse 35, we're told that he went about the whole country teaching and preaching and healing, and then in verse 36. We see Jesus looking out at the whole crowd. His compassion is on them. And he looks and he sees them if they're like sheep without a shepherd. They're everywhere They're climbing up in trees to be able to see them. They're sitting on top of of walls and fences or whatever it is they can get to. They are pressing as close as they can get. They're hungry for what he has to offer. They're wanting to be healed of the various things that bother them. Their lives are a wreck, and they're looking for somebody to give them some wisdom about how to deal with their things of their lives The more he does this, the more he ministers to those needs, the more come. It's exhausting. And Jesus looks out at that mass of people, the compassion rising in his heart. And in spite of the weariness, in spite of the irritation, in spite of the pressure, These were his people. These were God's people. And their shepherds had deserted them. See, that's what happens when the flock isn't are not tended. That's what happens when sheep are left without a shepherd. They get sick. They starve. They get attacked by wolves. They are miserable. They are sickly. And if something is not done, they wither and they die. And in this context, the context of Jesus himself being worn out, the crowd pressing in with all of their neediness, then he looks at that pressing crowd, and he doesn't say When is it ever gonna end? He says the harvest is great, but the workers are few. We need to pray for God to send more workers. He turns to his disciples and he says, and not only that I command you not only just to pray, I command you to be workers in this harvest with me. In chapter 10, he commissions the disciples. He commissions his church to go out and do this work he's been doing. The disciples are given authority. They are given authority to cast out demons. They're given authority to heal all manner of diseases. They're given what they need to do what Jesus was doing. They were to be Jesus' hands. They were to be his mouth. They were to be partakers of his power. And they were to go and participate in what he saw as a harvest. Now they began to see their great work. Now they began to see why it was that Jesus came to each of them and said, You follow me. Because by name, in chapter 10, we list each one of them. That's the way Jesus called them, by name, and this was to the end that he called them Well, what do we take from this I think that what we take from this is that we need to see that what is happening in this passage is just as true for us today as it was for these disciples 2,000 years ago. And I think the first thing that we should learn from it is that we have to see the world about us with all of its difficulties and all of the things that press in upon us and our lives as being perhaps difficult to deal with in some way. We have to see that in a whole new light. We have to be transformed to see our lives and the world about us. More like Jesus, who was in the same situation, saw it. Jesus was exhausted, the crowds are huge, there are people needing all kinds of help all around him, and how did Jesus understand that? He saw it as opportunity. He saw it as opportunity. He saw that pressing crowd with all of their difficulties and all of the issues that were wearing him out in dealing with them. He saw that as signs that the harvest time had arrived. Now I have to go into a very brief review of a theme in Scripture, and that is the sheep without a shepherd. That doesn't just come out of the blue when Jesus says that. He's referring back to an Old Testament theme, and in the Old Testament The sheep without a shepherd is always present when God is striking his people and is causing misery in the land because the shepherds have in fact deserted them and have been abusing him. The paradigmatic chapter, if you wish to read it, is 1 Kings 22, verses 10 through 28. I simply didn't have time to read that today or include it But if you want to go back and check it, you'll see that. There's a theme that is present, that's embodied in this idea that there is an existence of a people, a group of people. And they come across as being sheep without a shepherd. And what is that theme? It's this, that when a nation departs from righteousness When the leaders abandon all pretense of honor, of caring for the people under them, when the high priest of religion, whether they are the ancient temple or whether they are modern pulpits abandon the scriptures and begin to seek and to teach the doctrines of men and of demons, then don't expect that nation and don't expect that church to prosper spiritually Don't expect them to be a force for true healing and true shepherding to the people in that land. Rather look at them and see when you see that happens. See if, even if they are blessed, as the Northern Kingdom Samaria was blessed, with outward physical prosperity and superficially being rich, but look beneath that superficial richness and see how miserable people really are Don't expect to find whatever prosperity that is there being equally and mutually shared. Don't expect to see contentment within all of the strata of society Rather, just the opposite. See an increase in tension. See an increase in polarization. See an increase in people when they're speaking to each other, shouting at each other rather than only trying to communicate their ideas. See racial divisions beginning to develop in such a way that people are actually taking to the streets with anger in their hearts and blood on their minds. Look and see. And there might be superficial prosperity. But look and see if people are not broken, consumed by their passions, having difficulty with life as it is presented to them. Because you see, when the shepherds abandon their flock, under God's providential guidance, that's what happens. The misery that increases in the land is supposed to cause the leaders to repent. To see that the discord and the misery, the increasing difficulty and stratification, to see that as a call that we must be doing something wrong And deterring. But what happens as they spiral down in their sin When they don't have the same compassion for those who are hurting that Jesus is here showing, what happens is we see the circumstance is getting worse. It doesn't get better. We begin to see longing for people to people's longing for things to change. We see people beginning to question the absence of spirituality in what they're being taught. And we see people beginning to say, you know, this materialistic lifestyle, it just ain't cutting it. You begin to see people wanting to know why cancer is killing everybody that we know. And how can I have hope in the face of that? Or we begin to see people beginning to wonder, you know, are we doing something wrong here? Is there something fundamentally missing from our lives? You see people beginning to wonder if this thing calls love is really just a fairy tale And wondering if that idea of faith, hope, and love are really true and are possible. When the leaders of Israel, and these very uh Pharisees in particular, when they began to look on their nation, And those who are supposed to be shepherds begin to feed off the flock for their own gain and their own selfishness, and the people begin to decline into misery. Because they don't have compassion on the sheep, then we see such a circumstance developing as what Jesus saw That very point, seeing these people, seeing the misery that was there, Jesus saw that misery different than the Pharisees. Jesus saw that misery as being indicators that it's time for a harvest. It was too big a job for one man, even for Jesus. And therefore they had to be helpers. So Jesus commanded his church. He commanded the church of Jesus Christ to have this same vision that he has. The same way of looking at the world, to look at the same mission that he has undertaken, to speak to the lost. To speak to the suffering, to do good works among them, because you recognize that they're sheep without a shepherd. And in God's providential leading, this is what happens. The world looks upon it. We see people suffering, and they don't want to get involved. Christians are to look at that and see opportunity, to see it in terms of harvest. And we are to understand in doing so that we have a two-fold challenge. We are to undertake to be workers in that harvest And we are to understand that we cannot do it by ourselves. We are to pray that God will spend more, send more workers, so that we may see the fruit. So the first thing we have to learn, I think, is that we have to see the world in a different light. We have to see it as ripe for harvest. I'll depart from my text here for just a minute. Folks, we gotta stop bellyaching about all those people. We gotta stop spending all of our time getting furious about what those politicians are doing, left, right, center, or middle or whatever If all we're doing is belly aching and we're not being a positive thing for the other, we're bearing just as much guilt as they are. Okay? Now you guys know I have a few political opinions. Yeah. So I'm not speaking just you. It's easy to complain about those guys. And we have plenty to complain about. But if that's all we do, then we're failing in why God put us on this planet. And we need to fix that. Back to the text. The second thing I think we should learn is what does it require of us to be a worker in this harvest? I will say that a worker in a harvest needs to be equipped with three things. That these three things will sufficiently equip us. Faith, hope, and love. Faith, hope, and love. Because that's what the sheep need. Faith. That's the ground floor. That's the foundation on which all else is built. These disciples had to act on what Jesus commanded them to do. They had to believe truly and deeply in their heart that they could make a difference. They had to trust that the Lord who was sending them out as workers in the harvest would work through them to make Makes a measurable impact on the pain and the suffering and the heartache that they were going to see and that they saw all about them in the world to see it as being not too big, not so big, that nothing can be done. That he was going to do things in and through them, that they would bring fruit from those labors. If Jesus is willing to look at us and say that you will be doing greater work than I did. We have to believe that. They had to believe that Jesus really was the Christ, and that the kingdom really had come, and that the doorway to the blessings of the kingdom stands wide open and all who want to enter in and partake of the blessings of the king of the kingdom, that that is available to them That there they will find answers for the great questions of their life. They will find the comfort they need to deal with whatever comes in their life, and yes, on occasion they will find the healing That we can testify in this church as having occurred. Not every illness, not every disease will be healed. Jesus didn't heal every person in Israel. But Jesus provided everyone with at least the outline of what they needed, and in his elect he gave it to them directly. He gave them himself, and he gave them his teachings, and he gave them the comfort of the Holy Spirit. And brothers and sisters, if we have faith that that is given to us, And we must realize that it is Jesus' will for us to be called as laborers in the harvest. We must have faith. There's a corollary to faith, and that's the second thing. Can't have faith without this next one. And that's, in a sense, hope. Is faith manifested? Faith is hope. See, hope is the product of trusting in Christ, of believing in Christ, and this hope never fails. It always brings forth the peaceable fruit of righteousness. But what is it? Faith trusting in Christ that He's given us what we need. Hope, then, translates into attitude. Hope is simply this It's taking Jesus at his word. Write this one down. It's taking Jesus at his word and expecting to be blessed. Remember what I asked you up at the beginning of the sermon? Which one was easiest to remember? We focus on the difficulties and the heartsakes, but it's hard for us to remember our blessings. Hope is expecting God to bless us. Paul tells Timothy Command those who are rich in the present age not to put their trust in riches, but rather to put their trust in the living God who gives us all things to enjoy. Who gives us all things to enjoy. Brothers and sisters, even in the worst of human circumstances, God gives us things, good things to enjoy, and that is our hope. Speaking with a woman yesterday in Baltimore. She and her husband are reduced to sleeping on a mattress in a cold basement with no heat. And they're there because The structures of the institutions in this land provide them no uh no safety net for them to be where they are, anything else. I sent out an email to all of the churches in our denomination up there three weeks ago asking for help to help with these people. Not a single one responded So what am I to do? Just leave them there. No. We talked and came up with some ways that maybe things can change a bit. But the bottom line of it is Even in their condition, as hard as it is. When I spoke to the husband, you know what he said? His name is Wolf. Dutch. Wolf. He said, Oh, Pastor Arch, God's blessing us, I just don't know exactly how. He ought to be up here preaching instead of me. Brothers and sisters, even in the worst of human circumstances, we have to realize that we are more blessed than anything else. And that hope, that reality, that translates into a winsomeness that is what this world is wanting more than anything else. It makes us not attractive in the sense of some worldly appeal. It makes us attractive in the sense that those people have something and I want it. Our hope is that God will show us what those things are that are in our lives for our blessing. And that God has called us to a life in which we bless others as we are blessed in our life also. And that is our hope But the greatest thing that we need in this harvest is love. Jesus looked on that crowd and he had compassion on them. He loved them. He wanted to help them, even though he was exhausted. Their need was greater than his weariness. And so to keep the work going, he raised up helpers. But what he saw, what moved him, was love. He loved those who needed to hear the gospel. We need to see that this world that is ripe for harvest, their deepest need is Christ. Apart from him, felt needs are never going to furnish them anything other than an opportunity to send more. But with Christ all that changes. Sometimes it's going to cause us to have to open our pocketbook. So be it. It's always there. Sometimes it happens. But brothers and sisters, as you look through your circle of acquaintances right now, and as you look at the spheres of your life in which you walk, are you seeing a harvest that is ready to be harvested. And among those that are out there in which you are to work as a laborer in the harvest, most of them don't need you to write a check. Those that are like sheep without a shepherd probably are okay as far as physical situation. But they're just plain lost. And they're miserable. And they're usually pretty busy making other people miserable also. And the question I ask you is, can you love them? Can you love them? Can you see them with compassion? And motivated by compassion, begin to work with you. Will you and I together have compassion on the world about us as our Lord has did for His, these people? Will we together have compassion on them as the Lord has compassion on us? Will we remember that he sent his son into this world to demonstrate his love for us so that you and I together could live be out a life of being a blessing to others, even as we rejoice in the blessings we've received. Faith, hope, love, these three. That's what we need to be workers in Christ's harvest. The greatest of them is love. That's what brings us to this table today. Will you pray with me?