Reading down chapter eight through verse four. Matthew seven, picking up with verse twenty-eight. And so it was when Jesus had ended these sayings that the people were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one having authority and not as the scribes. When he had come down from the mountain, great multitudes followed him, and behold, a leper came and worshipped him, saying, Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean. And Jesus put his hand and touched him, saying, put out his hand and touched him, saying, I am willing, be cleansed. Immediately his leprosy was cleansed And Jesus said to him, See that you tell no one, but go your way, show yourself to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded as a testimony to them. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Is there anyone here today, anyone, and I'd like you to be honest, that has not heard or does not know what the disease Ebola is Anyone? Do I have to go into a great any kind of detail to explain what Ebola was? How many of you remember here just a few months back when the entire nation was almost paralyzed in fear about the Ebola virus. Yes? Remember that The whole idea of a person coming back from a country that had been infected where this disease was present and that they might be infected was sufficient to require, coercively require this person to enter into some form of isolation and to protect the whole population from this person's presence Well, I would like to ask you, just to imagine that you've sat through a sermon, you've sat through the worship service, it's about time to leave. And everybody's kind of milling around here in the sanctuary. And suddenly coming in through the back door came a man saying, I have Ebola, I have Ebola, I have Ebola, and he comes pushing through you. How would you react? How would you react? What kind of feelings would go over you? What would you do with your children? Would you be terrified? Would you be wishing that he was somewhere else? What would be your response I imagine that's how it was when this leper pushed his way through that crowd that was standing around Jesus when he came down from the Sermon on the Mount. Imagine that you will, Jesus had just come down, the people are amazed, they are impressed. Matthew says it in a very emphatic way. They were astonished. They were They were out of their mind, if you will. They were in some degree of ecstasy at the authority of his teaching. And so they are really worked up. As he comes down from the mountain, as he comes closer to them, they all gather around him. Hundreds, perhaps thousands press in. He's like a rock star walking out and all the fans are gathering close. Now that's the way Matthew wants us to see it. He wants to see the crowd packed around Jesus. Touching him, perhaps, and being able to tell their kids someday, I was there when Jesus taught. Then imagine a gasp coming up from the crowd. People are cringing. Imagine the horrified look on their face as this leper comes forward saying as he is required by the law to say, unclean, unclean, unclean. So that the people know that he is in fact a leper. See him with his face wrapped in some kind of cloth so that no one can see the horrible disfiguration that this disease brings on him and that had perhaps been done to his face Lepers are scary to look at in a fully advanced case. People would turn their children's faces away from them. One word that is used to describe a leper in the Old Testament is a word that is loosely translated into the English as blow, as in being hit by a blow. This person has suffered a blow from God. God has stricken them. The disease was so horrible that the individual was thought to be under the curse of God. Why else would he have this horrible disease? God has struck him with it. Therefore, they were cast out of the camp. They were not allowed to live within the camp. They were, in a sense, excommunicated at God's command. He required this. They were not allowed back into fellowship with God's people until God had healed them. Ordinary people did not want to have anything to do with them. And here was one pushing through the crowd. I imagine how you would have reacted. And how would you react now? How would you react now? If in a similar situation a person came pushing through us. That's why the way that Jesus handles this particular episode is so astonishing to us today. He doesn't just draw back from the gospel. He doesn't say, hey, you stop right there. Don't come any closer. I can hear you from here. You don't need to come up any closer. I can do whatever you need from here. Let's just not get real close The guy comes forward, he falls down on his knees. That's what the word worship means. It's proscode'o. It means to bow the knee toward. It means to bend the knee somewhere, to get down on both knees, and usually to hang your head down to expose the back of your neck so that if the king that you're exposing to wants to chop off your head, he can do so. It is an act of submission. And Jesus comes close to him. Perhaps even so close that he could feel this man's infected breath on him. Perhaps close enough to feel the warmth of his feverish skin touching him Think Ebola. And think of the pictures that you have seen of people on TV wrapped from head to toe. in protective covering so that they could even come close to ministering to the person who is sick. Think of that. Why? And now think of Jesus. Without any of that, getting down close to this man. He bends down The guy says, Lord, if you're willing, you can heal me. Lord, I don't know much. I'm a leper. I've been on the fringes of society for all this time. I haven't been in the synagogue with you. I can't be in the synagogue with you. I have not been privileged to talk with people, ordinary people, who have heard about you and have done things so I'm basically kind of ignorant. But Lord, I heard what you said up there on that mountain today. And I recognize indeed that you have authority. That's what came through so clearly was your authority. And Lord, therefore you have authority over my body. You have command over this leprosy that has attacked me. God has stricken me with leprosy, Lord. and you can reverse what God has done. Now that's an incredible statement What God has done to me, you and only you can reverse. If you are willing, you Can make me clean. What an incredible profession of faith. I want you to think about Jesus. And I want you to see him bending down so close to this infected man, this man who is so hideously scarred. And that he can reach out and he can touch him. That's what it says. And I want you to hear the gentleness in his voice. I want you to see the compassion on his face. I want you to see that warm, gentle smile that is on his lips. Here's one of his children. Here's one of his servants. Here's one of his brothers. And this man has come to Jesus, has come to him as a bruised reed. And the warmth of Jesus' compassion is evident to all who are there watching. It's with great tenderness he says, I am willing. You betcha. Be cleansed. Be cleansed Brothers and sisters, if you think there was a gasp coming out of that crowd when that leper came through, imagine what it must have been then. When that leper stood up then and turned and flung off those filthy clothes, and there he was with his cheeks as pink as a newborn babe. When all of those ugly scabs, those hideous scars, the the bleeding sores that had been on his face were just washed away. Think how he would have reacted and think of how you would have reacted had you been there to see it I ask you, even as I portray this for you, and so that you can get a picture of it in your mind right now, I I I ask you, how are you responding? What's going through your mind? Well, how is it supposed to affect us? What are we supposed to learn from it and what are we supposed to think about right now? Well, it's pretty clear to me that God doesn't do anything on a whim. First, God wants us to understand here today. That leprosy means a person was unclean. And we need to understand what that means to be unclean. God himself declared it. Lepers are to be considered unclean. That is why they could not draw near to people. Most importantly, they could not really draw near to God. Andersheim in his commentary on Matthew makes the statement that And in the later temple worship, they uh actually erected a certain place with a great big barrier where the lepers could come in and not be with the other people. And there was some access to God. But the idea of what God says here, and that they are to be separated from the holy things of God, they're not supposed to come close to the altar, they're not supposed to touch anything that the rest of the people are to touch means that they are to be understood that everything they touched, every breath they breathed out, defiled whatever it was they touched or whatever their breath impacted. They contaminated the world with uncleanliness, with unholiness. Now I want you to put yourself in the place of a leper. You wake up one morning and you discover that you are leprous. You are unclean. Everything you touch becomes unclean because you touched it. Everything you breathe on becomes unclean because you breathed on it. How would you handle that? What would that do to your self-esteem? What would that do to who you imagine yourself to be? What would it mean about you in relation to God? To realize that you're under God's curse. Why? Because he has made you unclean. And it is entirely just. for God to separate you from all of his people and from himself. Why? Because you are unclean Brothers and sisters, what would it do to you if you woke up one of these days and realized that everything you did was unholy? In the words of the Puritan John Owen, to be unclean absolutely is to be universally opposed. In other words, to be universally on the other side of the spectrum from being holy. Before anyone or anything can be called holy. And therefore acceptable to God, they must first be cleansed. They must first be washed. They must first be purified. That is what the Old Testament teaches. Brothers and sisters, that is the same exact thing that is taught in the New And that brings us to the second thing that God wants us to understand today. Brothers and sisters, each of us, you and I here together, stand as lepers before God in our fallen nature. That's who we are. Isaiah in chapter 64 teaches this that before God we are law, all, like an unclean thing or an unclean person. All of our righteousness is like filthy rags. What is it that lepers wore? What was it that obscured their face? What what was their clothing? It was filthy rags. We are unholy in our thoughts We are sinful in our hearts, and everything we touch we defile. That, brothers and sisters, in our natural self, is who we are. We stand before God as lepers. Paul says, we are by nature children of wrath. In our flesh we bear the blow. That God has given us. The Bible teaches us that leprosy is a metaphor for sin. And that what leprosy does to a person's body is what sin does to our soul. Every time sin breaks out in our lives, brothers and sisters Every time sin breaks out in our lives, it is like a recurrence of leprosy. And that means every one of us stand before God in need of cleansing. We stand before God in need of a cleansing that only God can give. And it's a cleansing that we have to seek, even as this leper sought it on this day so long ago. That brings us to the third thing that God wants us to understand from this passage. Brothers and sisters, as lepers spiritual lepers before God, we should be hating our sin and desiring to be cleansed of it with that same passion, that same intensity, that same urgency that this leper felt that day. Consider how big a thing it was for this man to push forward through that crowd. Just think about that. He's standing in the back of the crowd. There's a lot of people between him and Jesus. He pushes through. Do you realize the act of courage that required? As soon as they said unclean, unclean, they could have picked up rocks and started stoning him. They could have herded him with sticks to the nearest cliff and pushed him over. He took his life in his hands when he pushed through that crowd. Brothers and sisters, he didn't care. Without being cleansed of the curse of leprosy that he bore, he probably didn't want to go on living anyway. He hated leprosy. He hated being a leper. Brothers and sisters, I charge you today with this. God wants each of us today to examine our hearts and see if we still feel that same intense hatred of our sin that that leper felt of his leprosy. Do we hate it? Do we see It as an Ebola patient would see himself as his skin was the oozing fluids. Would we want to be cleansed of it more than anything else? in the world. I ask you today, how do we view those petty sins that bubble up in our ordinary lives? How do we view that unjustified anger that grips us sometimes? How do we view the pride that moves us to push and shove and make sure that we get ours, even if it means that somebody else suffers? Are we demanding pity? Are we demanding attention? Are we demanding that we call the shots Are we demanding that our needs be handled first? Are we harboring jealousy Are we harboring bitterness? What are we harboring in our life? What about those secret sins that only you and God know about? Do you hate them? What excuses do we make for our sin? And do we see those excuses for the petty thing they really are? And specially do we see it when we excuse our own sin and we don't excuse it in others. Brothers and sisters, as John says, that if there's any among us today who say we have no sin, Then we're deceiving ourselves. We are in a spiritual battle. And whether we are positionally clean before God or not Even if we are saved in eternity for the shed blood of Jesus Christ applied to us, yet, brothers and sisters, every one of us is afflicted with sin. And therefore, the question we ask to ask is: how do we see ourselves in this battle we have with sin? The Bible teaches us that we should see it in terms of being lepers. Lepers who desperately need to be cleansed of their sin. Well, brothers and sisters, here we come to the most important part of what I'm covering today. The fourth thing that God wants us to learn from this text is this, because we're all lepers before God, we need two kinds of cleansing. We need two kinds of cleansing. We need the forever cleansing that removes the guilt of our condition. And we need the constant cleansing that heals our wounds in our ongoing battle. First, let's talk about the forever cleansing that removes the guilt of our condition. Brothers and sisters, this leper came forward to Jesus with the mark of God's condemnation on his body. He came with the curse of the law, scur scarring his life and scarring his soul. He came to Jesus who had as one who had been very justly cast out of the community of God's people He came to Jesus as one who was deserving of being cursed with leprosy in this world and deserving to be cursed with hell in the world to come. He came to Jesus as a man who was guilty. He left Jesus. As clean as snow. He left Jesus with all the guilt of his sin removed He left Jesus with no mark of leprosy on him, and the sin of Adam cleansed from his soul. He left Jesus with the righteousness of Christ imputed to him. Why? Because he came in faith to Jesus. He came in faith to declare him Lord and to humbly request in the sincerity of his heart that he be cleansed of his disease and in so doing cleansed of his sin. Brothers and sisters, as it was with that man so long ago, so it is with any man, woman, or child who comes to Jesus today and makes exactly that same request. We are born into this world with the guilt of sin scarring our souls. We do not have to die that way. There is grace available for sinners. There is grace available by a loving, compassionate Christ who acts as our high priest, as Jesus acted as a high priest in this case. to pronounce a person clean. To pronounce him clean after God, through the power of the Holy Spirit, has taken this person and washed him of the water in the waters of righteousness. removing from him every stain of guilt, every sentence of death that sin has brought upon him Brothers and sisters, if there be any here today who have never ever actually thought of themselves as lepers before God. No matter how many times you've attended church, nor for how long, yet in your heart you have never really faced that sin that is there. And you never have gone through what is called the grace of repentance, which is looking into a mirror and seeing with horror Just what you deserve. If in your heart you have never seen yourself in your life as deadly and ugly, that sin renders you unclean. And that it makes you into an instrument of unholiness contaminating everything you touch If you have never considered yourself in that light, then brothers and sisters, that should be a terrifying reality. Because you must see yourself in this light. You must see yourself as a leper standing outside of a crowd of God's people, and you must do whatever you must do to push through that crowd. and get to Jesus. You must come to Christ and you must bow down before Him in faith and true repentance and you must say, Oh Lord Jesus, if you are willing You can make me clean. And brothers and sisters, by the authority of the Lord Jesus Himself, I declare to you that any whom the Father brings to him in this way, he will in no wise turn away, but rather he will raise him up on the last day. Come to Christ, brother and sister, come and ask him to cleanse your life, and you will receive the same compassion, the same love. That Jesus showed that leper that day. But you know, we learn from this passage that we must all first flee to Jesus in order to be cleansed of the guilt of our sin. A forever cleansing, a forever washing that guarantees us that we will enter into God's presence guiltless. But second, there's a sense in which we must flee to Jesus every day. There's a sense in which the leprosy of our original sin keeps popping up in our spiritual skin. And which we must continually go to Jesus and cleanse ourselves of the remaining corruption of our natures, even as He has declared, has cleaned us of our guilt. Sanctification, brothers and sisters, in this life is not an option. If you believe that you made your you've invited Jesus into your heart once upon a time, many years ago, therefore you got your ex in the block. And okay, if you're going to be sanctified, it might happen. If you don't be sanctified, it's no big deal because you did your thing and you're going to heaven. And if that's your attitude towards it, then brothers and sisters, you actually need to go back up to point number one, you have to seriously question whether you are saved or not. Sanctification is not an option. It is essential to our Christian life. Sanctification means growth in holiness It means growth in purity. It means growth in obedience. The freight train of sanctification is pulled by the locomotive of repentance. The saved center is a repentant center. That's the only kind of saved center there is And a repentant sinner is one whose life is conditioned by repentance. It's a life that recognizes sin for what it is. It's hideous, and therefore a repentant sinner hates it We see the sin in our life, the remaining sin in our life, as leprosy. And we want, in fact, more than anything else in this world to be cleansed of it. This is one of the great ironic things that Augustine said at one time. He was going through his flail. He really hadn't come to that point in his life where he was able to uh to acknowledge Christ and to submit to him as he should. And he made this prayer. He records it in his confessions. I prayed, Lord, please give me chastity. Just not yet. He didn't hate his fornication. He didn't see it as ugly. To be repentant is to see life in terms of leprosy, the sin in our life in terms of leprosy, and we want, more than anything else in the world, to be free of it. Wash me, and I shall be perfectly whole. The song goes. A person who loves to be clean longs for a bath when they are dirty. So it is when sin breaks out in our lives, brothers and sisters, as it does every day, there's a sense in which we, as in this passage, have to regularly go as a leper to Christ. to be cleansed. We are victorious in Christ Jesus. And we in our lives are to show forth the joy of the good news that we have heard. That is absolutely true. The life of a Christian is to be a joyful witness to this to the grace of our Christ. But it is also true that a repentant sinner grieves over his sin. We face it as God shows it to us. And when we see the sin that still remains in us, we do again what we did at the beginning of our Christian walk. We flee to Jesus. And has to be cleansed. But does this mean that all the joy is stripped out of our life? That we are walking around constantly in dust and sackcloth and ashes and And our heads down and we are, oh, I am so happy I'm in Jesus. No. I want you to think of that leper when he left. Jesus that day. I want you to look at the attitude of him coming through the crowd and the attitude of him walking back out. What do you think? You think that leper was unhappy? That ex-leper? So it is, brothers and sisters. Repentance is the doorway to joy. Repentance is the doorway to that delight that comes and only comes when we realize that whatever we have done has been cleansed. He has cleansed us of our sin. We are no longer holy. We are no longer lepers in his sight. We first come to Jesus to be cleansed of the guilt of our sin and our first desperate need of salvation. So we must continually come to Jesus to be cleansed of the corruption of our sin until that day in glory, when at last he gives us a new body. And our battle with sin is over. Let's pray.