Our passage is today is Matthew 16, verses 13 through 23. You can turn there, but even as you're turning there, I would ask that you do Do so in a spirit of prayer. I ask that as you open your Bible, that you will pray that the Lord will indeed open your heart and mind to hearing his voice through the words that are taken Confirm his passage, this passage today. So would you do that please? In the words of the son of the Song, Lord God, we pray for wisdom, we pray for courage, we pray for all of those things that mark the people of your church as they hear from your word. Send your Holy Spirit into our hearts. And open us to your teaching. We ask it in your name. Amen. Matthew 16, picking up with verse 13, reading through verse. Verse 23. When Jesus came into the region of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? And so they said, Some say John the Baptist, some belong Elijah and others Jeremiah, or one of the prophets. And he said to them, But who do you say that I am? And Jesus answered and said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Baron Jonah, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. And I also say to you that you are Peter. And on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it, and I shall give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven Then he commanded his disciples that they should tell no one that he was the Jesus he was Jesus that he was Jesus the Christ. And from that time Jesus began to show to his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem. And it was necessary, I've added that, that he suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed and be raised in the third day. Then Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him, saying, Far be it from you, Lord, this shall not happen to you. But he turned and said to Peter, Get behind me, Satan. You are an offense to me, for you are not mindful of the things of God, but the things of men. May the Lord add to his blessings to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Twenty-five years ago almost, at our very first service, I preached from this particular text. A few people here in the room today were there that day also. I am certain of absolutely one thing that I'm probably the only one that remembers what I said. It was not what you would call a real good sermon. I titled it Breaking Down the Gates of Hell. Something like that. I wanted it to be a real barn burner. We were starting a new church and boy I was looking to get all those people excited and boy we were to to run off and to do the This thing, this crazy thing we were doing. And Jesus tells us here that hell itself cannot withstand the people of God and that we I was wanting for us I wanted us to be confident that that God was not only going to plant us here in that that time, Gambrill's Odenton, Millersville area, but he was going to tear down all of Satan's Strongholds that were infesting the place and give us victory in Jesus in the process. And on that day we sang victory in Jesus. It's been a church theme ever since. My intentions were okay. Execution, well, yeah, that's another story. But this This passage does allow for such an application. It does teach that Jesus is building his church, of which we are a part. It does teach that nothing can prevent his church from being built And it does teach, clear as a bell, that the gates of Hades shall not prevail against it. So let's take another look at this church and this passage and see how it goes today. What I'd like us to do is to first get the passage clearly in our mind. Here we see Jesus at a turning point in his ministry. The passage is a break, a very clear break, in Matthew's gospel. And up to this point, Jesus has essentially been doing things to present himself to the world. To present himself to the world in such an under a way that could not be denied, that he was indeed the Messiah. And he wanted his disciples into particular To see this as they followed him along. Matthew records Jesus' teaching, his great works, his demonstrations of power, and these are all cast in the way that Jesus is wanting the world. And his disciples particularly to sit up and take notice that something new, something wonderful is going on. And so now as he reaches this point, that idea Of presenting himself to the world and to the disciples is now in his immediate past, and he's he's essentially asking for feedback. Of course, he knows what the answer is going to be, but he's asking for feedback feedback to show that this intention has been met and he has done what he set out to do. So he asked his disciples, who do men say that I am? And he gets from his disciples the answer that he wants. Simon Peter comes through. You are the Christ. Christ, the Son of the Living God. And with that statement, Jesus knows, as He knows all things, but Jesus knows as His human nature Nature knows that now he can move on to the next phase of his ministry. He has done what he set out to do in the first part And now here are these men, his church, at least the foundations of his church, all except Judas. And on these he would build a new nation. A new society, a new people, a new gathering, which is called the ecclesia, the church And these are the people that are going to start out in Jerusalem, they're going to spill out of Jerusalem, they're going to go into Judea, and then into Samaria, and from thence to the outermost parts of the earth So the next thing we see here is a glimpse of how Jesus wanted his disciples to understand themselves and what the task was that was before them. He wanted them to see themselves in contradistinction, if you will, to something else. He wanted them to see themselves standing over and against a world that is in darkness. As it were, a mighty fortress. An imposing thing. I don't watch Lord of the Rings and all of that stuff. I don't I couldn't tell you what any of those people were, Jesse could. But you know the bad guys are always in this big blast Black fortress, you know, and the people have to go and they fight against all the bad guys, and the bad guys are always dark and ugly and all that stuff. Well, Jesus kind of wants The people of God to see themselves as standing against such a dark place, evil place, lightning coming out of it and and ugly people doing bad Now that's a fortress that is ruled by Satan. And it's been the the people that are in it have been given over into his power. This has happened because of man's rebellion against God. And mankind is therefore enslaved in this fortress. And this darkness controls these people. They are sharing. Their minds have been warped by Satan and by his forces and by the way. their own sin. Their passions are impure and selfish. And their will. Oh their will. That which we put put together under the the heading of will that that kind of mysterious force that causes us to to will to do something. Their will is controlled by their own pride such that That all they want to do is the desires of their own heart. They want to be a law unto themselves. At least they think that's what they want, what they really are. Are wanting to have Satan rule them. They've been deceived. They're seeking to be a law unto themselves, but they're actually obeying the commandments. Commands of Satan. And brothers and sisters, what I have just described is hell. No matter how pleasurable some of the people in this fortune Are finding their lives in a physical sense, yet there is hell. For they know not the Christ, they know nothing but their own misery. Jesus wants his disciples to understand here that the only way a person can be released from this hell, the only way a person can be brought out of this stronghold is for some Someone to rescue them, someone to break down the door and go into this fort and to break the chains that That shackle them. To set the prisoners free. Someone has to break down that gate. Someone has to To cut them loose from the darkness. Someone has to give them a new set of passions. They'll shove out the old passions. And someone has to give them a new them a new will so that they actually hunger and thirst for righteousness. to do that. And Jesus, Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God, has come to do that very thing. That is his mission. He is the crusading general that we see pictured in Revelation. Revelations 6 and 19, where John portrays them there as this brilliant commander seated on a white horse, glowing with flashing light. all about him. And he is pictured to as going out to conquer Satan and to defeat all of Satan's forces. This passage Jesus says that the gates of Hades itself will not stand against his church. Because Jesus is picturing his His legions of angels that we see pictured in Revelation are there with them. By analogy of Scripture, we see that Jesus is painting here the The same picture as what we see there. As having the whole host of heaven working in and through his church, angels and men together, if you will, riding what White horses and dressed in white robes, following their king, their commanding general, as he makes war in the world. Now, this is the power that Jesus wants his disciples, and now he wants us to know is in his church Jesus says that this church will be built on Peter's confession, but it will be filled with imperfect people. Look around us Do we see any glowing white robes here? You know? Do we see people who are absolutely perfectly doing everything that God tells them to do? Do we see people that are never stumbling or never saying a crossword or anything like that? No. But that's not how we're to see the truth. We're to see the church that's filled with imperfect people, flawed Christians, just like Peter was flawed. But in and through these imperfect people is the power of heaven itself at work. The power and the authority of Jesus Himself, present with his people, doing the things that we have just pictured him doing. Invincible. It will overcome the power of Satan because it is the instrument, if you will, the weapon, if you will, of Jesus Himself for the tearing down of strong And that is how Jesus wanted his disciples to understand and to picture themselves when he says the gates of Hades will not stand before For it. And that's how we have to think of ourselves. We have to think of ourselves as being on the winning side in a total war. We have to see ourselves as being members of an invincible army whose mission is to seek out and to destroy Not to wait for Satan to attack us, but to attack his strongholds. Wherever they are to be encountered And then in the power of Christ Himself, using the weapons He gives them, watch these strongholds fall to the ground before the power and authority. of Christ Himself. Let's consider why the disciples needed to hear this. Jesus had to tell them as he finishes this first section here, where he has he has done amazing things. He has healed lepers, he's calmed the waves, he's fed five thousand people the Jesus has has not done anything that has caused them to see him being weak or having anything but total control over the situation. And yet Jesus knew that now he's about to start his last journey. It's time to go to Jerusalem. It's time to go to the cross. And it was time for him to be given over to the power of Satan. Now, when that happened, Satan was going to appear to win And these disciples needed to have something in their background so that when it appeared to them that the darkness was stronger than the light That these disciples would not fall prey to the terrible temptation of thinking that their Lord had lied to them. They were going to be at risk They were going to be at risk both from the forces that Satan has, the physical forces, of their own death, of their own uh persecution, and also They were going to be subject to the temptations of Satan that might cause them to doubt that their Lord was with them and that the church he built was invincible. So he began to teach them. He says, Look, this is part of the plan. You heard me add a few uh words to that. It was necessary He taught them that there was no other option than for him to go to Jerusalem to suffer. and to die. Jesus taught them this because he had to show them that this was essential to his mission. He had to do this. And they needed to remember this in due time. They needed to know this. They needed to know that as they saw him suffering and dying, that he had only Also said he would raise from the dead. The weapon that Jesus would use to overcome the world. The reason why he went to Jerusalem, the reason why he had to do The reason why it was necessary he do this is that this would become the weapon by which the war would be waged. And the world would be overcome. The weapon is the message. The weapon is that Jesus went to the cross, and there by his very own body and blood that was shed for the remission of sins, there is where the doors would be broken down. There is where the chains that hold men them a new set of emotion. And it is the body and blood of Jesus Christ that gives them a new will to do the things of God rather than the things of Satan Jesus had to do this because there's no other option. There was no other option. There's well, maybe he could have found a different way. Maybe he didn't have to die. Maybe he could have maybe he could have, you know, just gone ahead and gone with this magic wand and changed everybody. Jesus had to uh had to go. It was no other option in the power and in the wisdom of God for this to be a And that is why when Peter comes to him then and says, surely not, there's got to be a different way, Jesus. No, no, no, not that. Jesus turns right around. He says, get behind me, not Peter. He says, get behind me, Satan. You're thinking the way the world thinks about this stuff. You're not thinking about it the way God thinks about this stuff. You want what you're saying would strip me of the very weapon that is going to be employed to tear down these strongholds. It can't be done any other way. And we have to be careful here. Remember how Jesus commended Peter and said, Hey, you know, that that statement you just made about you being the Christ, the Son of the Living God, that didn't come to you from Yourself, that came to you from God the Father. Notice here. Peter comes and now he's speaking from Satan. And Jesus makes sure he understands that And what we see here is that Peter, and I believe he's born again at this point, I believe he's regenerated, but we see the power of hell still working in him. We see Satan still having the freedom to move amongst the people of God, inclining them to say such things. We see that Peter was here not completely free of the shackles of sin that controlled his emotions and his thoughts and his heart. And he will not, really. Be changed such that he becomes the Peter we see later until he sees the risen Christ victorious over death. Now Jesus is still in his role as a suffering servant. And the power of Satan has not then yet been broken and defeated forever. So Paul says or so Jesus said Get thee behind me, Satan. For I have come to die. I have come to die and to build. I have come to die because it is only through my death and that sin And death will lose its sting, and it's only by my death on the cross that the power of the law to condemn my people will be broken, and I have come to free them of those chains. Get thee behind me, Satan, for I have come to die and to build, and having the power, having been given over to the power of Satan, as I shall be And having gone to hell on the cross, as shall happen, I will rise again from the grave and risen as the glorious Savior and Lord. I will ascend to the right hand of God to follow Father Almighty, and with all power in heaven and earth given to me, and from there I will gather my saints from the four corners of the earth I shall call them, and all that the power of God, all that the Father has given me shall come to me, and I will assemble it into a mighty church. Brothers and sisters, the church of Jesus Christ is built on This faith. It is built on the faith that Jesus is the Son of the living God. It is not built on the idea that Jesus was the Son of God. It is not built on the idea that Jesus was the Son of God who went to the cross and died and rose again. It is built on the Built on the faith that Jesus is the Son of the God and has risen from the grave and is now seated in glory, and all authority is being exercised from him, authority unto the changing of the world We are not a backwards looking people walking always looking over our shoulder. We're a forward-looking people people always looking to Christ who is out in front of us having defeated Satan on the cross and is now leading his people in the forefront. We're a good general. Always ought to be. The church is built on this confession, and it is built on this confidence that nothing can withstand history. Church, nothing can withstand our Lord working through His church, nothing can separate us from His love for us, and nothing can prevent us from doing those things things which will give him the victory. Brothers and sisters, as it was twenty-five years ago, not stated I as well as I should then I hope I stated it better today. This is the confession that must shape and characterize us. That confession has to be We must not see ourselves as just a passive hospital where sickness is a very important thing to do. We must never forget that we are a church of Christ who has been Battle, a life and death struggle with a powerful foe. We are the Church of Christ, and standing before us is this gigantic citadel where Satan is ruling the hearts and minds of people And our job is to wage war against that stronghold. That's why we were assembled. That's why we were drafted. Into Jesus' army. And wherever this citadel, wherever this darkness, wherever this dominion of Satan shows up in our lives, As we go through our lives and encounter it in our lives, wherever it shows up, it is up to us to confront it. Whether it's in the life and the action of those who are close to us, those who ought to know better because we taught them better? But Satan's got a And he is keeping them in his slavery? Or whether we encounter the power of Satan in the lives of others with whom we come in contact and In our various walks, perhaps in our jobs, perhaps in our neighborhoods, perhaps in our occasional acquaintances, wherever it may be, we encounter the lies and the Deception and the power of Satan, as we walk through this life, we can't get away from it because it's there. It's right in front of us. And our mission is to wage war against it. But our mission is not to wage war in our own strength. That is a recipe for disaster. Rather, we're to wage war with the power of God that He has given us. Given us. We should wage war with the body and blood of Christ and the promise of His resurrection. We are to trust in the power of Christ to apply the body and blood blood of Christ to those to whom we are witnessing, to those with whom we are pleading, to those that we are taking under our arms and seeking to show a better way. The power of the Spirit and trusting that the power of Christ is with us. That power is like having a million angels fighting our battles right alongside of us. Us. And that power will certainly prevail. We fight using the weapons Jesus gives us in another way. We fight By dying to self. Only a Christian can understand that. We fight by being meek and humble and devoted to showing love rather than We fight by doing good where the world would repay evil for evil. We fight by crying out to Jesus for strength and wisdom when we need it, rather than a defens Depending upon the teachings of the world and depending upon manipulation to attain our ends. We fight by seeking to protect Persuade rather than condemn. For God alone will judge for eternity. And we fight by standing for the truth wherever we encounter a lie. No exceptions. And we fight, and we fight, and we fight, and some more until the day the Lord says enough. or the heavens part and we see him come back and we realize that the whole war is over. If you're here today and your vision of the church Is that it's a nice place to visit if you don't have anything else to do on Sunday, and that it's kind of like a convention or a kind of like Like a country club or it's just one more gathering of people where people get together and and they do stuff and it's nice stuff. You know, they have nice friendly people there and there's always something to eat. And you know, there's there's there's just it's just a nice place to be. We we really wish everybody was a Christian because they're nice folk. Well, if that's your vision of the church, then you're not listening to Jesus. The church is not a place. The church is a people. It is an organized people, a structured people, divided up into divisions, given leaders, and people to follow those leaders. It's an organized people who think of themselves in terms of being gathered from the four corners of the earth in order to wage war. And that's an exciting thing. Glorious thing, because we know that it is a war that will be and has been won. Victory is assured, and all of Jesus' enemies and all of our enemies. enemies will one day be a footstool on which he places his feet. We have to embrace the church militant as our Primary framework for understanding our church. And the next thing we need to do is to embrace Christ as our leader in the battle that we are certainly going to fight. We are to place ourselves at his disposal, to use as he sees fit. That's a movement of the will. In order to fight the darkness that he tells us to fight, we're to do this without grumbling, but in joyful anticipation. For we know that the gates of hell will not stand against us. Why? Because Christ is leading us, and he will have his victory Let's pray. Lord and God, I ask that this vision be stamped on our hearts and in our minds. And I pray, Lord God, that the word that you have put so clearly here will become our hope. For our hope is most certainly in the Lord Lord. It is in you. You are our Savior and you are our King, but you are at our as our King. You are leading us into battle And Lord, that's okay with us. That's what we're here for. We are like a military unit that is highly motivated. Yes, free the core is at its stop. And we're anxious to get on with the job that we have been given to do. Grant us, Lord and God, that this vision that is not just in this passage but permeates the entire range of scripture from the organization of Israel to to the end of Revelation. Lord God, we we ask that this picture of your Your church, your assembled body, gathered under you as our King, become our hallmark here at Severn Run. And we grant, ask, Lord God, that you will motivate us to do And to will and to uh have victory in all of the things that we confront. We ask this in your name. Amen. I stand and sing. My hope is in the Lord, and