Let us open our scriptures to the Gospel of Matthew and we'll stand for the reading of His Word. We're in chapter twenty-eighth. Then I'm just gonna read um one through twenty is a little bit of a longer reading. But it bears hearing the whole thing. Now, after the Sabbath, as the first day of the week began to dawn, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to see the tomb. And behold there was a great earthquake. For an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone from the door and sat on it His countenance was like lightning, and his clothing as white as snow, and the guards shook for fear of him, and they became like dead men. But the angel answered and said to the women, Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. He is not here, for he is risen. As he said, Come, see the place where the Lord lay, and go quickly and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead, and indeed he is going before you into Galilee. There you will see him. Behold, I have told you. So they went out quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy and ran to bring his disciples' word. And as they went to tell his disciples, behold, Jesus met them, saying, Rejoice! So they came and held him by the feet and worshipped him. him. Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brethren to go to Galilee, and there they will see me. Now while they were going, behold, some of the guard came into the city and reported to the chief priests all the things that had happened When they had assembled with the elders and consulted together, they gave a large sum of money to the soldiers, saying, Tell them, his disciples came at night and stole him away while he slept. And if this comes to the governor's ear, we will appease him and make you secure. So they took the money and did as they were instructed. And this saying is commonly reported among the Jews until this day. Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee to the mountain which Jesus had appointed for them. When they saw him, they worshipped him, but some doubted. And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Amen. Amen. Please pray with me. Lord Jesus Christ, as one who has ascended and sitting on the throne, who has been given the Spirit I pray that you would send us your spirit this morning that we would not only see your authority, but live under it. I ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. May be seated. I want everyone who voted for President Trump to come over here on the left. And I want everyone else who didn't to come over here on the right. No? I was gonna play a game. No? I was I was gonna play a game on telling you there's one thing that you agree upon. Whether you voted for the current president or not I think this is a statement that we can all agree upon, not only for this president, but if you were to look past in the histories, even the perhaps some of the most popular presidents. We could say this about them. There's always opposition. And the opposition begins to search for means to take that authority away from The president. It happens with every president. And I think we can agree on that, whether you are for the taking away the authority or not, there is a fact That people seek to take away his authority. Why is it that people do that? Why is the a means is always towards an end. So what is the end for which they strive The answer is because when someone has authority, especially at the level of a president, then they will be then that then if you're under that person's authority, you will be eventually personally directed and affected by that person or leader's conception of the world. You'll be affected by the policies, the legislation that will be enacted. The authorities' ideals will eventually land in your living room somehow, or at least when you're done If your ideals are the opposite from the person in office, then one way to end the whole thing is to remove the president's authority where they just become Really, that's not just for presidents. It's just one example of a means that we use across our lives Anytime we want to neutralize or escape someone, we figure out ways to take away their authority. It is an effective way to make them nothing, really. For example, if you want to promote and establish your view of raising children, do you know what you could do? You could take away the authority of parents. We see that happening. It's happened in different ages. I think that this is so persuasive and so pervasive within human life That there is a general maxim and truth that emerges. Life is all about who has authority. And everyone knows that. Life is all about who has authority. Now, this is certainly the case as you arrive here on Easter morning. Easter, especially from Matthew's Gospel. I hope you heard it in the reading. If you were to just go back this afternoon with authority lenses or authority goggles and read Matthew's Gospel, that's what it's about. It's about authority. Easter is all about authority. You can see this as we begin. I really want to start before the passage that I that I read, but beginning in 2857, we see that Jesus had has in fact died. Do you see that? I'm sorry, in twenty seven fifty seven. Now when evening had come there came a rich man from Arimathea named Joseph, who himself had be also become a disciple of Jesus. And this man went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. The many women among this story that you can see in that same sentence were Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and of Joseph, or Joseph's. And the mother of Zebedee's sons, you see that in verses 55 and 56. They witnessed that Jesus did not just faint or swoon or pass out. That's why they're placed there as So that you can see that he in fact was dead. Jesus was fully dead. In 57, as we've read, the rich man Joseph from Arimathea went to Pilate and he asked for the body of Jesus. Joseph took the body, wrapped it in clean linen cloth, and laid it in his new tomb, which he had hewn out of the rock. Joseph rolled a large stone against the door of the tomb, and he departed If you were there and you were to ask, in fact, let's just bring them here, if Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were here this morning, we asked them, is this what happened? They would say, Yes, we saw it with our own eyes. Look at verse 61. They were present to witness that also. On the next day, though, the leaders responsible for Jesus' death held a meeting together with Pilate. They had to have a meeting because this is what they recalled. Although they had destroyed Jesus' authority by killing him They still had a major concern, and this comes up in this verse. They recall this. They said Jesus, and they called him the deceiver, because he had he according to them they let he led many from his Israel astray. He said, Jesus had said that after three days he would rise from the dead. And the leaders were concerned about this. Do you see? If we're looking through the goggles of authority, do you see why they would be concerned? The reason that they put Jesus to death is to eliminate his authority, that he would have nothing behind his words, that it would just have been a dead end. A political leader has risen and And they put him down, and that's the end of the movement. But if Jesus had authority, even in his teachings, if there was a legend that was perpetuated throughout the land, there's some kind of energy that could pick back up. And they would have to deal with Jesus continually. It would destroy their lifestyle, their societal positions of leadership within Jerusalem, all the things that we see that were threatened by Jesus from the Beginning of his ministry. All the reasons why they hated him. Do you remember the story that Jesus told about this? About the threat of his authority versus those who were authoritative within the land? Do you remember the paragraph? The parable of the landowner. Remember that he farmed out or gave his farm to tenants? We went over this early in the season. Well, God the Father sends multiple servants to the vineyard to collect fruits, and every time one of those servants arrive, they kill them. And then he surely says, if I send my own son, they will respect his authority. He's the son of the owner, the owner of the vineyard. But this is what it says. Finally, the owner sent his son, thinking, surely they will respect my son. But when the tenant farmers saw his son coming, they said to one another, Here comes the heir to this estate. Come on, let's kill him and get the estate for ourselves. So they grabbed him, dragged him out of the vineyard, and and murdered him. It's exactly what's going on here. And the thought that a legend could rearise that would undo their work of murder threatened them. That's happening in the text, and Matthew is relating that to you. This is where their worry resurfaces. If the tomb is not guarded and the body is stolen. If the disciples steal the body to make it look like Jesus rose from the dead, and in their mind he really didn't, then Jesus' authority will live on at least in a kind of myth The Jesus following will gain some kind of strength. Those disciples will take that energy and run with it. And so the leaders of Jerusalem would still be contending for their way of life. And thus the leaders were concerned. Have you ever made a campfire by a lake? Or by any water source, really? You're just looking at me have you ever made a fire? Modern people? I know you just you yeah I turned it up to 73 the other day. No I'm saying like fire and wood Fire and wood. Once you finish roasting your hot dogs and marshmallows and the bugs get too bad, depending where you are, or if the air is too damp and cold, it's time to put out the fire And you can do this in a couple different ways. You could let the fire burn out on its own, or you could grab large buckets full or shovels full of dirt and suffocate the fire. Almost instantly. This is a picture of the choice before the leaders of Jerusalem. The chief priests and Pharisees, together with Pilate, were not willing to just let the fire of Jesus' authority naturally Died down through the night. They wanted any authority that he or his disciples had instantly suffocated. That is why they killed him to begin with. So they go to Pilate, verse 65. Take a look at that with me. Pilate said to them, You have a guard, go your way, make it as secure as you know how. So they've come up with the plan. And so they went and they made the tomb secure and they sealed the stone and they set the guard in place. Can you picture that? Exactly what they're doing. They go to Pilate, who has authority. And they set this up in place so that the plan of disciples, if they were to try it, would never come to fruition. Now, look at 28. 1 Now after the Sabbath, as the first day of the week began to dawn, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to see the tomb. Here we go again. Do you see what's happening? In what Matthew was doing. Do you see the names that keep showing up through the account from chapter 27 down into 28? Have you figured out the role of the women yet? Can you see how God had planned for these women to play in the redemptive plan in real history? Every time that they are mentioned, they act as a set of eyewitnesses so that you can make sure that you get the truth. There's another set of eyes on the whole situation. Remember, they were the ones there to witness that Jesus was really dead, so that people later couldn't say well he must have just passed Passed out from exhaustion and then later he revived and walked out of the tomb. No, he was dead because the women saw that he was dead And they witnessed that Jesus was really put in the tomb. Do you see how the story could go? Yeah, they made it look like they put him in the tomb, but they never really put him in the tomb. And what would have been their reply in the first century? But the women were there and they saw it. That's the whole point. And behold, there was a great earthquake. For an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone from the door, and they sat on it. And guess who was there to see all of that happen? The women. His countenance was like lightning and his clothing as white as snow. And the guards shook for fear of him and became like dead men. But the angel answered, and he said to the women, because they were there as eyewitnesses, reading now two through ten. Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified, but he is not here because he is risen. Come, see the place where the Lord lay. So thou they, the women, get to go eyewitness and see that there is no one in the tomb. And he says, and go quickly and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead, and indeed he is going before you into Galilee, and there you will see him. Behold, I have told you. And so you know what they did. Verse 8. So they went out quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and they ran to bring his disciples' word. Can you imagine? Can you can you can you imagine seeing an angel in the morning and seeing all of that happen? Only a woman would would be able to to uh announce the truth of how scared the men were really were. I don't think fellow men would a acknowledge it. Well they were kind of scared, you know, I mean, reasonably. No, women name it as it is. Amen. And as they went to tell his disciples, behold, and here it is, it wasn't enough that they saw that he died. It wasn't enough that they saw that he was clearly put in the tomb and that the tomb was sealed. It wasn't enough that he saw the angel break the seal of the tomb and scare the guards to death, like they were like dead men. They saw Jesus, the risen Lord, themselves. Jesus met them saying, Rejoice, verse 9. So they came and held him by the feet, and they worship him. Let's make three observations just as we're kind of going. along here. We're hearing this this history. Let's just stop for a moment. Pretend you're on a guided tour. And I just want to point out a few things that that are important. Number one, the women were told by an angel what happened, and this is a sure sign that they Have the truth. You have heard me say this before. I am so tired of hearing men and women speak. We need less voices on earth and more voices from heaven When I look around, I see one professor that's really smart, way smarter than me, and another professor who's just as smart, way smarter than me, and they disagree with each other. How in the world am I from the Eastern Shore ever supposed to know the truth? And the answer is because the truth has come from heaven, not from men, and that's what we see here. It's the significance of what has happened. An angel itself has told the Women. That's the second observation. That's the first observation. The second observation is this: the women not only heard from the angel, but looked in the tomb themselves. They saw the risen Jesus with their own eyes. We've made that observation. Now here's the third. Do you know what the status of women was like in that culture? Did you know that during that time female testimony was not admissible evidence in court? This is a very important historical fact because if the disciples were trying to make up a story, why in the world would they ever let women be the eyewitnesses in their call? Culture, who could not even testify legitimately to the fact. On all accounts, this is a sign that they are honestly telling the facts as it happened. They are not trying to tickle the ears of their culture. They are just saying what took place. Now it's important to hear what these Mary saw, because there's another story that is forged in this text and will be circulated around that is different than the than the witness that we're hearing from these women. And that's what we see in verses 11 through 15. Now while they were going, behold, some of the guard came into the city and reported to the chief priests all the things that had happened. Do you see what took place? We have one story that has surfaced and eyewitnessed with the Marys, and now we have another story. It's really the same story at this time because the soldiers go to the chief priests and they say, this is what happened. When they had assembled with the elders and they consulted together, they gave a large sum of money to the soldiers, saying, Tell them Don't tell them that story. Don't talk about angels. Don't talk about the tomb being ripped open. Don't talk about a resurrection from the dead. Tell everyone that Jesus' disciples came at night and they stole him away while he was asleep. So essentially, I know one of the soldiers had to say, so you want us to tell the story that you put us there to make sure that that story didn't happen Yes, tell that story. And if this comes to the governor's ears, we will appease him and make you secure. Because if a prisoner escapes, the guards who were guarding deserve death. As a Roman soldier. But the chief priests promised not only a sum of money, but they said, we will make sure that you don't receive the death penalty. So they took the money. And they did as they were instructed. And the saying that the chief priest told the soldiers is still commonly in that day reported among the Jews as to what This is what happened. We fell asleep, and just as we opened our eyes, we realized that his disciples came and stole his dead body out of the tomb. That was a story that kept perpetuating among the Jewish people. Do you know why? So that Jesus would never have You know what's interesting is that if you were to look at the church fathers, Justin Martyr, have you ever heard of him? The second century A. D. , and he records that the Jewish people during his time still held to the story that Jesus' disciples stole Jesus' dead body from the tomb while the soldiers were asleep. And we still hear kind of stories like that today from modern day scholars. You know, it's interesting to me again I know that if children come to me and they're trying to To convince me of something. They don't tell me the other side for me to consider. They only want me to see their perspective and why they should have what they have. And yet Matthew is not threatened to bring up the other story In an account by Matthew, Matthew does not fail to mention that there is another story circulating. And he even goes further to mention that in verse 16, Another sign that this is not a legend, this is not a myth, that he is reporting the historical facts. Even among the disciples in verse 16, some doubted Some were really struggling with which story to believe. The whole story snacks of realism and of true history and reality. And so I want to make this point. Notice what it meant for the disciples to believe. I want you to just deepen the reality of the situation and the realism of these accounts What was at stake if you decided to say, I believe the story that the woman told? They were not asked to believe a theory with no consequences. They were not taking a comparative religions course at the University of Maryland. There is nothing at stake in those courses. They were not just faced with affirming or denying words, and it didn't make any difference. If Jesus has raised from the dead then according to their worldview and ours, then the point of that is that he has received the authority of the Christ from God the Father And if Jesus is the Christ, then they will owe Jesus full allegiance no matter what. And that means full allegiance against the prevailing authorities who just crucified. Jesus. They just went through this ordeal. To confess that Jesus raised from the dead and is the Christ would end up costing them everything once you read the New Testament. They would lose their personal property. They would lose their families. And they would lose their own lives. Was not truly resurrected from the grave, would any of those things be given up? If he were not truly declared by God the Father to be the Christ, would they ever have given up such things? There was no other motivation present, is what I'm trying to tell you. There's no bias for money. There's no bias for fame. All the things that drive human beings, they're not present for them. Everything is against them. There's every reason not to believe unless this, unless it's true that Jesus is risen from the dead and has been made the Christ. This is why I I personally and many people that I know No, have believed. And listen to this very clearly, secular people, that it is entirely reasonable to believe what the women have said. in these accounts. Some will doubt. Look at verse seventeen and sixteen. You know, if you were to look at the little number in your Bible, it's immediately going to take you to the Gospel of John because it's going to be doubting Thomas. Some will doubt, like Thomas. But just because you can you can See, even in this doubting, that just because these were ancient people, it didn't mean that they had a lower IQ than you. You could excuse everything that I have said so far and just saying, oh, well, they were Neanderthals No, they weren't. Their literature produced by their culture tells us that they're smarter than you. Because everything you say, you're just repeating. in commentaries what they said. I haven't seen anything original in America ever. It's all built on the Greeks or on the scriptures. Really, all that is is a chronological snobbery. That's what C. S. Lewis calls it So the other disciples therefore said to him, We have seen the Lord. So he said to them, This is Thomas. Unless I see in his hands the prints of the nails, and I put my finger into the print of the nails and put my hand into his side, I will not believe our logical positivist has arrived on the scene. And after eight days his disciples were again inside, and Thomas with them. Jesus came, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace to you. Then he said to Thomas, Reach your finger here and look at my hand And reach your hand here and put it into my side. Do not be unbelieving, but believing. And Thomas answered and said, The only thing that he could say at this point, he was finally, listen to this, finally catching up to the women. My Lord and my God. Do you see what we've done? We've gone through chapter twelve 27. We follow these women along. We've watched the men catch up, and we have arrived back where we started. Thomas makes a public profession of the authority of Jesus Christ. Because that's what Easter is about. It's about who has authority. My Lord. My God. Ultimate terms of authority. That's Matthew's emphasis. The time has been fulfilled. Authority has been granted to Jesus of Nazareth, who is the Christ. You know, many people celebrate Easter. I'd love to just walk along the streets someday. If you want to do this with me, let me know. We'll put together a little And just ask people. Hey, what it like let's just go to some local churches and when they come out, let's say, hey, you're celebrating Easter Day. Yeah, what's Easter all about? Uh what is Easter all about? Well he raised from the dead. Well, didn't other people raise from the dead? Why don't we celebrate Lazarus Day? Or Jarius's daughter's day. We wonder at the meaning. And we are meant to marvel, of course, at the raising from the dead. Only God God can do that. But we know that others were raised from the dead. Why not the same celebration? Why don't we get why don't we have a day on the calendar where we all wear bonnets on Lazarus' day? The point in Jesus' resurrection is that no matter who tried and what tools they tried to use God the Father was going to give the appointed and decreed authority to him. That's the point of Easter. Authority and Jesus are to be never separated. What God has brought together let man not pull asunder. Does that remind you of something? The rulers plotted together against the Lord and against his anointed. Let us break their chains, they cried, and free ourselves from slavery to God. But the one who rules in heaven laughs. The Lord scoffs at them. Psalm two one through four. The Jewish nation could not keep Jesus down. The Roman Empire could not keep Jesus down. The devil could not keep Jesus down. Death could not keep God the Father from giving all authority in heaven and earth to Jesus as the Christ. And still today, you can do your research, and you can see that as Jesus Christ ruling over each nation sends his messengers and his word to them and his effectual call through his spirit No nation can keep him down. China has tried. Korea has tried. Africa has tried. No one can keep him down. We come to verse eighteen. It's usual for people to put summary verses To summarize everything that someone has said. And that is what we see in the Gospel of Matthew. And Jesus came and he spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. That is the point of Easter. It's all about authority. And so here you are, on Easter Awaiting ham and all of the good things that accompany it. But you have a decision to make before you leave. And if you don't make it here, you have a decision to make after you leave. There are two options. Do you believe the story of the women and the disciples? Or do you believe the story of the Jews or stories like it that take away the authority of Jesus Christ? Christ. That is the ultimate question for you. Is Jesus in authority over you, or is he not? Is he your Lord or is He your your king or not. Those are the two options. He can't be kinda your king. Do you believe the eyewitness account of the women and the rest of the disciples? That is really the question, isn't it? Doesn't it really boil down to that? You know, it's interesting to me that when we spend enough time looking at the actual scriptural texts, they don't focus on, hey, did you have the right religious feelings? I understand that feeling is appropriate, but feelings, in my mind, are truth-deepened. Truth always comes first. Christianity presumes a body of knowledge. He doesn't ask, hey, do you feel warm and fuzzy when you're singing your contemporary worship songs? Contemporary worship songs are fine But I don't see that here. I don't see that as the pivotal issue, everything hanging on it. The question of all questions has to do with real history, and it has to do with the identity of who Jesus is. Do you believe the history as told by the apostles or not is the question, which means you would need to read and understand. You know, the problem with the eunuch is that he didn't Understand. And so it had to be made clear to him because Christianity presumes a body of knowledge. You don't walk through the sanctuary doors and leave your intellect in the narthex. That's not what the scriptures say The scriptures bid you to be convinced that Jesus is the Christ through millions of scriptural testimonies. If they were all recorded, there wouldn't be a world large enough for all of the books, John says. Do you believe the history as told by the apostles or not? Do you believe that Jesus is the ruler of heaven and earth? If you really believe, this is what we see. It will be obvious. It will be obvious to everyone because you will be his disciple and he will be your teacher If you really believe, people will know because you obviously exist under the authority of Jesus and his disciples. America is stricken with a plague right now. It's called easy believism. I can make a decision and say something about Jesus, and it will make no Difference in any decision I make in my life. I've asked you this before. Does the rest of those who are not in the church believe that you're really a believer? Or do they see you as a hypocrite? That's the ultimate question. If you really believe, people will know because you obviously exist under the authority of Jesus and his discipleship. Now I do understand, and I've I've already made a big deal of making sure that you count the cost and you think through these things. Some of you will leave here undecided about the cost. Christ and about Jesus. And one thing that you could do, I've noticed there's cruises now to the Holy Land. You could go to the Holy Land. It's been very commercialized. You could find what they think was his tomb. But this is the problem that you're going to run into. He is not there. Because he has risen. Amen. Please pray with me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we know that none of us comes to you on earth. Our own, but you alone allow us to see Jesus as the Christ, and therefore we ask for your spirit to be poured out, that you would call all your own to yourself, that you would gather them. And that they would give obedience and truly recognize in their everyday life their words, their thoughts, their hearts, all their hearts, all their mind, all their strength, they would recognize The authority of Jesus Christ. We ask these things in your name. Amen.