Dark, so I just ask that you would listen to God's word being read. I'm reading John chapter 13, and I'll read 1 through 16 tonight. Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour had come, that he should depart from this world to the Father. Having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. And supper being ended, the devil having already put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he had come from God and was going to God, he rose from supper and laid aside his garments, took a towel, and girded himself After that, he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the towel with which he was girded. And he came to Simon Peter, and Peter said to him, Lord, are you washing my feet? Jesus answered and said to him, What I am doing you do not understand now, but you will know after this. Peter said to him, You shall never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I do not wash you, you have no part with me. Simon Peter said to him, Lord, not only my feet, but also my hands and my head. Jesus said to him, He who is bathed needs only to wash his feet, but is completely clean. And you are clean, but not all of you. For he knew who would betray him, therefore he said, You are not all clean. So when he had washed their feet, taken his garments, and sat down again, he said to them, Do you know what I've done to you? You call me teacher and lord, and you say, well, for so I am. If I then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example that you should do as I have done to you. Most assuredly I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master. Nor is he who is sent greater than him than he who sent him. If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them. Let us pray. Oh Christ. In all honesty, the more comfortable thing to do In the face of such a moment as this is to just remain quiet. But Lord, you have bid us to preach. And so, Lord, we ask, I ask, that your word would go forth, not with the power of rhetoric, but with the power of your spirit I pray, Lord, that you would preach. I pray that you would bring your word to us tonight. And I ask these things in your name Amen. I did see a few faces here tonight that were not here last this past Sunday, but we celebrated the triumphal entry. If you're not familiar with the triumphal entry, it's the passage that is in the Gospels that deals with the palm branches We were noticing last Sunday that Christ rode the cult from the peak of the Mount of Olives down, down, down into Jerusalem. Our main observation was that it was a symbolic act. It was Christ showing that He is God. That he is coming down to earth from his heavenly temple. And with John's emphasis, this isn't everyone's emphasis, but John's emphasis is that Jesus is coming not to condemn But to bring life. Christ has come to be condemned himself, actually, to die that his bride may have life Now, this theme is continuing tonight. I hope that you are already picking up on it. You notice in verse 13 I hope you remember this, but in verse 1 it mentions the feast again. This book is very much structured around time and feasts. But we have a different symbol before us, don't we? It's not the cult. It's not the mountain. It's the footwashing. It is quite curious that the institution of the Lord's Supper is absent. And we just hear mention of it briefly: of after the supper, and then the footwashing. John is going to make sure, and does make sure, that we do not miss the reality of this moment. There are a few realities, but I want to point your attention to a main emphasis that John states in verse 1. He just gets right to work. He says this. Now I just read this to you, but uh here listen to this again. Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour had come, that he should depart from this world to the Father, and then here it is. Having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. Now that is a summary statement if I've ever heard one. of what Jesus is doing and what John wants us to focus on. But did you notice and take a real uh did you hear that final word there end? That Jesus loved them to the end. You know, that's a key word for us in a time like this because Jesus will use the same word in a different form. after receiving the sour wine on the being crucified, and he will say, It is finished. And it is the same sense. It is, it is ended. And that has got to be echoing through the whole gospel, really. It's definitely present here in the dim light of oil lamps. Or if they're on a rooftop with a tent sort of stretched over them, the moonlight, because it would be close to full moon at this point because of the Passover festival. But in that light Jesus would have been giving them the light that he has been seeking to give them for the his whole time with them, and that is that his end is the end that the Father has determined. It is the end of glory on the cross. It is the end of glory of resurrection and ascension. But here, he loved them to the end. You could say he loved them to death. Because, in a sense, in one sense, death was the end for which he strove before the Father and out of love for his people. So when you end up tying all of this together, which John invites us to do, we end up realizing a major divine reality. Christ will die the humiliating death of the cross in order to cleanse his people. You've heard that before. But the thing that is right at the center of it all for John. is for you to ask the question, why? Why would Christ die the humiliating death of the cross in order to cleanse his people? Now there are many answers to that. And we could talk about that for a long time, but John has one answer. And it is because he loved his people. He loves us to the end. He loves you, as would be said in Philippians chapter 2, even to death on the cross. Christ will die the humiliating death of the cross in order to cleanse his people is another way of saying he loved us to the end. That is what John wants you to see this evening. Now John will go on to record a further lesson that Christ would want to give to his disciples so this reality would really start to go down into their heart. That they can't lord their lives over people, that they need to be like their master. They too must sacrifice He was sharing this with them that they might be able to get the reality. And we would need to hear something like that too. But tonight there are two other things that I want to focus on That we would be able to gain this divine reality that is revealed. That He loved us to the end. I really want you to have that. I want you to hear that. I want you to read that. And I want it to mean something to you. I want it to be the most important thing in your life. That he loves you to the end. But there is a major there there are there is at least one major thing in our culture particularly That keeps us from really caring about what Christ is saying there. You could hear him say it, I love you to the end, and it would still fall flat. Because of something that has happened within our hearts called entitlement. So I want to talk a little bit about entitlement and then I want to talk about the cure to that, which is humility. If you were in your right mind, then to hear that God has become man like we heard last week, and now he is washing feet. Or that the washing of feet is just a symbol for the shameful death, the humiliation that he will experience in his crucifixion, that would be, if you were in your right mind, unacceptable to you. You would not want to see that happen. There would be something inside of you that would lash out and say, may that never be. You would be like Peter when he says, Lord, you will never wash my feet. Because if you were in your right mind, you would have a sense of the dignity of the person. You would feel and think this way because you would have been trained, you would have been trained by God Himself to think a certain way about the world. You would see the world as a kind of ladder. That is vertical and not a horizontal ladder. You would see a vertical ladder, and guess who is at the top rung? God. You may even make the argument that he's beyond all the rungs. And then you would come down, perhaps to the first rung, and you would see angels And just a little bit lower than the angels would be the human beings, the race of men And then if you were to start looking, because you are a human being, you would see that humans, moreover, have societies with different roles, some of which are honored above other roles. Where different people are held within a certain level of dignity and double honor, a place, for example, where elders are honored. That's how you would see it, because you would be in your right mind. You would see that there's a kind of hierarchy that God has established in the cosmos. And you would realize that fathers are fathers, and they may never be reduced to just buddies and friends, because you'd see that this is a structure that God has given to us. I see this example of being able to see the world like a ladder and having or living in their right mind by older generations. My generation is suffering severely right now from not seeing the world this way. I think of, for example, my parents or my grandparents, and if the President of the United States visited my grandparents' home For dinner, the very first thing that would happen to them is that they would be embarrassed and they would be falling all over themselves To provide the most luxurious hospitality imaginable. And if there was one speck of dust in the house, it would be devastating to them Everyone, let's say that they did let the president and the first lady into the house, and of course they would, everyone would remain standing at the dinner table until those two sat down. And I'm telling you right now that everyone would be afraid to talk, especially the children. They would only talk if talked to. And you know what? There would be no elbows on the table that night. For sure. And do you know, just starting to get back a little bit here to John, what do you think my cre my grandparents would do if the president and the first lady stood up and wanted to scrape the dishes and load the dishwasher after dinner. I think they would faint. My grandmother would have grabbed the dishes right out of the first lady's hands. Why don't you have a seat? I'm making coffee for you. This is a delightful seat right here. Sit here. They would be horrified and they would be embarrassed that people holding offices of such dignity would think that they should do such a thing Within their home. It would have been their greatest privilege, and they would have been able to tell all of their friends that they entertained and hosted the president and the first lady with that amount of dignity. Now I want you to think about my generation. And what would happen if the president and the first lady visited their homes? Now, this is an over-generalization. There are some in my generation that do have the right mind, but if the president, generally speaking, came to a house of my generation today, they would be fine with watching the president and the first lady do the dishes. And they would probably say, while you're at it, why don't you take out the recycling? And I want to ask you tonight, what is the difference? Remember, we're talking about entitlement here, which keeps us from really appreciating He loved us to the end. What is the difference? What is the difference? We would let the f the President and the First Lady take out our trash. Because we believe that we are inherently deserving of privileges and special treatment, and there is no hierarchy in the cosmos, everyone is equal. That is entitlement. And it is that Which causes the real problem to arise within our hearts. Entitlement is a sin, in the way that I'm talking about it If entitlement is deep down inside of you, then you can never really appreciate the love of Jesus Christ in the footwashing and the cross. I am fully convinced that large swaths Of the public today, that if Jesus were to return in the flesh and wash their feet, they would in some sense believe that they were deserving of it. At the end of the day, you would never say it, but there is a darkness within our hearts that I'm calling entitlement Where you actually believe, of course he died for me. I deserve it Why shouldn't he love me? And at your darkest moments you will say, I know he died for me. And we say this all the time, if you're honest with yourself. I know he died for me, but what about all the other things that I want? If he really loved me, then I would not be facing this If he really loved me, then I would have this. How long does he expect me to wait? That, my friends, is an entitlement And it is coming out in spades in younger and younger generations. Let's be honest. You know when I talk about something like this that this is ugly. You know that when you look at this footwashing and you know that it is a symbol for the crucifixion of Jesus. You know that it is a symbol for him loving you to the end, that you are meant to feel grateful, you are meant to be moved, you are meant to feel humbled. And I am telling you tonight that because of the deep-seated entitlement that has entered into our society, you will not be able to do any of those things. I think one of the things that we're watching across the face of the church as Christians hear the truth but are unaffected by it Is that church leaders are in a kind of desperation, trying to therefore create and manufacture the emotions by way of music. And I love music. And music is there for all kinds of reasons. But if you think that by continuing to play sentimental music to stir up the emotions is actually going to solve the real problem that is in the human It is like taking Advil for a headache caused by brain cancer It only masks the symptoms of the real problem. There's nothing wrong with music. But it is not the solution to entitlement. It actually incenses could make it multiply. Because now you have more and more people catering to you in your entitlement. Feeding that hungry heart that wants everything for itself. So that's the first thing. I want so badly for myself, for my family, for you. To hear he loved you to the end. And for that to really mean something for you. But God knows that it will not, if we are entitled We must get a sense of that order of the cosmos again. God is above you. And that brings us to my second thing that I wanted to point out, which is that we need to gain a sense of humility. The real problem is that we have no real sense of humility, and we need to gain that. That needs to become a virtue amongst us again, and that will take some time. That will take the spirit. That will take the community. Now, when I say humility, I am relying on a very ancient understanding of that word. I'm talking Genesis 1 and 2 ancient. You'll notice if you look closely at the word long enough. that its derivation is humus or hummus. It's the dirt That's at bottom what it is about, at least as a visual and image for us of what we're what we're going to seek here to fight against the entitlement. What we need to realize is that in comparison to the God-man Jesus, we are dirt. We are dirty. And you know, it's not a coincidence that we would therefore read in verse eight when Jesus responds to Peter, If I do not watch you, you have no part with me. Now Peter would come to realize this because he will deny Christ three times and then weep. And then he will embarrassingly be restored, in a sense, embarrassingly. Do you love me? Do you love me? Do you love me? Feed my sheep. In essence, Peter needs to realize that he is dirty and that he needs cleansing. And in essence, we need to realize that we are dirty and that we need cleansing. I have three statements that I want to give to you here that would help you with your humility. You are not inherently deserving of Christ's sacrificial love. Around here, this is what we mean when we say by grace alone. Number two, you were not deserving of the privilege of his love You do not deserve, number three, the special treatment of hearing him say it is finished, and knowing that he has you on him You don't deserve that You know, I was noticing that there is a biblical example that is much like The example of the president visiting for dinner that could help us here in humility also. Do you remember that story in Luke when Jesus went to have dinner? At the Pharisees' house. When he sat down to eat, a prostitute came into the door and began to wash Jesus' feet with With her tears, and to wipe Jesus' feet with her hair. She kissed Jesus' feet, and she anointed them with fragrant perfume. Now, the Pharisee really raises a stink about this. And so Jesus, I love this little part in Luke. Jesus says the Pharisee's name was Simon. Simon. He says, Simon, I have a question for you. And he gives them this little parable. And then after the parable is over, this is how Jesus continues the conversation. And just listen to how much we need to hear this. Put yourself in the Pharisees' shoes for a minute. Listen to how Jesus uses this situation to combat the Pharisee. Listen to how Jesus uses this situation to show us the humility which the Pharisee needed versus the humility which the prostitute had. This is what he says. Then he turned to the woman and he said to Simon, Do you see this woman? I entered your house. You gave me no water for my feet, but she washed my feet with her tears, and wiped them with the hair of her head You gave me no kiss, Simon, but this woman has not ceased to kiss, stop kissing me since I came into this house. You did not anoint my head with oil, but this woman has anointed my feet with perfume. What a stark contrast. And Jesus brings it home and he says, Therefore I say to you, her sins which are many are forgiven, for she loved much. But to whom little is forgiven, the same loves little. The Pharisee felt so entitled That he showed no love, he showed no honor to Christ coming into his home. But he should have been like the prostitute who had true humility. It really ends up being the perfect example to bring the two points together She knew her place before Jesus Christ. She had real faith, Jesus says She knew that she was dirty. It is brought out by Luke in a parenthetical comment that she is a sinner. It is right up front. That is entitlement in the one, and you see there the cure, which is humility. She truly appreciated that Jesus would love her to the end. And her actions show it. If you want to restate this whole reality from the footwashing another way, Then what we could say is this, which is also on John's mind. The good shepherd, out of love for his sheep, dies for his sheep. He loves his sheep to the end. And that should hit you in the heart. But because we have entitlement, our hearts keep us from really appreciating the love of Jesus. The solution is the Holy Spirit giving us humility. Even in the statement of Him being the shepherd and the sheep, we can miss in our entitlement the humility which it is He is a human shepherd, and you are a farm animal. And he's gonna die for the farm animal? Now we can begin to see. We can begin to see what we need to do, the humility that we need to have, and actually the humility that will be given to us as a gift from Christ Himself. As I was contemplating these things, even as I'm giving them to you now, I know that this is very difficult for you to hear I know that it is not easy hearing realities like this. What the reality of What Christ is doing and has done, the reality of what keeps you from being able to appreciate it. These are hard realities to acknowledge about ourselves If you believe that this sermon is from Christ, and I believe that it is, then I think that you should, in a sense, be feeling this sermon. That you should probably picture this sermon best coming from Christ as a lion. Who has sharp claws. And it has actually been one of my prayers tonight for you that you would feel the claw dig in. That it would go down deep into you. And my second prayer is that you would realize that as you feel the pain of the claw, that you would remember that his purpose is not. Not pain, but to peel the sin away. To peel the entitlement away that That as he scratches at it, as he pulls it away from you, you may be able to hear him say, It is finished, and really, really appreciate that Let it shape and form your life and your family. But it cannot happen if he does not puncture and peel. And so if it hurts tonight, don't run away from it. It is love. It is what you need. It is what I need. He wants us to be really real again. And that takes claws and teeth. What he started, he will finish. Christ is our lion. And he will love you to the end. That is good news. Let us pray.