Move now into the sermon. I would invite you, if you would, to please turn to Matthew 7. We'll be picking up today with verse 13, reading through the end of the chapter. We started the Gospel of Matthew back uh in 2013. I think the first sermon in Matthew started in uh September of that year. We started the Sermon on the Mount in January of 2014. Today we're going to finish the Sermon on the Mount prior to taking up the rest of the uh of the book. However, you need to know to the best that you can that everything that our Lord has preached to us in the Sermon on the Mount from January of twenty fourteen down today is a sec is essentially coming home in these verses. He's talking about the whole Sermon on the Mount, he's talking about his words, he's talking about those things that have to do with um the things that he had said before. So we're going to take it from a top-level view as we look at it. But keep in mind that what he is speaking of is everything that he has said before as he sums up his sermon with these words. Starting with Matthew 7, verse 13. Well I'm sorry, with verse 50. Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves. You will know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes from thorn bushes or figs from thistles? Even so, every good tree bears good fruit, but a bad tree bears bad fruit. A good tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a bad tree bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. And therefore, by their fruits you will know them. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father in heaven Many will say to me, in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in your name, cast out demons in your name, and done many wonders in your name? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. Therefore, whoever hears these sayings of mine and does them, I will liken him to a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain descended, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, and it did not fall, for it was founded on the rock. But everyone who hears these things of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. The rain descended, the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat on that house, and it fell And great was its fall. And so it was when Jesus had ended these sayings that the people were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes. May the Lord add his blessings to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Okay. Suppose I was to stand here before you today, and here's the things that I would say to you. This is critically important, what I'm going to tell you now, and this is what I am going to say. That if you do what I tell you to do, your life will become meaningful and strong and will be well worth living. And furthermore, if you don't do what I tell you to do, your life is not going to be worth a hill of beans. That you will come to see at some point in your life that everything you have done heretofore in your life has been worthless. And not only that, but I how would you respond if I were to sit here, stand here and say to you, one of these days, you're going to have to give me an account. For what you have done with what I have told you about how you ought to live And when you do, give me that account, I will become the sole judge of everything that happens to you for all of eternity. And because I'm telling you this, that you've got to listen to me, I want you to understand you can't have any other authorities in your life. None. I am it. No other authorities other than me. If someone tells you something different than what I tell you to do, run. Don't even stay and listen. If I stood up here and claimed exclusive authority over your life, what would you do? Quite rightly, I think you would probably be reaching for your cell phone to call nine one one. You would think Arch has gone off his rocker. Let's get out of here before he gets ugly. Perhaps he needs to be medicated And you would be absolutely right to think that way. I wonder if that's the way Jesus' first listeners responded when he said those same things. Now the question I want to pose to you today is, are you treating Jesus saying these things to you? The same way, in effect, you treat them as if I was saying those things to you. Today, as you listen to these words, where do you stand with the fact that this is Jesus? Who is saying these things? And he's not blinking when he says them. Let's skip to the bottom line. The central important teaching of all of these verses, that which ties this whole long pericope together. The reason why I'm not going through each one of these in detail, and you could preach several sermons on each of these sections. But the reason why we're taking them as a whole today, in contrast to how we've done the rest of the Sermon on the Mount, is that there is one central feature in view that governs and ties them all together. That is this. The Lord Jesus Christ here proclaims that He and He alone has exclusive authority over your life. life. Your life and my life, brothers and sisters, is not ours to live as we see fit Our lives, mine and yours together, have been given to us by our Father in heaven, and we have been given it for a reason, to bear fruit. The outcome of our lives, the measure of our lives of whether we bear good fruit or not, is whether we bear good fruit or not. And if we want to bear good fruit, we have to know how to do that. And Jesus here is saying he's the only one that can tell us how we're to bear good fruit. Jesus is saying here that he and he alone is to be at the very center of our lives. He is to be our authority. He is to be our guide. He is to be our wisdom. And he says, quite frankly, that there will be an accounting For how he is received as such. He says very clearly that there will be a last day when our lives will be revealed, and we will stand before him naked, if you will, exposed No place to hide this same Jesus, this man who stood on an actual mountain or tall hill or whatever you want to call it and said these words two thousand years ago, he makes exclusive claim here that he's going to be there on that day when you and I stand before him. Now if that doesn't energize you, then there's not much left to say On that day it will be not so much what we have done that is actually important What will be important is whether our lives were lived with him at the center of it. We will be seen as having what is important in our life. What was the truth of our lives? And if that truth was that Jesus was at the center of it, then we stand in one relation, and if he wasn't, we stand in another. As we close out this section today, as we close out this entire Sermon on the Mount division of the book of Matthew, These questions are intended by Christ to hang in the air. Just like they hung in the air on that day when he first said them so many years ago. Many who heard him then did not heed what he had said. And the question that is vitally important for us to face today is this, are we in that same boat? Look at these verses, brothers and sisters. The focus of these verses is Jesus himself. Do you see how personal they are? He's not talking here about broad abstract theology. There's nothing wrong with broad abstract theology. What Jesus is talking about here is a very personal thing, personal between him and those who hear him. He's talking about himself. The relationship we have to him that is key. Just take a look at verses 21 through 23, Jesus' teachings about the last day. We often look at that and we take and we say, okay, there's going to come a day, you know, there's going to be judgment and those things about it. And that's going to affect me. Well, what Jesus here is here is saying is that not everyone who says to me Or many will say to me. And then he says, I will declare to them At every point in his description of that judgment day, the central theme of that passage is the Lord Himself. It's not a question of you knowing him, he says. It's a question of does he know you Jesus is a central authority determining every question about your and my eternal destiny. Look at verses 24 through 27, where Jesus is talking about building houses. Whoever hears these things of mine he says, and does them, that's good. Whoever hears these sayings of mine, he says, and does not do them, well that's not so good. Jesus is not only the central authority for the last day of judgment. Jesus here proclaims that he is the central authority for determining the significance and importance of everything you do in this life now. Building your house. Brothers and sisters, we need to come to grips with this. For in this, the entire Sermon on the Mount is summed up. We need to face up to Jesus' words here, and we need to take a strong look at our lives, and we need to see how we're living them in the light of it. Is Jesus the main authority in our lives or is he not? How can we tell, we might ask? How would it show up in our lives if he was, and how could we distinguish it if he was not? We might also ask what we can expect if he is the center of our life, and what we could expect if he's not. Now these questions need to have some weight to them These are not questions that we should treat as just another Sunday school lesson that was enjoyable and that kind of tickled our ears and gave us some pleasant things to think about. What we're talking about is life or death. Okay, how can we tell if Jesus is the main authority in our lives? Well it's only one way to do it. We have to look at our eyes, our lives, and we need to see. We need to ask ourselves the question honestly. Who is the authority in my life? And then we have to have the guts, the courage, if you will, to not shy away from the answer. We don't ask the question With the expectation that it's going to be a pleasant answer, because it may not be. Someone is telling us how to live. Someone is telling us how to live. Someone is acting as authority in the way that we govern ourselves. Because everyone has an authority in their life that controls their conduct and the way that they think about things. They may not be conscious of it or not, but it's true. For most of us, and I think you will agree with this, for most of us, we have been uh inculturated, we have been raised in our family, we have been conditioned to basically think that we or the authority for our own life. We do what we want to do. This is called the autonomous self. And it means that we are the final authority for what is right or wrong for us, not necessarily for everybody else. We are the final authority for how we should live. We often try to figure this out as Okay, I'm the authority for our live, if we admit it, that's what we are. But then when we make our external offers, we say, okay, well, this is my ministry. So we try to put the best light on it we can, and we try to present it in such a way that it appears more noble than that But when we get right down to it, what we're doing is really selfish. Now the test for that comes. When Jesus calls us to do something we don't want to do. When Jesus puts out a saying like we looked at earlier about this narrow path we're supposed to walk, and few walk upon it. Well, if there's few walking upon it and many walking on that other path, what does that tell you about the people who are doing what they want to do? They're mostly on that other path. Because this narrow path that is difficult to walk, in Jesus' own words, means that not necessarily that's a path that is all of that encouraging to our own sense of selfish pride. When we find ourselves clinging before the prospect of what Jesus may be calling us to do. Cringing before the idea of bearing witness in a world that slanders our Lord Jesus Christ and laughs at those who profess in him. When he calls us to make tough decisions about how we're to spend our time that might have repercussions in the workplace. Or repercussions in our community, or how we are treated with others. When he calls us to do things that might require us to give sacrificially when we would really rather spend it at Amazon or own some stuff we've been warning. That's my problem. When he calls us to live in a way that is reflective of our Father's glory. And of his grace. And we find ourselves saying, do I really want to do that? Who is in control? Who is the authority in our lives? Is it us or Jesus? And then there's the other fairly large segment in our society The authority that we find in their lives are others. They go under the heading of people pleasers. They live codependent lives. We think and act when we are in this category in a manner that we think will make us more acceptable, more lovable, more important to other people, and thereby gain their respect and gain their their acknowledgement and and get the the benefits of all of their warm and fuzzies from them. But you see, when we're doing so, at its root, we're still being selfish, because what are we look- who are we looking out for? We're really looking out for ourselves, we're just defining it in terms of how other people treat us So if the other people in our lives, if we're living in a codependent relationship, so that pleasing others is the most important thing in the world because that governs how they treat us. And where is Jesus as the authority of our life So while we're thinking about this, as we're thinking about authorities in the world and how they show up in our lives, that is why Jesus says here, be on guard. Because there's many people out there that's more than that will be more than happy to be like I facetious presented myself earlier. They're more than happy to to stand in front of you and tell you, this is what you must do, this is how you must live, and you must do so on my authority in telling you so There are more than enough people out there who are willing to speak for Jesus when he has given them those sanctions to do so. And you have to be careful when you're examining your own life. to see where the authorities that you're listening to are coming from. You must not be deceived into thinking that Jesus is the authority in someone's life that they are proclaiming to you When you are really just accepting the word of a false prophet, Jesus tells us there will be many like that. That was not just restricted to ancient Palestine. He's talking about an ongoing state of the affairs. There will be many false prophets who are more than willing to put themselves as an authority in your life to promise you. With words that will be easy to hear, that your life will be good if you just do what they say. Send some money to support their ministry. Put your hand right there on the TV screen. Right there. You know, put your hand right there. Okay? Joel Osteen comes to mind, but he is just one of thousands. Sometimes they come with certificates hanging on the wall. They're graduates of this school or that school. They have been given exhaustive training from the Center of Holistic Wellness. They are professionals. If you pay their fees, they will tell you how to fix your life. Sometimes they're selling some kind of spiritual solution They have warm and fuzzy doctrines that get you in touch with yourself through meditation, listening to voices that are all about us. Turning into your own universe and living at peace in it. Smoke this. Meditate on that. Explore the cosmic dimensions of your own soul. Brothers and sisters, false teachers abound. They all have one thing in mind. They want to supplant Jesus They want to replace Jesus as the central authority in your life. They want to point you away from Him as He has presented to us in Scripture, and they want to point you towards something else. or someone else instead. Now they may use Jesus' name, and many of them do. And they say they're speaking of him. Well, brothers and sisters, if they're speaking of Jesus differently than Jesus spoke of himself, then they are the most deadly false prophets of all. And you must flee. You must run for your life. You must call your own spiritual 911 hotline. And you need to get back to Christ. As he has revealed himself here in the scriptures and in no other. So the question we must ask is who is the spiritual authority in our lives, and in the light of these questions we must be willing to examine them. Is it Jesus or is it someone else? And then we must ask, okay, how shall we know? All right, I I believe Jesus is at the center of my life. I acknowledge him as Lord of my life. I struggle with my own sin. How will I know that in fact I am not just deceiving myself. Well, Jesus says we shall know by the fruit that is born of it. Good trees bear good fruit. Bad trees bear bad fruit. That's what Jesus says here. Look at the fruit that is being born in your life. Even as you're supposed to look at the fruit that is born in the uh the life of the false prophets, what's good for them, how you discern whether a false prophet is a true prophet or not, Jesus tells us to look at their lives and see what kind of fruit they're bringing. So look at yours. Are you bringing fruit for the kingdom for Jesus as he is presented here in the Gospels? Are you growing and and showing the fruits of the Spirit in increasing abundance? Do you find your life characterized by prayer being poured out to Him morning and evening? Do you find yourself characterized longing for the truth of his word to be expressed in your life. Do you see the indwelling Holy Spirit becoming more and more real for you as he prompts you and moves you in your heart towards Christ as He has presented them the gospel. Or do you look at your life and what you see is self-focus? It's all about me, you know Do you see self-exaltation as being your strongest desire? Do you see self-aggrandizement As being presenting yourself in such a way that you are the one who should be taking the glory. Whether it is yourself or whether it is others who claim to have authority, If those things are present, you can be pretty sure that Jesus is not sitting on the throne of your heart. Why? Well let's go back to the beginning of the Sermon on the Mount. Let's look at those beatitudes. Jesus came as a servant, a humble man who put others first Look at what is described in those Beatitudes and think of Christ in those terms. Is there evidence of hungering and thirsting for righteousness as he hungered and thirsted for righteousness in you? Do we see meekness in ourselves and in others? Do we see a striving after peace Do we see purity of heart as being the aspirations of our life rather than the worldliness that is crammed down our throat every day? Do you see those things in your own self even as you apply them to those who might be false teachers? Well if we can't if Jesus tells us we should not accept someone as a teacher who doesn't give evidence in that way that they have author that they should have authority over us And certainly should we also recognize that we can't give it to ourselves if those are present either. Jesus was all of these things. Why don't we put him first? Why don't we listen to him and learn from him and study him and live with him day in and day out? Has he not done everything he could to prove to us that he is the Son of God? He did not come into this world to bear witness that God is calling on all men. He came into this world to bear witness that God is calling all men to be reconciled to himself. How else can we interpret him as he is presented in the Bible other than that? Is there anything more that he could have done That he didn't do to demonstrate to us that he is who he said he is. He is Lord of heaven and earth, brothers and sisters. He is not dead, he's alive And as such, he is Lord of your life, and he is Lord of my life, and we have to acknowledge him as such in our lives as well as in our lips. And that will bring us to the second way that we can know who is the authority in our lives by the way that the house that we built on lives or stands by faith. Brothers and sisters, it is as certain as death itself. If we build our houses, our lives, on any other authority than Jesus Himself Then that house sooner or later will fall. We will see it, we will know it, we will regret it. Only the house Built on the rock of Jesus Christ Himself will survive. Now I'll take real quickly here and just go into a digression. There are many who say that what Jesus is speaking of here is not really us individually, our lives and our houses. Really what he's talking about is the whole nation of Israel. He's talking about those people who are living under the law And that one of these days that whole community was going to fall, and that day was coming in the very near future. There are those who say that. However, I doubt anyone in Galilee, when they first said when they first heard these words, thought it Jesus is here being very personal. He's looking at people and he's saying, you. He's not talking about you as a nation. He's talking about you. I believe this is a personal application, or no application should be drawn from it at all He's talking about his authority in our lives, and that if we build our lives on his authority, that house will stand. For he is the way, the truth, and the life. It is foolish to attempt to live in the way Frank Sinatra sang. I did it my way. You try that and you will find that there are things you simply can't handle. There are problems that you simply cannot solve There are tragedies you cannot avert. And we will know sooner or later just what the limits of our own resources are. If you want to know who is the authority of your life, look at your life and see what has persisted that points to the perfection and beauty of Christ. And look at your life and see what has been blown away by the winds of normal living, what has proven to be weak and frail And in those areas where you see things standing strong, you will see the authority of Christ. That's where your house is strong. And in those areas where you did it on your own, where it you will show how weak it is. In closing, I only want to briefly point out the consequences we would expect if Christ is not at the center of our lives. Look closely at verses 21 through 23. Simply don't have the time to go into a full detailed exposition of it. But brothers and sisters, look at what Jesus says there. He says there will come a day. He calls it that day. When people stand before him, once again, being very personal. And they give an account for their lives, not as a nation, not as a whole group of people under the law, but individually. Now there are false prophets who say that this day is not coming There are some who say that Jesus is speaking only here of the fall of Jerusalem and the failure of the Jews. There are others who say that these words are just myths. that were used to scare people into religion by the early church. The bottom line is that there are many who deny that people will have to give their lives, give an account of their lives before the person of Jesus Christ. But Jesus denies this. No person in Scripture speaks more about the day of judgment and of the certainty of it than Jesus himself. There will come a day when our lives will be measured by a single rod. Yours and mine both. That single rod of measurement will simply be this. Was Jesus at the center of your life or was he not? Was Jesus at the center of your life in the forgiveness of sins? Was Jesus at the center of your life when you determined the purposes of your life? And the goals towards which your life was directed. Was Jesus the central authority of your life in such a way that living to please him governed all else? And our desire is to be conformed to his teaching. Notice that Jesus says something here very important. He says that even good works, casting out demons, prophesying, doing all kinds of signs and wonders, he says those simply don't count. If at the heart it is not from our life that is governed by his authority and with him at the center of it Even people who are used by the Holy Spirit unto good ends for the Holy Spirit's purposes. cannot ultimately by that standard alone be assured of their standing before God. The only standard that will stand in the day of judgment is simply this. In your heart, in your inner life, who is really your authority? Who are you actually serving? Yourself? Some arbitrary false prophet? Or the the living Christ. Only those who through the power of the Holy Spirit know Jesus as the Lord and authority of their lives, those and those alone are the ones whom He will know on the day of judgment. And that is what we should expect. From this teaching. So, brothers and sisters, the question still hangs in the air as we close out the Sermon on the Mount. Who is the authority of our lives? And what are we doing with the words that our Lord Jesus has taught us? Let's pray.