We have given, and that you would use that, and that it would lead for people to see Jesus Christ and behold in his face your glory In his name we pray. Amen. I'd ask that you'd please stand for the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. I'll be reading nine chapter nineteen of John. It is verses seventeen through through um Thirty. But I'll be drawing from the complete passion narrative. Pilate said to the Jews, Behold your king. But they cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your king? The chief priests answered, We have no king but Caesar. Then he delivered him to them to be crucified. Then they took Jesus and led him away, and he, bearing his cross, went out to a place called the place of a skull, which in is called in Hebrew Golgotha, where they crucified him and two others with him, one on either side, and Jesus in the center. Now Pilate wrote a title and put it on the cross, and the writing was Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. Then many of the Jews read this title, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin. Jews said to Pilate, Do not write the King of the Jews, but he said, I am the King of the Jews. And made four parts to each soldier a part, and also the tunic. Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be, that the scripture might be fulfilled which says they divided my garments among them, and for my garments, Therefore the soldiers did these things. Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother and his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Clophis, and Mary Magdalene. When Jesus therefore saw his mother and the disciple the disciple whom he loved standing by, he said to his mother, Woman, behold your son. Then he said to the disciple, Behold your mother. And from that hour that disciple took her into his own home. After this, Jesus, knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the scripture might be fulfilled, said, I thirst. Now a vessel full of sour wine was sitting there, and they filled a sponge with sour wine, put it on a hyssop, and put it to his mouth. So when Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished. And bowing his head, he gave up his spirit. Please pray with me. Heavenly Father, even at this point in history, Peter had uh denied you and None of the other disciples understood what was going on. Even, Lord, at the tomb, when you are raised on Easter, they still did not know and needed explanation. And so, Father, just as we prayed last night, we pray again this night that you would teach us how much more will we need it than those who walked with you. But blessed are us who have not seen and yet believe. And so we pray that you would give us eyes to see and ears to hear, even for the first time tonight. In Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. I think Into a a place where there are uh illusor uh il uh illusions where People play with architectural ambiguities in order to get you to think one way and not know if that's the real way or if it's another way Now let me clarify what I mean. I went into a house that had a checkered floor, and it is built so that The floor is tilted and that the wall is shorter on the one side than it is on the other side. And if you go down to the one end, you look very small Small, like a child. And if you go to the other end, you look like a giant. And it looks real. And you become confused Especially if you go in there as a young child as to how is this happening? I don't know what is even reality any longer. That is in very much a uh similar way what we have here in the trial of Jesus Christ. We have come to a head. We started um with Mary breaking the spikenard and seeing Jesus Christ moving his way to this trial. He's been under trial all along in the Gospel of John. But here there is, as there has been in the past, small little literal trials, so here there is a literal, large trial that leads to his crucifixion. And at every point throughout the Gospel of John and through what we have gone through, whether it was uh the triumphal entry or last night, we had a decision to make There's a proclamation being made every single sermon that you have a decision to make in. You will either accept it or you will reject it. Either side with those the Jews in the story, or you will side with his disciples. The problem that we end up running into, particularly here, In this passage is that there are two point two viewpoints that one could have, and ambiguities that continually arise, just like that room. Is it a reality that You wonder all those things in that fun house when you're a child. We can begin to wonder about all the ambiguities that we can see within this passage, whether or not the things that Jesus Christ has said that you would have heard Are really true. There's just enough in the story for you to wonder. This is what I mean. And here's the question that's before you. Could it really be true? That the king is number one, the king of the cross, and number two, can the king of the cross really end up being the king of the world, which would have huge implications for you And for all of your family members. It's the question that you need to consider as you consider the trial. Is the king of the cross also the king of the world? Really? John unfolds this throughout this entire trial. I want us to look at four verdicts and then two eyes. I start in 1828. This is in stark contrast to the denial of Peter. Peter denies Jesus Christ three times. Just as planned, Judah Judas's denial is used to move the eternal plan forward. Judas and his betrayal is the hand of the Father on the back of Jesus, pushing Jesus to his crucifixion. As has always been planned, as we saw in Genesis 22 with Abraham. Here in chapter 18 of 28 and Following they lead Jesus from Caiaphas to the Praetorium, and it was early morning, but they themselves, the Jews, did not go into the Praetorium. This is Pilate's Praetorium, but Praetorium is originally designated. Especially could have barracks for soldiers, could have guard rooms for the keeping of prisoners. And so what you have to see here within this account, as we go through, is that there are the Jews that Well, we refuse to enter into the inner area of Pilate's residence, and they stay out in the courtyard. And this trial consists of Pilate going back and forth from the courtyard to the interior. He goes seven times the number of perfection within the scriptures, that everything would be complete. So the Jews bring him, Jesus Jesus before him, and Pilate here in this eighteenth chapter raises the realistic question: what accusation do you bring against this man? And uh the Jews, unfortunately, for them But what John is trying to bring out is that they have no answer for that. If you look at the text, they actually say, We would not have brought him to you if he was not a lawless man. They'd ever give a specific charge against Jesus Christ. If he were not guilty, we would not have brought him, is exactly what they They say. So they bring up their law. So for us to be able to know the standard, but John is going to great lengths in chapter 18 to show That Jesus Christ is not lawless. I would encourage you to read the entire chapter, the entire Gospel of John, and look at all of the charges that they try to bring up against you. Jesus. Each time they hold up the law and they say that Jesus is breaking it, and every single time they cannot accumulate enough evidence in order to be able to prove it. And here, this is their last shot in doing so. They bring him the pilot. He says, What accusation do you bring against this man? There's no specific charges. They just say they bring up if he were not guilty, we would not have brought him. And so John is clearly showing already that the Jews are bringing Jesus on trumped-up charges. And so Pilate has to take Jesus into his inner eighteen Pilate is wise in anticipating what the charges are probably going to be. And it's going to be s sedition or crimes against against the authority of the state. Because Pilate ends up asking him, Are you the king of the Jews? It looks like Christ is raising himself to be some That he's not. And this is what the whole trial is about. Is Jesus really a king, or does he just say he's a king, but he's really a liar, or he's a lunatic? That's what everyone in this room must decide tonight. And even in not making a decision, you have decided to make a choice. So Pilate asks him, Are you the king of the Jews? And and Jesus answers him and says, Are you speaking for yourself about this or do others tell you uh this concerning me? And Pilate responds and says Basically says, I'm not the one, I'm not your people trying to bring you up on charges. Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you to me. What have you done? And here we must see that the charges that Jesus that are being made against Jesus Christ Testify and are contrary to the Jews that yes, he is the King. Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would fight, so that I should not be delivered to the Jews. Answers him plainly, and he says, You say rightly that I am a king. For this cause I was born, and for this cause I have come into the world, that I should bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears my voice. Do you notice the trial language? Jesus has become a witness on the stand, and he's asked, Are you a king? And he's saying, Yes. This is why I have come. Now interestingly, I don't even think Pilate has pure motives here, but We see in chapter 18, verse 38, the very first verdict from the Roman governor that Jesus Christ is not guilty. In verse 38, Pilate comes back out to the Jews from the inner chamber, and he says, what he says, um, Pi uh, I'm sorry. Jesus answered, You said rightly I am a king. Everyone who hears the truth hears my voice. Pilate said to him, What is truth? And when he had said this, he Went out again to the Jews and said to them, I find no fault in him at all. Here we have a governor laying down verdict number one of the four verdicts. That Jesus Christ is not guilty. The implication, though, that John wants to bring out is that the Jews were wrong and that Jesus really was a king, although Pilate had no idea really Behind this whole thing and underneath of it, like a hidden stream underneath the ground, bubbling with fresh Water is the eternal plan of God, bringing about the plan that had always been a part of the decree that He had given from eternity. Pilate had no idea, but from Pilate's mouth is declared. That Jesus is not guilty, which is to say, without Pilate even knowing it, Jesus has not wrongly called himself the king. So, the Jews, of course, do not accept this. Pilate comes before them and he offers a way out for them. Perhaps they acted rashly. But you have a custom that I should release someone to you at the Passover. Do you therefore want me to release to you the king of the Jews? And then they all cried Again saying, Not this man but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber. Now this is a word as another an insurrectionist, one who really has committed crimes against the state. They're going to reject this also. They reject accepting Jesus Christ and instead demand that And so Pilate being a politician decides perhaps they're emotional and I can placate their emotion Emotions. And here we have that bubbling brook beneath the ground, a profound statement from God Himself, although according to human eyes And according to Pilate, it was an act of mockery to the Jews that were putting Pilate in a bad place. Pilate goes back inside to placate the Jews and he scourges Jesus. The truth of the verdict, however, that Jesus is in fact the King, an exceptional irony emerges to the outside courtyard when he brings forth Jesus. And Jesus is in fact wearing a crown, but it is a crown of thorns. And he is wearing a purple robe of royalty, and he is presented by Pilate, behold the man. Jesus standing there in the eternal plan of God, his glory hidden, moving forward what had always been planned, stands there as the king, although mocked, but the truth The truth of the trial stands there and stares them in the face as he wears a crown and as he wears his royal robe. Declared the king. And that's verdict number two in chapter 19, verse 4. Pilate then went out again and said to them, Behold, I am bringing him out to you that you may know that I find no fault in Jesus Christ. In verse 4. This is verdict 2. So the Jews appeal this official verdict once again. Crucify him, is what they say. Therefore, when the chief priests and the officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify him! Crucify him! Pilate said to them, You take him and crucify him. Here's the other verdict. I have found no fault in this man. There is still no proof that Jesus is guilty. And so Pilate then takes him from the courtyard, moves him Back into the interior, and he attempts to have another conversation with Jesus to try to reason with him. Pilate returns inside and he says, Do you not Understand that I'm the one that holds the power of your crucifixion or to release you. And Jesus referring again to that stream that runs Hidden underground says, You have no authority except for that which has been given to you. In chapter 19, verse 12 I'll read this again. From then on, after he had this private conversation with Jesus, Pilate sought to release him, which is verdict number four. You end up having four verdicts here, either through actions or express declaration with constant appeal from the Jews. Again, is that Jesus is not guilty and that he is in fact the King. He is in fact the King of the Jews. The Jews, in an act of desperation And political savvy play one last card and they say to Caesar, and this is really where Caesar or they they they play to uh pilot's uh weaknesses And here is where Pilate ends up revealing his true motives, and he is not really declaring the truth about Jesus Christ from a heart that understands. And he ends up siding with the Jews. The Jews raise up to Pilate, are you a friend of Caesar? Or are you a friend of Jesus Christ? Because if Jesus Christ is calling himself the King or the Son of God, then you're in direct defiance of what Caesar would ever allow. In fact, the common and official title of Augustus Caesar in Greek documents was Emperor Caesar Augustus, son of God. An inscription from Pergamum refers to Augustus as the Emperor Caesar, son of God. Ruler of all land and sea. You see what the Jews were doing? They had him right in the corner. If you're really going to allow him to say that he is king And that that he is the son of God, then you are directly denying that Caesar is the only son of God and the king. And it is right here that we see Pilate fold And he betrays the verdict that God has declared through the presentation of the Son in the royal crown and in the royal robe. Allegiance to Caesar the Son of God is what Pilate chooses instead of Jesus, the Son of God, the King. So here is the charge that's before you already in the trial. The charge is: Jesus, you wrongly call yourself the King, the Son of God. And the verdict that we see from the pages Of John is that you are in fact the king, the son of God. And you being the jury sitting there this evening, which do you say? You have to make a decision. I present to you, behold the man. I present to you Jesus crowned with thorns, flogged and wearing a royal robe. Is he the king or is he not the king? Do you see the ambiguity playing? How could he be the king? Look at him And yet, when we consider how John is framing this narrative, we see the irony. And this really brings us to the two eyes that we need. to truly be able to understand this story as you behold the man. Two eyes, I'm referring to two different kinds of lenses or two Two different ways in which a person has to be able to see things. Unless a person is born again, they cannot see the kingdom of God, which means there's really t two totally different ways to see it. And what I'm saying here is that we have to be able to see the true content of what the scriptures are saying, and that there are two eyes. If you remember 2 Kings 6, where Elisha's servants' eyes were opened to be able to see. Before that in Second Kings, it looked he looked outnumber with his master. And then when his eyes were opened, he was able to see The entire field filled with angels, surely overcoming the enemy. And in the same way, we need two eyes here. There is the earthly eye that beholds the ragged king But there is the eye that is illuminated by the Holy Spirit that, seeing that same King, detects and sees the hidden glory, sees that Jesus truly is the King. Pilate seeks to mock the Jews. That's what he's going to continue to do now in the rest of these chapters, begin in the rest of this chapter, beginning in 1919. This is why Pilate does all of these different things. Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your king? mocking them. The chief priest answered, Said, we have no king but Caesar, idolatry. Then he delivered them to be crucified. Then they took Jesus and he led him away. And here is where the greatest mocking of all begins You can see how upset Pilate would have been having been put in that corner by the Jews. He will have his day of revenge. He wants to sting them. You can see this even with earthly eyes. He writes a taunting title above Jesus on the cross. Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. The wording is Pilate's last act of revenge in the case. He has already taunted the Jews with Jesus' kingship in verse And here he does so again, mocking their convenient allegiance to Caesar, Caesar, by insisting that Jesus is their king and snickering at their powerless status before the might of Rome by declaring this wretched victim their king. Doubtless his own sense of powerlessness before their manipula their manipulation contributed to his unyielding insistence that the wording remain as he had a lot of the same. He prepared it. Change the wording, they say. Don't say that he is the king of the Jews. Say he said he was the king of the Jews, which is the whole reason why we want to crucify him. And he says, I have written This contributes to his unyielding insistence that the wording re the wording remained as he The protest of the chief priests show they feel the sting of Pilate's savage iron savage irony, but their suggestion of an insertion, I am the king of the Jews. to make the matter one of Jesus' claims and no more, which strip the governor of his last revenge, and so he decides to stand firm. Thus Pilate's firmness, as we've already seen in him claiming Caesar as the Son of God, is not motivated by principle and strength of character, but by the hurt obstinacy and bitter rage of a man. It is not that Pilate refuses to change the truth into a lie, but that he is determined to humiliate those. Anybody could see that, Christian or non-Christian. Anyone could see that with their earthly eyes, that this is exactly what Pilate is doing. We understand political savvy, but what about the heavenly eyes that we need to be able to see to truly make the verdict? twenty four, we are reminded that there is a heavenly thing going on here. In verse twenty-four of chapter nineteen, they divided my garments among them, and for my clothing Now this is a reference to Psalm 22, verses 16 through 18. And these are the feelings And the thoughts and the anguish of our Lord Jesus Christ as He is there being crucified. For dogs have surrounded me. It is here that we can begin to see with the quoting of the scripture of old that there is Something heavenly going on here. The man that stands before you is not just the ragged king, but the one who has been eternally Planned, the spotless Lamb of God from eternity past, slain before the foundations of the earth, according to this passage. And let me bring to mind the entire sermon series that we've been going through in Holy Week, in case you're not convinced of this. Psalm 22. We've been referring back. We've been seeing in history the unfolding of the true mystery and nature of Jesus the Christ. Mary's anointing. She perceives him with heavenly eyes and understands that he must go forward to be buried, that his burial and his death is upcoming because he has raised Lazarus from the dead. Again we see the Father's hand pushing on the back of the Christ. And in verse thirty one, back in chapter eighteen, I know it's dark, and so you probably were not able to And then John says in verse 31 uh John says, therefore the Jews said to him, It is not law for us lawful for us to put Anyone to death, and in verse thirty-two, that the saying of Jesus might be fulfilled which he spoke, signifying by what death he would die This is the heavenly view of our Lord and our Savior. And here's the final one until we get into Easter, because it will continue, even into our own day. But here perhaps is the profoundest that helps us to completely answer the question. We have established that he is the king of the cross. But is the King of the Cross the King of the world? Because if he is, then it has huge ramifications for you, everyone sitting here and everyone that you know The writing was Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. And then many of the Jews read this title for the place where Jesus was crucified. crucified was near the city, and it was written in Hebrew and Greek and Latin. Now on the cross, the king on the cross being published by the special providence of God above the head of the true king, being published the king of the cross. Also, in every language being published above his head in every major local and international language, the king of the cross becomes the king of the world. Every language could read and understand who this person was, and that he was not only the king of the Jews. but that he would be their king. And do you remember from the prior sermons when the Greeks came to ask Jesus or to be able to speak to Jesus? Jesus begins to talk about his death at the triumphal entry. The whole purpose was that he would not just be the king, but that he would be the king of the world. He'd be the king of the Greeks He would be the king of the Jews. He would go out from Jerusalem to Judea, all around the Mediterranean Sea, and work his way to America. The king on the cross ends up being the king. of the world. But do you see the difference between the earthly and the heavenly? None of them knew what was happening to them But Jesus and his Father and the Holy Spirit had played everything out to the very minutiae of the moment that he would be declared truly as his verdict truly declares that he is the king. King of the Jews, that he is the King of the Cross, that He is the King of the World. How could one deny such a wondrous and providential and eternal statement that had been unfurling since the beginning of the The world and even before. God using history as a puppet for himself to make a statement about the true nature of his son. Jesus perceiving that he had accomplished this end, the plan Jesus perceiving that he had accomplished the plan, he says that it is finished. And he bows his head and he dies. This is so much more than the death of a regular man. This is so much more than the death of just a noble man. This is not a picture of earthly courage But that is something that you have to decide. Behold the man. Is he the king of the cross and therefore the king of the world? Or is he a joke? Is he not worth your time? Is he a liar? Is he a lunatic? Is he just a historical figure who had political aspirations? You have to decide. And when you decide, you will be grouped with the group of people that you see in here. Will it be Pilate and the Jews that will be your friends? Or will you become or continue to be the disciple of Jesus Christ. Four verdicts and two eyes are what you have tonight to decide. Is the King of the Cross the King of the world? The question that is also being asked and is already answered for you tonight. I don't want to pass over this. Though I won't preach on it. Some of you may be wondering if you are not a Christian or you're not sure what you believe. I see that he's the king of Christian. Of the cross, and I'm pondering that he's also the king of the world, I can feel it in my bones that I need to deal with this. But I have to ask you, what is your answer for why the sinless king must be the king of the cross? Jesus commits sin No wrong. He's found not guilty. Why is it that he's still crucified? We've seen this in the other readings. The sinless king is crucified because of your sin. He is the Lamb of God which takes away the sins of the world We're going to sing a song together in just a moment. But I want you to just hear the lyrics. Fill the room just for a moment, just for my word, just for my lips. Because it tells the whole story and it moves us into Easter. Man of Sorrows, what a name. For the Son of God who came, ruined sin. To reclaim. Hallelujah, what a Savior. Bearing shame and scoffing rude In my place condemned he stood, sealed my pardon with his blood. Hallelujah, what a savior. Here's the answer to the question as to why the sinless king might Must be crucified. Guilty, helpless, lost were we. Blameless Lamb of God was He. Sacrificed to set us free. Hallelujah! What a Savior. He was lifted up to die. It is finished, was his cry. Now in heaven, exalted high. Hallelujah, what a savior. Would you like to sing this with me? To our Lord Jesus Christ. Let's stand and let's sing this together