In the Gospel of Mark, chapter nine, starting at verse fourteen, reading through verse twenty nine. Mark chapter nine, starting in verse fourteen. God's holy word for God's holy people. And when he came to the disciples, he saw a great multitude around them, and scribes disputing with them. Immediately, when they saw him, all the people were greatly amazed, and running to him greeted him. And he asked the scribes, What are you discussing with them? Then one of the crowd answered and said, Teacher, I brought you my son, who has a mute spirit. And wherever it seizes him, it throws him down. He phones at the mouth, gnashes his teeth, and becomes rigid So I spoke to your disciples that they should cast it out, but they could not. He answered him and said, O faithless generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him to me. Then they brought him to him, and when he saw him, immediately the spirit convulsed him, and he fell on the ground and wallowed, foaming at the mouth. So he asked his father, How long has this been happening to him? And he said, From childhood, and often he has thrown him both into the fire and into the water to destroy him. But if you can do anything, have compassion on us and help us. And Jesus said to him, If you can believe, all things are possible to him who believes. Immediately the father of the child cried out and said with tears, Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief. When Jesus saw that the people came running together, he rebuked the unclean spirit. saying to it, Deaf and dumb spirit, I command you, come out of him and enter him no more. Then the spirit cried out, convulsed him greatly, and came out of him And he became as one dead, so that many said, he is dead. But Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up, and he arose. And when he had come into the house, his disciples asked him privately, Why could we not cast it out? So he said to them, This kind can come out by nothing but prayer and fasting. Please pray with me. Almighty God, we are so thankful. That you have not left us alone in this world. You have given us your spirit. We need him. Oh, Holy Ghost, would you lead us into the truth? Help us, comfort us, guide us. Allow us to be transformed by the Word, by your Word. We need you, our great God, to make us more like Christ. Through Christ's own words. And I pray, Lord, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. I want to start by telling you of a Christian mother. Whose child, when they were very, very young, under the age of three, they were struck with a very grave illness. This mother had already lost many children. And so she cried out to God day and night, begging the Lord to spare her son. And though it looked like this child would die, the boy survived. And he lived. And she thought to herself, The Lord's hand is on this one. He's heard my cries for this, my son. He will surely gift him and give him many wonderful blessings. So the child grew. And as children do, they went off to college, or what constituted college at that time. And he engaged himself in great learning, many years of study, but he had not confessed faith. He studied diligently, traveled around that he would learn more and more and be of use in his own life. And yet he would not believe. But he was seeking. He was seeking for answers, and he ended up falling even into a false religion, a cult that at that time Drew him in, and he thought that he had the answers. The mother was heartbroken. She could not believe that after all that she had prayed, and after all that God had already done for this her son. that he would be so misguided and so blinded to what he desperately needed. She thought pastoral counsel And the pastor said to her, A child of such tears can never perish. She had cried long for him. And he encouraged her to keep praying, to keep crying, to keep seeking the Lord for him. It was seventeen long years that she prayed and cried and desperately needed God to save her son. And God heard her, answered her prayers, and indeed converted him. For his own blessing, he was he was given faith But this man was not just a blessing to his mother. He has been a blessing to the whole church, for that man is St. Augustine of Hippo. And if you believe that seventeen years is too long to cry out to God that He would save someone you love, be encouraged by Monica. mother, who never gave up and never stopped praying for him. And God heard her prayers and through them has blessed all of us because the Reformed faith There is so much that we owe to Augustine. Now perhaps you knew that already. You knew the history of Augustine, and you might have already been thinking that that's where I was going, probably because I've given that opening illustration before, but it's so poignant. She never prayed that her son would be successful. She didn't pray that her son would have a good job. She prayed that her son would be conquered by Christ. And the Lord heard her prayers. We have been going through the gospel of Mark, and Mark has been showing us in all of these wonderful pictures. Of Jesus' ministry, that Jesus of Nazareth is indeed the true Son of God. He is the Messiah. He is the Christ. He alone has the power to save, to do the things that only God can do. And not only can he save from the worldly afflictions and ailments that were brought to him, and we've seen many of those with the cleansing lepers, raising children from the dead. But he has the power to save from our most desperate of affliction, the spiritual affliction. In chapter 8, we saw Peter's confession that Christ is the Messiah, that Jesus is the Christ. And do you remember what we learned? What Jesus told him. That confession is not coming from within himself. It is something that God the Father had given him Yet Peter, the one who gave that confession, who had received the faith to believe from God the Father, he still didn't get it. And when Jesus told him what must happen to himself, do you remember what Peter did? He tried to correct Jesus, tried to rebuke him, to tell him that those things must never be. You must not be rejected. You must not suffer. How is it that you could die and then rise again? Yet the Lord taught that that is what must happen for you to be saved, for Peter to be saved, for any who have been given faith to be saved. We last looked at the mountain of transfiguration, and we saw that Jesus was revealed in all of his glory to Peter, James, and John. They saw a glimpse beyond the veil and saw that Jesus really is God. And as he was there and conversing with Moses and Elijah. Boy Peter showed that he still didn't get it. Because he wanted to build a tabernacle or a temple, something to mark that location and that uh that event. And he wanted to build one for Elijah and one for Moses As though they were somehow on par or equal with Jesus. The Father confirms That Jesus is his son. Do you remember what he says on that mountain? He says, very similarly to what he had said at the beginning of Mark, at Jesus' baptism, this is my beloved Son. Hear him. And so now we come to this account, which is present in Matthew and Mark and Luke, but strangely enough, Mark is the one that gives us the most details of the Account. And this is when Jesus and those three special disciples that he had taken with him are going to descend the mountain, and there is yet another opportunity for Jesus to show himself. to show his true nature and his awesome power as he comes to resolve the desperate need. of that man who brought his son to him. And so I ask you tonight, brothers and sisters, do you recognize your desperate need? Do you know what you need most? And are you willing to go to Christ to have that need fulfilled, to have that need resolved? If you do recognize your need, then rejoice with me that our God has preserved this scripture throughout the ages and given it to us that we can look at it tonight. For in this passage we will see, I pray, that our desperate need is only resolved by going to Christ. In complete dependence upon him. Brothers and sisters, your desperate need can only be resolved by going to Christ in complete dependence upon him. And we will look at this under two headings. We will first look at it under the heading of desperate need. We'll see that in verses 14 to 18. And then the rest of the passage, verses 19 to 29, we will look at our complete dependence. So let's look now at our desperate need in verses 14 through 18. When he came to the disciples, he saw a great multitude around them and scribes disputing with them. And immediately when they saw him, all the people were greatly amazed, and running to him greeted him. The first thing that we see here are these crowds. Again, large multitudes seeking Jesus, recognizing that there is something that they need. Now it does tell us that they were amazed. We don't know quite why they were amazed, perhaps they Just had been expecting wonderful things from Jesus. That's why they were there. Perhaps there was something special about Jesus that lingered from that transfiguration experience, similar to how when Moses would come down from his face-to-face encounter with God, his face would shine. I tend to think it was more they were amazed because that's who they were looking for. They weren't coming to see a group of disciples. They certainly weren't coming to watch the show of the scribes arguing with them They were looking for Jesus. And when he wasn't there, perhaps they were disappointed. And so him defending, who knows how They had been looking up, somebody had said, Oh, he has gone up there with some of his disciples, and they see four men walking down the mountain from far off, and they are just amazed. They're going to be in the presence of Jesus. And so they run to him. Reading to him. It's kind of like they're running, shouting for him. The scribes, they're present in this. What do we see them doing? Disputing, arguing, presumably arguing with the disciples. Because uh it wasn't like the scribes to just argue with crowds of people. They argued for good reason, or so they thought. And I want us to see that these scribes they don't have what is needed to deal with this desperate need. They don't even have enough compassion to realize that when somebody has brought their son And their son is suffering in such a way. It's not time for arguments. It's not time for theological disputes. And unfortunately, I think sometimes the modern church falls into that trap. Someone comes and they are hurting, and they are desperate, and they have a deep need. And what is our first reaction? Sometimes it's to try to lecture them. As though what they really need is just more information. If they just knew enough, they could make the right choices, make the right changes in their life. But as we see from the Father who brings his son, It is not information that is our most desperate need. It's not that we don't know enough about Jesus. That causes us to continue in our suffering. Look at verses 17 and 18. Then one of the crowd, I love this, Jesus asks, right, what are you discussing with them to the scribes? And this guy doesn't give the scribes a chance to answer. Maybe he's heard enough of what they had said and and realized himself they really don't get what's going on here And so he answers and he says, Teacher, I brought you my son, who has a mute spirit. And wherever it seizes him, it throws him down, he foams at the mouth, he gnashes his teeth, and becomes rigid. So I spoke to your disciples that they should cast it out. But they could not. This poor boy. He's desperately suffering. In the Matthew account, the Father calls Jesus Lord things. We'll see later on in here he calls Jesus Lord in Mark's account. But there he calls him teacher, which presumably would have been what most of the crowd would have thought Jesus was. Just a good teacher. But as I've already said, the father didn't just need information. He wasn't looking for a teacher. His son needed a savior. We get a little information from Luke and Matthew that's a little different from Mark. Matthew calls the child an epileptic. From the description that Mark gives us, that's pretty clear. The boy had seizures. He has a physical affliction. But we find out that the physical affliction doesn't have a physical source. It has a spiritual source. It's a spiritual need that causes this boy to be in such desperate suffering. And we see that the disciples, even these blessed disciples of Jesus, who if you recall, had been given the power to cast out demons. Do you remember? They had been given authority. They were performing miracles. And yet they could not cast this one out. This man brought his son to Jesus' followers. Just as happens today. There are many people that you know who have a desperate need, and perhaps they've gone to churches For help. Perhaps you've come to this church for help. And I just want to encourage you. That's not the wrong thing to do. For it is in the church of Christ where Christ has chosen to reside. This is the body of Christ. But you don't need us. You don't need the church. The church does not have the power to save you. What you need is Christ. You do not need theological arguments to convince you to think differently. As though that will somehow alleviate your suffering, remove the cause of your physical affliction. You need Christ. You need Christ alone, because He alone has the power. We have no power. You have no power. You're Christian Walk in your Christian life, it is a wonderful witness, but not a witness to how good you are. It is a witness to how good your Savior is, how good Christ is. And so if someone comes to us with a desperate need, what is it that we should do? We should urge them, exhort them, press them toward Christ. Press them to seek the Savior. To understand the only one who has the power to save them is God Himself. And the proof that he will save is that he has sent his son. He loves the world so much that he has sent his only son. And so we must urge all those who recognize their desperate need to go to Christ in complete dependence upon him. And that's what we'll look at in the rest of this passage. Verse 19, Jesus answers. He answered him and said, O faithless generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him to me. This is what we need, to be brought to Jesus, or to bring others to Jesus And so perhaps you may have a child who has been in seventeen years of rebellion like Monica. Do not stop Never stop praying, crying out to God that he would show his might and his power in saving that child. God is a promise-keeping God. He makes promises and he keeps them. In that confession of sin passage, Did you hear what Moses' defense was when he's talking to God? You have promised to save these people. If you don't. You will be dishonored among those nations who've heard about you. They will have a wrong idea of who you are, God. I love to think about the promises that Jesus has made. If you were to turn to John 14. And look at verses 1 through 3. You don't need to turn there, but I'm going to read it for us. This is a promise that God gives, that Jesus Christ gives. He says, let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you, I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to myself, that where I am, there you may be also. Believe. Believe what Jesus says. Though we cannot see him here now, and he is not bodily present, he is not just absent. He is doing the work of his father in making a place for you. And he will come and he will bring you to him. How long will Jesus be with you? This this statement that he makes, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? I had never noticed before in all my times reading through this or reading through the Bible that there's a direct connection here to Matthew 28, verse 20. What does Jesus say there? I will be with you always, even to the end of the age. Will he ever forsake us? Will he ever leave us? The promise of God has been to his people. For generations and generations, Deuteronomy 31, verse 6: Be strong and of good courage. Do not fear nor be afraid of them, for the Lord your God, He is the one who goes with you. He will not leave you, nor forsake you. God is the God of compassion, of long suffering. Of patience, of great mercy, of endless mercy. His mercies endure forever and ever and ever. Amen. And so how long will he bear with you? How long will he be with you? Forever and ever. Depend on him. You can depend on his promises. Notice in verse twenty Then they brought him to him, and when he saw him, immediately the spirit convulsed him, and he fell on the ground and wallowed, foaming at the mouth. The spirit knew what was about to happen. He knew he was in the presence of God, of the Creator. And so he gets one final attack in on this boy. But notice what is said in verses 21 and 22. Jesus asks the Father, How long has this been happening to him? And he said, From childhood. And often he's thrown him both into the fire and into the water to destroy him. But if you can do anything, have compassion on us and heal us. Brothers and sisters, you can have complete dependence on Christ's compassion. He cares. He cares how long you've been suffering. Doesn't matter how long it is that you've been afflicted. He really does care. Now, of course, Jesus, as God, did not need to ask the question to know how long that child had been afflicted. But he asked so that the disciples would hear. He asked so that the crowd would hear He asked so that those scribes would hear to find out that this boy, however old he is. From his youth, he had been afflicted by this spiritual attack. It's a long-lasting, desperate need. It's the same as yours and mine And sometimes our suffering will be long. Sometimes it will feel like 40 years of our life was lived in a wilderness. Trudging through the desert. It may seem in all that time like there is no hope of resolution But go to Jesus. Go to him. Take your loved ones in their need to him Do you notice that spiritual needs are no less real than physical needs? I think sometimes we may get caught up in that. And we have somebody that we love who is suffering. Suffering in their body. Their body's not working. And so when we pray for them, what is it that we're praying for? Oh Lord. Oh Lord, please heal them. Oh Lord, please strengthen them. Give them what they need, that they can be mobile. But is that what they need the most? What they need is they need to be relieved from the spirit's attack, from the spiritual attack. This is what all spiritual attack is doing. Remember, Satan is looking to cause even the elect, if he could, to be distracted from serving God, to be turned away from serving God. But if your spirit belongs to Christ, there is nothing he can do. He cannot pluck you from his hand. But you know what he can do? Oh, he can rob you of joy. He can rob you of the joy of being one of God's saved. And he does this by afflicting you physically. He knows when you're weak. He'll hit you when you're down. And the Father pleads for compassion. He pleads for Jesus. If you can, if you are able, have compassion on us Well, that is exactly who our God is. He is the compassionate God. More compassionate, more understanding than any other person you could ever meet. You can depend on his compassion, that he does care about your affliction, no matter how long it is you've been suffering. But you can also completely depend on his power Notice that the father asks about ability. He says, if you can. This word can in the Greek is related to the word dynamite, dynamis. Do you have the power? Does God have the power to save? And so Jesus responds. Do you see his response there in verse 23? If you can believe, all things are possible. Now you may have a different translation, and it may look very different than what the New King James has. And I would love to, if you want, after the the dinner or while we're eating, have a conversation about the different manuscripts and all those things, textual variants. But what I want to point out here is whether yours says, if you can, as though Jesus is quoting the man, or if it says exactly what the New King James has here, if you can believe. The point is still the same. If God has given you the power to have faith in Christ Jesus, all things are possible for you. Now it's not all things that you want, right? But all that you need is possible for you I was having a hard time thinking about this, and my mind started to turn it in a in a way that's been helpful for me. I hope it's helpful for you. All things are possible if you can believe, if you have faith. Flip it around. Nothing is possible for those without faith. Nothing. Those without faith may think that things are going their way or that their desperate needs are being dealt with. But if they have not faith in Christ Jesus, what's the point? Nothing is really being resolved for them. If God has given you even a mustard seed of faith, what does he tell you you can do? You can move mountains. And the Father hears that word from Jesus, and he responds in what I believe is probably the most Christian prayer in all of the scriptures. Immediately the father of the child cried out and said with tears, Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief. He calls him Lord. He recognizes who he is. He must have the faith to know that Jesus is who he's claiming to be, but he recognizes that it is an imperfect faith. And he needs to be strengthened in it. He needs to believe. If this is you, cry out to God. If you have doubts that assail you when you are faced with those difficult times. Cry out to God, the God that you believe in, that He would help you even in your unbelief, that He would conquer your doubt and put it to death. Because, brothers and sisters, you can completely depend on God's power. Completely. He does have the ability. He can And if he wills it, he will display that power in the same way that he put it on display here in verses 25 through 27. When Jesus saw that the people came running together, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, Deaf and dumb spirit, I command you, come out of him and enter him no more Then the Spirit cried out, convulsed him greatly, and came out of him, and he became as one dead, so that many said, He is dead. But Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up, and he arose. It can be exhausting when you have suffered for so long. So exhausting that even when the suffering is removed. You may appear dead. Or perhaps you thought of yourself as dead. And yet here we see that God has the power. He has the power to restore you. He has the power to restore the years that the locusts have eaten. If you have spent ages, decades in sin. Or perhaps it was only a month. No matter how long, the Lord can restore it and restore you and give you the strength to serve Him. You can depend on Him, on His power. In this very last section, verses 28 and 29, this is the complete part of our dependence. Look at what we have here. And when he had come into the house, The disciples, his disciples asked him privately, why could we not cast it out? And so he said to them, This kind can come out by nothing but prayer. And fasting. Again, we have a textual variant here, so you may have a different version. I don't think that it changes the reality of what God is trying to teach You must be completely dependent upon him. What is prayer? Who prays Does someone who has what they need pray for it? Does someone who thinks that the power is within themselves to accomplish what they need, do they pray? Prayer is an acknowledgement of your need, of your dependence upon Christ. You cry out to Him. And what is fasting? Fasting is self-denial. It's self-sacrifice. Now you don't deny yourself to earn something from God. You deny yourself to prove to yourself That you don't need anything more than you need God. Yes, you need food to live, right? If you don't eat, you die. But a fast is generally giving up the food to remind yourself that man cannot live on bread alone. The life is more than what you eat and what you drink. Do you know what you really need? Do you know that you really need Christ more than anything else? You need to depend on him, and you can. He is compassionate. He is powerful. He is a promise keeper. He does what he says he will do. And I want to end with this. Sometimes we wonder if it is uh if it is the strength of our faith. That it's lack, that we are weak in our faith, and that's why we suffer. I would draw your attention to the Passover. D. A. Carson, theologian, pastor. I've heard him put it this way, and it it really struck me. During the Passover, the people were commanded to put the blood of the Passover lamb over their doorposts. And he tells a story of two men, neighbors. And one of them comes out of his house. He's watching the sun go down and he's terrified. He's shaking. And he says, I just don't know what's going to happen. I'm so afraid. And his neighbor says to him, What are you afraid of? Didn't you take the blood and put it on the doorposts? Didn't you do what Moses told us to do, what God told us to do? I'm not afraid at all. And D. A. Carson asks. Which one of those men lost his son? Lost his firstborn? Neither. They were both spared. Because it wasn't the strength of their faith that saved their sons from being taken. It was the power of God. It was the promise of God. It was the mercy and the compassion. Of your God. No matter what your desperate need, brothers and sisters, bring it all to Christ. You can completely depend on Him. Like Monica did. And see how the Lord blesses you and blesses his church through your dependence. Let us pray.