Chapter 3 of Titus. And our verses today are 9 through 11. We're getting close to the end here. We only have one more sermon, Lord willing, in Titus. next week and then we'll move into 1st and then 2 Timothy together over the summer. Beginning in verse 9 of chapter 3. But avoid foolish disputes, genealogies, contentions, and strivings about the law, for they are unprofitable and useless Reject a device of man after the first and second admonition, knowing that such a person is warped and sinning, being self-condemned. Amen. Let us pray. O Christ, you have made promises that you will form and shape us by the effectual application of your word by the Spirit. We pray for that this morning. Oh Spirit, move within us. Shape not just our minds, but our hearts. And may it be reflected in our good deeds which you have created. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated Before I b uh begin the sermon, let me just remind you, if you don't mind, it please be praying always for all of us. But especially today, we have a number of folks that are just going to listen to this sermon, hear the benediction after the Lord's Supper, and get on a plane to Athens. for the Grand Tour trip. So please let's keep those students and the chaperones and the rest in prayer, please. I forgot to mention that earlier. Do you remember last week and the weeks before, where we often talk about the tools that God has given to us? That we have a tool bag that has become filled with many tools. We talk about it that way. uh for different reasons, but one reason is for us to forget to remember that we don't just have one tool Sometimes we're inclined, for example, to think that all we have is getting angry with each other Or that the only tool that we have is to just overlook everything that anyone ever does and never say anything, just sweep it under the rug. And bringing up the tool bag and the tools, we've seen there's a lot of tools, actually, that Christ through his Spirit gives to us in order to be able to live well unto God. Do you remember the tool that is given to us that we're encouraged to use last week? Well, it was a number of tools, and do you remember the end for which we should be striving? There's a whole host of tools that are given to us that we would use to exercise goodness towards our neighbors. Now, that's everybody that we come into contact with. Why? That was the major question that we considered. Why would we ever do such a thing? And the answer was rooted in the nature of the nature and character of God Himself. It's because we are called to be like our Heavenly Father. We're no longer connected to our to the um the devil. He's not our father. The original Adam is not our primary connection It is the second Adam, and by way of him we are connected to the Father. And you remember the simple truth that Christ gives to us in order for us to remember what the Father is like. To whom does God show justice? Is it both the righteous and the unrighteous? Then to whom shall you give their due and their rights? To whom does God send the rain? Is it not to the just and the unjust? Then to whom should we give a cup of cold water or something to drink? Well, that's the argument that Christ brings out that God blesses his enemies, and so should we And in fact, our doctrine last week was that Christians are called to imitate God their Father by doing good works, not just for their family or their church, that is included, but also for the general public. That is a part of what it means to be the church. Well, now we wade into waters where there are two imperatives. Given to Titus as he's given this task on Crete to set with the other leaders or officers, to set this place in order. And so we're introduced actually this morning to a new tool And we'll make a few observations and you can see what some of those tools are here that are given to him and to the church. Let's observe together these verses. We only have a couple this morning. I want you to notice verse number nine first. In verse number nine, you'll notice that he enumerates, Paul enumerates four different items. Do you see the enumeration? It says there's a command avoid, but then there is this enumeration of these parts, foolish disputes. Genealogies, contentions, and strivings about the law. Now, honestly, it is difficult to know exactly what's going on historically and what the reference is to these four different things. Exactly what kind of disputes are we talking about? Well we know they're foolish, but what does it look like? If you were to show up, would you be able to recognize it? The same thing with how were they using genealogies? Were they using genealogies to try to disprove that Christ was the Davidic Messiah Those are speculative. Maybe that's what's going on. What about the contentions and the strivings about the law? Were they fighting against Judaism sects and that kind of stuff? Well, probably It's difficult to know what exactly these disputes and contentions and strivings look like in particular, but we know that whatever they were, Paul says right at the end of the sentence that they are unprofitable and that they are useless. Now, what does he mean when he uses language like that here? Does he mean that his opponents lack efficiency? Or that they're doing something that is kind of annoying, and we should just overlook these things. That's not the kind of message that we receive within this letter. It is the kind of message that we receive in this letter when we hear about how they are unprofitable, is that they are unprofitable in ways that are exceptionally damaging. You'll see here in verse 9 that we have a contrast. We, by the power of the Holy Spirit, sent by Christ to apply his work to us, whom the Father has sent We are to be profitable. You remember that discussion? And here you see that this verse starts off with a contrast and saying, you are to be a certain way because you are in Christ. You are not to be this way, and then he gives these four things and he says, and they're unprofitable. You are by definition unprofitable. You can't be a part of these things The kind of, do you remember the kind of unprofitable things that he mentioned earlier in the letter? They're always liars. They're always drunks. They're just like Cretans. Do you remember some of the damage that is talked about where a strong admonition is necessary? He says specifically that they subvert or undermine entire households. So you need to connect whatever's going on inside people's homes and what is happening, the damage that is done to families. And these four things: contentions, genealogies. And the rest, you need to connect those two and to see that one and other actions, one is connected to the other and it's doing quite the damage here in this church. And so Paul tells Titus how he is to respond. He says, you are to avoid or you are to shun these activities. Now, what does Paul mean when he tells Titus there on the island to avoid this situation? Does that mean if you're sitting at dinner and this erupts, that you just keep eating your steak and smile and kind of nod? Is that what Titus is called to do? We know that that's not what he can mean by a void, because earlier in the letter he specifically says that Titus and the other elders whom he would appoint are to strongly even admonish these people so that their mouths would shut up. That's the language in the first couple chapters. That they would be quiet. The avoidance here is not just a disengagement. The idea here is to keep such unprofitable events from being a part of the community. There are some things that can go on inside of communities where you should say that is not healthy or good for the community and it needs to stop. And that's what's going on here. In the same way where Paul could say, avoid drunken parties, so too avoid these things. It would mean if you have drunken parties in your church We've got to have somebody rise up to reclaim order so that people use their alcohol well or not at all. The Cretan Church is unhealthy Essentially, is Paul's thought, and he would continue, perhaps in paraphrase, to say, we don't need to prevent promote events and practices that make it even more sick. That's not why I've appointed you. I've appointed you as a physician to bring healing. So we need to remove some things. Or not allow them to continue. That's the first observation I want you to see is verse 9, the enumeration of the four things, that they're unprofitable, and that What Titus is called to do in response to them. He needs to shun these things. They need to not be a part of the community. Here's the second observation, and this is for verses 10 and 11. Notice that verses 10 and 11 tell Titus how to handle, there's a key word here, heretics. Now that's a Greek word. In the NKJV, which is the translation I always read from here in preaching, heretic is a Greek word, and in my translation it's translated divisive. What I wonder if you have the same thing. Could be factious. Could be apostates. Here it's translated as divisive, and that's actually a good translation for what's going on here in this particular context, because the point is that these people Who are unprofitable and useless, they are undermining the authorized apostolic teaching They are literally, by way of their persuasive efforts, creating two congregations instead of one congregation who is united in the authoritative gospel proclaimed by the apostles and the prophets. They are creating two because they are disagreeing with the apostles. And now we have this side against this side on matters that are foundational within the scriptures. And that's why they're called divisive. They are cutting people off from the truth, separating them to themselves by way of envy. Unto false teaching and false practices, and eventually death and hell Now the church is meant to be, as according to Ephesians and other places, the church is meant to be one faith. One Lord, one baptism, one practice, one God who's Father over all. But you look at what the heretics do. They warp. Verse 11. See that word there? They warp. Anybody ever seen a warped piece of lumber? Anybody seen warped plywood? And you can see how that's a kind of analogy for a warped person. See how close that idea is to something being twisted, that it's meant to be straight, but this has become crooked. That is all turned analogously into language that denotes the moral condition or state of the individual. They're warped, they're twisted. Now you can ask the question here, with what these heretics do, how is Titus to respond? And there's three things that he's supposed to do, though it's listed in two parts. He is supposed to give one admonition. He's supposed to give two admonition. And then if they refuse to listen, Titus and the elders are to reject These people or that person. And rejection here refers to publicly dismissing them from the Christian community. This person is not safe. This person is not in fellowship with you in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, when we look at these two observations, what surfaces is this particular doctrine? It's quite simple. There's not many words here this morning. So I especially to especially encourage you to write them down. The church, what we see on these observations is that the church is called to maintain health against heretics. That's straightforward, right? I mean, that's obviously what's going on here. The church is called to maintain health against heretics. And I'd like to develop that just under two points: heretics and health. That should be easy enough to remember. Heretics and health. So let's begin by just discussing heretics. Sounds fun, right? In our passage this morning, the heretic or divisive person is said to be warped. And I gave you a couple images for that. There's plenty out there. Wart actually has a long history within the sacred biblical tradition. It is often translated as pervert or perverted. The way that we get there is that we look at this original Greek text, and then the Old Testament has also been translated into Greek. and we see what Greek words did they use for the Hebrew words. And we see this same word warped showing up. And then when we look at that word in the Hebrew, it's often translated perverted. Or to pervert or a pervert. In our culture, we have narrowed what that word means. I'm not going to repeat it here because of mixed company. But in the scriptures, it means to overturn or to overthrow what is good, to overthrow what is true, to overthrow what is righteous, to overthrow what is healthy, and to overthrow what is lovely. This is a person or a group of people that is bent on destruction in contrast to what God defines as order. That is a heretic. Now, I want you to consider one of the places where this word shows up within our total canon or collection of the scriptures. You could write this down and confer on this on your nine-hour plane flight to Greece. Deuteronomy 32, 19 through 20, for example. Of all days, this should be a day where you discuss the sermon. Deuteronomy 32, 19 through 20. Israel overthrows or perverts the Mosaic covenant by serving demons, it says. And when the Lord saw it, the Lord said, I will hide my face from them. I will see what their end will be, for they are a perverse generation. Children in whom there is no faith. Now, the same word was used in the passage from our bulletin today, also, that they had become perverse. Now, this word is used within the Torah of course, those first five books of the Moses, the Pentateuch. And not surprisingly, then, you see it picked up within the wisdom literature and used quite often by Solomon. Solomon spends time warning the youth of the church To about heretics and perverts. He says this, for example, in Proverbs 8, verse 13: the fear of the Lord is to hate evil. Pride and arrogance and the evil way and the perverse mouth I hate, says the Lord. Now that's really strong language. Another proverb, Proverbs 6, 12 through 14, says this, a worthless person, a wicked human Walks with a perverse mouth. He winks with his eyes, he shuffles his speech, he points with his fingers Perversity is in his heart. He devises evil continually. He sows discord. The picture there in Proverbs 6, 12 through 14, is a person who's using all of their body parts, which are energized from their inner motivations and their hearts. in order to undermine, twist, and overturn that which is good and healthy. And they are considered the worthless person or the wicked human. They do so with their mouth, they do so with their eyes, they do so with their feet, they do so with their fingers. It all flows from their hearts. They devise evil continually And that shows up particularly in all of the seeds of their life as a farmer. When they throw out the seed and they sow it, when any of those seeds find a soil where it could grow up or be watered, the plant will be chaos. And will cause destruction. I hope that you're getting a sense of the portrait that's being painted of what it means to be perverse or to be warped, according to the total collection of the scriptures. Now, consistent with the rest of Titus, we could Titus and all that Solomon has written, the total collection of the scriptures Consistent with that and with Titus, we could think of perverts under a summary term that I would like to give you, and I mean this in a fixed sense. They are antisocial. I don't mean that they're introverts and they would really just like to watch a Netflix episode instead of dealing with people all the time. I'm talking about a thick sense of what it would mean for you to be against society. They are antisocial. Now, here's the story: God the Father sees humanity fall into an estate of sin and misery. He therefore sends his son to redeem his people. His Son, even to this day, does everything necessary in order to continually establish the city of God Christ as a prophet sends his spirit and his words to us so that we can understand truth and reality and live in accordance with it Christ as priest sends his Spirit, giving us faith that we may be justified from our sins, sanctified from our filth. He intercedes for us daily, the church. Christ as King sends his Spirit that we would not only know His truth and His way, but we would obey it. And it is through these offices that Christ has formed a separate people and a heavenly city or colony Built on him as the cornerstone or the foundation of that city, together with his apostles and his prophets, who are his messengers. Can you see the city? Perverts are antisocial and that they seek to destroy that city. That's what they're doing And they do so in ways that are persuasive to us. That is the one of the most difficult things about it. One of my favorite proverbs has become in line with This notion and just trying to pastor the church in this particular age. One of my proverbs, one of my favorite proverbs has become the uh one about the the blows of a friend. That good are the difficult things, if you were to paraphrase it, good are the difficult things that a friend says to you, even though they sting and they hurt. Because they're for your good. But you watch out for the deceitful things that someone says to you that gives you nothing but kisses. And that's what they're like. They flatter, they kiss, very charismatic, and able to get along in social atmospheres. That's what makes it partially difficult. But in the end, if you were to see, and this is a this is a part of wisdom, and Solomon would say this too in his book of Proverbs as he's seeking to train the the next generation coming up within Israel, he would say that wisdom is able to see through it. Wisdom is able to see through it and to see that though they do these things on the outside, I see a pervert. I see someone who is perverted, and I know what that means. I know that it's fundamentally antisocial, and if it were left up to them, if society were left up to them, then our families would be dismantled into chaos. They seek to overturn Christ as the prophetic teacher in the way that they contradict him. Somehow they have, they understand truth and reality better than the apostles and the prophets. They seek to twist the priestly work of Jesus Christ, creating elaborate sacramental systems. They seek to corrupt our loyalty and the law of our King. And that is happening especially within the queer movement and theology. When you begin to look at things this way, in a kind of through an antisocial lens, do you see all of the metaphors and analogies that we could begin to use to understand what we should avoid And what we should reject? I was trying to think through some. Here are a couple that are just fun that maybe will land on you and not leave you Yesterday, when I was checking for eggs in the laying area of my chicken coop, I noticed that the lid to that area had become eaten away by several years of rain and rot. The lid was perverted or undermined from its purpose of protecting my chickens. I noticed a leak in my ceiling right up against the fireplace. I got a lot of leaks. I'm just realizing that. I noticed a leak in my ceiling right up against the fireplace. I went to the attic to look at the entrance point of the chimney on the roof and I found termites. Don't tell my wife. I found termites eating away the wood around the chimney. That was a joke. They perverted or undermined my roofing system. You've heard this one before. I've been complaining about this since 2008, and it's the fine, the squash vine borers again I try to grow summer squash every year. The squash vine borer tunnel into the roots of my squash plants and hollow them out without a care. They laugh at me in the night And this is what I have to say about the Vinebohrer. The Vinebohrer is a heretic. I'm not kidding. The Vinebohrer is a heretic, they are warped. They undermine and destroy the society of my garden. Heretics or the divisive, so far, here's a running list. I would love for you to come up with an encyclopedia of more derogatory terms for these people, if you don't mind. So far I've got this for you. They're perverts. They are a rot and a ruin to the roof of our society And they are the bind borers of the church, hollowing out whole families That's the message that's coming through here within the scriptures. Can you think of some other language that's used for them? Woulds? Those who chew the flesh off the people of God and gnaw on their bones, that's from the prophets. Well, keep going. Let me know what you find within the scriptures that describe those who are divisive and tear at the very foundations of the city of God. Well, that's heretics. I'd like to end on a good note and talk about health. Now, our passage and the way that I'm talking alarms some people. Our passage alarms some people because Paul instructs Titus to reject or remove heretics. From the community. Now, this is exceptionally difficult because if that's going to happen, it's someone who you've already had taco dinner with. Usually. Sometimes it's your child. That can be the most difficult. And so people are alarmed when they hear him talk about in the language of non-inclusivity or in rejection and removal from the community. And in response to this alarm, I think it's a good idea for us to look at Paul's words in particular in light of the total collection so that we don't get ahead of ourselves. Paul does not just say that heretics should be rejected. That's the biggest word in the whole passage. It says reject or remove. You can see it flashing lights. But that's not the only word that he says. He says that you are to do that after two admonitions And he's not, he doesn't have a little card that he gives you, a little green card, that it says, Have you done your first admonition? And then you would check it. Yes, I just did that five minutes ago. minutes ago. Well then have you done your second? I'll go do that now and then I can check this and then they can be removed. That's not what he's talking about. It's not an engineering process That's not the frame that he's using. The frame that he's using is the total collection of scriptures of what we're to do with those who seek to undermine the city of God. You can think of the teaching of Jesus Christ, for example, and how Jesus taps into that tradition. In Matthew 18, 15 and following. I'm sure that we've heard that. These two admonitions should remind you of those two steps that are given here. Those two admonitions evoke the larger teaching of Jesus, which then evokes all that He had given to us within the Old Testament scriptures. When someone offends you, you admonish them If they do not listen, then you are to gather witnesses to the fact of their sin and admonish them again. And this can be a long process as we seek to work with each other You may discover in the process that though you were offended, it actually doesn't affect a thing, and you can just overlook this and you become the glory of the community because by you overlooking, you become social and not antisocial, and that you've relieved tension from our mists. If it's something that does need to be focused on, then you can continue. If they do not listen, then you can take it one level further, and that is to bring it to the session of the church And the session of the church is to do with all that they have in them. They are to work on that person's conscience. That's the only authority or right that they have, is to work on their conscience by way of the word. And it is our trust in the Spirit that He will convict them of truth and of righteousness. And they will turn from their ways. That they have perverted and move toward Christ. Now, does that sound familiar to a story that you've heard within the scriptures? A story that goes right before Matthew 18, 15? It is a story about a sheep. That left the flock and it went off on its own. And Christ talks about the importance of us going and finding the lost sheep to bring them back into the flock. Do you remember the story after Matthew 18:15 and following? The whole passage ends with the story of a king who forgives an enormous debt, a debt that could never be met. Twenty lifetime sentences maybe. How about that? But the king forgives in his sovereign mercy the debt. In other words, within the larger collection of the scriptures, we are to work diligently to restore people. We are not called to be quick to reject. James puts it this way. Sometimes we think he's just talking about emotions, but he's not. He's talking about how we interact with each other in society. And James says: we are to be quick to listen and we are to be slow to judgment. Sometimes it takes a while for the ship to turn. And we're, when we can, are going to give people the time for that turn to take place. Now that's a picture that's given within the Proverbs and the larger collection. I bet you you could think of some biblical characters that don't just admonish you one What about Gideon and the conflict we saw with him and with the tribes and judges? What about all of the others that are able to quench the fire of someone's wrath And the disturbance or the nuclear bomb that's getting ready to go off in the community by way of their peacemaking efforts and not just moving immediately to rejection. That's the larger picture In fact, I would say if you would like to reflect on this, whether you're on an airplane or not, 1 Thessalonians 5, 14 through 15 gives a very Good summary of the spirit of what it means to be in society in situations like this. 1 Thessalonians 5, 14 through 15. Now we exhort you, brethren. Warn those who are unruly, comfort the faint-hearted, uphold the weak, and the final word: be patient or long-suffering with them all. That is the message of the scriptures. See that no one renders evil for evil to anyone, and that's one of the reasons why it takes so long, is because you have got to get your heart in the right place. before you destroy somebody in front of you in the name of Jesus. We cannot be quick to reject Rejection is at the end of a long process, and it is a last resort. We are always, it continues in 1 Thessalonians 5, we are always to pursue what is good, both for ourselves and for all. That's actually what what real wrath looks like. Seeking another's good. Now, now that I've given that larger perspective, sometimes there does come a time, nevertheless, when members must be removed from them. I'm not going to take that away. I cannot do it. Otherwise I should be removed from the pulpit for not being willing to preach what's here in the passage. It does say that there comes a time in some cases and situations where we must remove them from membership And it is good to see the specific of Paul's words again. Take a look at verse 11. Do you see this word that we just glanced over where it says knowing? In verse 11. Knowing. Why don't we just camp out there for a second? Instead of glancing over it, focus on it. At least, I'm not going to go on about this, but at the very least, the rejection is based on what? Knowing That you would have some kind of knowledge and plan and purpose and rationality to the action that you are going to take It is based in knowing. We must see that someone is divisive to the city of God. We must see See that in all of the attempts that we have made, here's the basic fact. They refuse to stop and families are being undermined And so we must with courage at that point take the step forward and move towards rejection. Now do you want to know? what the greatest obstacle is to removing someone from membership, both within the leadership and within the congregation. It's actually pointed out almost every time this is mentioned within the Old Testament, you must remove the evil from among you, which is also repeated in the Corinthian letters. Don't be leavened by evil. Remove the evil from among you. The number one thing that gets in the way of people doing the right thing, of protecting the foundations of the society and the city. It's compassion. It's compassion If you were to look through those Deuteronomy passages, you will see God repeatedly saying, Do not show pity for the offender. Because it is a number one reason or obstacle to doing the right thing for the city. When we see those who are fellow members removed, our compassion kicks in and it becomes the only tool in the toolbox. And that's the problem. Compassion itself is not a problem. It's when it's your only tool and you're using the wrong tool in that situation. When we see our fellow members removed, our compassion kicks in, and we have trouble with the church leadership, for example, in the decision that they had to make. And now there's two points that I want you to remember when we think about that. That God anticipates your compassion, and so Very grace graciously throughout the scriptures, when heretics are removed from the church, the Lord warns the people to not let their compassion or pit pity keep them from doing what is right by removing the evil person from among you. Now I've defined the evil person. That's a last resort. That's way at the end of a lot of work. But when the time comes, do not let your pity or compassion get in the way. Second. I just want to acknowledge a fact that sometimes we do not acknowledge. We try to just move beyond this. When the removal or the rejection takes place, let's just acknowledge that it hurts. I think it's important to just say that. It's actually hurtful. It will be hurtful to them. At some level, and it will hurt the congregation, and it will hurt and probably give elders many sleepless nights But here is the thing about hurt that we cannot forget with Jesus Christ as our physician Is that sometimes the church must inflict hurt in the same way that a doctor sometimes must inflict hurt That is a fundamental truth for the church to operate. That is the model that is given to us in the scriptures that the church sometimes acts as a physician and inflicts harm in order to achieve health. Now, let me test you on this one. Could you imagine the following situation? There is a woman who is not going to be able. To give birth without a C-section. But the doctor does not want to hurt her with the scalpel and so refuses to give the C-section. He says to her, they start to argue, the husband Starts to argue with the doctor. What are you doing? What are you thinking by not giving my wife the C-section? Can't you see what's going to happen? He says, I would have to stab her. I'd have to move the blade across. She would bleed I'd have to open her up. What kind of arguments would you give if you were there in the labor room? Do you see what the doctor has missed is that he's envisioning himself as a criminal with a knife, as opposed to a doctor with a knife. The criminal with the knife and his intent is just to bring harm, to inflict for selfish purposes. But the doctor with the knife Has to reasonably inflict harm at a certain level in order for future health and possibilities to remain. And that is so obvious to us in our thinking when we think about C-sections Did you know my mom had a C-section? I was almost 11 pounds. And the doctor said to her, if anybody's going to live here today, this big baby is going to have to come out another way. And I thank God that he did my mother harm. I thank God that he did our harm so that we could both live. And that is the kind of harm that the church must use sometime. The doctors inflicted harm on my mother during her labor with me. It was necessary for her life and for mine. Rejection is a last option just like surgery. She didn't show up to the hospital and they did no test on her. They didn't even know who she was and then she just was admitted to the surgery room. That was a choice that had to be made after many other things failed. Rejection was the last option, just like the surgery, but it must be a tool within our tool bag when it is the way that God has given us to promote life, especially of the total city. Throughout this series, we have spoken about tools that God gives us. I know that you have the tool of compassion. But do you have other tools that will surgically remove cancers? With perverts, we must include in our tool bag certain medical instruments like a lance, to lance the boil. Speaking of perhaps old ways, or to cut away the cancer. The basic truth is this: the church is called to maintain health against heretics. Amen. Let us pray.