Uh is not really the subject of my sermon. I am preaching today topically rather than uh otherwise And so this is kind of a representative passage having to deal with the topic that we are considering So if you would please attend to the Word of God as it is found in Mark, chapter 14, verses 17 through 25. In the evening he came with the twelve. Now as they sat and ate, Jesus said, Assuredly, I say to you, one of you who eats with me will betray me. They began to be sorrowful and say to him one by one, Is it I? And another said, Is it I? He answered and said to them, It is one of the twelve who dips with me in the dish The Son of Man indeed goes just as it is written of him. But woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been good for that man if he had never been born. And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, blessed it and broke it, and gave it to them, and said, Take eat, this is my body. Then he took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, and they all drank from it. And he said to them, This is my blood of the new covenant which is shed for many. Assuredly, I say to you, I will no longer drink of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God. And may the Lord bless the reading and the understanding that comes from His Word. The sermon title for today is His Real Presence. Please be seated. Have you ever been in one of those positions where you're trying to read something and your reading glasses are too far away and your other glasses are too close So if you guys see me doing this back and forth today, you'll recognize what I'm trying to do. Recently, I've been challenged by two young men. One's a doctoral student at the Catholic University in Washington, D. C. , a very powerful institution. The other is a young man that's considering joining the Lutheran Church Now both are intelligent, academic, and very zealous young men. They are zealous about their beliefs and they are quite capable of defending them And what they have in common is that both of them have left the Reformed faith. Both of them at one time were part of the communion that community that we are part of. And we have to get used to that. This saddened me as we were considering it and it uh as I engaged them in discussion. And it forced me to go back and review stuff I hadn't thought about in 30 years. You know, to go back and get involved and dig deeply into things that uh have long ago been put to some dusty bin in the back of my brain. Now this sermon grew out of that. My concern in doing so is that these men are not an anomaly Not by any stretch of the imagination. They are not some exception that just kind of pushed into history and has given us some kind of momentary pause. Here are two young men who would be tremendously useful to the future of the church had they remained within the Reformed faith. Uh and the uh Roman Catholic spent his early years uh growing up in foreign countries, his parents were missionaries, reformed missionaries The other one is choosing Lutheranism, which is far less egregious than the Roman Catholic position, but it's still sad. Now my concern is, like I said, that these young men are not an anomaly. Many Reformed congregations are struggling these days, as young people in particular are finding themselves uncomfortable or else unfulfilled in our congregations. I am not speaking of this particular congregation, I'm speaking in general terms. But significant numbers do leave to join more liturgical churches. Greek and Serbian Orthodox churches are the fastest-growing churches in the United States of America. That's uh not my word, that's the words that was published by the New York Times. You know, that strictly religious, you know, very spiritual publication that comes out on occasion. Well, they say that uh that particular denomination, those denominations, are being flooded with converts. Now they're still the smallest group in the nation, but that is still what's happening Hm. We have to think about that. Uh So that's what I am motivating me to speak today and speaking topically because I need to uh we need to understand at least one aspect of some of the things that they are crediting as to being one of the reasons why they are leaving There are many reasons, but for a very common one is spirituality and worship. Spirituality and worship The concern is that in too many Protestant and evangelical organizations, all you have is mostly food for the mind. And that there is not enough spirituality in it. Now when I say that, uh that spirituality and knowledge What is the opposite of what I'm thinking about? Well, I'm not talking about banging on pots and pans in the worship service and standing up and wandering around and speaking in tongues and that type of thing But for lack of a better way of addressing it, I'm saying that there is lacking a sense of holiness in worship. A sense that things that are going on is separated from the ordinary world in a certain way that we call holy. By the way, that's what holy means is to be different. Very, very different. So as we're talking about this subject today At the back of our mind, what I would like to bring to us is how we should understand that in our reformed faith We are called to be holy in worship. This is not something we were supposed to add to our Reformed faith This is something that is supposed to be at the very heart of it. Holiness The understanding that we are in the presence of a holy, holy, holy God. And I really believe in my heart that if that sense of holiness is present That uh the kind of young men that we're talking about here would be less inclined. to leave to go look for a bunch of people or men walking around inciting people to holiness by carrying smoking sensors that distribute a false kind of holiness So with that, let's dive into this passage just a little bit. I'm just going to scan the top of it. We don't have time for it. And let's look at what this passage says. Now, look at what's going on in the passage. Can you imagine anything more holy than this? Can you imagine anything more holy than gathering in a relatively dark room all lit only by little oil lamps? Gathering in there with the presence of the Lord Jesus Christ sitting there and doing something that He is in fact communicating to us and saying, this is holy. What we're doing is holy. This is the last earthly meeting between the Lord Christ and his beloved disciples. And this holy night was most holy because Jesus said it apart as holy. In Luke's account of the Supper, Jesus says to those who are gathering here, it is with a fervent desire. I have really been looking forward to having this meal with you guys. Whoa. The supper then has a special place in Jesus' mind and ministry. And I submit to you that Jesus was instituting that he viewed as holy and he expects us to view it as holy also He intended his disciples and the church that was to follow through them were to see this time of gathering here as something special, something out of the ordinary, something which is different. than the rest of things that we do. The supper is more holy, brothers and sisters, than singing hymns. Singing hymns is holy. But the supper is more so. The supper, as we draw near to it, is set apart And as we approach it, we must approach it in that way. We must never approach it as just one more religious thing we do. What a beloved sister that used to be in this church. She's moved up north now But she used to talk about how she gathered so that we could do God's stuff. Well, that's not what we're here for doing. We're here not just to do God's stuff, but to be with God. The supper was to be a celebration of intimacy. Notice that turn. Notice those, uh notice Jesus gathering with those men there. Can you imagine anything more intimate than that? Can you imagine how how tied they must have felt to the Lord. And he, knowing he was going to die the next day and leave them, how he certainly felt intimate with them. So this was at the heart of it is an intimacy between those partaking of the supper and the Lord Christ who is governing it. This is a time when what reinforces the fellowship is the knowledge that the people are gathering with their God. And God is gathering with his people. And that intimate connection is at the heart of the supper. The Supper is about, in John Calvin's word, union with Christ. Something we don't talk about very much because it just sounds so strange. He, of course, held it as being the center of the gospel. We are union. We are in union with Christ. And the supper is where we celebrate it. If that's the case, it makes it very holy indeed So Jesus instituted the supper so that in taking it his disciples in effect relive that night This is a repagination of something that went on before. This is not a new thing. We are going back and doing what Jesus and his disciples did, and as we partake of the supper, we are to see ourselves in that regard. As being in that same intimate communion with the Lord Jesus at the table. Now, let's get down to this whole idea of holiness a bit What is it that makes this thing so holy? Well the preeminent, the very top of the line, the very first thing about the holiness of this supper is who is present in it That which makes the supper especially present, holy, is that as we gather to it, we gather in the very real presence of Christ. We gather in the presence of a man who died on a cross 2,000 years ago, raised from the dead, and ascended into heaven. But brothers and sisters, when we gather at this table, he's here. Do you believe that? Some more enthusiasm would be nice. There we go. The bottom line of it, brothers and sisters, is that's how it comes about. When we make that divide from our ordinary, we only believe in stuff we can see, feel, and touch To when we realize there's a whole different world in which we exist, that is the spiritual realm, and that in that spiritual realm there are real beings just like we are And in that spiritual realm, Jesus Christ is here with us in a very special and intimate way. Remember the road to Emmaus? Sarah, the uh story of it. How the disciples rejoiced in what they had gone through there, and how they recognized the Lord Jesus in the breaking of the bread. After he arose from the dead, they knew who he was when he broke the bread. There's continuity there, brothers and sisters, with the supper. There's continuity because the same type of event happens in the breaking of the blood and the take the breaking of the bread and the uh drinking of the cup. We experience and should see the Lord Jesus revealed to our spiritual eyes. When Jesus said, I am lo, I am with you always, you might think, Well, he's with us all the time You might think, well, you know, what's hard mumbling on about up there that he's supposed to be here at the supper? Jesus is always with me. Well, God bless you. I hope so But there's a specialness to his presence with his people in the supper. In the supper, he intends to share intimacy with us in a special way. Remember what Jesus said, it's with fervent desire that I desire to eat this meal with you. Now, it's not like Jesus, when he said that, had been away on a business trip He had been walking with those disciples for years. They were used to having him around to some degree. He kept surprising them, but that's kind of the way it was supposed to be. But that night They knew it and he knew it. It was a different reality. So the first point I want us to embrace with our whole heart, brothers and sisters, and I'm I'm passionate about this You might even call me zealous. Is that when we come to this supper, we have to discipline our mind to put aside any false assumptions. We gotta remove the distractions We've got to break through all of that stuff. Satan is trying to move away from us. And we have to focus on the fact that our Lord Christ is with us. It is He that is administering the table to us, though he is physically not present. He is here with his Holy Spirit. His physical body is in heaven, as Acts 3. 21 assures us. Here's the difference with the other churches, like the Lutheran and the Roman. They believe that his physical presence is distributed, that it's omnipresent, that it's everywhere. We don't believe that. I don't believe the scriptures teach it. His divine nature is with us. That is not to be confused with his physical body Now there's a mystery there, absolutely. It's not the only mystery we have in Scripture. We can talk about them here all day. But the bottom line of it is this is a very holy mystery that we celebrate. His presence makes the whole the Lord's Supper holy, holy, holy And as we celebrate it, we should celebrate it as Psalms 29, 2 calls us to do. We are to celebrate it in the spirit of beauty, of in the beauty of holiness. That is the first way that his real presence is here with us. And Jesus is also present with us in the elements of the sacrament. And here all of those newly installed elders are getting out their sharp knives and getting ready to stab me if I start talking about uh the real presence of the uh Lord and the elements. But believe it or not, along with John Calvin, that is inherent in our Reformed thought. He really is present in the sacraments, in the elements of it. Now, how is that the case? Well, notice how what Jesus says in this passage and in the in the others. This is my body. He said, this is my blood. Notice he doesn't say this is like my body. He doesn't say this represents my body. He said this is my body. This is my blood. Now we have to take account for what that says. Calvin goes into this in his entire fourth book of the uh institute. You can go to it and you can read through it and have just a great time. I'm going to summarize a lot of it It is a mystery. It is indeed a mystery. But Calvin and the Reformed faith following him takes it seriously. We understand that in some way, Jesus, fulfilling the passage we've already read, is in fact communicating himself. And that's where I want to go with this. It's the idea that in the bl uh uh bread and in the wine, through the elements of that There in the spiritual dimension, we are communicating with God, with Christ, and we are participating in the union with him. And in doing so, brothers and sisters, he communicates himself to us. He communicates himself to us. Wow. How about that? How many of you have heard about how you professed your faith and you invited Jesus into your heart? I don't do that very often, but isn't it the same principle here? Is that sound so strange That somehow another, through the Holy Spirit, in the supper, we are communicating, and the Lord Jesus Christ, through the Holy Spirit, is communicating himself to us and increasing our union with him. Which is the blessing of the Lord's Supper. The Lord's Bill Supper is Ultimately expressive of our union with Christ. Remember what Jesus says in John 17. That he prays that not only the disciples, but those who come to him through the disciples, that will they will be one with him even as he is one with the Father Now, brothers and sisters, do you deny that Jesus in some way, in some mysterious way, is with the Father, united to the Father, in a way in which they uh contribute to each other? Well, in the same way, that's what Jesus prayed for us. And in the supper, that's what not only what we celebrate, but it is the means of grace by which we increase in it We grow in it. We become more, if possible to say so, united to him in the actual conduct of our sanctification. Why do we say that? Well, all I'm going to hit on today is just the elementary thing. Take a look at what the elements of the Lord's Supper are. Is it not the body and the blood? Well if you've got the body and blood of a person, don't you have the whole person Remember what uh God told Noah in Genesis not to drink the blood because the blood was the life. So you've got the body of the person. We know what that is in Scripture. And then we've got the blood, so you've got the blood and the life of the individual presented to us. And that's what Jesus is communicating to us. We're not eating his physical body, nor are we drinking his physical blood. Both the Romans and the Lutherans say that to a different in a different way, but they both believe that We don't believe that. That bread says bread. It's not anything but bread. The wine is nothing but wine. It didn't change into anything else. However, the Holy Spirit using those elements communicates through uh through them the very person of Christ himself, his whole person, his body and his blood. By the power of the Holy Spirit, they unite us to Christ. And taking his person into the ourselves. Is it getting kind of mysterious yet? I hope so. Listen to what Jesus says in John 6. Most assuredly I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. For my flesh is food indeed, and my blood is drink indeed. He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in him. And brothers and sisters, I submit to you that the Lord Jesus Christ here is speaking truth. He's not making a kind of foggy comparison to something. He's saying this has to happen. Now, does that mean that a person has to eat the Lord's Supper before he can ever have any hope of salvation? I'm not saying that at all. And you know I'm not. But I am saying that unless a person does this and understands it, and realizes what's happening and the real significance of being united to Christ, then they missed out on the supper and they may have missed out on eternal life. So this is serious business when we come to the table. We receive the whole person of Christ in the elements. It's a spiritual reality, not carnal flesh and blood. But it's real. And therefore, in the most intimate manner possible, we become more and more with Christ. Do you want to do that? Do you want to grow to be more and more like Christ? Do you like him? Is he a guy you would really enjoy being with? Is he a guy you would really like to be to be the same as? Lord's Supper is part of the process of getting there. And we should treat it as such. In 1 Corinthians 10, 14 through 22, it's built on this same idea. Paul tells the Corinthians that they They must not participate in the religious rituals of eating with the pagans the food that's been sacrificed to idols. And he said, listen, the cup of blessing that we bless The cup of blessing we bless, is it not the communion with the blood of Christ? The bread we break. Is it not the communion of the body of Christ? You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of the demons. You cannot partake of the Lord's table and the table of the demons. Now that makes no sense at all unless we understand that the act of taking the the bread here and all is significant and is spiritually akin to being united to Christ. How can we take Christ to the blo to the table of a pagan? How can we do that? That's hard to even contemplate. It's only with the idea of being united to Christ Through the eating of his blood and drinking of his uh eating of his body and drinking of his blood, that Paul's purpose here makes sense. You might ask, what does this mean for my life? What how what is it how is it that by faith I should come to the table expecting this? It's a good question. Many take the Lord's table, and there's no effect in their life at all. None Now, I I can just say that as a fact of life. It it just happens. Many people come to the table, they leave the table, and go about their lives. There's been no impact whatsoever. Martin Luther was one who was not in the least adverse to uh being o making overstatements. His statement was that he didn't think that there was one person out of a thousand sitting in the in the uh sanctuary that was actually saved. We don't but that's not something I believe. I think the percentage is a lot higher. But he he recognized that the idea of what people popularly think of as being a Christian and what it actually means, they could be a pretty far distance between them. And that will come that will come to bear in the Lord's table. If it has no impact on us, what does that say? That it has failed. Is that what it says? If it has no impact on us, where does the fault lie? The fault lies with our faith. We have not approached it in the Spirit of Christ, looking for Christ, seeking to discern his body. So therefore, we have to be conditioned. We have to think. We have to come to this table. With the right attitude and the spirit, the beauty of holiness, and we have to seek from Christ what He has promised in it. And what does he promise in it? Brothers and sisters, what he's promised in it is himself. Himself. To be in you and with you in all that you say and do. That's not a bad deal. But that is what we have to hope for. I am only going to briefly touch on the last point, because uh it's going a bit long here. Not much sermon, but the service. Jesus is really present as the sign and seal of the covenant. All I can do here is hit the high points. Sign and seal is something that very often uh few uh really understand and appreciate It is a a biblical concept, and we have to understand that when Paul talks about it in Romans that he talks about in terms of circumcision being this sign and the seal of Mos of uh Abraham's uh faith, righteousness by faith. But the same thing applies to the other sacraments also. As a sign and seal as a biblical concept What it means is this. The the elements signify that which is contained in them. The elements tell us what it is that we're doing. That's the sign. The sign is applied to us. And then the seal is what that sign means for us. Let me give you an example. You remember the first Passover? Remember what happened there? You can nod your head. Okay. And that first Passover, the Jews decorated their mantle, right? Now when you stop and think about that, that was the sign And what did it do? It sealed those who were inside the house to salvation when the avenging angel came through and killed all of the people that were there. Yes? Alright, so a sign and seal does that. Now what's important about this and how we should understand it is that in the Lord Jesus Christ death and resurrection, we were signed and sealed eternally. So it doesn't sign and seal us in that fashion. But what it does fashion, going back to that intimacy, is that when we are in the Lord's Supper, the Lord Jesus who is hosting us is applying that sign and seal to us personally. In the spiritual realm, he is looking us right in the eye, and as we eat his body and drink his blood, he is saying, you are mine. And I will never ever leave you. And nothing that happens in this world or the next can take you out of my hand. Why? Because he has applied to us the sign and seal of our salvation, the body and blood of his very own person. We are united to him. We have signified that before all of the angels and demons in the spiritual realm. And it is signified to all of those who know us by our participation in the supper that we belong to Him. He is ours and we are his. And his flag over us, banner over us, is love. That's the other way that he is present with us in the supper as he applies to us the sign and seal of our salvation. Now those things are all somewhat mystical. That's because our God is mystical. They are somewhat difficult to grasp because we have been raised in a world that it seeks to explain everything by the hard line of logic and scientific calculation. And that doesn't happen here. And there is no way in the world that if we restrict ourselves to the idea that the only truth is empirical truth that could be proved beyond the shadow of a doubt by unceasing, undeviating logic that we don't understand Christ. Because he works in us in ways that are miraculous. And one of those ways that he works in a miraculous manner to us. is through the Lord's Supper. John Calvin and his liturgy for the Lord's Supper Always included Psalm 138. It goes all the way back to the third century, that's the years 200 and later. When they in the early church sang these same words, of course, they sang them in a different language, and certainly with a different tune. But he said that one of the ways that we should prepare for the Lord's table is to lift our hearts up to God. We should prepare to receive it by lifting our hearts up to God in the spiritual places. And Psalm 138 is one of the ways to do that. But ask that you prepare to sing that right after I pray. And I'll ask as we're singing it for the elders to come forward and prepare the table. I recognize that The puny my puny efforts up here have come nowhere close to developing the majesty and glory of what you have done for us I know it Lord God and it's dreadfully obvious to all of those who are here. But Lord God I I pray that you will take what you have obviously intended to be understood through your word. And I ask, Lord God, that you will apply that to our hearts. Lord God, maybe there's someone here today who's never heard anything like what I just said. And suddenly are seeing the table in somewhat of a new light. I pray, oh Lord and God, that you will bless that person and that you will draw them near to you. And that you will grant them, Lord and God, perhaps an astonishing insight into your person. And even more so, Lord God, that you will communicate to that person especially, but to all of us as we partake That we really are part of you. We are united to you in your death and resurrection, yea and amen, but also in your continuing life. In the life that you are even now living at the right hand of God the Father Almighty, and how you're governing all of heaven and earth, and especially governing us And that we are in you and with you, and you are in us and with us. Grant, Lord God, that we know that. We rejoice in it And that we treat it with the holiness that it deserves. For we ask it in your name. Amen.