Tonight will be from John nineteen verses twenty eight through thirty nine. After this Jesus, knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the scripture might be fulfilled, said, I thirst. Now a vessel full of sour wine was sitting there, and they filled a sponge with sour wine, put it on hyssop, and put it to his mouth. So when Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished. And bowing his head, he gave up his spirit Therefore, because it was the preparation day that the body should not remain on the cross on the Sabbath, for that Sabbath was a high day. The Jews asked Pilate that their legs might be broken and that they might be taken away Then the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first and the other who was crucified with him. But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs. But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out. And he has seen, has testified. And his testimony is true. And he knows that he is telling the truth, so that you may believe For these things were done that the scripture should be fulfilled. Not one of his bones shall be broken. And again, another scripture says, they shall look on him whom they pierced. After this, Joseph of Arimathea, being a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus. And Pilate gave him permission. So he came and took the body of Jesus. And Nicodemus, who at first came to Jesus by night, also came. Bringing a mixture of mirror and aloees, about a hundred pounds. Let us pray. Christ, we ask that you would glorify yourself amongst us tonight. We ask, Father, that you would glorify the Son. And we ask, Spirit, that you would glorify the Father and the Son. We ask these things in the name of Christ. Amen. It is quite a difficult thing to read these verses. I find it more difficult to read when I'm here with you gathered in worship. Were there a set of verses? That seemed different than the rest to you. You do have to admit that verse 35 is a bit odd. What I mean is that it sure is different than what we hear in the colorful descriptions of what actually took place A request for the legs to be broken, Christ giving up his spirit, saying that it is finished, the reminder that he was crucified between two others. Just before him uniting John and his mother, that her mother, his mother would not be alone And then we have in verse 35, and he who has seen has testified, and his testimony is true, and he knows that he is telling the truth, so that you may believe. And then he says that there are certain scriptures that were fulfilled. This stands apart because John Wants us to really pay attention to 35 and verse 36 so that we would know what to do with everything that has been said. It says there in verse 35 that actually his main goal in telling us all of this truth about Jesus is that he wants us to believe. He wants the world to believe. But I think it would be wise for us Due to our familiarity with these kinds of things and also just growing up where we grow up, let's just ask the question again: believe what? The answer, of course, is that he wants us to believe in Jesus. I mean, that's rather obvious. Who is on the center stage at all times? It is Christ. But what do we mean when we say that he wants us to believe in Jesus? Now that's that can be a tough one. In one sense, everyone believes in Jesus. If you were to think of the Gospel of John, for example, whether you're good or you're bad, you believe in Jesus. I've heard atheists admit to believing in Jesus. If you ask the Pharisees, just as if you've asked many people today, do you believe in Jesus? And they may, like the Pharisees, say, yes, he and his family are from Nazareth, aren't they? But is that what John means? Does John mean that when he says he wants us to believe? He means more, doesn't he? I think that's obvious too. He means more. But what does he mean? What more does he want from us? John, at least, wants two things. He has two ways of thinking about belief here, and they're both very, very important. And they are both right now missed more and more every day by the church herself. The very first thing that John wants from us when he says that he wants us to believe is that he wants us to believe in Jesus according to the scriptures. I mean that's why he puts all of the Old Testament references in there. Because he wants us to see Jesus according to the scriptures. I'll just mention a couple, verses twenty-four and twenty-eight. They're referring to the scriptures of Psalm 22, which we just sang, part of. Verse 36 is a reference to Psalm 34. And verse thirty seven to Perhaps your surprise is Zechariah chapter twelve And that should bring into your mind that John has not left some thought because on Palm Sunday, he was quoting Zechariah 9:9. So he wants us to know Jesus according to the scriptures. Now, there are a couple different things that we could mean by that. Usually, when you or when folks see the scripture verses scattered and sprinkled throughout the main gospels, we view them as a kind of citation Or like a proof text in order to prove to people that don't believe in the supernatural that the supernatural really exists And that's about as far as we get. It sounds something like this. Look, a hundred years ago, there was this prophet Named Zechariah, for example, who said that these things were going to happen, and then look how many hundreds of years later it happened. Isn't that a miracle? Isn't that supernatural? And of course they, you know, if you want to admit it, you'd have to say this is supernatural. But is that all that is happening here? Is that the response that you're supposed to have to every single Old Testament reference throughout the entire Scripture? Is just to say, this is a miracle? John means more than that, actually. He wants us to do way more with Old Testament references than to admit that the supernatural is around. John puts in the Old Testament references so that we can be steered on the right course and not be shipwrecked on moving sandbars. And not be swept away by the wind. He gives us these Old Testament references so that we can see who Jesus really is. He wants us to really believe in Jesus, in who he is. And that's why he layers scripture upon scripture. That is why he wants us to believe according to the scriptures. So the first goal John has is for you to believe in Jesus according to the scriptures, and there according to the scriptures as John himself reads them. He is Our interpreter. But there is a second thing that John means for us to do John means, when he says that he wants us to believe, he also means that we would have the kind of belief That shows immeasurable esteem and honor and value for Jesus in very practical ways. And we may need to talk about this point a little bit later because I can't develop it in full because it requires the reading of all of Zechariah. But I do want to point out to you something that is in verse 39. Now, nothing is in here for just coincidence. Everything is meaningful. And in verse 39, we have, in verse 38 and 39, we have Joseph of Arimathea, who is known to be a rich man. He is a disciple of Christ. He asks Pilate for the body to be taken down, and then he meets up with Nicodemus, who was also known to be rich. And they Have these the mirror and the aloes, and then it is pointed out to us that they were a hundred pounds And if you understand what what John is doing here, especially in light of Zechariah, then you know that what John is doing is he is contrasting What Joseph of Arimathea has done as a disciple, a true disciple of Christ, he is contrasting the worth that Christ has for him, the worth that he has for Christ, with Judas. Judas went to the Pharisees and said, Essentially, how much do you think Christ is worth? And they said, 30 pieces of silver. It is meant to contrast and to show you that a true disciple, if they believe, will have an unmeasurable amount of honor for Jesus Christ. That is what he means when he says he wants you to believe. And so let me pull that together John wants you to believe according to the scriptures. And he wants you to believe like Joseph of Arimathea. He wants you to have the kind of belief that shows in practical ways the worth of Jesus Christ. That is what is going on here. When he says in verse 35, he stops everything, he stops the description, so you would not miss what he wants from you tonight. He wants that kind of belief. Belief according to the scriptures and belief that shows in practical ways the worth of Christ. So I think what we should do is we should just have two exhortations. Let us believe according to the scriptures. And let us, in practical ways, show the worth of Christ. And those are our two points that we're going to consider tonight. And it begins with the first thing that John wants from us, which is belief according to the scriptures. This is more difficult than you would realize. How many people out there are reading or understanding Jesus according to the scriptures? I am grieved to say that I see less and less every day, and sometimes I see more and more people that think they're Christians. And the reason being is because there is a great obstacle that stands in the way of reading and understanding Jesus according to the scriptures, and that is That people understand Jesus according to the spirit of this age. They understand his scriptures according to the spirit of this age. Have you ever heard that phrase before, Zephyr? It's odd to you, the spirit of this age. Paul teaches it to Timothy, the spirit of the age. I think every Christian these days should know it. The spirit of the age is The spirit of the age is when someone takes bits and pieces from the scriptures and rearranges them to mean whatever is popular and trendy at the time. It's the uh Paul will refer to it as having your ears tickled. I have no idea how he got that phrase, but I think you get the idea. Every Christian should know that this happens in every age, but the fads and the trends change. Now, but what remains the same is that there is a rearrangement. To gain a different meaning, to support you in what you desire, which is not what Christ desires. Now I remember doing something like this, not with Scripture, but with my soup when I was little. It was an alphabet soup that had different letters. And I could rearrange the letters to make it spell whatever I wanted it to spell. And it would mean that spelling, because it's a word and has meaning, it would mean whatever I wanted it to mean there. And they're doing something similar with the spirit of the age. They do that with scripture to fit to their own desires. And this stands against being able to understand Jesus according to the scriptures. And I'm starting to see it more and more and more and more. In fact, You may disagree with me on this, but I just saw uh recently a good example of understanding the scriptures in accordance with the spirit of the age rather than instead or understanding Jesus with the spirit of the age as opposed to the scriptures. I saw this in a new shirt sold by a teen uh store called Forever 21 I don't ever want to think about Forever Twenty One beyond this night. I have no interest in Forever 21 except that they have decided to release a t-shirt with Jeremiah 29, verse 11 on it. For I know the thoughts that I think towards you, says the Lord, thoughts of peace and not of evil, to give you a future and a hope. And on the bottom of their bags, come to find out, is John 3. 16. And some of you may be upset for me being so skeptical. But all my spidey senses are going off. Why do you think a multimillion dollar company can get away with putting a Bible verse on their clothing? Why can they get away and not be canceled in our canceled culture with Jeremiah 29? It is because, detached from its understanding according to the scriptures, it is perfectly fitted to be rearranged like alphabet soup to the spirit of the age. If you want to see a real Christian t-shirt from Forever 21, it should say, and it would really be a Christian t-shirt, not in accordance with the spirit of the age, a quote, and it says: God made man, male and female. That would be a Christian shirt against the spirit of the age. But here we see a shirt that fits the entirely entitled perspective perfectly. Because the emphasis is on you and your hopes, you and your dreams, God smiling down on you as your co-pilot. They are counting on the fact, Forever 21 is counting on the fact that everyone will read that verse not according to the scriptures, but according to the spirit of the age. And Jesus will become their divine personal assistant, giving them hope that whatever they want, they will get And the desire is unquenchable. If a little bit is given, more is demanded. The dream of those who read and rearrange the scriptures according to the desires is to have more desires. Their dream in the end is to make Jesus into their dad, and for them to be like Daddy and Veruca Salt in Charlie in the Chocolate Factory. Do you remember this girl? Daddy, I want a squirrel. Get me one of those squirrels. I want one. Veruka dear, you may have marvelous you have many marvelous pets. All I've got at home is one pony and two dogs and four cats and six bunny rabbits and two parakeets and three canaries and a green parrot and a turtle and a silly old hamster. I want to squirrel, Daddy And I'm not trying to be funny. That is the spirit of the age that is not revealed because it would be too embarrassing publicly, but privately it would probably be revealed if you talk to their parents. You can recognize by this example that the spirits of the age is what we talked about last night, which is entitlement. And if we are not careful, we will arrange and rearrange even Good Friday and the crucifixion itself like letters in the alphabet soup. to suit our own selfish desires. That is how wicked it would become. That tonight of all nights would become about us in the end. But may it never be. Because John wants more from you. John was aware of the alphabet soup approach But he wants more from you. When John tells us in verse 37 to look at him who is pierced, we all know the truth. Jesus was there on that cross not to support all of our selfish ambitions, but to pay for the sin of them. And that's what John wants from us. He wants us to really know Jesus. And the only way to do that is according to the scriptures and not according to the spirit of this age. Now we have a second exhortation, which is let us show our belief in practical ways by showing the worth of Christ. Now this brings us to a really down to earth question. If Christ really is the great shepherd king according to the scriptures, and I've pointed out how he is from Zechariah, If Christ really is the great shepherd king, and all that the scriptures say about him are, and we really believe that. Then shouldn't that show up practically somehow in our lives in the way that we honor Him? Now last night we answered that question without knowing it. We looked last night at the prostitute versus the Pharisee. And we saw, because she knew who he really was, the difference in the way that she treated him in terms of honor, you could see what Jesus meant to her. And then today we have looked at Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus. And at least Joseph of Arimathea is a little vague on Nicodemus, even in the passage. Joseph of Arimathea believed that Christ was king. And do you so you know what he did since he believed that Christ was king? is that he gave them a royal burial. He treated them like royalty We have to ask the same question when we look by faith at Christ having been crucified. The main question that we have got to ask in order to give John what he wants And to really believe is what is Christ's value to you? You're here Because he was crucified for you. And by faith you can remember him and his crucifixion. But as he is on the cross, or if he's off the cross in his resurrection, in his ascension, what is his value to you? What is he worth? All of us, in one way or the other, are asking that question What is he worth? And we make a thousand decisions every single day that tell us what we think he's worth. And sometimes and some days he's not even worth 30 silver pieces to us We all have that struggle. And John, in this exhortation, is calling us by the power of the Spirit to recognize the struggle. and to seek repentance that he might be worth more and more because that is true belief. What kind of value does he have? Based on your evaluation of his worth, how should you treat him? The way that you treat him is an index of what you think he's worth. And it's good to just be honest with yourself and make up your mind what you think he's worth, and then seek to treat him that way. I want to give you an example. This crucifixion episode that we see here in John, we had many readings. uh from the elders, and then I continued the reading. And it goes on for just a little bit longer. If you were to read through the book of Zechariah, you would see that both John and actually Matthew are really Following Zechariah as a guide. They're just going step by step with what Zechariah reveals in his prophecy and showing that Jesus of Nazareth is doing it all. Even down actually to the 30 pieces of silver, Zechariah already predicted it. The crucifixion episodes depend upon Zachariah, and he is their guide. And when you turn to Zechariah, there are two kinds of people. That evaluate Christ and his worth in two different ways. There are those who are evil and they reject Christ. And there are the followers of Christ. And the rejecters show what they think of Christ by only paying 30 shekels of silver for him in Zechariah. And then it comes to be with Judas. The followers of Christ, in evaluating his worth and knowing him according to the scriptures, really believing in him in Zechariah chapter 6 They see so clearly who Jesus Christ is that they take their gold and they make a crown, all of the exiles together, and they gather all of the precious stones and they put it in the crown. And they put it on his head as a designation of what they think about him And as the followers of Christ would increase, by the time you get to the end of Zechariah, it is as if the whole world has begun to believe. And you know what they do? They go to the Feast of Tabernacles and they lay down their palm branches as an act of worship toward him. And you can see that in Revelation also. The whole world has gone after him. And treated him with respect and dignity and honor and worship, because they know who he is and believe in him according to the scriptures. And because their belief is a real belief, it manifests in showing him honor and dignity and worth. I mean, you have to ask when you look at Zechariah that way: which would you rather be? Which group do you want to be in? It's the decision of every generation. Don't you want your life to be a golden crown? And all of your thoughts and your words and deeds to be the precious stones inlaid that you will present to him? Because you love him. Isn't that what you want? Don't you want to be a palm branch bowed in worship? I don't just want to pick up a palm branch at the back of the church. I want to be the palm branch. Why? Because by God's grace, if we desire that, He has allowed us to see who Christ really is and that He is worth it. Have you ever had a conversation where you talk about what you want to do when you get to heaven? Have you had that conversation? It usually goes something like: when I get to heaven and I find Paul, I'm going to ask him, what was he talking about with a thorn in his side? Or whatever it is that you want to ask somebody. Well, I would like to play that little game with you right now. When we get to heaven. And you get to go over there and talk to that woman who was the sinner, the prostitute, who washed Jesus' feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair. We're going to go find her together, okay? We're going to take a little field trip. It's going to be such a world of splendor that you're going to be distracted, so you're all going to have to hold on to a rope with me. Like the little kindergartners, and we're going to go find the prostitute. And then after her, we're going to find Joseph of Arimathea. And we are going to find all those followers in Zechariah, and we're going to ask them a single question: Why did you do it? Why did you fall to the ground and wash his feet with your tears? And wash his feet with your hair? Why did you kiss his feet? Why did you anoint him with perfume? Joseph of Arimathea, why did you spend so much on his burial? Why did you make him the crown? Why did you put the stones in the crown and put it on his head? And every single one of them, I'm telling you right now, I don't even need to go to heaven to have the answer. Every single one of them will have the same answer. Do you not know who he is? He is totally worth it. And I love that because you can start asking yourself the question right now That I would have asked them. And if you get to heaven before me, I could ask you, why did you make the sacrifices you did for Christ? Why did you last so long in your patience with people? Why did you work so hard as mothers and fathers and servants of the church? And you can answer me just like them. Do you not know who Jesus is? He is worth it He deserves it. John wants a lot from us tonight But really, he's on a commission for Christ and his desires. We stop short if we say John wants. We have to go that Christ wants. Christ wants you to believe who He is according to the scriptures. And like Joseph of Arimathea, Christ wants you to have the kind of belief that shows in practical ways his worth to you. Believe that Christ is the Lamb of God. And he has come to take away the sins of the world. Believe that this Christ that is lifted up That he is bringing life to the whole world through his blood. And he is bringing streams of living water through his spirit And there is blood and water from his side. And in belief of who Christ is, And he is a thousand things more than what I have just said. All good. In belief of all of those things, be Live in line with his worth. That is the main question before you tonight for Good Friday. See the one having been crucified tonight. And ask yourself this question, what does he deserve? I think Isaac Watts was on the right track in the answer. Were the whole realm of nature mind. That were a present far too small. Love so amazing and so divine, it demands my soul It demands my life. Christ demands my all. Amen. Let us pray.