Going to read for us the history of Severn Run. The Severn Run Evangelical Presbyterian Church began as a work of Jesus Christ. Using the combined efforts of the Mission to North America Committee of the Potomac Presbytery and the Saverna Park Evangelical Presbyterian Church It was originally conceived as an outreach to the Gambrels Oddington Millersville community, which at the time, in 1990, was the fastest growing community in the state of Maryland. A telephone campaign called It's For You was undertaken and successfully completed slightly under 20,000 calls. to the local community to inquire if there was interest in a new local church. Many were called, some were chosen, and many people responded positively, and 200 people ultimately came to our first service on 3rd of March 1991, from those contacted this way. In the months and years following, the Lord established and strengthened this young congregation. So who among us was part of Severn Run for those first five years? If you were at Severn Run the first five years, would you please stand? So that we may honor the Lord's faithfulness through you. Some of you were present at the very first service in March of 1991. Others have joined in the years since. The same God who gathered this congregation in its earliest days has sustained it in every season. Together we are one body, upheld by his faithfulness. Severn Run started out as a mission church in the PCA, but became a full-fledged church on our second anniversary, March 7, 1993. Pastor Arch Vendevender was called as the first official pastor and was ordained at the fourth anniversary of the church, March 5, 1995. After many years in temporary locations, God gave us our current home in February 2000. It was the result of much labor and sacrifice on the part of the congregation and many friends from our sister churches in the area. In March of 2016, Severn Run Evangelical Presbyterian Church called Jesse Crutchley as our second senior pastor This year, we not only celebrate the 35th anniversary of Severn Run, but also give thanks to God for 10 years of faithful ministry under Pastor Jesse's government. Throughout those 35 years, the church has earnestly endeavored to serve the Lord by being a place where people can find sacred rest. Our motto, rest yourselves under the tree, refers to the hospitality offered by our Lord to our Lord by his servant Abraham in Genesis 18. 4. By exhibiting love to strangers, Abraham actually ministered to the person of his Savior. In the same way, Severn Run Evangelical Presbyterian Church understands itself as being a community of believers. Where weary folks who are tired of traveling in a disordered world can be refreshed through the caring love and order shown by God's people Within this vision, there are many and varied ministries through which the Lord reaches out his hand to those whom we come in contact with. Worship of our sovereign God is understood as the deepest need for any person and as such is the cornerstone of the church's hope for bearing fruit to the kingdom. The Severn Run of today holds hands with the past, ordering all of life for the glory of Christ, especially in Anorano County We look back with grateful astonishment to see what God has done to the history of our church and resolve to carry his glory forward. For God has shown himself faithful to us in all things, sustaining us when we were weak, encouraging us when we were timid, and providing for us when we were needy. He and he alone is the reason for our existence, and it is to him we look for all that we need in the coming years of our service. To him and him alone be all glory, honor, and praise now and forever. World without end. Let's pray. Oh Lord, what a 35 years it has been. We have been blinded by faces shining with true joy And we have seen the edge of despair. We have had soul-wrenching heartbreaks. And we have had rousing celebrations of victory. We have drifted in the doldrums with no wind in sight, and we have quaked with fear in the whoming floods. But year after year, trial after trial, victory after victory, we find ourselves in the same place, on your solid ground. With the foundation of the law and the prophets, aligned by Christ our cornerstone. Lord God, keep us in your hand, strong to the finish. Let your holy light shine through us to be seen in Millersville, in Anorundo County, and to the ends of your earth In Christ's holy name we beg this and amen