Please turn with me and stand. We're turning to Deuteronomy chapter 20, and I'll be reading to you this morning verses 1 through 20. Laws concerning war When you go out to battle against your enemies and see horses and chariots and people more numerous than you, do not be afraid of them. For the Lord your God is with you who brought you up from the land of Egypt. So it shall be when you are on the verge of battle that the priest shall approach and speak to the people, and he shall say to them, Hear, O Israel Today you are on the verge of battle with your enemies. Do not let your heart faint. Do not be afraid. And do not tremble or be terrified because of them. For the Lord your God is he who goes with you to fight for you against your enemies to save you. Then the officer shall speak to the people, saying, What man is there who has built a new house and has dedicated it Let him go and return to his house, lest he die in the battle and another man dedicate it. Also, what man is there who has planted a vineyard and has not eaten of it? Let him go and return to his house, lest he die in the battle, and another man eat of it And what man is there who is betrothed to a woman and has not married her? Let him go and return to his house, lest he die in the battle and another man marry her. The officer shall speak further to the people and say, What man is there who is fearful and faint hearted? Let him go and return to his house, lest the heart of his brethren faint like his heart And so it shall be, when the officers have finished speaking to the people, that they shall make captains of the armies to lead the people. Now, when you go near a city to fight against it, then proclaim an offer of peace to it, and it shall be that if they accept your offer of peace and open to you Then all the people who are found in it shall be placed under the tribute of you and serve you. Now, if the city will not make peace with you, but war against you, then you shall besiege it. And when the Lord your God delivers it into your hands, you shall strike every male in it with the edge of the sword, but the women, the little ones, the livestock, and all that is in the city, all its spoil you shall plunder for yourself, and you shall eat the enemy's plunder which the Lord your God gives you. Thus you shall do to all the cities which are very far from you, which are not of the cities of these nations, but of the cities of these people which the Lord your God gives you as an inheritance. You shall let nothing that breathes remain alive, but you shall utterly destroy them. The Hittite and the Amorite, and the Canaanite and the Perizite, and the Hivite and the Jebusite. Just as the Lord your God has commanded you, lest they teach you to do according to all their abominations which they have done for their gods, and you sin against the Lord your God. Now, when you besiege a city for a long time while making war against it to take it, you shall not destroy its trees by wielding an axe against it. If you can eat of them, do not cut them down to use in the siege, for the tree of the field is man's food. Only the trees which are not trees for food you may destroy and cut down to build siege works against this city that makes war with you until it is subdued. Please pray with me. Father, you are not in the dock on this one. You are never in the dock. You are never to be defended, for a man never defends A lion. The lion defends himself. But Father, there is so much error that drags your name through the mud. I pray that you would Move us to hear and move me to speak well beyond our abilities. That you would give us grace from heaven to truly understand who you are through these words. And who we are. And I pray that you would give repentance to those who are still your enemies today. In the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. Please be seated. Now I've been around for forty two years And I've got some observations. There are three kinds of people that approach the mall. There is the kind of person who knows exactly what they want in the mall, and they have a map And they're going to make a beeline from their car to that place, neither looking to the left nor to the right like a good Christian. And they're going to go right to that shop in the mall. They're going to buy something very quickly and not talk to anybody and immediately head back out. They might leave the car running. Leave the car running. There's the second person who likes to browse the whole mall, look in all the windows, step into all the shops, gets excited about the smell of the press. And could spend the whole day there. And then there's this third class, which is the strangest class of all, which is those who don't buy anything, but they see the whole mall because they're power walking it. Which is odd. I I remember seeing my first power walker and I thought I had done something wrong and they were chasing me down and I didn't I didn't know what had happened. Today, if you were to categorize this sermon, unfortunately, it's kind of like a power walking sermon. We are going to look at all the details, or most of them, but we are going to power walk through this passage. It's not going to be like the first or the second approach. It'll be more like the power walking approach. Because there's so many details, and I really want to just get through some observations about them And this is an overlap of earlier chapters we've we've talked about some things. So let's power walk through the passage together and then make five observations. Are you ready? You got your step counter? Okay, so let's begin with power walking through the passage. And I just want to point out to you an understanding of this passage by breaking it down into its parts. I hope to return to it to talk about just war theory and some other things. Especially since we have so many military coming through this congregation. Today let's just begin by looking at the first set of verses, which is verses one through four. And I entitled this Encouraging the Troops for War That's a pretty obvious title. Verses 1 through 4 begin with encouraging the troops for war. You can see this in verse 1, where encouragement is needed. When they entered the battlefield and they looked across the valley at the enemy, they would see horses, which would have been a kind of modern warfare for that time. They would have seen chariots attached to the horses, and they would have seen Perhaps double or triple or quadruple or who knows how many more people than they themselves had. There were lots of reasons for them to fear. But in verse 1, as you continue to read, you can see that they have more reasons for courage in these first four verses. It says specifically this phrase, for the Lord your God is with you, who brought you up from the land of Egypt. Those are really intentional words. That someone would say to a group of men who were getting ready to fight. It would bring up all kinds of memories. Particularly the remark, Brought you up from the land of Egypt, would remind them of the song of the sea. Or Moses' song, or Miriam's song, and in that song you will read of a God who is known as a divine warrior. So that's what he's reminding them of. The point is that the soldiers would remember who was fighting with them, who was fighting for them, who in fact would win the battle. It was the divine warrior. That's the first four verses. I told you we're power walking. In verses three and four, the priests give rousing speeches to strengthen everyone, but then when we move into verses five through nine The officers give speeches about kinds of military exemptions, which are interesting in their own right, and I hope to be able to come back to them sometime. It proves all kinds of interesting points But here in these verses, let me just put to you this in the form of a question because that's how it comes across in the text in verses 5 through 9. It seems here in this text that Moses is writing down how the speech would sound. Did you hear when I was trying to do the reading, I was trying to speak as if I was yelling out to men who this may apply to, you may be exempt in this way. so that you could get a feel of what it would have been like for this group of people. Who has built a new house? You could see the the priests speaking out or the officers speaking out. And then you realize that you have a military military exemption. Who has a newlywed military exemption? Who has a new venture? Who's starting up a new enterprise military exemption And then lastly, and perhaps surprisingly, who is afraid? Which of you is afraid? Because we can't afford for the morale to get low amongst the soldiers. It's better for you to return home. Those are the military exemptions that he gives. They they therefore are encouraged for war, and they are encouraged to take their exemption because war is not the purpose of life. There's other things. Then we move into this last part, which is longer, and it proscribes policies for this war that they would eventually. enter as they go into the promised land. The first policy we see in verse 10. How should they interact with the nations that are near them? Or who are far off, rather. The far-off cities, notice that's how it's designated, the far-off cities have the option first of a peace negotiation. And if they take the peace negotiation then then uh everyone can basically enter into a kind of vassal or subservient relationship to them. If they choose not to take the peace negotiations, you notice in verses 10 and following that they are to spare the women and the children and the property. They can take spoil, but they do not have to spare the men of war, which would be impossible in a war. to spare the actual soldiers fighting against you. But there's a second policy, and this is where it starts to become more difficult, and why I've left so much room in the sermon for some observations. There is a second direction in verse sixteen. And this is speaking about those Who are near them in the land of Canaan, and Moses is seeking to be very specific so that the wrong people do not fall under the wrong kind of war policy. It says in verse 16, But of the cities of these people which the Lord your God gives you as an inheritance, you shall let nothing that breathes remain alive. And then he goes on, and notice how he names each individual tribe, which is on purpose, because you don't want to get this wrong. You don't want to enact the law of harem or utter destruction to the wrong group of people. And so he names them. He says the Hittite and the Amrite and the Canaanite and the Perizzite and the Hivite and the Jebusite to be very specific. It's a different kind of war policy. They have no peace negotiations. Did you notice that? None shall be spared. It's the law of Farem that we've mentioned before. We've heard a sermon about it already. And it's a way to translate that would just be utter destruction. completely engulfed by fire. That's kind of the idea. And then there's a third policy in verse 19, which is interesting. Interesting and it gives directions for which trees may be used for military purposes. Some point out here that God is an ecological God. I believe that he is, that he cares about the environment, but that's not what this passage is. He's simply saying don't cut down trees from which you can eat when you're at war. Fruit trees are off limits. Why destroy trees that can be good to the soldiers and future occupants? That's the whole point. And that's the power walk. That's the power walk through the passage. And now I just want to make some observations for you, and we'll continue the observations as we go into the supper this morning. Observation one. These sections on war are exceptionally troublesome for most people. Captain Obvious. I'm wondering if you're struggling with even when you heard me reading it, this is what God does These things are are are sobering at the least for anyone that would read Deuteronomy chapter 20. Deuteronomy chapter 20 is famous. For causing problems. And the greatest trouble that people seem to have is how do we square this picture of God With the New Testament picture of God through Christ. There are some scholars that say that Deuteronomy chapter 20 is anti-Christian. It is from the Antichrist. See what they're doing? They're trying to fill out the word. They're saying Christ, Jesus Christ would never stand or have written such a chapter. And they feel very strongly about it. And you could see why If you're honest, Deuteronomy chapter 20 presents a war. And let's be honest about this. This is a war that is not invented for human political purposes. It is not even initiated by human beings. It is a war that is initiated for God and his purposes. In the passage, you would be tempted to read chapter 20 as a war manual, but then you read through it and God's name and what he once done. Is repeated over and over again, the Lord your God. It's really about righteousness only righteousness. How do we exist as righteous people in relationship to God when we have to go to work? It's really about what God wants in war, which implies that God wants war. That's tough to swallow. For some folks. And in fact, it becomes even worse when I tell you about that second war policy, where he says, which is not even followed by most modern militaries to this day. I believe a person would be court-martialed if they killed all the children in the village. God orders the total destruction of men and women and children and all property of whole tribes of people. And those who don't accept the peace negotiations are less severely handled, but death is still ordered. It is a notoriously difficult passage. It raises all kinds of questions. I just read another scholar who said, based on chapter 20, the Old Testament God is a genocidal maniac. Or some would say, just to perhaps give God the benefit of the doubt, that he was just immature in the Old Testament. And he needed to mature and come of age and realize the lessons of love. Those are words of scholars, brothers and sisters. Those are words of man. That's my first observation, is that this is tough and people have taken it toughly. Observation two. I am young and these are ancient problems. That should be his own observation, and then I should have another one. And yet it seems That as I study this and I and I study those who study this, that the best way to approach observation one is to not come up with our own hypothesis as to who God is, but listen to him. his own words as to how he explains things like holy warfare. Everybody has to come up with a hypothesis in order to make sense of events. Let's say that you were driving within your car. You've probably heard me use this before. Let's say you're driving in your car and all of a sudden your sh your car from the back goes What's the problem? You have a couple options, don't you? It could be those things on the side of Route 95 or wherever are that are I think meant for truckers to wake them up if they start to veer off the side of the road. Or it could be a flat tire. We don't know which hypothesis is correct yet. But then we have this guy who's uh let's say he's in a Prius, I don't know. And he drives up alongside of you, and everybody in the car is honking the horn and trying to get your attention, and when you finally look over, they do this What's the problem? We know it's a flat tire in the back or an alien on the wheel or what right You you can start to limit and see what the hypotheses are. And you have to do the exact same thing with Deuteronomy chapter 20 What's your hypothesis? How do you explain the events that are going on there? How do you explain the words? You've already heard some explanation. Some people are saying that God was immature in the Old Testament. There is a A vast discontinuity between the God of the Old Testament and the God of the New Testament. Some people say that he was evil in the old and matured and became gracious in the new. Are you able, according to all the facts, in the same way that you would ascertain the facts and figuring out if you have a flat tire, is that the hypothesis or are those the hypotheses that you want to accept about Deuteronomy chapter 20? and in terms of Christian war in terms of warfare. I would say let's hear God on his own terms In order to be able to understand, as opposed to just coming up with our uh wild hypotheses And there's one category that seems to summarize this very, very well and keep it in God's terms. Chapter 20 is under the category of judgment. It is under the category of judgment, and we're seeing here something that will continue and has been a part of the entire history of knowing God. Think of all the times in which judgment has been present. Deuteronomy 20, in other words, is not an isolated event. It's not as if this is the sore thumb. or the thing that sticks out amongst all the scriptures as the only place where we would have to wrestle with this. Judgment, when we put it that way, is not an isolated event. Yahweh as the divine warrior is a regular theme in the scriptures ever since the fall. In fact, even before the fall, do you know why I can say that? Because most biblical scholars, if not all, biblical theological scholars, say that God Taking the chaos, the formless and the void, and making it ordered and perfect and good was him in a way defeating the chaos and bringing about goodness. Isn't that interesting? The defeat of chaos at creation and the holding up of a good order, not allowing the earth to go back to chaos. It's already starting to give us clues as to how we would make sense of Deuteronomy 20. What about the defeat of evil at the flood? Was that any less the divine warrior? He says he wiped out the face of the earth. Because of the evil. In fact, has anyone here heard of Meredith Klein? He's uh also a biblical scholar who has done great work. I don't agree with that. everything that he says, but he's done some great work and he says this in regards to the flood. What sign do we have in regards to the flood that we still see? the rainbow. He says this. What's the significance of the rainbow? Meredith Klein, who studies ancient Near Eastern uh culture says that the rainbow is God, the divine warrior, taking his bow and instead of having it vertical and pulled back, he is laying it down and letting everyone know That he is no longer at war with them in the same way. Isn't that interesting? Have you heard that? It's God the warrior showing that he shall no longer defeat the ancient world with rain that fell like a million arrows. Decimating the evil of the earth. What about this defeat? What about the defeat of evil at the Red Sea with the Egyptian army? A whole army was wiped out. What about all the plagues upon the Egyptian populace? What about the defeat of evil nations in the promised land? Do you see it's just one, it's just another one. What do you do with a group of pe you see th those let me let me read those names to you again and I'll pretend that you were native to that area. Hittite and Amorite and Canaite and Perizzite and Hivite and Jebusite If you lived in the area, do you know what you would know about every single one of those nations? They take their small children and they burn them in a fire to sacrifice them to their gods. That's what you would need to know. And year after year after year after year, God has given them signs to repent of such things, and they have refused. Now what are you supposed to do with a group of people that burn their children? What would you do if you were in charge? What if it was your child? What if it was a baby? I guess we have to answer that a bit because of all the abortion that takes place within our country. But what would you do with such a group of people? And it's not as if there's favoritism. Think of the captivity of Israel and its exile. Israel itself would meet disciplinary judgments from other nations when unrepentant Or think about this. Now let's go ahead and move into the New Testament after the advent of Jesus Christ. After the ascension of Jesus, Jesus through Roman spheres. Would siege the city of Jerusalem and judge the corrupt temple system. That's under the ascended Lord. Do you see the great continuity? Jesus is the Christ was in fact responsible for Deuteronomy chapter 20. And then we have the last book of the Bible picturing this. God enacting in the book of Revelation, Harem, in the New Testament. He enacts harem. Listen to this. I I bet you've never noticed this before. Revelation chapter 18, verses 7 and 8. Therefore her plagues will come in one day, death and mourning and famine. Now listen to this. And he's speaking about Babylon. And she will be utterly burned with fire. For strong is the Lord who judges her. Do you see how the judges, which brings us under the category of judgment, and the harem are all present there of the utter destruction? That's observation two. And it blows really, if you were to just take the biblical data, if you took the time to observe what the scriptures itself themselves said, you would see that the earlier hypotheses that I had given are they just unreasonable. It doesn't make any sense. Let's make a third observation. Therefore, going back to that first one, God is not less mature in the Old Testament and then grown up in the New Testament. That doesn't bear out according to the scriptural testimony. God is consistent throughout. He's utterly consistent because he does not change. There is solid and everlasting continuity throughout all of his dealings with mankind, really his dealings with anyone. And then our fourth observation: the examples do not show an irrational God full of rage trying to destroy particular race groups. of people. The examples show that Father, Son, and Holy Spirit will not allow evil and chaos to overcome their creatures. That's the truth. Evil does not belong here, in other words, and it cannot stay. It must be removed. You know, this is often pictured as a violation of boundaries, especially with pictures of the sea, which is why I prayed through the psalm that I did. The sea always threatens to break the bounds. It threatens to go up the shore and to wash all the goodness that that we have accomplished away. It surges and it destroys. And as I mentioned earlier, the Caribbean is very worried about this right now. As that category four storm moves into shore, my mother herself says she's starting to see some of the effects of it coming on, coming about. She has her house all boarded up Because she knows that the water, not just the water, but other because of the storm there'll be boundaries broken And we're looking at this the same way. But think of other boundaries, for example. Have you thought about the boundaries between us and the sun? Did you know that there's boundaries between us and the sun? There's atmospheric layers. For example, what if, and we can talk about this later, and you can all quiz Jeremiah, but what would happen if the ozone disappeared? If the sun were not held in bounds by the atmospheric layers, there would be great destruction by something that is good. I just had someone tell me a story the other day that is a gentleman who likes to visit the the rifle range. And while he was there, getting ready to check out, he noticed a young man, about 23 years old, who had pulled out a handgun, and it was empty. But he started playing around with the handgun in the range. He took the handgun, held it up to his younger sister's head, and started pulling the trigger So he, knowing that that young man had just broken the boundaries, even though he thought he was just playing, left all of his stuff. Ran over, immediately confiscated the gun and put that boy in his place and escorted him out of the range, and he is no longer allowed to return. Because that place knows the consequences of not keeping the boundaries And that young man didn't know. That brings us to that question. That's the question that we're asking with Deuteronomy 20. What if human beings break God's designed boundaries? And what if he gives them opportunity after opportunity after opportunity to repent of those things and they say, forget you? Then what do you do? Especially if you have decreed that this earth will be a good place and that people will be good. There has to be warfare They must be removed. Is it not in the goodness and the core nature of our God to stop the chaos? What would you think of my friend If he just let that guy stand there, continue clicking the gun at his sister's head. Would you be a responsible person not stopping him? Our God is not irresponsible, and he stops the clicking. That's the whole point. He stops the clicking of the gun at the head. That's observation four. Here's our last observation. Just as in the passage, so too today, God offers a peace treaty There are those who have done the equivalent with that gun. And he says, put the gun down and we can be reconciled. Repent. and believe. That is the good news. That is the good news of Almighty God. That there is a peace treaty even today That we have found ourselves perhaps among the names of those nations that could receive peace and not just be utterly destroyed. God will not overlook your sin, but He provides a payment for all of your debts through His Son Jesus Christ. That's the story. That's Christianity right there. And Jesus volunteers to offer himself in your place and to work with you and to subdue any remaining chaos in your soul. We call that sanctification. It says this from the Apostle Paul. Now then, we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God were pleading through us. We implore you on Christ's behalf, be reconciled to God. For he made him who knew no sin to be sin for us, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. And that ties back to our passage that there's been a peace treaty offered to us that we can be become his servants. And that's the passage this morning. We have power walked through the passage and we've made five observations and there's so much more to talk about. in terms of warpare warfare, but I think you can see the general message that should be that we should gain this morning, that war is sobering That it is terrifying, that it is serious. But in the case of holy war, it is best understood as judgment. That makes the the most sense of the tire that's going. That's the best hypothesis God refuses to allow this creation to devolve back into chaos. He's made a decree, and his decree will stand that it will be good And it will be good through Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. In other words, He's going to hold the boundaries. He makes the flood waters recede in Christ his Son and the Spirit. He gives us protection and shade from the Son and His providence. He has vowed to keep evil from reigning on the earth, despite the appearances of what this earth has become. And although we joined evil in Adam and our own choices, God offers through Christ and His Spirit a peace treaty, which Paul has called reconciliation. I want to meditate on this more, but I want to do so with the supper so that we can have peace. tangible items before us. So please join me in prayer and then let us sing together our invitational song. Father, we thank you for this word. These are heavy topics. Both your nature, what you were accomplishing in your redemptive plan. And the horrifying nature of war. Really, the difficulty of judgment itself. Father, it is something that we confess. It is that what the church has confessed for ages That you shall return and judge the living and the dead. Father, please help us to understand the seriousness, the hope also of such a confession. And we ask for the faith to believe such a thing and to believe it rightly, to have the right hypothesis. We ask these things in your name. Amen.