Do you want to continue the prayer that I was just praying? I was just Praying through Ephesians chapter 4 and 5 and going into chapter 6, and you could do similarly if you'd like to continue that prayer that just happened. This morning we have Deuteronomy chapter 14, and I'd ask that you please stand. I'm going to read verses 1 through 21. And that'll be the preaching portion this morning entitled Holy People. You are the children of the Lord your God. You shall not cut yourselves nor shave the front of your head for the dead. For you are a holy people to the Lord your God, and the Lord has chosen you to be a people for himself, a special treasure above all the peoples who are on the face of the earth. You shall not eat any detestable thing. These are the animals which you may eat the ox, the sheep, the goat, the deer, the gazelle, the roe deer, the wild goat, the mountain goat, the antelope, and the mountain sheep And you may eat every animal with cloven hooves, having the hoof split into two parts, and that choose the cud among the animals. Nevertheless, of those that Excuse me. Nevertheless, of those that chew the cud or have clothing hooves, you shall not eat, such as these, the camel, the hare, the rox hyrax. For they chew the cud, but do not have cloven hooves. They are unclean for you. Also the swine is unclean for you, because it has cloven hoofs, yet does not chew the cud. You shall not eat their flesh or touch their dead carcasses These you may eat of all that are in the waters. You may eat of all that have fins and scales. And whatever does not have fins and scales, you shall not eat. It is unclean for you All clean birds you may eat, but those you shall not eat, but these you shall not eat, the eagle, the vulture, the buzzard, the red kite, the falcon, and the kite after their and the hoopo and the bat. Also, every creeping thing that flies is unclean for you. They shall not be eaten. You may eat all clean birds. You shall not eat anything that dies of itself. You may give it to the alien who is within your gates, that he may eat of it, or you may sell it to a foreigner. For you are a holy people to the Lord your God. You shall not boil a young goat in its mother's milk. Please join me in prayer. Father, we ask that you, through your son, and Christ through your spirit, that you would guide in the preaching of this word. That your truth would go out, that the reality of your truth would be set upon our minds, and that we would be conformed to your likeness. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. I had the privilege uh last weekend to drive through the back roads of Georgia with my bride. Uh we we noticed a couple things. There seems to be two different kinds of Georgian properties, those that are taken care of and those that are not. Uh some of the properties have been left fallow and there are quite a few cars in the front yard. And then there are those where there's been care taken in this beautification of their property Our favorite sites were the well-maintained pecan groves. I was just fascinated with pecan trees while there. And also the streets went on for a couple miles at least, lined with blooming magnetic Magnolia trees. Uh rolled down the windows, opened the sunroof, and just enjoyed that. If you consider your life as a property, just as we were just looking at two different kinds of property, what kind of property owner are you? Have you let your property run fallow? Have you let your life run fallow? Or do you take great care? Is your property full of weeds and garbage plants? Or is it a well-maintened pecan grove? With a drive lined with sweet-smelling magnolias. It's a good question to ask yourself, just what kind of life you're living. Presumably under the Lordship of Jesus Christ. Moses really, if you want to look at it this way, just carrying forward the metaphor, he's been giving us Oh, uh instruction from the Lord as the mediator then, instructing us in property management, if you want to put it that way. If you want to think of your life as a grove or a street lined with magnolias. In chapter 5, he relayed the laws from Yahweh. Those were where we found the Ten Commandments. In chapters 6 through 11, Moses has been explaining the essence of the law in such a way that even a child could memorize the key aspects to it He in fact put it into uh a kind of catechism. What does the Lord require of you? And then you would answer back and you could memorize it either on two fingers, as the Lord reduces the com all the commandments to two, or to five with the the The middle being love. In chapter thirteen, two weeks ago, uh part of playing this out in these specific situation. I'm sorry, in chapter twelve, three weeks ago, Moses applied the first and the second the second commandment to their specific situation that they are to utterly destroy any remaining religious places or artifacts. It's all to be wiped out because it is considered detestable amongst those Canaanite religions. And then two weeks ago In chapter 13, after that destruction takes place and the land is wiped clean, so to speak, they are to take great care that new seeds of false religion do not take root in the plowed soil. That was our our last sermon that you heard from Deuteronomy. And it was both interesting and alarming. That the seeds that could land on the field to grow weeds and plants that don't belong there can happen from charismatic, meaning likable, popular leaders. That you could turn to leaders that are in our culture. It could come from them. And it also, even more alarming, comes from our own households. Our own children can be the reason why we're talked in to going down the wrong path. And that is alarming. And so Moses, in giving that, warns us that we must be diligent. to protect, we must be careful to protect the soils of our lives. Now this is a continuation, chapter 14 is a continuation of this same kind of conversation And in this in the conversation where the field is wipe cleaned and then we place a tarp over the field to make sure the wrong seeds don't grow up. It's really an overarching commentary on a on a main point that is timeless. We are in every way, as the people of God, to remain Separate from ungodly communities. And now I don't mean separate as in like the Amish. But in another way I mean like the Amish. There's a kind of separation that needs to resemble that kind of thing But we just have to get exactly what it's supposed to look like. And so that's the thesis this morning. God's people are called to be set apart. and holy. And we see this in very, very specific examples in chapter 14. We see it in two. I divided this in two parts in verses 1 through 21. That we are to be set apart in death. That's the the specific application here in mourning, and that you're there's obviously a separation from the surrounding communities in diet So we'll look first at holiness and death or in mourning and then holiness and diet. And there's obviously some some translation that has to go on here with what's actually happening. in this passage. Can you apply this immediately to our modern context? And we'll talk about that. So I want to look at this under two parts. That we are the people of as the people of God are to be r to remain separate and holy. That we are to be set apart. Now let's take a look at these two applications. First, there's holiness and mourning. Let's just go through to make sure we're understanding God's word in its historical context. You can see clearly, it's really simple the division. Moses first tells the Israelites that they are to set themselves apart from the surrounding people and how they mourn. And he mentions two specific practices that would have been relevant to them. And that they are not to do them. You are the children of the Lord your God, and then he mentions the two. You shall not cut yourselves, nor shave the front of your head for the dead. Now cutting and shaving the head were two practices that were probably a part of the cult of the dead, which would have been connected to the Canaanite religion, and to mourning rituals of other pagan rituals and religions during that day. And so you can see how he's keeping them still separate from how those alternative religions did You know, this this kind of thought, the shaving and the cutting and other ways to mourn, were already brought up in Leviticus chapter 19. This really isn't new for these This group of people, they would have heard this before. It mentions in Leviticus nineteen, twenty-six through twenty-eight, you shall not eat anything with the blood, nor shall you practice divination or soothsaying. You shall not shave around the sides of your head, nor shall you disfigure the edges of your beard, you shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor tattoos of any marks on you. I am the Lord. Cutting was a regular religious practice if you look at 1 Kings 18, 27 through 28. You can see how the surrounding culture, uh the surrounding communities had produced rituals that went along with certain things and and God is obviously saying you shouldn't be a part of those. Let's at this from 1 Kings. And so it was at noon. remember this. Elijah mocked them and said, Cry aloud, for he is a God, lowercase g. Either he is meditating, or maybe he's busy, or maybe he's on a journey, or perhaps he's sleeping, and you've got to wake him up. So they cried aloud and cut themselves, as was their custom, with knives and lances until the blood gushed out on them. You can see this is a kind of religious ceremony to manipulate. And in this context, in 14, 1 and 2, there must have been some uh mourning ritual that was trying to do the same thing. pagan practices where nations would try to manipulate the afterlife and to protect their deceased relatives in the land of There's actually a recent, I don't know if it's Pixar or whatever movie that has a similar kind of worldview that's a part of it called Coco. And he has a guitar and he has to go on this journey. That's all based on a very specific uh religion of a specific culture. And I'm pretty sure they still celebrate that today. Well, this was their version Now, whether it was to manipulate the afterlife, or whether it was connected with the cult of the dead, or if it was to protect deceased relatives, whatever it was. That's all a bit speculative and relies on ancient Near Eastern studies. Whatever it was, though, they were pagan practices, and God's people were not to mourn. In the same way, they were in this specific way to be set apart and to be holy. Now in our culture, you know, I every time I say, well our culture doesn't do that, somebody comes to me and they say, actually, you know, everybody shaves their head and cuts themselves and gets tattoos now when people die The tattoo thing is probably right. I mean, I've seen people get tattoos of their dogs and their cats when they die. But I don't think this is really happening in this specific way in our culture, is it? I don't think it works out in this specific way when someone dies that we are tempted to mourn in these specific ways. And yet there are some observations that do need to be made that are relative to us in our culture after the coming of Jesus Christ. This is a a specific application. You feel how odd it feels to talk about shaving your head and not cutting yourself, how foreign this culture feels in regards to to mourning. And yet there is a specific application to our culture that, because there's still a general applicability applicability to us. For example, the death of a loved one. It's a significant moment in life. And there are significant moments still in our lives that should be conducted according to the general rules of God's word and not according or being instructed with how our culture performs things. So for example In our culture, when there is conception of life, that is a significant moment. But our culture practices the abortion of the unborn. And we do not, as Christians. I think of uh did you see the old YouTube video when um someone decided to to do their marriage where their wedding where all of the bridesmaids and the grooms they were all dancing down to some secular song down the aisle and Everybody was having a great time. That would be an example of desolemnizing the uh actual thing that they were doing, getting ready to take vows before the Almighty God And making it trivial. That would be an example of something that our culture does. Or if you think There's an another momentous occasion is just getting married, period, entrance into manhood and to womanhood, separating off, leaving and cleaving and establishing your own family. And you know what we will do to celebrate that? We'll get drunk and we'll go to s some Dancing place. I don't want to have a mixed audience here. That's what we'll do. Our culture celebrates bachelor and bachelorette parties through drunkenness, etc. But we would celebrate such a significant moment by being set apart and holy, and we would celebrate such occasions through prayer and responsible merriment. That's the first thing is that when we when we move away from the specific and we climb up the ladder and we state it more gent generally, we can still see that In momentous and significant situations, we too are still to have practices according to the general rules of the word where we are set apart and holy from the way that our culture does things in those same significant moments We don't exactly celebrate weddings and engagements and funerals and whatever else and births in the way that our culture does. We are set apart in those ways. That's the first observation as we're dealing with this first point. Here's the second observation. Specific applications like this are beautiful. They provide so much light for you as you seek to work out your life as an ethical being There are so many times when we turn to the scriptures and there's not a specific verse for your specific situation saying the exact words that you're asking about. Should I go to Princeton? Look in the index for Princeton. No, I don't see it. The Lord doesn't say anything about it. But this these sets of verses and how God applies them to his people and how Moses applies them shows us how we can apply the scriptures and it's very, very helpful. Specific applications like this. I expect them to be connected to the main law, the Ten Commandments. And specific applications like this specifically rest upon the authority of the fifth commandment. Verse 4 or 14, 1. Notice the relationship that is called out in the first verse. You are the children of the Lord your God. That immediately establishes them, and this father theme, motif, runs through Deuteronomy. We'll get to it in the final chapters. That there is a father and his children. That is a you should definitely be thinking of the fifth commandment. When you look at these kind of things. This relationship is specified that as a son or a daughter of the Most High God you would honor your Heavenly Father. There are so many other metaphors and reasons why we would just obey God. But here's the thing. Even if the Israelites didn't understand why certain haircuts were forbidden, If they didn't see the rationale and the nature of the thing or some kind of hidden symbology, they would still need to respect and honor their Heavenly Father and his desires based on the fifth commandment. This ends up giving immense light in how to apply the fifth commandment as a parent, especially in how to obey your parents if you are a child. It gives immense light. So here's an example. We're hitting summer, and with summer comes bathing suits. So let's meddle for a moment. Teenage girl wants a specific kind of bathing suit. Again, we have a mixed company, so I'm just not even going to mention the language. We all know what we're talking about. Father and mother says you shouldn't wear that. Teenager says, well where does it say I shouldn't wear that kind of bathing suit in the Bible? Father and mother look in the index. Well I don't see thong under T. So the so the so the teenager says exactly. Father and the mother can't find an explicit text that says, you shall not wear the most revealing bathing suit possible. And so the teenager wins. But that's wrong. And we already begin to see that in the way in which these specifics are applied within this passage. If the parent's conscience is bothered and they say no to the bathing suit or the dress, then out of honor for the mom and the dad, the child should obey. Because this is what the parent has. They have the right to make for the goodness of their children. They don't have the right to ask their children to sin, obviously. But they do have the right to govern in such a way to where it would be good for their specific children. And when you become more and more specific to the personalities of your children, you are not going to find explicit texts in the scriptures addressing with those specific words. But it is carried under the generality of the fifth commandment. So for example, I took my liberty as a Father after Memorial Day and I said no more TV, no more iPads, no more computers, no more technology. We are going to play family games, we are gonna garden, we're gonna mow the lawn, we're gonna take walks, we're gonna ride bikes We're going to do that kind of thing, at least for a while. And I was strengthened in my resolve by seeing the application. Within this passage, that I have full rights to do so under the fifth commandment, because it is my decision as to what is best for my family. I'm not asking them to sin, but here's the thing: is it wrong to use an iPad? Not wrong. Is it wrong to use a computer or a TV? It's not wrong in and of itself. But when you get into specific situations as an ethical being, you have to make decisions that are best for you and for your family And sometimes that says, although all things are permissible, not everything is beneficial at this particular moment. And I'm making the decision, whether you like it or not. You can pout and kick on your bed all night long. But you are not wearing that bathing suit, honey. Now here's the scary thing. If they refuse the honor, they will probably call you a legalist because they never looked up the term But if they refuse the honor, you as a parent, then ultimately they dishonor God because it's his command, not yours. And they are either an extremely sick and weak and ignorant Christian. Look at me. Or you're not a Christian at all. Because those who are indwelt by the Holy Spirit do not ignore the commands of their God. You may wrestle with it for a bit. And then he wins you over. But there can't be a total ignorance and ignoring of it over a prolonged period of time. I acknowledge there's backsliding. We're all progressing and it's all difficult. But there can't be a dismissal of God, and you say that you're a Christian. That's the first main point. The main point in Deuteronomy is specific to situations that did happen a long time ago. I acknowledge that. And I'm trying to respect the historicity of the book. It's in a different culture. The application was made by Moses as a good pastor to them, then And they would have read it, and it would have been an immediate application for them. But we can see also, we can still see how it applies to us today, generally speaking. The people of God are to be separate and holy in how they mourn. And in other significant moments in their lives, and how they conduct themselves in human life, and how they honor their mothers and their fathers. Who, you know, when the child is older and they're 23, they're going to thank you because they're finally going to realize you were right the whole time anyway. They don't need another friend patting them on the back, they need a parent. So that's the first point. Holiness in mourning and the implications for us today, and now there's holiness in diet. And this is really, if you take a look at your scriptures again, look take a look at verse 3. There should be a paragraph break in your Bibles. Then we have verse 3, and it says, You shall not eat any detestable thing. And then the rest, all the way down to 21, is just a commentary on what are all of the detestable things that God as Heavenly Father will command during this time. That's the way that this is set up. Now, the word detestable, it's important for you to realize what word is being used here. It shows up in other places of Scripture besides here and in relationship to other things besides food. Sometimes it's translated abominable. The word actually is not just used by God's people, but it is also used by other communities recorded within the scriptures. In Genesis chapter 43 and in Genesis chapter 46, the Egyptians would not share a meal with the Hebrews because they considered it a detestable and abominable thing to do, and they considered shepherding, which the Hebrews Hebrews did, an abominable and a detestable thing to do, which is why they put them in Goshen, so that they could be away and not pollute the land with the job that they had. It's used often in Leviticus. It is referred to, it is describes homosexual behavior. It is detestable and abominable, and other forms of ungodly sexuality. It also refers to idolatry. That is considered detestable. Child sacrifices are considered detestable And now, and I hope this frames it and puts it in context for you, so too would eating any of these unclean animals for the Jew of that day, it would be detestable. And now that explains why it is taken so seriously on the pages of the New Testament. Have you ever scratched your head and said, why was it such a big deal for them to just have a burger? I guess they could have a burger with the Gentile. And now you realize it. Because the diet was at the same level as child sacrifice. Do you consider child sacrifice detestable? Would you like to partake with someone in a child's sacrifice? And neither would they want to eat with Gentile or with those unclean foods. So you get a sense of what was going on here and how seriously they were supposed to be taking it, but they really missed the point, which we'll get to in a minute. So then Moses proceeds to give permission or restriction to certain animals. I just want to run through this With you very quickly, so that you're not just glossing over what it says here. It's you know, it's the most important part. Verses 4 through 6, if you take a look, these are land animals that you may eat. Or that they may eat. Verses 7 through 8, land animals that they may not eat. Verse 9, sea creatures that they may eat. Verse 10, see creatures that they may not eat. Verse 11, air creatures that they may eat. I said air, but you know what I mean, right? Okay. And then 12 through 18, you're flying. Thank you. That's good. I'm working with domains because of the creation account and I see it mimicking. Yeah, thank you though. Air creatures you may not eat, insects, birds, dead animals, and then specific cooking practices. With the you shall not boil a goat in its mother's milk. So once we go through a list like this, here's the first question that's often asked. I wonder if it's your question. What is God's rationale for allowing and forbidding these specific animals for this group of people? What was he doing? Why these animals and in this way? And let me just tell you, it depends which commentary you pick up. Because speculation abounds, and it is very difficult with the limited information that we have within the text itself to really put your foot down on a firm foundation here. These animals, some would say, have religious significance for the surrounding pagan religions, and Yahweh forbids to religio he forbids them to eat of these things so that they can be religiously separate from the Canaanites. That goes pretty well with the context. It's general enough to work. One explanation that is even famous to today and was given to me at the Anarola Community College when I took the Bible as literature. Is that God had inside knowledge of the best dietary practices to promote antibodies? Now, I don't know, that's really specific What we have learned in seminary, which accumulates a great deal of evidence from multiple places, is that the animals have symbolic significance. And that each of the animals either stands for life, or the animal stands for death, and God's people are always ascending the mountain to life. Life. They are no longer in a descent down into the abyss into death. So you'll notice vultures, for example, associated with death, not allowed to eat that. The passage begins with death. Isn't that interesting? Why do we have mourning that then jumps to diet? The passage ends with a goat being boiled in its mother's milk, which means that which is supposed to bring life is now being used as a vehicle to bring death. And then Leviticus links clean and unclean with life and death. The New Testament pigs are supposed to be emphasis, the emphasis in this passage that's before you says, and you shall not eat pigs or swine. That is emphasized through the pages of the New Testament, and it is always a life and death situation. The prodigal son went away from God toward death and worked with pig. Right? Went away from the pigs towards life. And then the demons were cast in the pigs and rushed into water from the demoniac, and water for Hebrew was considered a place of chaos and death. This is off of Who Shall Ascend the Mountain from Dr. Michael Morales, one of our professors. And and so I incline towards that position, but these are various theories. These are theories that you you have to work through a number of scriptures and it can be difficult to make up your mind on that. But you know what's not a theory? That's explicitly right in the text relative to all of these animals or the morning. Is that whatever the rationale is that God gives. God used diet as a means to distinguish his people from the surrounding communities. And that is what he chose to do temporarily for that day. For example, notice the note that it ends on in verse 21. For you are a holy people to the Lord your God. He was choosing a specific means in order to emphasize a particular point. Which is that God's people are to be set apart. And that's the main thesis that I told you in the beginning. You can feel the time gap between where you live today and what this culture was doing. Where we live in the practices of these people in this passage. And yet, even though the specifics are odd and unfamiliar to you, there is a general truth that is timeless. God's people are set to be set apart and they're to be holy. God has the right to determine how that holiness will manifest itself within cultures. Now the holiness through the diet, let me ask you this question. Our Christians today, under this administration, must we still obey these dietary laws? And if not, what scriptures would you use to show that it has been taken down or abrogated? I think one of the strongest ones is from Acts chapter 10, 9-16, which we looked at this morning. In the Sunday school class. If you're not in Sunday school, you're really missing out. The next day, as they went on their journey and drew near the city, Peter went on the housetop to pray about the sixth hour. Then he became very hungry and wanted to eat. Now listen for the language of Deuteronomy in here. But while they made ready he fell into a trance and saw heaven opened, and an object like a great sheet bound at four corners, descending to him. and let down to the earth. In it were all kinds of four-footed animals of the earth, wild beasts. creeping things, and birds of the air. And a voice came to him, Rise, Peter, kill and eat. But Peter said, Not so, Lord, for I have never eaten anything common or unclean. And a voice spoke to him again the second time, What God has cleansed, you must not call common This was done three times, and the object was taken up into heaven again. And there are many other passages. That go through this same point. You can find a major one insulations, for example. But you know the food was never the point anyway when we look at how Jesus handled such discussions in Mark chapter 7, verses 17 through 23. Do you not perceive And that's even present within the Deuteronomic text, is it not? Because if it were truly defiling to all humanity forever and perpetually, why could you sell it to the stranger and the alien? Jesus says it does not enter his heart, the food, but it enters his stomach, and it is eliminated, thus purifying all foods. And he said, What comes out of a man, that is what defiles a man. For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornication. murders, thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lewdness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness. All these evil things come from within and defile a man. And so I conclude from this, and Jesus' teaching, that the people of that day had gotten it wrong all along. Certainly they were to obey these dietary restrictions, but it was meant to always prove a point. The food was meant to remind people that they are to be set apart from the surrounding communities in who they are from the heart. And so this diet is just an extension in Deuteronomy of the conversation that has been happening since chapter 5. It is another form, it is a dietary catechism for them to remember that they are to love the Lord their God with all their heart, soul, mind, and their neighbor as themselves. And that's what Jesus is bringing out. And James summarizes it perfectly when he says in James chapter 1 verse 27, pure and undefiled religion before God the Father is this. To visit orphans and widows in their trouble, and to keep oneself unspotted from the world. That is the whole point. Again, we come back even after the advent of Christ, after the resurrection and ascension of Christ, back to the same truth. that you, Christian, and I, Christian, are still meant to remain outside of that life system called the world. That we are to be separate and holy, that we are to be, as James puts it, unspotted from the world. Are you endeavoring to be unspotted from the world? What if every time you engage with the world you got a spot on you? Would you be wearing polka dots today? Would you have spots? Are you endeavoring? Are you endeavoring? I understand that you can't sit next to a campfire and walk away not smelling like smoke We are in this world, but we are not to be of the world. Are you endeavoring to be unspotted from the world? I had a friend who disappeared in high school. He was pretty close to us. It was always a little strange. But then out of nowhere, he just disappeared. And we didn't see him for probably a year. I don't even think his parents knew where he was. And then he returned, and we found out that he had gotten involved with an environmental cult. I think the worst thing that they did was recycle. So there wasn't that much damage done in that regard. But when he returned, he was like a new person. He his hair was he wore his hair different. He had all of these strange organic clothes made out of hemp and And he wore them differently and they and he smelled different because he wouldn't wear deodorant because there's aluminum in deodorant and you you get you know what I'm saying. He wore p uh patr patrouill patchouli. Yeah, you know exactly what I'm painting here His language changed. The way he spoke to us was he used to speak just like this and then he was like, hey, man, let's go out to the beach and stuff You know, it's like, yeah, this is cool. His fears change, his aspirations change, his activities change, his music was different. He was listening to uh The grateful dead, which I had never listened to, and fish. He came back and he was made in the image. of that environmental cult. He had so many spots on him from that cult that it was just the regular color of what he had before. And I'm asking really the same question about you. If we were to do some kind of evaluation, someone hadn't seen you for a year and then they saw you again and wrote down their observations of you. You know, this same thing is happening all across the world, but not people running off to environmental cults, but Jesus Christ converting people into the new heavens and the new earth and then becoming new creations. I watched a few years ago a young lady convert to Christianity, and she was analogous to my friend in high school. Everything was beginning to change. She began to wonder about everything anew, about all of the parts of her life. Do you know one of the things she wondered about in her life? This is the truth. She started doing in-depth research as to what kind of bathing suit a Christian woman should wear because everything was important to her. Because everything was falling under the Lordship of Jesus Christ. She had the Holy Spirit in her driving her forward to make these kinds of decisions. She started evaluating drink, food, time. Relationships, sexuality, power, money, everything was falling under Christ. She wanted everything offered to him. The spots of the world had been cleansed. by Jesus Christ before God the Father. The uncleanness of the world was being washed by the water of the Word off of this woman. In her conversion to Christianity. She was obviously not marked by the world or the spirit of this world, which is the Antichrist, but marked by the Spirit who was from heaven, the Holy Spirit. Those of you who are obviously in love with this world Who are like my friend in high school, who have gone off to some kind of cult, and it's called the cult of America or the cult of this world. It is obvious to me that you were doing so, and you are really not fooling anybody I can tell by the way that your language has changed, by the way that your clothes have changed, and I have a record of all of your Instagram posts. I have good news for you today. There is still time for you this morning to repent. And to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and be reconciled with God the Father, to be given the Holy Spirit, and to live your life for Him. It is not too late. And those of you who are Christians, I encourage you to continue to endeavor to bring everything in your life before. For him. I once heard a person say, Man, I'm so glad we don't live in the Old Testament because God was really particular about what people were allowed to do and not do and how they lived for him. It's still that particular Everything about your life needs to be brought under the Lordship of Jesus Christ. Everything. Just like I shared in that one moment's conversion Whether it is how you mourn or even how you diet, all of our lives should be set apart and holy to Him. And we don't do so begrudgingly, because you, Christian, by the power of the Holy Spirit, are constrained by the love of Jesus Christ. For you and the love that you have given, He has given you for Him. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the liberties that you have given to us We thank you that you have torn down the wall of separation and that we are united now as one people under you across every tribe, tongue, and nation, all united in Jesus Christ our head. We thank you, Lord Jesus Christ, for the work that you have done and how you guide us into all truth and into all holiness. And we pray that we would learn more and more what it means to join you and your people. We pray that we would no longer be conformed to this world in our minds or in our actions, but that we would be conformed to you, the Son. That you would conform us. through the sanctification of your Holy Spirit, that you would progress us forward. Lord, we pray for those that have not called upon your name and yet may you may be revealing yourself to them and calling them to yourself. I pray that you would give them repentance. That you would surround them with mentors and a guide as they go forward in confessing and professing your name. Ask these things in your name. Amen.