Looking at, and it has been quite a while. And uh I am sorry to do this, but at the same time I'm not sorry. Let's stand in honor of God's Word as we read together Psalm 119, verses 65 through 72. People of God, this is the word of your Lord. You have dealt well with your servant, O Lord, according to your word. Teach me good judgment and knowledge, for I believe your commandments Before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I keep your word. You are good, and do good. Teach me yourself. Statutes. The proud have forged a lie against me, but I will keep your precepts with my whole heart. Their heart is as fat as Greece, but I delight in your law It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I may learn your statutes. The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of coins of gold. And silver. This is the word of the Lord. Let us pray. Almighty God, you have kept this for us, delivered it to us. You have given us hearts that want to trust it and want to know it. You have brought us to this church, a church that is committed to serving you by Accurately, truthfully, and honestly, loving your word and teaching it, we know that there is much good for us in these few verses. We ask that your Spirit would make it clear to us, and that by your grace you would enable our hearts to go away from here as doers of your word and not just hearers. only. We pray, Father, that you will make us more like Christ because of this passage of Scripture, for it's in his name we have prayed. Amen. Please be seated. We are in the year 2020. It's the year of perfect vision. A year of insight, if you will. Well perhaps it's a year of hindsight. Maybe you've heard people say that hindsight is always 20-20. Have you ever heard that? Kids, have you ever heard somebody say hindsight is 2020? You know what that means? It means that when you look back at what has happened, you can see it far better than when it's happening to you in those days. Circumstances. Well, all of us at some point in our lives will experience hindsight. As adults, we might experience it in something called the lessons learned. You ever have that, guys? Gals? At my place of work we have lessons learned all the time. Because you have to have a lessons learned whenever something messes up. So that people can look back, apply hindsight, and see how maybe we won't make the same mistak mistake. in the future. Well, as a child, as a little boy, my hindsight was most often the result of an application of justice to my hind parts. And after receiving that discipline from those in authority over me, I would sit in my room and ponder my choices. What is it that I had done? And I will tell you, and I'm sure kids, you would say the same thing. You would agree with me. That's when your hindsight is clearest. Because you know exactly what you chose to do was not the right thing to do. Well, this stanza, the ninth stanza, the test stanza of Psalm 119, is a stanza that gives us great insight into the source and application of what I like to call holy hindsight. Or Christian hindsight, the hindsight that is unique to the believer. Now, the prior, the previous stanzas of Psalm 119, as we've gone through them together, we've seen that these are prayers. That the psalmist, it might be uh David, we're not entirely sure, it could be him, but whoever it is that God inspired to write this psalm is praying And they're praying stanzas of individual ideas. And we know that because he's using a different letter of the Hebrew alphabet for each of those stanzas. So I just wanted to remind you of that as we press on. And I also wanted to remind you that these stanzas are all dealing with pretty much the same subject matter, although they deal with it in unique ways. And that subject is what Should the focus of our prayers be? On what should we focus when we pray, and what should influence our prayers more than anything else? God God's Word. That's what Psalm 119 is all about. It's all about God's Word. Now the the most immediate stanza that was before this was the Het stanza, and we saw that in that stanza, God blesses his people with a commitment to his word which leads to blessed contentment in our lives. But in this stanza, the text stanza, the Holy Spirit is teaching us something different. He's teaching us that God's goodness is so clear to believers that they can delight in his good word no matter their circumstances. I'm going to repeat that because it's really important. This stanza that we're looking at tonight, verses 65 through 72 of Psalm 119, Teaches us that God's goodness is so clear to believers that they can delight in His good word no matter their circumstances. We're going to look at this in the two halves of the Psalm stanza itself. The first half, verses 65 through 68, believers see God's goodness. And then we'll look at the second half, verses 69 through 72, and which we'll see that believers delight in God's good word. Now it's helpful to notice how the psalmist is taking us on a journey through time. In this first section, verses 65 through 68, he starts us In the past. Thus, the first thing that he shows us is that believers see God's goodness and the way that he has dealt with his servants in the past. And it's very clear there in the verse, the second part of verse 65, how it is that God deals with his servant. He deals with them according to his word. So if we look at the word of God and we look at how he's dealt with his servants and recorded in the word, we'll see how God will deal with us. If we look at Scripture and we see how God has dealt with rebellious children, we can know how He will deal with us if we are Also in rebellion. But it's not just from the scriptures that we see how God deals with us. We see the goodness of God in that way. We also see it from our personal experience. Don't we? Now I mentioned that David could have been one of the, could have been the author of this psalm, and we're all aware of that great affliction that happened. David. We're all aware that he wrote a psalm after that time, and it was Psalm 51, in which he was convicted of his sin and confessed. And in which you saw that the way God was dealing with him then was good. He was dealing with him in a good way, according to his Word. So the psalmist here, recognizing what God has already done, makes a request. He has seen God's goodness and how he's dealt with him in the past, and so he makes a request for what he most needs in the present. To make sense of his life, he says, teach me good judgment and knowledge. Now, brothers and sisters, how else can we understand what is going on in our own lives unless God answers this prayer for each and every one of us? We need God's good judgment and knowledge because it's good, just like He is. The psalmist then gives us another hint at the progression of a believer's life by basing that present play for the good knowledge and judgment on the foundation of that present blessing. Which is, for I believe your commandments. We've looked at past stanzas and we've seen that one of the ways that God blesses his people, he gives them a faithfulness to his word. And the psalmist here is saying, I believe your commandments. Teach me good knowledge and good judgment. Now there's no doubt in the psalmist's mind. God's words about how mankind should live are good. That's what he means when he says commandments. These are what the commandments that God gives to direct mankind how we should live. The psalmist believes that God knows best how we should live, that God knows best how we should view our life and the things that happen in it. So here he once again prays for God to give him what he lacks, as he's done in almost every stanza since we started the psalm. Well, as we continue on in this first section, we're going to see that God's goodness is clearly displayed, and that the way He deals with the psalmist The way that he has dealt with him in the past has led to a present blessing. Look at what he says here. Verse 16. Before I was afflicted, I went astray. But now I keep your word. Whatever the situation was, whatever the circumstance in his life, he deems it to have been an affliction, a time of oppression, something we wouldn't really be looking for. if it were up to us. But we can't miss what's most important in this verse. That before that affliction He admits freely that he was not following God's righteous path, but instead he was wandering from God's way. But because of that affliction, that affliction which God allowed, nay, which God designed and commanded, something changed. Now, because that affliction has happened, he keeps God's word. And what a blessing that is. What blessed hindsight he has to be able to look back at his life, to look back at that affliction and see the Value of it. And what blessed hindsight we have, brothers and sisters, if we can look back on our life and pinpoint those moments when God has changed us. And moved us from those running far from his will to those who keep his word. Now sometimes we really need to be shaken up before we can snap out of a period of self-focused. Inner introspection, right? When we're so concerned about ourselves we can't see anything else going on around us. We can't see the mess we're making. We can't see the messes we're allowing to be made. I love how John Calvin puts it in his commentary. He puts it this way: He says, sometimes we need to be shattered by God's hand. Before we will willingly bend and submit our neck to God's judgment. We need Things that will take away the hardness of our minds and our hearts. And sometimes what we need is not something That is altogether pleasant at the time. So, believers, you and I, the psalmists, clearly see God's goodness and how he deals with his servants. He deals well with his servants throughout their lives. But thanks be to God, because we're not left just to interpret our lives by ourselves We don't have to look at what God's done in our life, look at the things, ponder it out, and go, is God really good? Has He really dealt well? Because he has given us his word. And so this is what we see next. We see that believers see God's goodness clearly displayed in his words. It's precisely why we all need God to teach us his statutes, to teach us to recognize his voice. The psalmist cannot be more clear about what he believes. Look at what he says there in verse 68. This is one of my new favorite verses because it's so clear and so concise. You are good and do good There is no ambiguity in that. God is good, and what God does is good. Now the Hebrew word for good is that word tov Maybe you've heard it. Mazultov, right? Or uh that word is used six times in eight verses in the stanza. That gives us a little bit of a an insight into what's important in the stanza: God's goodness. Another interesting thing is if you look at this in the original language, that word tov, that means good, is used to start five of the eight verses. So what do we do? If we're looking at this in Hebrew, we see that the first thing our eye sees as we're reading these lines is good, good, good, good, good. God is good And he deals with us in a very good way. Well, the psalmist is not unique in this perspective of God. Scripture is absolutely clear. The very first chapter of the Bible, God creates the heavens and the earth, and then after every act of creation, what does he say? And it is good. He pronounces what he does to be good. I'll give you one guess as to which Hebrew word is used there It's the same one. In Genesis 50, 20, what Joseph's brothers meant for evil, we are told that God meant it for good. In Exodus 34:6, when Yahweh is passing before Moses, he declares who he is. And in part of that declaration, he says that he is abounding in goodness. and truth. Psalm 25, 8, Good and upright is the Lord. Or perhaps what's most compelling, the best teaching that I've found on this is Scriptures. It's from Matthew 19, verse 17. When our Lord Jesus Christ and somebody says, Oh, good teacher, and he says, Whoa, whoa, whoa, no one is good but one that That is God. God is good, and what he does is good. Now, if we actually believe that God's word is true, Then we know exactly what we must do when our lives feel like they're out of control. We must follow the psalmist's example and do as he has done, and remind ourselves of the infinite goodness of our God. We must exercise hindsight and examine our lives to see exactly where God was clearly showing us his supreme goodness. And this is where the psalmist takes us and the rest of the stanza. He is in a situation that's completely out of his control. Yet he never loses sight of who is actually in control. What he records here is the amazing result of believing God's word and seeing his goodness. Because in verses 69 through 72, we see that believers delight. And the first thing we see about that delight is that that delight, delighting in God's good word, makes the believer a very different creature than the unbeliever. Look with me, starting in verse 69. The proud have forged a lie against me, but I will keep your precepts. With my whole heart. Their heart is as fat as grease, but I delight in your law. These people that are lying, they're proud. They're proud because they're puffed up with their own wisdom. They are pretty sure they've got a good idea about how things work. And that they know how the universe should be, and it's their job to tell us that we're all wrong. They're puffed up with their own wisdom. Now the lies that he's talking about, these could be lies that are directly against the Psalmist. Uh if it is David when he was when he was king there were many who were in rebellion against him and before he uh was he after he was anointed king and before he was uh crowned as king, he was basically enduring just Time after time of Saul trying to kill him and making lies about him. So it could be lies directly about him, but we can also understand this as meaning lies about his family or lies about the past. Or lies about what he believes, or lies about what he thinks, or lies about who he loves, or what he doesn't love. I mean, any time that somebody who thinks they know what's going on starts to talk about another person We can be pretty sure that they're not going to get it altogether right. Now, whatever that circumstance that the psalmist was in, Whatever it was, he has seen God's goodness. He is not going to make the same mistake again And go astray like he did before that other time of affliction. He will keep God's precepts. And that is God's orders and his directions. He will not stray from his commanding officer who tells him, Do this, and he will do it. Not even when there are those around him who are trying to tempt him. To stray from God's word or tempt him to do terrible things, or who are making up lies about him just to tempt him to wrath and anger so he'd look bad to everybody. We don't know what that's like in this day and age, do we? That there would be an entire group of people spreading lies about who we are so that we look awful in the eyes of everyone else. Well, the contrast between the believer and the unbeliever is emphasized in this vivid image of the heart of the unbeliever. The idea of a heart being fat as grease is to communicate that their hearts are insulated. They're calloused. They're numb. They're unfeeling. They're basically useless, which which is what fat is. And that's exactly what he's talking about. It's it's an insulated heart that doesn't feel, that doesn't care about what God cares about. It doesn't delight in his word. But the psalmist, the believer, delights in God's law, his Torah, his teaching, his truth. And this is why he pleads for good judgment, right? God's judgment. Remember? And he pleads for that knowledge. He wants God's knowledge, because that's the only good and true. Knowledge. He wants to be that blessed man from the very first Psalm who delights in the law of the Lord. Now there's a big difference between believers and unbelievers, and it isn't just manifested in the differences of beliefs. Or the differences of knowledge. There's a big difference in the way that a believer can persevere through life's challenges and trials because of what delighting in God's goodness produces in them. In these final two verses, what we're going to see is that delighting in God's goodness not only makes them different from an unbeliever, but it makes A believer able to delight in God's good word no matter their circumstance. They delight in God's goodness, which leads them to delight in his words, no matter what they see happening around them. Seeing God's goodness leads to the plea for knowledge, for judgment, understanding of God's words. And it allows the blessed hindsight that sees all things through the particular lens of God's goodness. And herein is our delight, brothers and sisters, the delight of the believer, the delight of the psalmist. His heart has been so transformed by God that he can now honestly say. What we see together in verse 71. It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I may learn your statute. Once again, we see this progression of time. There's the past, the affliction. It was good that that happened in the past. Because it leads him to this presence plea for that future blessing that I may learn your statutes in the future. Now, can this really be the psalmist's assessment? Or is he just trying to show off and make us all look bad? Is affliction good? How could it be good when it produces in us that which we desperately need? An affliction can be good when it gives to us something that we most need. Trust in God's word. Love of God's Word, a delight in God's word. The affliction, though it is surely not pleasant at the time, like we read together It produces in God's elect the peaceable fruit of righteousness. Hebrews 12, 11. Seeing God's goodness and delighting in his good word is the result of the affliction. And that means that the affliction is good. And it's good that he was afflicted. And so this final verse shows us with absolute certainty that the psalmist really means what he says. He really means that it was good to be afflicted because what did it produce that I may learn your statutes? And what does he now tell us in verse 72? The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of coins of gold and silver. Every one of us in this room could say that, but how many of us would actually mean it? Now, this is a verse that fascinates me because it hits home for us now in 2020 in the exact same way that it would have hit home for the original audience of this song. Gold is gold. Silver is silver. Riches are riches. We get that. The desire for riches hasn't changed over the years. And we know that even in this day and age, people will do some really messed up stuff and endure some really crazy stuff if the hope is for some riches. There have been game shows about this You guys know what I'm talking about? Game shows where people will allow themselves to be treated horrendously, willingly and freely, or they'll eat the most awful things that you could imagine eating just for a chance at some money. And sometimes it's not even that much money I ask you, brothers and sisters, what would you be willing to endure in order to gain the most vast and most priceless truth? Treasure you could imagine. What would you be willing to endure to gain the immeasurable riches of seeing God's goodness everywhere? In all that he does, in all things, and delighting in his word. Well, I think the first part of this psalm. Shows what we have to consider first, doesn't it? Brothers and sisters, do you see God's goodness clearly? If you're doubting God's goodness, then there's really no point in moving on to focus on any other aspects of the psalm, of the stanza. You need to do as the psalmist does. If you don't see his goodness, beg him to show it to you. Ask God to give you faith. To trust his word, to look at it and to see how he's dealt with his servants and to see that he's dealt well. After spending time in his word, spend some time applying that blessed hindsight to your own life. Has God dealt well with you? If you're married in this room, God has dealt well with you. If you're not married in this room, it doesn't mean that God hasn't dealt well with you. God deals well with all of us in whatever way he chooses. Now, when you consider the way that God has dealt with you, are you encouraged in the same way? Are you encouraged to think that he deals with you according to his word? Meaning, if if you just get something that isn't altogether pleasant, you know that he's dealing with you according to his word. That means it's not a a bad thing, even though it may what does it say in Hebrews twelve? It may not be joyous or pleasant at the time. It might be painful But if he's treating you according to his word, he's treating you as a son. If he's chastening you and you're being, you're suffering affliction, he's treating you as a beloved son. Child. Now, do you believe that God's word is true? If not, why not? If you do, if you do believe God's word is true, but you don't see his goodness, where's the disconnect? What's happening here? Well, perhaps there is a really difficult prayer if you're unable to see God's goodness that you need to pray. And I don't say this lightly because I've prayed this prayer for myself in the past and the results were Challenging. Perhaps we need to pray, Lord, afflict me Lord, challenge me. Do whatever is necessary, only do not abandon me, that I may learn your statutes and be a receiver of your word. Only then, after seeing clearly God's goodness in our lives and in his word, only then can we hope have delight. Delight in God and delight in his good word. Delight in him, no matter what is happening. So I want to ask you just quickly something to think. Can you name three things that are more valuable to you and more delightful to you than God's Word? I can. I'm gonna be really honest with you guys. Netflix, Amazon Prime, Disney Plus. Because if you check what I spend most of my time doing, I definitely spend more time doing those things than reading God's Word. And I'm an elder of the church. Is it cars, gadgets, and vacations? Do those things occupy your mind more than anything else Is it hobbies and goals and professional dreams? Is it grades and girlfriends and whatever else there could be in this world that occupies your mind more than God's word? Is it more valuable to you So I have to ask: what message are we sending with our habits to the world, to the unbeliever? What message are we sending to our children? Or perhaps it's not our children, maybe it's immediate family members who are outside of the covenant of God. Most of us have unbelievers in our family. Do they ever question us about our devotion to God's will? Do they ever question you? Maybe it's more important to ask, do they even know that you're devoted to it? And I'm not asking these questions to try to make anybody feel I'm trying to make you think. If we claim that we love God and we see His goodness and we see it in His Word and we see it in how He deals with us, and we are not delighting in God's Word, so much so We don't delight in his word enough because when we hit a little bump, we forget that his word is there and true. And we decide, oh, God hates me and he hates everything about me. If that describes your life, you need to be begging God to teach you good judgment and good knowledge, to teach you his statutes, to keep you honoring his precepts and obeying his commands. Because, brothers and sisters, God's goodness is clearly set before us. And it's not in pages necessarily, it is in God's Word, and it's not just in scenes from our own life. It's in a person. The Lord Jesus Christ is all the evidence we need of God's goodness. He gave his only begotten son, that he would die the penalty for our rebellion, and he did it willingly. He endured the race that we're running. He did not despise it. So this should cause us to ponder. I'll be honest with you. The Ravens were doing great. And for two weeks I was a Ravens fairweather fan. And then they didn't do so great. And I'll be honest with you, I don't even know what's going on with the Ravens anymore. Are they in the playoffs? How do they I it doesn't matter. It really doesn't. But I want to encourage you, brothers and sisters, do not be a fair weather Christian. Or a fair weather believer. What God puts you through is for a purpose. Stay strong Have faith. Love his word. Delight in him. Delight in Christ and all that he has done for you. Because brothers and sisters, we should be praying as the psalmist example for praying shows us. Be looking for God's goodness everywhere, and if we don't see it, we should be asking Him to show it to us. And we should be delighting in His good Word, no matter what occurs, as we seek to live a life. That glorifies and enjoys him. Please pray with me. God Almighty. We are so grateful for your son and for the miraculous work you have done in our lives. You make us love you, you make us recognize you, you make us see you. Seek you out. We know that it's not of us. Because if it were up to us, we would simply go about our lives doing whatever we want until we die. And so we beg you, Father, do not abandon us, though we seem like silly children at times Do not give up on us because we know what we need. We need you. We need you to do whatever it takes to put us on. Onto the path of righteousness. We need you to do whatever it takes to make us see that you deal well with your servants. We beg you, Lord, do whatever it takes that we would know good judgment and know your word and believe your commandments. Do whatever it takes, Father, that we would know that you are good Good and that you do good. We beg you to do whatever it takes to draw so close to you that we value you and we value you. Your words to us far more than anything else we could ever attain in this world. Lord, you are so good. Help us to remain true and strong to you as we deal with the afflictions and challenges of life. You are good and awesome and we love you. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.