Stand with me, uh stand and read with me uh Deuteronomy chapter twenty-five, or I'll rather I will read it to you. And I'm going to read the first ten verses. We're going to, after this sermon, we're going to have a break from the case laws because we're going to move for a whole month into Advent series. And then we only have a few more passages of case laws left, and we're going to move to the tail end of Deuteronomy. And so you'll have made it. Congratulations on your endurance, perseverance. Pray that the Lord has been blessing you. Deuteronomy twenty-five, one through ten. If there is a dispute between men and they come to court, that the judges may judge them And they justify the righteous and condemn the wicked, then it shall be, if the wicked man deserves to be beaten, that the judge will cause him to lie down and be beaten in his presence, according to his guilt, with a certain number of blows Forty blows he may give him, and no more, lest he should exceed this and beat him with many blows above these, and your brother be humiliated in your sight You shall not muzzle an ox while it treads out the grain. If brothers dwell together, and one of them dies, and has no son, the widow of the dead man shall not be married to a stranger outside the family Her husband's brother shall go into her, take her as his wife, and be perform the duty of a husband's brother to her. And it shall be that the firstborn son which she bears will succeed to the name of his dead brother But if the man does not want to take his brother's wife, then let his brother's wife go up to the gate to the elders and say My husband's brother refuses to raise up a name to his brother in Israel. He will not perform the duty of my husband's brother. Then the elders of his city shall call him and speak to him. But if he stands firm and he says, I do not want to take her, then his brother's wife shall come to him in the presence of the elders, remove his sandal from his foot But spit in his face and answer him and say, So shall it be done to the man who will not build up his brother's house. And his name shall be called in Israel the house of him who had his sandal removed Please pray with me. Father, again, we are called, even by your servant James, who himself is called by your Spirit to speak his words We are called to not just hear, but to do. We pray that as a result of the preaching of your word, that there would dwell within us righteousness only righteousness. We do understand that it will be a process. And so, Lord, as we continue as pilgrims here, we ask also that we would see in this passage the righteousness of our Savior Jesus Christ. And that we would give him glory. In the name of Christ, Amen. Amen. He may be seated. After a few weddings I've recently attended the brother or the brothers that are of the bride. They right before the bride would come through, they would grab this roll of thick but soft and ornamented paper. They would run a string through it and they would walk the roll with the string forward. Do you know what I'm talking about? It was actually in Rachel's wedding and it was in Lizzie's wedding. And perhaps maybe other weddings. As they walk holding the string, the paper would unfurl to make an aisle, and then the cute little kids would come forward with the rose petals. And eventually the beautiful bride in her procession. The roll of paper undoubtedly was brought in somebody's car or truck It probably fit in the trunk or in the back seat. But when it was unfurled, it stretched from end to end of the sanctuary or the banquet hall. Well, that piece of paper or that roll of paper in its unfurling is quite similar to what's happening here in the revelation that God has given to us in Deuteronomy. The Ten Commandments in Chapter 5 are compacted or telescoped in. They're all rolled up and they could fit in the trunk of your car. Actually, they can all fit in one chapter, Chapter 5. Of Deuteronomy in my Bible, just a single page. What we have seen, however, is that God has been through his servant Moses and his servants throughout, unfurling the commandments through case studies, the opportunity to engage our moral imagination to discover the very character of God. We can talk about this later, but it is is perhaps quite accurate to say that all Ten Commandments are ten perspectives on the one character of God One chapter, chapter five, as I mentioned, fills just one page in your Bible, but that one page is unfolded in chapter after chapter. Chapter after chapter, as we begin to discover with our moral imaginations, what our lives are meant to look like under Jesus Christ and what He's doing as our ascended and sanctifying Lord. Last week, the question posed to us was this. Are we growing as eighth commandment people under Christ's lordship? Or do we steal from the socially distressed? Three main names keep coming up. And the answer of course is that if you are filled with the Spirit, then you are keeping in step with the Spirit. You are at least called to. You are filled with the Spirit, then the Spirit is making you into a person who cares deeply for the deprived in all of their situational specificity, as unique human beings. We were called last week to think of the possibilities of being who God has called us to be. It fits quite well, like another puzzle piece for the full picture to Arch's sermon if you want to go back and listen. Listen to that. Which children do you nurture? How will you encourage the disabled? What time will you give the widow? Who owes you, and how will you forgive the debt or retain their dignity even as they pay? Those were the kind of questions that are unfolded for us as we consider the eighth command and we considered those case laws. This week there's a transition. We now move into the ninth command with the case studies that are fitting for it. And we have the opportunity to begin to imagine what it would look like to live honestly. And so I'd like to look at these ten verses that I read this morning under three parts. I want to look at this new section, an old proverb about an ox treading out And then a shameful act of a brother-in-law. So let's begin right at the top with a new section as we consider the ninth commandment and having honest lives. If you if there is a dispute between men and they come to court that the judges may judge them, this is 25 verse 1, and they justify the righteous and condemn the wicked, and it goes on and we'll talk This first case is found in verses 1 through 3 and it establishes a new section in the case laws. Now, if you remember, and I've already alluded to this, we have grouped the case laws under the Ten Commandments. Verses 1 through 3 move us now into the ninth commandment, and you remember what the ninth commandment is. You shall not lie. Nope. That's not what it is. It's you shall not bear false witness. And that is the the that is now going to be unfurled and unpacked. Verse 1, if you'll notice, has many ninth commandment features. I hope that you've learned to listen to the Lord well When we're going through Deuteronomy, I hope you've learned to pay attention to the details. If you look at verse 1, it says, if there is a dispute. We don't know what the dispute is. And it's between people. It could be anything. And they come to court that the judges may judge. That's what judges do. I mean, we and they pronounce righteousness and they condemn the wicked. It doesn't get any more general than what you see in verse 1. He's really showing us that in verse 1, this case study applies to millions. Of circumstances, but all falling under the ninth command. It has witnesses and judges All in a court of law trying to determine the truth of the court case. And this is ninth commandment language. Bearing false witness is a court context, and here we see an overabundance of court language. Verse 1 then acts first as a signal telling us We are moving into an imaginative and responsible consideration of the ninth commandment. But this first case is more than a signal. It actually does start to go into a It's a situation that is recognizable from other situations. It could almost be any situation, like I mentioned. Verse 1 says that if there is a dispute between men, it could be any dispute. Whatever is happening, they take to the court and the judges judge. Then notice, in accord with the ninth commandment, that the judges uphold the highest ideals of justice. They justify the righteous and they condemn the wicked. That's really the whole point of not bearing false witness. That things would be done honestly and in good way. Order. They consider the matter and they declare the absolute truth about the people before them. Now, what it does though is it continues, the ninth commandment continues into the sentencing And already, like that image that I gave you before of the paper, unfurling down the aisle, it already starts to move that direction because now we're going to see within the sentencing in verse 2 that honesty needs to continue. Now that might strike you as as barbaric, by the way, but I I'm not sure which is more barbaric life in prison or getting a flogging over with. The beating, furthermore, was done, if you notice the particularities of the passage Really pay attention to this. It is done by the one who was sinned against. So if you were sinned against, you were the one that had to carry out the sentence. And that was that continues a pattern that we We've seen all through Deuteronomy. This was in verse 2 to be done. Notice again carefully, then it shall be done if the wicked man deserves to be beaten, that the judge will cause him to lie down and be beaten in his presence. According to his guilt, with a certain number of blows, you've got to pay attention to those commas and the additional detail that is given Verse 2 was to be done in the presence of the judge. Because, as verse 3 says, the judge was to ensure that the sinner was not overpunished, but dealt with honestly. Apparently, each crime had a certain amount of beatings. Not everybody got the same amount of beatings. Depending on what it was, the flogging was different. But notice that there's a maximum: 40 So, in other words, the judge made sure, even after declaring the truth, he goes forward under the ninth commandment to make sure that the sentencing and the punishment is all carried out in truth also. The judge made sure that the offended party dealt truthfully with the criminal And so here we have this general truth emerging as we move into this next stage of the case studies that whether in the trial, and this is just to do with judges, But whether in the trial or in the sentencing or in the punishment, all the way through, a true judge makes sure that truthful living prevails. It is righteousness, only righteousness, that it would be done this way. And you can see the carryovers from the former passage and the Expression of no loss of dignity even in the midst of punishment when it says there in the final words, and your brother that your that you would not have too many blows, that your brother not be humiliated The idea is you will never turn your human brother into an animal that is to be beaten by you. There is still dignity present and that must be maintained So that's the new section, and we and through this language we can begin to see, and scholars begin to see, a change and a switch in the consideration of Now we move into a proverb now, which is really short in verse 4. Have you heard this proverb before, by the way? You shall not muzzle an ox while it treads out the grain. You've heard that before? I wonder if you heard it from Deuteronomy or someplace else. Yeah, this it's in multiple places uh through through the scriptures. And um it's a proverb. And and a proverb is a pithy statement of a profound truth that people recognize within that particular culture. It doesn't need to be proved anymore. It's so obvious and common sense to everyone. Like I've lived long enough, even though I'm forty two to know that that that two in the bush is one in Hand. If you know what that proverb means? Okay, we'll talk about it later. If you're over forty you know what it means, right? I don't know. Well this is a proverb and it should be common sense. You shall not muzzle an ox while it treads out the grain. The picture would have been familiar to the original readers of Deuteronomy because all it would have just been a normal working day to be able to see these kind of things. At harvest you would lay out, and you can Google this and you can see the pictures even of today, this farming practice being done, but at harvest they would lay out all of the grain stalks, and an ox would be yoked and walk in a circle. He'd be stuck to a center post and he'd be he'd work uh his way in a circle and either with his hooves or with a stone that he's carrying behind him, it would crush the grain heads from the stalks and there's a refining process to get it to the point where it can be used on the table for dinner. And so an absurdity is then imagined here for this group of people. I can almost hear them laughing as the proverb is set before them. Imagine muzzling the ox so that he cannot benefit from any of the work that he performs. It would be absurd for them. Now certainly, and I'm not going to get into this, but certainly this does teach us that we must deal truthfully with animals. But animals are not the main focus here. And I say that we have to focus on animals at some point because it's also brought up in the fourth coming But the Spirit reveals much more than domestic animal laws here. The Apostle Paul picks up this case study and he uses it, he uses it in a much broader context. than dealing with animals. And so if you'd like, please turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 9. Get you moving a little bit. In 1 Corinthians chapter 9, we're going to see multiple images used, but then he saves the authoritative image. For the last. And I'll begin in verse seven Whoever goes to war at his own expense. Who plants a vineyard and does not eat of its fruit? Or who tends a flock and does not drink of the milk of the flock? You can begin to see the logic, I hope. Well, now he's going to pull out all of the stops. And he says, Do I say these things as a mere man, or does not the law say the same also? Which is quite instructive for us to And then he gives the quote here from the Deuteronomy passage that we're in. You shall not muzzle an ox while it treads out the grain. And now look at this question from Paul in the next part of this 1 Corinthians verse. It's a rhetorical question. Is it oxen God is concerned about? The answer? No. Or does he say it altogether for our sakes? For our sakes, no doubt, this is written, that he who plough should plough in hope, and he who threshes in hope should be partaker of his hope. So what Paul is doing through the lens of Deuteronomy is that he wants the Corinthians to deal with him and Barnabas truthfully. We'd have to bring that from our passage to this one. They have worked among them as pastors and should receive fruit from their work. In verse 7, he argues from the perspective of a soldier. Then he moves from the perspective of a vineyard owner and from a sheep farmer. And all of the examples are summarized in verse 8. It's a quote from the Deuteronomy passage, and Paul's main point ends up coming out explicitly in verse 14. If our work is to preach the gospel, then we should live from the gospel. He, Paul, should not be muzzled while he treads out the grain of pastoral work. It would not be honest to deal with him. In such a way. And this is just one application. Do you see the possibilities of how this could blossom out? Calling back to our earlier chapters about being an employee who has employee or an employer who has employees The larger principle is that we should deal truthfully with each other, and here it is applied to a worker's wage. That's the proverb. And we could unfold that in a thousand different ways. But I want to move now to the last one because it's going to take some Time to explain what's going on in what I've titled a shameful act of the Levier or the brother-in-law. So this is our third and final point. And let's begin in verse 5. If brothers dwell together, and one of them dies and has no son, the widow of the dead man shall not be married to a stranger outside the family. This is the final case law that is technically about a leverate marriage. Have you ever heard that before? A leverate marri wow, I'm getting a lot of nods. A leverate marriage. A leveret comes from the levere or Latin word that means brother-in-law. And you can see that as a part of this story from when I first read it The case paints the picture of a husband dying who has no sons to carry on his name. That's what I just read to you in verse 5. The widow of the dead man cannot marry a stranger outside of the family, and there are several reasons for that. But in short, it messes up property rights. It really messes up the tribes and their allocations. When this happens, therefore The brother-in-law should become a surrogate husband and give her children to carry forward that specific family name. And you can see that in verse 6. Notice how there's a kind of emphasis there. And it shall be that the firstborn son which she bears will succeed the name of his dead brother, that his name may not be blotted out of Israel. That's the emphasis here, and that is the concern. That would be a great grievous thing if that were to take place. But in verse 7, there's a complication which arises, which is why this is such a good case study. The Levere or the brother-in-law refuses to take his brother's wife. And now notice what happens in the passage when he does so. But if the man, verse seven, does not want to take his brother's wife, then let his brother's wife go up to the gate to the elders and say, And now she's going to bring her So as soon as he refuses to deal truthfully with her, her rights kick in as to options on how she can allow truth and righteousness to prevail with She may publicly, in the presence of the elder, in the elders, bring her case to them. Now remember, this is very important because the husband is dead, and therefore she cannot be protected by him, her and her family. And so the elders now are s ha uh have the privilege to be able to step in and to protect her in his place. And she ha she has this option in verse seven to ask the elders to protect her and to take up her case. And in verse eight, the elders now Notice they hear her case, and they're now going to take it upon them to call him into them and speak with him. It re resembles quite actually Matthew 18 to a great deal But what happens if the Levere or the brother-in-law still refuses? Well, now we move into the ultimate. But justice will still be done amongst all of the community. If he stands firm, it says in verse 9. And if he says, I don't want to take her, then verse 9, his brother's wife may do the following. And I actually heard some groans from you all when I read this earlier. She may publicly, in the presence of the elders, remove his sandal. Ooh. Spit in his face and say, So shall it be done to the man who will not build up his brother's house. Now you may not recognize the symbolic activity of what's going on It may not feel emotional to you, but you can tell by her words, so shall it be done to the man who will not build up his brother's house what's going on here. I think you can tell, in other words, without much effort, that this is a cultural shaming, a prod toward righteousness, and away from unrighteousness as becoming Now it is useful to understand the symbol of the sandal. I don't want to just leave that out because it's actually repeated in the scriptures. Have you noticed that we keep going back to Ruth when we're in Deuteronomy? I think that's significant, just as a side note. But there is a sandal ceremony in the book of Ruth. Now let me read this to you. Now this was the custom in former times in Israel concerning redeeming and exchanging. I'm reading from Ruth chapter 4, verses 7 through 10. This is the custom in former times in Israel concerning redeeming and exchanging to confirm anything. One man took off his sandal and gave it to the other, and this was a confirmation in Israel. So we already have an interpretation of the act. Therefore the close relative said to Boaz, Buy it for yourself. So he took off his sandal And Boaz said to the elders and to all the people, you are witnesses this day that I have bought all that was Elimelech's, and all that was Chilean's and Melon's from the hand of Naomi Moreover, Ruth the Moabitus, the widow of Melon, I have acquired as my wife to perpetuate the name of the dead through his inheritance that the name of the dead may not be cut off from among his brethren and from his position at the gate. You are witnesses this day. And so you see a good, not brother, not even brother-in-law, but one who steps into that place. And so what we see acted out and then defined for us quite clearly is that the sandal was a receipt Or a title, like you have a title or a deed or a certificate to your house or to certain property. And that's what we see with this woman taking the sandal from the brother-in-law. Is a declaration that the inheritance that she would receive from her father-in-law will not go to the brother, but it will go to her even though her husband is dead. The shameful brother will in fact not benefit from his untruthful dealings with her because this community is right. Righteousness only righteousness. Actually, it's far worse than that because she's going to spit in his face. He and his household will be stigmatized as it is pronounced throughout the community that he is one who does not deal truthfully with his extended family. He will become known or marked with a mark as the one who does not uphold the ninth commandment. And that would be devastating to him. It would be real motivation. To follow through and allow his brother's name to exist and to continue. So thus we have these three case laws And with all the rest, we see not the Ten Commandments condensed and compacted, but they become unrolled like ornamented aisle paper for the procession of the bride. Last week we saw them as portraits on God's house and in ours. But I have to ask you, what is it that you learn from these case studies? They're teaching us to be human again. It's not enough for us to look at Deuteronomy and to say that we learned something about an ancient civilization. We in fact do learn something about an ancient civilization. The specifics of the case studies, they're foreign to us. But you see the point, right? The overall point is as true as ever. I mean, you could ask yourself the question. If everybody in here had to take off a shoe for every time they dealt dishonestly with their family, would everybody in here be barefooted? That's just part of the meaning of the symbol, but it translates quite quickly across cultures because there is a general equity in it. And the character of God is not confined to one culture. Just as they were called as God's people to serve their God, becoming whole humans again, so too God has called you Christian. To become a whole human again, to be recreated, for there to be a regenesis under the work of Jesus Christ. Is it possible that within the church at large, this is such a strange thing to say? But is it possible that the death of Jesus Christ and the forgiveness of our sins and the removal of our guilt Has actually been so emphasized to give a misleading sense of who Jesus Christ really is. In other words, Has Jesus Christ as our atoning Savior been emphasized to the neglect as our as Jesus Christ, to the neglect of Jesus as our sanctifying Savior? Is it enough for you to just be cleansed of your guilt and the penalty due? Or do you not also want to arise in glory in the full image of God? If you have the Spirit and you see the essence and the character of God through these case studies, this should be your most basic yearning. And perhaps it is just a whisper at this point, but this is this should be I want to be like that. Behind all of these case studies, if you are united to Jesus Christ Christ, who is your ascended Savior, who is sanctifying you, behind all of these case studies are promises to you of what you shall become and what you are in fact becoming now. And I don't know about you, but for me, this is excellent news. I have for the longest time wanted to be an honest person. If there is ever a lie within my heart, or a shading of the truth, or a way in which I did not give someone what I know they deserved and what there were their rights. I have never settled with myself. And I have seen just as you have all of the solutions that this world offers, thinking that they can make us honest people, and we have watched all of them burn up and see As illusions. To whom shall you turn to become honest? To whom shall you turn that you would be a person not just in your words, but in all of the actions of your life, that you would never bear false witness? And who will create such a world to where that is all that exists, where we no longer have to read a person's face to find out what they really mean? The answer, of course, is always Jesus Christ. Because if all of the promises are yes and amen in Christ, and behind every case study is a promise. Then all case studies are fulfilled in the Christ. And he will fulfill them in you. The question for you this morning is: how is Christ refining you? And don't kick against the goads. The answer, of course, is in lots of ways. He's been revealing But this morning we learn that he is making you into someone who deals truthfully with themselves. The way that our culture puts this, but they get the definition of wrong is how can I be authentic? How can I be genuine? Because I feel a kind of existential angst where I'm removed from the certainty of my being, to speak about it philosophically. And that's partially what this is dealing with. He's making you into someone who deals truthfully with yourself, where you have emotional, intellectual, and embodied integrity. He is also making you into someone who deals truthfully with your God. There will come a certain point. When either Jesus Christ returns or you go to be in glory through your death, you will realize that your thoughts are following the thoughts of God. And that your desires are the desires of God Himself. That we could actually say that you are a walking set of tenants. commandments. And as we got to know you, you would be like the unfurling of all righteous case studies. And he is not only making you into someone who deals truthfully with yourself and who deals truthfully with your God, but he is making you into a person who deals truthfully with others. people. That you would always bear true witness to them. The overarching truth that we learn here, and that we can actually embrace because Christ is uniting us to this truth Is that real human beings live honestly with themselves? They live authentically with God and genuinely with them. their neighbor. And we begin to see a picture here of a promise that is yours in Jesus Christ. Please join me in prayer.