Beginning in verse twelve. To deliver you from the way of evil, from the man who speaks perverse things, from those who leave the paths of uprightness to walk in the ways of darkness who rejoice in doing evil and delight in the perversity of the wicked, whose ways are crooked and who are devious in their paths. Deliver you from the immoral woman, from the seductress, who flatters with her words, who forsakes the companion of her youth, and forgets the covenant of her God. For her house leads down to death, and her paths to the dead. None who go to her return, nor do they regain the paths of life So you may walk in the way of goodness and keep to the paths of righteousness. For the upright will dwell in the land, and the blameless will remain in it. But the wicked will be cut off from the earth, and the unfaithful will be uprooted from it. Let us pray Father, we ask that you strengthen us for the sake of your glory and for the peace and purity of your church, for the reclamation of sinners, for the saving of them. Pray that you'd use your words to accomplish these ends in the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. In the last sermon on Proverbs, we acknowledge the importance of repentance. Turn at my rebuke. Woman Wisdom says. When we first become Christians, or as we develop as Christians, we must turn at Christ's rebuke and rejoin him on the path of righteousness. This is especially true of certain times in our lives. The Proverbs are written to young adults, in other words, on purpose, and we really had just a list of long list of questions last time. of things we should consider in transitioning from middle school to high school or from high school to college, though I'm sure there's applications elsewhere Well, we're moving now into the second half of this proverb. It's divided equally according to the number of the alphabetic letters in The Hebrew alphabet. And so we now consider 12 through 22, and I just have a few observations. And here is the first. The lens through which we should view this proverb is Deuteronomy. And especially the church's passage into the Promised Land. Now we can look at that as part of the history that we read in Numbers, for example. But we can also look at it figurally in how we shall inherit the earth. But nevertheless, we should look at this by way of the lens of Deuteronomy. You can see the direct language that is pulled from The book of Deuteronomy from 21 and 22. Verses 21 and 22 say, For the upright will dwell in the land. Land is uh that should glow on the page for you, and it should make you think of those speeches Moses gave before they entered under the leader of uh leadership of Joshua. And he continues saying, and the blameless will remain in it. Also a major part of Moses' speech to the people at the end of Deuteronomy. But the wicked will be cut off from the earth and the unfaithful be uprooted from it. The same kind of language that is used when that nation commits apostasy. This is Deuteronomic language. Moses likens the church to a plant. If they cling to the wisdom of the Father, then they shall be rooted in the land, is the point of this proverb. If they turn from the Father, then they shall be cut off and uprooted. This is very much this proverb reflecting on Israel's history and its struggle to remain faithful to the Father. You can see the language reminiscent of how Israel lost the land, for example, in giving it into the ways of foreigners. That was their struggle. They would turn to other nations. Now this isn't obvious from the Proverb because of the way that it's translated here, but Turning to in apostasy to foreigners and foreign ways is a major part of this proverb in these verses I just read. At first, we overlook it. Because it describes the woman as immoral. It says the immoral woman. And when we see that word The way that we read that is quite narrowly as this has something to do with sexual sin. And sure it does, but it's not that narrow. And actually the word here is not really used in those contexts of sexuality at all. The word actually is best translated as a foreign woman who is committed to foreign ways. That's the way that the word is used throughout the scriptures. The idea is that the woman operates in a way foreign to the ways of God. Really, she outright abandoned verse 17. Look at the language there. It's religious language and being committed to a covenant or not. She outright abandoned God and his covenant ways. We're talking about an apostate here. This word, if you wanted to do a little exploration on it and see it in its um Perhaps most developed context you'd want to turn to Ezra chapter ten. Immoral is most used in Ezra 10 when the nation is called to divorce their foreign wives as a national act of repentance. And those images are meant to be evoked here in this proverb. When you end up putting all of this together, the point of the proverb, really, if you see the Deuteronomic language. The land idea, the making sure that you're listening to the fathers of wisdom in the Torah and not to the mother and father of foolishness. Really, the best way to frame and to state the point of this second half of the proverb is the fifth commandment. All of the same elements are in it. Honor your father and your mother, as the Lord your God has commanded you, that your days may be long, and that it may be well with you in the land Which the Lord your God is giving you. If you wanted to add some of the other elements from our proverb tonight to that, you could add this. You could say. If you do not accept the wisdom of honoring your father and mother, that is to say, the fifth command, then expect to be overtaken by the smooth words of the woman woman whose ways are foreign to God and whose paths lead to God. lead to death. When it says in the our second half of the proverb here, flattering speech, the word for flattering is smooth. Her ways and her speech are smooth. They don't grate against you. They're swallowed easily. If you do not accept the wisdom of honoring your father and mother, that is to say, the wisdom of the fifth command, the thick, deep wisdom of that. Then expect to be overtaken by the smooth words of the woman whose ways are foreign to God and lead to death I think when we take in account the connection that this proverb has to this the biblical histories and the Torah and the Pentateuch. I think that's a good summary, and that's our teaching tonight, and I'll say it to you one more time. If you do not accept the wisdom of honoring your father and mother, that is to say the fifth command, then expect to be overtaken by the smooth words of the woman whose ways are foreign to God and lead to death. It's another way of saying expect to uh accept by the grace of God to become an apostate yourself So I want to begin in applying this with just a review of the Fifth Commandment. Now you've been under teaching on the Fifth Commandment quite a bit. We've looked at it, how it's a comprehensive summary, but I want to do a little bit more work with the fifth command, and we'll go from there. And then at the end, I have some questions for you. Many read the fifth commandment within the confines of an individual relationship, namely our parents. Yet in the history of the church, father and mother have always been used as general terms to show how God has organized society. I've mentioned to you before my friend from Hawaii. My friend from Hawaii has an analogous situation in her culture. I believe I mentioned this to you in the Jude series. In her culture, if you are younger, speaking to an older woman, you call her auntie. If you are younger and you're speaking to an older man, you call him uncle. Her daughter calls me Uncle Jesse, which always brings back memories of um the Dukes of Hazard, sorry. They are terms, in other words, of social dignity and hierarchy, that there is a moral order to relationships. The same is true of the fifth commandment. We've gone over this before. Honoring father and mother alerts us to a social order wherein we know how to relate to those over us, under us, and beside us. But that's just the first part of the command. Did you hear the land language in the second part of the command? The second part of the command is about our lives lived under those ordered relationships. The words are that your days may be long. And that it may be well with you. And we can't get into prosperity preaching here. But we can generally say that long days, there are long days that are good. The promise is not a utopia on this side of Christ's return, but an ordered society wherein a person's life can ripen on the vine and not prematurely fall off by some kind of pestilence due to social disorder. And just being who I am, this reminds me of the rolling hills and friendly fellowship of Hobbit Life in the Shire. Maybe you have your own vision. Of course, when you think of the verdant pastures of hobbits, you cannot help but to contrast You can't help but to contrast ourselves and our own land. We have become a place of social unrest wherein just the anxiety alone will keep you from long days. I believe there's some statistics surfacing now, hospitalizations and deaths from anxiety. We picture ourselves like hobbits on rocking chairs overlooking a picturesque scene And they, of course, enjoy one another's company, but each news article seems to be coming out and saying that all we're doing is breaking out into fights over just about everything. You've heard this story before. Well, what I think we can add today from this proverb, especially with its focus on helping us to have a deep reading of the fifth commandment, and not just a legalistic reading of the fifth But a deep, thick reading is there's a question that's surfacing, it's bubbling up to the top, and it's this What if it's not going well? Because we have joined the immoral woman on her path. In other words, what if we need to return to the fifth commandment? 12 through 22, I believe, are summarized well by the fifth commandment on what the proverbist is trying to teach us. And what if that's part of our problem? Since things are not going well, well, perhaps it is because we do not honor our fathers and our mothers, in other words, it's that simple. Has anyone looked at that as a possible way to address what's inflict afflicting us? Of course, if you understand that superficially, then that is implausible because all you think about are your mother and your father that you grew up with. But we have already said that's not the extent of the fifth command. What if you understand the real power of the fifth command and it's pointing you to a divinely given social order in which you may have relative rest and peace? It is a path. That others have traveled, that you are to travel also. Let me put it this way. What if you were not only to honor your mom and dad with whom you grew up, but what if you were to honor all of the moms and dads or saints of old? With how they chose to walk with God. What if in each generation it is our job to uphold the vision for God's creation and its redemption? That Father Abraham and Mother Sarah held. Have you ever thought of Abraham as your father? Did you notice in the Bulletin reading, the call to worship links you to him being your father Take a look at that a little bit later. What if we're to continue the path that they have started on? What if it means to honor mother and father? What if it means to continue to honor them and how they were serving God and the hopes and aspirations that they had by the grace of the Holy Spirit? And if we don't, what if that means that we have been on the path of the immoral woman? What if you and I were meant to hold on to the family china passed down from our mothers and fathers in the faith, such as King Lemuel's mother, who wrote Proverbs 31. What about King David and his Psalms? What if all of those mothers and fathers were but messengers of our Father who is in heaven, whose kingdom we are meant to bring on earth as it is in heaven? I hope that you can begin to see what I'm suggesting is a thick and deeper reading of the fifth commandment. Not just those parents you grew up with, but all of our parents of old and continuing on their path. And if we're not on their path, then perhaps We have gone to the left or to the right, and we have been seduced to the immoral woman's path. Let me ask you a couple questions. I really want you to think about this in the fixed sense. Because I'm trying, in the spirit of what is written here, to get you to hear wisdom and to turn to it. And to not listen to the smooth speech of the apostate. Do you honor your mother and your father In that fixed sense. Do you honor your mother and your father? Do you ladies, let me use the ladies just as an example I find that most women who have been around the church for a little while are aware of when Peter encourages women to be like Sarah, for example. Instead of being adorned with this, that, or the other thing on just the outside, but instead to have a humble and quiet spirit like the holy women of old What if you've just been reading that legalistically? What if what Peter is doing there is trying to lead you into a deep, thick reading of what it would mean to honor your mothers and your fathers? To be like the holy women of old. In a fixed sense, in other words, do you embrace the wisdom of the fifth command Do you seek wisdom from your mother Sarah and father Abraham? Do you even know what it would look like to do that? Are you diligently seeking to walk on the path upon which all the saints of the past walked As I give the sermon, are you realizing that you have far more in common with the immoral woman? Do you love her smooth ways? We should at least, in a sense, say, sometimes, sometimes I do. And that's not new. The people of God have always had trouble resisting her smooth words And that is why we hear the warning now in the beginning, before we get into the main section of Proverbs, where all the Proverbs are laid out and all these pithy little sayings. He's preparing our hearts, that we would be attentive, that our ears would be inclined to his wisdom, that we would be ready to receive the words of Christ. Because we are ready to honor our mothers and our fathers, it is a mind state or soul state in which he's seeking to stir us up into. As opposed to thinking this is just a classroom setting where we can memorize a few sentences. It is a state of being. And so here the warning. Her path leads to death. And the reason why he puts it that way is because when you start the path, it feels. And looks amazing. And you cannot, from the beginning point, see the end point, that it will be death. And that's why he warns you this way. You can't see it when you're under her spell of smooth words in the beginning. But please know her path lead to death. Honor your father and mother instead, in the thick way that we've been talking about it. And let us encourage one another in those Stirring each other up to good works by the grace of the Holy Spirit. Let us honor our fathers and our mothers as the Lord your God has commanded you. that your days may be long, and that it may be well with you in the land which the Lord your God is giving you. Or if you wanted to put it into the final language of Proverbs 2, take upon yourself wisdom, and discernment shall protect you. Let us pray.