I'm going to invite our guest preacher this morning to occupy our pulpit. We've invited uh Reverend Dr. Mark Garcia to preach to you this morning. just a little bit about him. Mark is a minister of Word and Sacrament in the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. He is also the Systematic Theology Professor at Westminster Theological Seminary And he is the president of Greystone Theological Institute. And I know none of those titles mean much to you as folks who just work hard Uh and actually what has become most important to us with Mark over the last three years, I guess, is we've grown as brothers and as friends. And the session wanted to invite you, Mark, to to uh preach God's word to us. And we commit to to attending to the word. Please, uh please come on up. Thank you. Good morning, brethren. You want the mic on, I assume. Good morning, brethren. Maybe you can hear me now. Would you mind remaining standing for a reading of God's Word before we sit together? Would that be alright? Please, brethren, turn with me in God's word to the Apostle Paul's letter to the Philippians in chapter 2. to read our text on this Lord's Day morning, which is verses 25 to 30 Verses 25 to 30 of the second chapter of Paul's letter to the Philippian church As you find your place there, let me just tell you in the briefest of possible terms what I could go on and on about, and that is just how delighted I am to be here with you this morning and what an honor it is Not only to put some faces to names I have long heard, uh heard about, uh, but especially uh to have the honor of uh preaching God's word to you uh from a pulpit uh where a dear brother and friend has long served you well. and uh which you have received with joy and and thanksgiving as a faithful ministry. High honor indeed. We could say more, but let's hear God's word instead. And so, brethren, as we hear these words, let us hear them as those who acknowledge this is not merely the word of any man, it is the word of the living God. Let's hear them. I have thought it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother. And fellow worker, and fellow soldier, and your messenger and minister to my need For he has been longing for you all and has been distressed because you heard that he was ill. Indeed, he was ill, near to death. But God had mercy on him, and not only on him, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow. I am the more eager to send him, therefore, that you may rejoice at seeing him again. and that I may be less anxious. So receive him in the Lord with all joy, and honor such men. For he nearly died for the work of Christ, risking his life to complete what was lacking in your service to me. Amen. Brethren, let us pray. Ever blessed and faithful God and Father of the Lord Jesus Christ. We offer to you this simple prayer, this humble petition, that you might be pleased in your great grace to advance your glory. And the purposes of your kingdom among us gathered here this morning, and that you might be pleased to do so through your word and by your spirit And might once again be pleased to use the weak and flawed ramblings of your servant. To achieve great things for your name, in which we ask this. Amen. Brethren, please be seated. It's easy, isn't it, to forget that there is a real world with real people and sometimes rather messy realities behind among the most familiar texts of Scripture. It's hard sometimes to remember that the Apostle Paul in particular, in this case is writing to flesh and blood sinners saved by grace who have needs and ask questions and wrestle with things strikingly similar to the things you worry about and deal with. Every now and then, knowing something of the flesh and blood, gritty, messy reality behind the lofty, heavenly, sacred, inspired words can go a long way to our hearing the words as we should. I I can hardly think of a better example of this, and to be sure there are very many, than the ones we have just read this morning. Where the fact that you don't know who Epaphroditus is is part of the point. So let's think about the backstory of these Rather extraordinary and powerful words of commendation. To know the backstory, we've got to go back not only in our minds but in our history books, all the way back to what we learned, perhaps in our youth about the world of the New Testament and the ministry of the Apostle Paul himself. Think, if you will, of around the year AD 51, when, as we learn from the book of Acts, the Apostle Paul receives a vision. And in obedience to this vision, he makes this momentous decision that would in fact change the world as anyone ever knew it, the momentous decision of leaving the Middle Eastern setting of Asia Minor. And he took with him a man named Silas or Sylvanus, a very young man, a godly man named Timothy, and Luke, the author of the gospel by that name, and also the Acts of the Apostles. He takes these three faithful men, these friends, these fellow servants, and he sets sail for what we now call Europe. His first stop was this Roman colony called Philippi, a city of of quite considerable importance in the ancient world in Paul's day. And and when he gets to Philippi, and he gets to this this uh really strategically located town, he meets a group of faithful, God-fearing Jewish women. And he proclaims the Christian gospel to them. There they are, right in Acts 16. You can read the story, connected in one way or another with the daily prayers happening at the synagogue. Lydia is there. We learn of Yodia and Syntachi, these Christian, godly women who would serve in due course. to be the core of this Philippian Christian church, in large part because they receive so earnestly and with joy the gospel Paul preaches to them upon arrival. In fact, it would appear that they were so faithful in their prayers, their daily prayers, that's precisely why they were available to Paul when he arrived. He encountered them in doing what they do as godly women, praying. And because they were there, they served as his first Philippian audience. Well, in this story, that young Timothy I mentioned appears to have played a really important role in this early work. And a natural bond, as is to be expected, was therefore formed between this man, godly man, Timothy And these Christians at Philippi. So a natural bond is being forged because the Philippian church is now becoming something Timothy, colleague of Paul, as it were, mentored by Paul, is instrumental in this work. He is, as it were taking his first major steps in ministry with the Philippians in view, there's a natural bond that is formed. Well Among the very first believers who struggled along with Paul in his ministry were these women, Lydia, Yodia, Sintici, was the prominent Timothy in the life of the Philippian Christians Another important figure named Clement, we learn, and there were other laborers as well. But Paul's experiences in this important city of Philippi, they weren't all positive. They included conflict. They even included imprisonment. But then even his jailer becomes converted. You remember that? From the book of Acts in chapter sixteen, and presumably that jailer and the family baptized with him joined the Philippian congregation. Interestingly, the Philippian Church is one of the few churches in the New Testament we can almost imagine who is sitting in the proverbial pews, because we know some of their stories from Acts You can imagine the minister of the gospel, maybe Timothy, preaching to people and and unlike other churches that are named in the New Testament, we know there's a Lydia, there's a Cyntheci, there's a Yodia, there's a Clement There's this Philippian jailer, and there's his family who was converted with him. There's a household of Liddy over here as well. We almost have a congregation going with people just that we know from the book of Acts. It's quite remarkable. Well Our knowledge of them should generate some degree of intimacy as readers with them. Certainly, Paul writes to them as though they are precious to him and to many others as well. Well, having been asked by the Philippian authorities to get out of town, Paul leaves Luke in charge of this young congregation. And he heads west toward another city called Thessalonica or Thessalonica. During the three weeks of difficult ministry in that city Paul, who never seems to have known an easy ministry, several times received material assistance. During his hardships, and therefore spiritual encouragement from those believers of Philippi. Wherever Paul went, the Philippians were sending stuff his way to encourage him and provide for him. Well, he's forced to flee from Thessalonica as well, and so Paul goes on to Berea, and then he goes to Athens, and finally he goes to Corinth, where he stays for a full 18 months before he returns finally to the city of Antioch. It was during his rather long stay in Corinth that we read in Acts 16 through 18, he yet again receives assistance from this little Philippian congregation. Boy, they seem to love Paul. They seem to regard him very highly. They seem to think much of Paul and the urgency of his ministry. Wherever he goes, whatever he does He encounters a gift from the Philippians who are who are committed to ensuring his ministry can continue, is well funded, is provided for, and that he is himself encouraged. Eventually, maybe about a year later, Paul sets out on yet another trip, so-called third missionary journey. The major purpose of this one is in fact to raise money, and to raise money especially from among the Gentile churches he serves. in order to meet the the sudden and significant needs of the poor Jewish church right there in Jerusalem and in Judea. Now, without going into detail, Paul's being quite strategic about this. Because he's also hoping that he can make a theological point to the Jewish Christians in Jerusalem by them receiving aid from only Gentile churches. What's that point? We're really one together. So he wants the Gentile churches to rally around this opportunity to give because there's so much being said in the gift beyond. Let's make sure your needs are met So Paul is especially motivated to see this happen. There's a theological as well as practical reason behind all of his efforts He had emphasized in his preaching a gospel of grace, which entailed accepting Christian Gentiles without making them become Jews by way of Jewish ceremonies. Now that approach raised more than a few eyebrows in Paul's world in many Jewish circles. It created serious tensions, even among so-called moderate groups It provoked furious opposition in many places. This group of the greatest ferocious opposition were called the Judaizers. And members of that group began a campaign of their own designed to take Paul's converts and return them to the Jewish ways of life. and faith, force them to accept circumcision, force them to accept the particularly Jewish features of the old law, not as substitutes for their Christian confession, but as appropriate appendages. That are so appropriate that they really should not claim the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob unless they're going to become circumcised. Everywhere Paul would go and found a church and preach the gospel, then go on to the next place, here would come the Judaizers to clean up Paul's mess. Add this and that that Paul seems to be leaving out. Correct his errors, and the result is predictable. Chaos. Distress. At the very least, serious questions As Paul travels through Macedonia on this third missionary journey, Acts chapter 20, he would surely have warned his beloved Philippian church about this threat. Watch out for the Judaizers, he would have said on this opportunity. They're creating havoc everywhere we go, everywhere I go. They created havoc already in Galatia. No doubt they're on their way to you and Philippi Well the Philippians are now going to be worried about that. But it's only going to be the latest worry they have. Because you see the Philippians are having trouble anyway. The Philippians are in financial straits, and because they have already shown great generosity on several occasions, flooding Paul with generous gifts. Paul is not intending to request from them that they contribute to this project he's trying to raise funds for. As soon as they hear of the project, realizing they didn't get a request from Paul to contribute to this, they get a bit offended Wait, wait a second. Do you not think we're generous people? Have we not flooded you with gifts everywhere we went? Why would you not ask us? To contribute to this extremely important fundraising campaign of yours, which is not about funds, but about the gospel. Why wouldn't you ask us? Have we done something to offend you? And Paul's like, no, quite the opposite. I know how bad your needs are. I know how much you lack. I know your financial troubles. The last thing I wanted to do was exacerbate your problem by giving you a request that I know, because I know you, as soon as you get this request, you're going to flood me with more funds that you can't afford that Well, what happens? Exactly what you think would happen. Paul does let them know about the project. And as he says in 2 Corinthians 8, their poverty welled up in magnanimity. Paul is therefore able to complete his mission, his project, and eventually bring this wonderful offering to Jerusalem, Acts 21, Romans 15. But those Jewish opponents were there as well, and they managed to get him imprisoned while he's there on this duty, carrying out this duty. So for two years, there he is, awaiting his fate In the town of Caesarea, the Philippians hear about this. And they feel a responsibility yet again to help their beloved apostle Paul. But their own difficult circumstances only seem to multiply They don't know what Paul's status is and they're worried about him. They are suffering financial limitations that are proven to be more than a little bit of a problem They have other things going on that are preventing them from sending assistance as immediately as they want to. Philippians 4. 10. Eventually, the Apostle Paul is able to appeal to the emperor himself, and in the year 59 or 60, under guard, he sails for Rome for his trial. Word of this turn of events spreads quickly throughout all the Gentile churches connected with Paul, reaches the Philippians. And they determine, look, whatever's going on here, whatever troubles we are facing, we are going to have a share in Paul's suffering. We're going to have a share in his struggles. As soon as they have the necessary information, they are rallying together to again flood him with their magnanimity, be one with him in his suffering for the cause of Christ. Within a few months of Paul's arrival in Rome, the Philippians have learned of his worsened situation. They mount their efforts. Somehow, they raise yet another large monetary gift, Philippians 4. 18 Even though they are going through many difficulties. And they tell Paul of these difficulties in a letter they send to him that is designed to accompany their gift. They tell him of the opponents of the Christian community that are causing great alarm within their own congregation. The Judaizing threat is, like he said, beginning to make itself felt in their midst. Philippians one, Philippians three. They have physical needs among members of their congregation, and these physical needs, serious medical ones, other uh uh significant uh challenges of a physical sort, they're producing anxiety among many of the members of this church who had begun to wonder whether the Christian faith is capable of sustaining them in such suffering All of these factors and others combined to create an overall congregational culture of disagreement and distrust, even a poisonous spirit of self-seeking. Philippians 2, 1 through 4. Those who had been the core of the founding membership Who have been so instrumental at the very creation and sustaining of the Philippian congregation, Eodia, Synthici, now they have fallen themselves into the sin of dissension. The general health of the church has deteriorated considerably. And conscious of how much they are in need of spiritual help and guidance, especially in this overall ethos of their congregation of rivalry, self-seeking, pride, arrogance, so ironic for a generous congregation. They send one of their own to Paul to bring this great gift and to ask Paul for help They dispatch one named Epaphroditus. They dispatch him with their gift. He is their emissary. And through him they asked Paul to keep Epaphroditus as Paul's assistant in prison. But to send Timothy, who is currently Paul's assistant in prison, back to them, back to them at Philippi, so that he can help sort this out. In other words, that early affection with Timothy has blossomed in the form of their confidence, that in their time of need, they know what they want. They're pretty sure they know what they need, and what they need is Timothy. They know they can't get Paul. Paul's in prison. But they know Timothy. He's been with them from the beginning. He knows them. They know him. They trust him, they trust his judgment, and they are feeling their needs acutely, and they know what they need to fix it, and it is Timothy. So, Paul, you know we love you. We have followed you with gifts everywhere you've been. We've been funding your ministry. We've been praying for you. We've been eager for your release. We know you love us. You know we love you. Paul, we need help And we're pretty sure that the form of help we need is for you to send Timothy, from being your assistant in prison at the moment, send him to us. We're going to send you Epaphroditus to replace him. Epaphroditus who brings our gift and who brings this letter. Plot twist. Here comes Epaphroditus, leaving Philippi on his way to Rome. We don't know exactly how this happens. We don't know exactly what it was. But Epaphroditus, who was undoubtedly accompanied with assistant servants of various sorts, falls gravely ill. He falls so gravely ill that he is unable to complete his mission speedily And echoing in his epaphroditic ears is the urgency of the offending Philippians, who are desperate for their help from Paul in the form of Timothy. Epaphroditus does what so many faithful servants of the church have long done. He pushes himself past sensibility and reasonableness. In order to carry out this service for his beloved Philippian congregation. He pushes and he pushes on his way to Rome He is slowed down by this significant illness. In fact, he almost dies on the way. A report of this setback reaches Philippi before Apaphroditus has arrived at Rome. When the Philippians learn that Apaphroditus is delayed, because he's not feeling well. There's consternation. Now God spares Epaphroditus, who at the risk of his life continues on to Rome anyway. And by the time Epaphroditus reaches Rome, Paul has been in prison for about a year. And the Philippians offering is therefore truly a God-given blessing to Paul. And the apostle is in this letter at a loss how to express his thanks to a church that has given to him so sacrificially, even in a context of need. The letter he receives from Epaphroditus, and undoubtedly the stories Epaphroditus tells, brings news of the problems in Philippi to Paul, which require immediate attention. And in this letter, Paul will be responding to, with what we call the letter to the Philippians. He sees here, and he hears from Epaphroditus their request that Timothy be sent to them. And Paul can't do it. Paul can't send them Timothy. More and more people have deserted Paul, he says Timothy alone is the one who can minister to him in this dark hour. Philippians 2:19 and 30 to 30. And Paul knows that not sending Timothy back. But sending apaphroditus back to them without sympathy is going to be not only deeply disappointing What could perhaps be devastating? He imagines, as we do, the Philippian church seeing a figure on the horizon making his way to them Rallying each other to get to the window to see their beloved Timothy making his way near. Only to see the slumping shoulders and the dropped jaws of anguish, disappointment, and grief, as the man more and more clearly proves to be of Hephroditus, not Timothy. And watching him make his way to them, undoubtedly they are explaining this in their heads Paul's rejecting our request. I see Epaphroditus, not Timothy. I know what we want. And need to fix our serious problems. Does Paul not see the urgency of the situation? Did Epaphroditus not get our message across? Did he not communicate to him how badly we need Timothy Did Epaphroditus fail us? Not only did he bring this letter too late, he comes back rather than Timothy. Does Paul not love us very much? Does Apaphroditus not really get the message? Does he not understand what we really need? Why is Apaphroditus coming back rather than Timothy? Did Timothy not want to come back? Is Timothy refusing our need in our time of uh of of great urgency? uh demand. Is it is it Paul? Is it Timothy? Is it Epaphroditus? Did he fail in the one thing we asked him to do? One thing we asked him to do and that's stay per comes back. Paul is faced with a serious pastoral challenge. How is he going to cushion this inevitable disappointment to worse? Well if Aphrodite has become the object of undeserved criticism, how can he convey his great joy for the church's continual participation in his apostolic ministry while at the same time, given what's really going on in this church, rebuking them, unambiguously rebuking them for their grave laps and sanctification, their self-serving spirit, their rivalry, their dissension How exactly is he supposed to help them in their great hour of need, given the nature of their need, and that he can't give them what they want? For these reasons, verses 25 to 30, our reading, are no ordinary commendation of Epaphroditus. And we will hear the message well if we hear the way Paul commends him, as itself a way of saying. What we want, the Lord knows, is not necessarily what we need. What we want is not necessarily, as the Lord knows, what we need, and sometimes, no, ordinarily You have what you need around you. You just didn't think of it that way. Who is this aphroditus? The reason we ask the question is part of the point. He didn't write any New Testament epistles, did he? He's hardly mentioned in the scriptures. He's mentioned here, he's mentioned in chapter 4 of this letter. We don't even know if he was a church officer at the church in Philippi. He's got a name that is based in ancient Greek mythology. We don't know anything about Apaphroditus except that the Philippians must have thought well enough of him To be confident that he could at least bring a letter to the Apostle Paul on a journey and do his one job, which is stay there. So he thought at least that much of him to give him this half Well, you know nothing else about the man, except what Paul tells us as he tells the Philippians about Epaphroditus And brethren, what I want us to note, and this won't take much longer, I promise, what I want us to note about the way Paul commends Epaphroditus Is that he deliberately describes Epaphroditus's loving service to them in ways designed to recall to their minds the very shape of Christ's love for his church a little earlier in the same chapter. Yeah, you know that passage more than you know this one, don't you? You know that passage really well. Have this mind among yourselves, you rivalrous people. The mind which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not account it, does not count equality with God, a thing to be held on to. but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient even to the very point of death Death on a cross, no less, and for that reason God highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name. You know that passage Now hear this one in light of that one. And notice how Paul is describing Epaphroditus as the thing the Philippians need. They need Christ. And do you know what? They have had the very shape of Christ among them all this time, and they thought they needed Timothy. They sent Aphroditus away to go get what they thought was their remedy. But Apaphroditus, while he was not what the church wanted, And he was already in their midst, and he wasn't a celebrity pastor, and he wasn't an author of a of a popular book. He wasn't a conference speaker. He was not someone anyone would confuse with a a reputable, high and mighty, famous Christian theologian, speaker, leader of a nonprofit seminary professor, whatever. He was none of those things. You know who he was? He was a quietly faithful man in whose quiet faithfulness you could trace out the very contours of the Christ of the gospel. And that, Paul is saying, is more than enough for what you need. Your problem is the sin of dissension, the sin of self-service and self-seeking. And right in your midst You have the walking, breathing example of the gospel, who in his love for you has lived and almost died in the very form of Christ Himself. You think you need Timothy. You already in your midst have what you need if you just had eyes to see him for who he really was. Yeah, perhaps he's that quiet older man who's been a steady Christian for 20, 30, 40, 70 years, and you'd never heard much from him. He wasn't the first one to speak at your congregational meetings. He wasn't leading your Bible studies and teaching Sunday school. He wasn't raising a ruckus over the budget every year He was a quiet guy who just was a faithful Christian, though he may have been a tinker in the shop, a woodworker on the corner, a merchant in the city, you would never would have known he is in fact the thing you needed, and that's your problem. The problem was you looked everywhere else, but right where the Lord has placed you, where he has provided for you already what you sent out for. A faithful example in your midst of a quiet, doggedly, stubbornly faithful sort, which is exactly what you needed to pay attention to. Paproditus was not what this church wanted, but he's what this church needed. And the remedy was in their midst all along How is he what the church needed? He wasn't known like Timothy. He had no claim like others did, Timothy included, to special time with the Apostle Paul on his missionary journeys receiving his teaching. He had no special origin story with the Philippians that we know about, as Timothy did, and on and on we could go. In our terms, again, he had not written the great theology books. Wasn't a well-known personality. He was simply a faithful but largely anonymous man, known and respected enough by the Philippians, but never looked at in terms of maybe this is how God provides for our needs. If we would just pay attention to the form of this man's faithfulness, his love for this church, maybe there's a lesson there that is Christ-shaped So Paul gently rebukes the Philippians by telling them the truth about the Epaphroditus they always had. He tells the story of Epaphroditus' service to them. And in that story, we're supposed to see the form and contours of Christ in other quietly faithful people. Notice how he describes Epaphroditus's love for his church, using the very language and accenting the same features that remind us of what he says about Jesus Christ earlier in the same chapter. Note Aphroditus' love for his Philippian brethren. Verse 26 focuses, in fact, on the deep emotional attachment between Apaphroditus and the Philippian church. A point that is further stressed in verse 28. I am the more eager to send him, therefore, that you may rejoice at seeing him again, that I may be less anxious. Back in 26, he has been longing for you all and has been distressed because you heard he was ill. Here's the thing about Paul's language. The word he uses to long for in the Greek is the same expression Paul used back in chapter 1 to describe his own feelings for the Philippians But more significantly, it's the language used only two other times in the New Testament, both times in the Gethsemane story. Matthew 26, Mark chapter 14. And they went, Jesus and his disciples went to a place called Gethsemane. And he says to his disciples, Sit here while I pray. And he takes with him Peter and James and John, and he begins to be greatly distressed and troubled, and says, My soul is very sorrowful even to death That's Paul's language for aphroditic love for the church. That grief, that distress, that troubled heart and mind, which still, for all of that, yielded the prayer, Yes, Father, everything is possible for you. Remove this cup from me, but not what I will. But what you will. And here was Epaphroditus, almost dying on the road, sitting there on a rock, thinking, what am I doing with my life Actually it head home. No. Not what I will, but what you will. I will keep going. In love for my brethren, though it cost me my life This distress, attributed to Epaphroditus, says knowledge that the Philippians are aware about his illness is enough for him to worry. They're going to try to send me help now. I don't want that. A Paphroditus' own need or his sense of responsibility, uh all of this is serious in how Paul is describing the the real set of circumstances. This is dovetailing providentially with Paul's need to keep Timothy with him. Paul confirms that what the Philippians have heard about Epaphroditus' illness? That was correct, but maybe you don't know how serious this was, he is saying. It was more dangerous than you realize, Philippians. He nearly died. And you can imagine Paul writing this and hoping that they pause there and don't just keep reading. Nearly died. In other words, his loving service to his brethren was such that it was almost to the point of death, even death on the road to service. It's noteworthy that Paul makes this point, in fact, three times in verses 27 and 30. He says he was close to death. He came near to death. He risks his life. You think Paul's making a point here? You can hardly miss the impression. Paul is trying to prevent a possible misunderstanding, and worse, when the Philippians see not Timothy, whom they had expected, but Epaphroditus safe and sound on his way to them. Did they grieve in vain over his health? Was it really not that bad after all? Did we get a bad report? Exaggeration? Was it bad social media being bad again? Well, Pastor Daddy doesn't look that bad. So Paul is saying in three different ways, he almost died for you. Has he been unable to fulfill his mission? No, I need Timothy, and you don't know it, but you need Apophroditus Maybe Epaphroditus' condition had deteriorated so much that by the time he reached Rome, his life hung in the balance for a while. Scholars have suggested this exactly what's going on so that when Epaphroditus arrives, it's with the physical assistance of servants who basically Usher him, drag him, carry him, whatever the case may be, into the environs of Paul's uh prison cell, and they all just kind of stand around, wait, and pray, and see if Apathodias is going to make it to the night And in God's mercy he does. And he regains in strength. And after he regains enough in strength, Epaphroditus starts to tell his story, gives the letter, provides the background to the Philippian uh situation, and Paul has to say, Look, brother. They don't know it, but you're the one they need. And they need you more than I need you. And they need you more than they need Timothy. Can you imagine Timothy hearing all this? Timothy is there with Paul. He's hearing the story of Epaphrodatus, maybe told by his servants, because he doesn't give it himself quite lightly. And Timothy is shaking his head next to Paul and thinking, What love? What love for the church. And if there's a monicum of humility in Timothy's heart, which we know there is, undoubtedly he's thinking, would I have done that? Why would I have done that for Christ's church? And so Paul is concerned in verse 29. Not only that the Philippians do this, but that you do it as well, that I do it too. And what is it? Honor such men. Did you hear that in verse 29? Receive him in the Lord with all joy. Honor such men. These aren't the men we honor, is it? You may be aware of this, hopefully not, so I'm going to inform you of what you didn't know otherwise. There's a lot of controversy these days about men in the ministry who are, frankly, dishonorable. who abuse their power, who make who bring great shame on the Lord and upon his church and their conduct and their behavior and the way they treat church members and treat the public. But they happen to be be big names publicly, so they get away with a lot. And it just creates more and more uh damage and disrepair on the gospel and the ministry of word and sacrament, the ministry of the church. People get driven away from the church because of the nonsense. of characters like this. And yet they're the ones we honor, they're the ones we look for, the ones we invite to our uh events and the ones we we look for on on our our podcasts and radio stations and TV whose books we look for and we think yeah they may be pretty pretty bizarre and crazy and some people don't think well of them but I really like what he's saying over here because I agree with it and he does it so well Who do we not honor? The Apocroditises of the Church. And what would a church look like that honored such men? that honored such women, that honored such quietly faithful saints, whom Paul can call a co-worker, a fellow soldier, who renders here's that Christ language again, a priestly service, he says. A liturgical service in the Greek, who renders a priestly liturgical service by loving the church in that way. Interestingly, there's a parallel to this in Paul in 1 Corinthians 16. Where Paul exhorts the Corinthians, who have their own share of trouble, you may have heard, to acknowledge or to honor, or to regard, show appreciation for Three representatives from that church who in coming to visit him had made possible what the church wanted to do but couldn't do He says in Sir 1 Corinthians 16, I rejoice at the coming of Stephanus and Fortunatus and Achaicus, because they have made up for your absence, for they refreshed my spirit as well as yours. Honor such people, Paul said. You don't know their names either, do you? Stephanus, who? Fortunatus, you say? Achaicus? I don't know. Exactly. Exactly. A little later in the Philippians chapter 4, verses 14 to 19, Paul would finally say this. And the only other mention of Epaphroditus besides what you've heard from me today, which may be the last time you ever hear Epaphroditus' name in your life. Paul says this. Yet it was kind of you, Philippians, to share my trouble. And you, Philippians, yourselves know that in the beginning of the gospel, when I left Macedonia, No church entered into partnership with me in giving and receiving except you only. Even in Thessalonica you sent me help for my needs once and again. Not that I seek the gift But I do seek the fruit that increases to your credit in the giving of it. I have received full payment, and more. I am well supplied. Then he says this. Having received from Epaphroditus the gifts he sent, which he now calls this, a fragrant offering. A sacrifice acceptable and pleasing to God. Now you tell me, do you think Paul's still thinking about money? What are you thinking about Epaphroditus' self-sacrificial service to Paul and to the Philippians? And to their Lord by almost giving up his life to try to help his brethren. A fragrant offering, though he won't hit the bookshelves. A sacrifice acceptable and pleasing to God, though many professing Christians will never honor Him And then he says in verse 19, And my God will supply every need of yours according to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus. And that's brethren where we hear in those words what Paul means. Yeah. Through such brethren, my God will supply all of your needs. You had it with you all along. His example was eloquent in its silence. If you have been paying attention rather than trying to get your own way, you would have noticed that quiet, faithful, seasoned saint next to you has the wisdom you need as a young mom As a young dad, as an employer, as an employee, as a new Christian, as an old one with old problems. If he would have just looked around you with the eyes of faith and recognized how God ordinarily provides the needs of his church, you would have honored such men instead of overlooking them. Can you now think, brethren, of potential ephroditus in your midst today? I'll give you a second. Who may be a resource for wisdom for you, of spiritual help, of grace. That you are perhaps inclined to look for in other places. Are you praying? Receiving word and sacraments, loving the brethren, walking in humility, and oriented to the welfare of the body, not just yourself. In such a way that you are becoming a potential aphroditus yourself. Is this a goal of your sanctification? Then in one way or another, you might be a way God provides for someone else in your midst. Does Christ supply the needs of his church here through you, who in suffering and faithfulness reflect the shape of Christ Himself? Or does he do it apart from you? Are you only a recipient and never an instrument? Where the Lord is at work providing for his church. Yes, it includes in his great generosity Faithful teachers and pastors, faithful authors and theologians, faithful conference personalities, faithful TV preachers. Yes. But the most ordinary way of all was right next to you. Because in his wise providence, he has placed you right here. Right now, in this time of your life. Rejoice in his provision, which begins by recognizing it Honor such saints. As in so doing, we honor the Lord. Let us pray