Inasmuch as many have taken in hand to set in order a narrative of those things which have been fulfilled among us, just as those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word delivered them to us It seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write you an orderly account, most excellent Theophilus That you would know, may know the certainty of those things in which you were instructed or catechized. There was in the days of Herod, the king of Judea, a certain priest named Zacharias of the division of Abijah His wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. And they were both righteous before God. Walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord, blameless, but they had no child, because Elizabeth was barren, and they were both well advanced in years So it was that while he was serving as priest before God in the order of his division, according to the custom of the priesthood, his lot fell to burn incense when he went into the temple of the Lord. And the whole multitude of the people was praying outside at the hour of incense. Then an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing on the right side of the altar of incense. And when Zacharias saw him, he was troubled, and fear fell upon him. But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zacharias, for your prayer is heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name. John. And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth, for he'll be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink. He will also be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb. And he will turn many of the children to the Lord their God. He will also go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children. and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. And Zacharias said to the angel, How shall I know this? For I am old man, and my wife is well advanced in years And the angel answered and said to him, I am Gabriel, who stands in the presence of God, and was sent to speak to you and to bring you these glad tidings. But behold, You will be mute and not able to speak until the day these things take place, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their own time. And the people waited for Zacharias and marvelled that he lingered so long in the temple. But when he came out, he could not speak to them. And they perceived that he had seen a vision in the temple, for he beckoned to them and remained speechless. So it was, as soon as the days of his service were completed, that he departed to his own house. Now after those days his wife Elizabeth conceived. And she hid herself five months, saying, Thus the Lord has dealt with me in the days when he looked on me to take away my reproach among people. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Lord, your word is a gift. You are the great giver. We pray, Lord, that you would give to us now that we might know you, that we might love you, that we might serve you. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Holly and I have recently watched a Netflix series called Diagnosis. It is a documentary of a doctor who seeks to find a diagnosis and the treatment, and, if possible, the cure, for rare medical conditions. It was born from a New York Times column and also a book. I wanted to watch this. Strangely enough, I wanted to watch this in order to help me with moral reasoning and reading my Bible as a pastor. Now that shouldn't be too surprising to you, but if it is, it's a good time to acknowledge that if you were to look throughout the teaching of the church, even in the scriptures themselves. You will find that the church has acknowledged for a long time the similarities between the practice of medicine and the practice of Bible reading When a doctor diagnoses a condition, they must have experiences with lots of conditions. If you ever get a doctor and you say, Well, what do you think, Doc? and they say, Well, I just read about that You might want to find another doctor. Because what you need is a doctor that says, I've seen this a hundred times or a thousand times. Not a doctor that says, This is my second time doing this surgery. Doctors diagnose by being aware of lots of conditions And what they do then is they look at what you have and they try to see the resemblances it bears to what they and other doctors have seen before. Now, the same is true as of reading your Bible. We look at a passage and we try to see the resemblances it bears to other scriptures in the total collection of the Bible. Those resemblances will show you how to view the condition or passage in front of you. And so the main question for you this morning, as you look at this Luke passage, what resemblances? Do you see? Well, let's make a few observations on some resemblances. The first resemblance that we see is a major theme running through all the scriptures of the barren woman. And as a good doctor, you'd have all of those cases before you, and you'd realize This passage does not fit all the cases. There's one case in particular that really matches, and it is the case of Elizabeth in verse 5 of our passage, matching the case of Hannah. The mother of Samuel from 1 Kings. The second resemblance: you don't have to be a good doctor. Luke is a good doctor for us, and he tells you the resemblance you should make. Did you catch it? It's the resemblance to Elijah. And now that is from 1 Kings 17. You can read about him and his successor, Elisha. And see the resemblances running all the way through between this passage, John the Baptist in particular, and those two prophets. Now, when we see that, when we see this collection, this goodly fellowship of different figures of the scriptures accumulating, it makes sense especially that Samuel and Elijah would be together in this passage. And here's the reason. And Luke gives us this in a quotation in our scriptures. God commissioned Both Samuel and Elijah to lead the church to repentance and renew their hearts in devotion to the Lord If you would like to see that in the case of both of those figures, 1 Samuel chapter 7, to see him lead them back to devotion to the Lord, and then 1 Kings 18 and leading them away from the prophets of Baal to devotion to the Lord. That's the first resemblance that we see. Now what this ends up these those are the resemblances that we see. Now what this ends up doing is leading to another observation. All of this supplies us with the frame to perceive not just the historical facts of Elizabeth's upcoming child, but the meaning of her promised baby. In verse 19, the angel Gabriel says, This is, I've come to bring you good news or glad tidings. Gabriel does not just mean good news of having a baby. That is not how this will unfold, though, of course, they're thrilled to have a child. It means the good news that this baby John will begin the long-awaited reformation of the world at the advent of another baby who we'll be introduced to soon, who is the Messiah or the Christ. Just as Samuel, and this is where we go back to our resemblances in order to have the lens to perceive these things correctly, just as Samuel prepared the church for the Davidic Revolution in the spirit of Elijah. So too would John the Baptist prepare the church for the eternal Davidic King, Jesus the Christ. Now there's a famous painting that depicts this quite well. It's one of my favorites. It was introduced to me really early on in my seminary career. Actually, um Arch, you're here today. You showed me this painting. It's uh that triptych of John the Baptist The triptych of John the Baptist from Matthias Grundwald. It is a painting with three panels. The right panel portrays John the Baptist pointing, and you can see in the painting the fingers, seems huge, pointing at Christ in the central panel. And back behind his finger in Latin is written, he must increase, I must decrease. And that is still true today, even as we are reading this passage together. In fact, it is so true that if I gave a sermon today about John the Baptist, John the Baptist would be thoroughly upset. He would say, Did you not see my finger? He would be upset if we stopped and looked at him, ignoring the central panel who was Christ. We therefore have several references which terminate upon Christ. We have Samuel pointing. Elijah pointing. John the Baptist pointing. And when they are all placed together, these three witnesses, they all point To the long-awaited reformation of the world under King Jesus. And that really leads us in to our main doctrine this morning. Another symptom. Just kidding. That would be horrible. That would be horrible. If you don't get that joke, you can ask somebody. Man. No, we're gonna do something different. Our teaching this morning is the first doctrine or catechization, if you will, of Advent. And it is this. By the witness of John the Baptist and Elijah, the first and the second advent of King Jesus brings reformation to the world. That's the significance of Advent. You can put it this way, too. John the Baptist and the spirit of Elijah. Points to Christ saying, Behold, the world's reformer. That's the picture And that's Advent. Both the first and the second. Behold the world's reformer. What a beautiful day. Well, I'd like to look and unfold this in a few ways. I want to look at the scope of the Reformation, the nature of the Reformation. And then I'll have a few questions for you. So let's begin in unfolding this doctrine in the scope of the Reformation. I want to make sure that we've got this down. And at the same time, that we're being very careful with the text that is in front of us. John the Baptist had the task of Elijah. And it was to turn the hearts of the church to the Lord. During the time of John, that largely meant the Jewish people Read his accounts. You can look starting in chapter 3 of Luke, for example, but he's in the other gospels, and look at what his focus is. It is primarily the Jewish people. And yet, our doctrine goes beyond that kind of a statement. It is not that Jesus Christ is only reordering the Jewish people. I said far more than that. And there has to be a question that we raise of how are we justified in making Christ the reformer of not just the Jewish church, but of the world? And the answer lies in continuing the art of medicine and diagnosis. Once you begin to see the resemblances, there should be many resemblances across the collection to where you can start connecting them, kind of like a constellation of stars to form a full picture. And as we keep looking for those resemblances to see how Christ will rule the world, we find a pristine resemblance in the Apostle Paul. I encourage you to do this research a little bit later today with each other. Look up these Bible passages with what I'm saying to you. Follow Paul's biography, for example, in Galatians, and look at how he talks about himself and where he went. When he says he went to Arabia. Look at the significance of that. Look at his missionary journeys in Acts and see the Acts that he did, for example, of the The young person who fell out the window and he went down from the upper room and raised them from the dead. What is that a resemblance of? Or if you just wanted explicitly, turn to Romans chapter 11 later this afternoon and notice That Paul quotes Elijah. And he quotes Elijah to capture the very model that he himself is following as he performs his own work. You will find that Paul conducts his ministry on the model of Elijah the prophet. And here is the significance. That's at least part of it. I'm not saying it's the only model, that's that's a major part of it. And here's to our point then. As Elijah and then John the Baptist with the spirit of Elijah reforms his people to the worship of Yahweh. Focused primarily upon the remnant of the Jews that shall be delivered to them. Paul was sent as another Elijah to reform pagans from idolatry to worship of the true God under the true King Jesus. And now what we have just done, and so there you have it, Jesus Christ is not just the reformer of Jerusalem. Jesus Christ is not just the reformer of the surrounding countryside of Judea. Jesus Christ is the reformer of the world, the uttermost places of the earth. is the way it'll be framed in Acts. And we can get there by seeing the resemblances between the ministry of Paul and the ministry of Elijah. And of course the major difference there is Paul is sent to the Gentiles. Well, that's the scope of the Reformation, saying that Christ is king over all nations, but there is also the nature of the Reformation. Now, the church tends to misunderstand the Reformation, which Christ began in his first Advent and will finish in his second Advent. I don't know how long it will take to weed these things out of us. I'm not saying that you necessarily struggle with them, but there's a general inclination in the church. To view the reformation that Christ is accomplishing in a specific way. One thing that you may want to do that could be interesting is let's just say you meet somebody in the grocery store, you could do an informal survey Of what they think the church is all about. You could ask them, what does it mean? You can say, I'm not saying that you're one of these, but what does it mean to be a follower of Jesus Christ? Our culture, when I ask those kinds of questions to people, our culture still thinks the answer is to just sit around and read my Bible and do religious stuff. And that if you could go ahead and do a follow-up question. What do you think it would be like to go to heaven? Well, you're going to play a harp on a cloud Doesn't that sound fun? No, it doesn't. I want to ride dolphins, just so you know. Been praying for that. Our culture thinks that's what it means to be a Christian. Many times folks today operate within an improper still to this day an improper secular sacred divide within life. And one of the great things about being a part of the Reformed tradition is that we collapsed that distinction in an appropriate way under the priesthood of all believers. The point of Christ's Advent and Second Advent is that He makes all of life sacred in a sense. There's different ways to talk about this. But he makes all of life sacred in the sense that all things are to be done with reference to God, one God, in three persons. And that is why we will see paintings in the Reformation of people milking cows to the glory of God. What a great reformation for that to be present. Now, for the sake of clarity, when we think about this, let's rehearse the problem a little bit, and it'll help us to see what Christ is really doing in the reformation of the world. God authorized Adam and Eve to produce cities of people in order to sculpt all areas of life to the glory of God. The city of God The problem is that they sinned against God, and as he warned, first there is a spiritual death. Now, what do you think that means for there to be a spiritual death? Here's what it does not mean: it does not mean that humanity lost the ability to make cities It does not mean that humanity lost the ability to be mothers and fathers. It does not mean that humanity lost the ability to form. It doesn't mean that humanity has lost the ability to express themselves in beautiful forms of art. Music, oil painting, it does not mean that humanity may not develop marvelous technologies Science, education. It doesn't mean any of those things. And we know that not only from the scriptures, but from God's providence, and just looking around and seeing The great things that even fallen humans do. They did not fall from these familial and civic abilities In the way that I just described it. Here's where the problem comes in. The human race fell from their love of God His glory and the desire to enjoy God for eternity. Which means that no matter what they do civically or in their family, none of it is to its proper It's always falling short of the glory of God. Now, surely that ends up having consequences for family and our civic realms. Since mankind has lost the true end for all arts. sciences, etc. , all their endeavors eventually become destructive. Now, this was uh given to me in a nice little portrait as I enjoyed my Thanksgiving day. On Thanksgiving The family and I started off the way we always start off, which is to watch the Macy's Thanksgiving Day parade. It is the reason why I have an antenna on the top of my house Now, the floats celebrated family, they celebrated science, they celebrated art, they celebrated a whole host of other human endeavors. And yet more than ever could we see that this year those human endeavors were directed to idolatrous ends. Every float just about, except for McDonald's and the minions, every float was directed actually at this point in a Hostile subversion of the Christian order, of Christ's order. And I was not saved during the commercial time. The commercial time was the same. In your face. Now, this trade has always been idolatrous. Before it was what we saw on Thanksgiving Day. Before that, it was commercialization and materialism. The human race, without God, always finds the wrong end for their pursuits. But that parade ends up being a picture of what is going on in our nation across the board right now. Mankind seeking to express Those abilities that God has given to them, but without the ability to do so to the right end. And so instead of leading to life, it always leads to death. Now, here is where you can see the true nature of Christ's Advent Reformation. If Christ reformed the Macy's Day parade, what would it look like? That's the ultimate question in order to get away from this sacred secular divide. What would it look like? If Christ reformed the Macy's Day Parade, well, we'd have a giant float of Bible men. And everybody in the bleachers would just be reading their Bibles. That is not what it would look like. Just be one float after another of different books of the Bible. So much fun Would it cease to exist because they would all be in church and there would be no parade? There's no time for parades. We just have to be in church the whole time. No, we just we would be a Bible study. There'd be no parade. If Christ reformed that parade, if you catch what's being laid down here or thrown to you, They could still have the parade, but all of the areas of human dominion which the floats represented would find their fulfillment in the glory of God and his order. By way of the Spirit that Christ would have poured out on them, that they might once again start working toward the only end that really matters, which is the glory of God, out of love for Him and in accordance with His word. But all of those aspects and features and domains of human life would be present, coming right on down the street, and each one would be shown to have been dedicated and consecrated to Christ. Science dedicated to Christ. I'd encourage you actually to go to the Bible Museum and specifically go to the science section In the science section, there's Bible verses all over the place from the scientists and how they were seeking to look at the world by way of Christ's order in their scientific endeavor. The parade would remain. The grace of Christ poured out on the world. Please catch this. This is very important. Write it down if you need to. Put it on your refrigerator. If it's stainless steel, it'll have to go on the side. The grace of Christ poured out on the world Does not destroy our natural familial and civic life. It restores and perfects it. The grace of Christ poured out on the world does not destroy our natural familial and civic life. It restores and perfects it. Let me point this same thing out to you by way of John the Baptist's ministry, so you don't think I'm just full of hot air up here. Turn with me to Luke chapter 3, verses 12 through 14. And you can do some more research if you'd like. I just want to point this out to you. Here's the great reformation of the world. Verse 12. Then tax collectors also came to be baptized, and they said, Teacher, what shall we do? Well, just read your Bibles. That's not what he says. He says, and he said to them, Collect no more than what is appointed for you. Be a good tax collector. And it's the same thing in the next verse. So he said to them, speaking to the soldiers, when they say to him, What shall we do? And he says to them, Do not intimidate anyone or accuse falsely, and be content with your wages. There's the reformation of the world. That's where it begins. John the Baptist could have said anything, and that's what he says. Now, of course, the scriptures are to that end and have a central place in our lives because of that. But let's not get them disordered themselves. John said, engage in your vocations as tax collectors and soldiers out of love for God and respect for his created order. And that, Christian, brings some questions to you. Have you thought of asking Jesus Christ during this Advent season the same as the tax collectors and the soldiers asked John the Baptist? King Jesus, what shall we do? Is not the answer similar? Engage in your vocations Engage in your family. Engage in your church. Engage as members of county and state and nation. But not as the fallen civic person, but as one who has been restored by the Spirit to take all that is given to them and bring it to the glory of God. And that is how all of the work of creation tends towards the Sabbath and the praise of God. And that is how we live lives of Sabbath, at least one of the ways. We are to reform human life unto its proper end, which is the glory of God. As soon as I say something like that, sometimes I detect a real cynical spirit in us. I detect sometimes that cynical spirit in myself. That was actually my first reaction to the Macy's Day parade was to pick up something and throw it through the television. What is the use? Look at how bad things have become. The devil owns all of our institutions now. But that's why it's so important for us to revisit the theme of hope. We must return to Advent The Advent, the first Advent of Christ, and the coming Advent of Christ bespeaks to us hope. That's what Reformation is also. It is the hope that things can actually be reformed, that there's nothing that can stop Christ, that the gates of hell will not prevail. Now, I'd encourage you also over lunchtime or whenever to study this passage I'm going to give you. 1 Thessalonians 4:16 through 17. If you study 1 Thessalonians 4, 16 through 17, you will find that what Paul is painting here is a picture of a parade. Listen to it here. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of an archangel, and with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first Then we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and thus we shall always be with the Lord. This, my friends, The longer you study it, the more you will see is that there are people coming out to meet Christ in his second advent and forming on either side of his path A central location for him to be ushered down in victory with the great parade of all of the ages. Come to bring the final reformation. Our parade is predestined when Christ returns for his second advent. Trumpets will be blowing, and we shall all go out to line the streets as he returns for the completion of all things. And so we have hope. And this, my friends, is our first doctrine of Advent By the witness of John the Baptist and Elijah, the first and second advent of King Jesus, brings reformation to the world. Or put more simply, John the Baptist in the Spirit of Elijah points to Christ, saying, Behold the great reformer. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, be immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, full of hope this Advent season. Knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord, our great reformer. Amen. Let us pray.