To the Book of Lamentations. And the focus will be uh the first part of chapter three, but well the focus will be on verses twenty-one through twenty-four. But the first part of chapter 3 will be a part of the sermon. But let's read 21 through 24 together. It's Lamentations. It's right after Jeremiah and before Ezekiel. And I'm going to read chapter 3, 21 through 24. This I recall to my mind I recall to my mind. Therefore I have hope. Through the Lord's mercies we are not consumed because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. The Lord is my portion, says my soul. Therefore I hope in him. Let's pray together. Father, we ask that we would have our hope in you. We pray that you would help us to remember what you have already planted in us by your word. We pray that we would proceed in an increased hope, and that this would give forth fruit of perseverance and joy. In the name of Christ, Amen. Yeah. Which is just I would say that this season is my favorite season. I wonder if it is the same for you Each year I fight the good fight and run the good race, and I don't turn on any Christmas music until after Thanksgiving. But this year, I don't know if it was because it's the time of the virus or what, but I just gave up the fight. And uh just couldn't resist. I started listening to ninety s I guess it's ninety-seven one before Thanksgiving was even over. But the th the season is my favorite. It pushed itself on me this time. And it's always a great joy to me moving away from classic Christmas songs to to the reality of Christmas. It is always a joy to think about Christ and his incarnation. Advent ends up being a time In other words, where we remember that beneath everything is the truth and the significance of Jesus the Christ. Now I say that, and I mean it. Everything. There is nothing that can be understood if one does not know Jesus Christ. And that's fitting for us to say. It's fitting for us to say because we see the gospel writers saying the same kind of thing For example, when we were discussing the Gospel of Mark in Sunday school, back in the days when we had a Sunday school. Mark recorded for us right in the center of his gospel a question. Do you know what that question is? It was a question that he gave to Peter. It was a recording of what Jesus asked. He asked his disciples, Who do people say that I am? That is the ultimate question. It is not a question about the fact of Jesus. It is a question that has rung out through all the landscape of history and down through the meadows and fields of time. It's not a question about a fact. It is a question about significance. I heard Richard Dawkins say that he believes in the fact of Jesus of Nazareth. If you don't know who he is, he's like the atheist par excellence. He believed in the fact that perhaps there was a Jesus of Nazareth. But that's not the question that Jesus is asking. When he's standing there right in front of Peter, he's not asking, Do you think that I existed? He's saying, Who do you think that I am? What is your interpretation of me? What is my significance or my meaning? What do you confess about me? That's what's going on. And that is what we're doing during this season. Each year that we have been in Advent together, I guess I've been here for four years now as the pastor, I've asked you the same question. Who is Christ? Last year we actually looked at what the angels had to say about him, thinking that we're not hearing much good information on earth, so let's just turn to heaven. And this year we continue to ask that question: who is he? What is the significance or the meaning of Jesus? How would you answer that if you were put on the spot? Who is Jesus the Christ? What does he mean? How do you interpret him, if you want to put it that way? What is his significance? Well, this morning we're looking to answer that from lamentations. And in lamentations, we discover a vital truth. We discover that Jesus is the Christ and that He reveals to us who God really is, that God is faithful. One of the most difficult things for human beings to believe. That God is faithful, that He's compassionate, and that He's merciful. And here's the thing about this question being asked and answered, though, not just in any book of the Bible, but in the scripture called Lamentations Because we're really asking that question in the most dreadful of circumstances, to whom may I turn? And Jesus is still answering: God is faithful. And we will discover him to be the one that always reveals the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, that we may understand who God is. I want to do so by looking at a contrast here. There's a contrast set up within the book where we can start to answer the question of of who is Christ and how does he show us that God is faithful and what does he do with that and how does that relate to our hope? There's a contrast right in the beginning, and that's appropriate and merciful for God to do for us. We understand things better in contrast And actually when two contrasts are brought together, they really are effective. For me, and I guess actually, Mike Afons, I think you're in the same boat with me. We're both colorblind, right? I don't know if this is the case with you, but yellow and blue really pop for me. Green browns, reds don't do anything But yellow and blue, that contrast brings those colors out for me. Is that the same for the rest of the normal people in the room that can see colors the right way But you get the idea of a contrast there, or the contrast between salty and sweet. But here's the thing: is when those things are brought together, they're the most delightful for me. I like salty things, I like sweet things, but salty and sweet together. Dynamite, the ultimate. And that's really what we end up having here in this book of Lamentations, is a kind of contrast that begins with darkness, and then later on we're going to see this light that mixes in that we might better understand. Who God is, which is one of the significances of Jesus. He shows us who God is. It begins in verse 1 of chapter 3. We have a mysterious character called the man. Now, this Hebrew word is significant here, the man, and it's gebar. I'm sure I'm butchering the language, but it's something like that in its pronunciation. And maybe you've run across that word before, the man. We've seen other w last week we saw behold the man. There was a different sense there, although these are very much tied together This word is used, for example, have you heard of David and his mighty men, or his valiant men, his warriors? That's the kind of word that is used in that kind context. It is about man at the height of all of his powers. It is the warrior. It is the hero. That is very important for you to see that that is the man here in this passage If you want to see the stark contrast. Now, a warrior is someone, in biblical terms, who has so much power, but also has good will. And so he uses his power or she uses her power to bring fruitfulness to the community They are not inactive, but they are active. They are not irresponsible, but they are responsible. They don't lack agency, but they exert agency, and it is for good. But notice what is happening here in the beginning of this passage. That you have one who is supposed to be able to have that kind of agency in this world and to bring about a good reality. It says, I am the man who has seen affliction by the rod of his wrath. He has led me. There's no I'm taking the initiative here. The warrior is being led. Perhaps even against his will. His will can exert no power. And what's really interesting here is that who is it that leads the warrior? Like you would lead an animal on a leash. It's God. And now notice what we walk into with the warrior, with the hero, with the mighty man, the one who supposed to be able to exert power. Notice where we go if you were to just scan down through this passage. In verse 1 it says, in darkness and not in light. So he's taken into darkness. In verse 5, in verse 4, it talks about God breaking his bones. So now his infrastructure is nothing. In verse eight it talks about God shutting out his prayers. In verse nine No matter how much wisdom the mighty men had learned over time, now what is inevitable is a crooked path as opposed to a straight path that we read about in Proverbs. And he gives us this overwhelming metaphor of God, historically speaking, he must be speaking about armies here. From nations that God used, that God becomes like a bear and he becomes like a lion. And he talks about how he's tearing into him and he tears the warrior to pieces. And then using with the idea of soldiers behind it, God pierces the warrior with arrows I mean, is it not enough to be torn by a bear and a lion, and now we're being pierced with arrows? What kind of power does this person have left? He can't see because he's in darkness. He can't pray because his prayers are shut out. He can't move well because the infrastructure of his bones are broken. He doesn't know what path to go down because all of the paths are crooked. There's total confusion He's been vo attacked by something like a bear or like a lion tearing him to pieces, then he's pierced with arrows at his worst And he must be so low to the ground at this point that verse 16 arises, where his teeth are ground down with gravel and are broken. It's relentless the picture, the darkness. And it is no wonder that this has been titled Lamentations. The picture is the hero and the warrior who has officially lost strength. The picture really, if you want to think about it, children, can you think of a picture that this sounds like? It sounds like the picture of Sanson and Delilah. Samson and Delilah, where Samson has his hair cut, it's like this whole nation and all of the warriors have had their hair cut, and now they have no power if they were in that same story as Samson. This is what it says in Judges 16. Notice how it's the same tone. Then she lulled him to sleep on her knees and called for a man and had Samson's seven locks shaved off. And this is what it says next. Then the Philistines took him and put out his eyes. That actually is nothing in comparison to what we read here about bears and lions and broken teeth and broken bones. All figures for us to understand the plight of God's people at this moment in history But we really only get at part of what is going on in the depth of the darkness in this passage if you move from the man, Geber, warrior. And that historical situation, if you move over to Samson, all that you have really done is perhaps you've gotten a good illustration, but you've moved from one shadow to the next shadow. In order to understand the real darkness that is going on here, the first contrast that is set up is that we have to move away from shadows and we have to move toward the reality. Now, what is the reality? Jesus Christ reveals this on the road to Emmaus when he's teaching his disciples how to read the reality of the scriptures. And he says to them, O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken, ought not the Christ who have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? And then notice this. And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. What Jesus is saying here is if you want to understand Scripture, you must always see Scripture through me I am the keystone. I am the thing that ties all things together. I am the beginning and the end And it is not hard to see, once we take seriously on the road to Emmaus, as Christ is even speaking to us as his disciples by the Spirit, it is not hard to see that he is the warrior hero Just compare this section of Lamentations to the Messianic Psalms and what he goes through He is the warrior hero. The man here is the incarnate Christ and his advent. Later, things like this would be said specifically of the Christ by John, for example, in chapter 1. That was the true light which gives light to every man coming into the world. You see the kind of fruitfulness that he brings? He was in the world, and the world was made through him, and the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own did not receive him. Here's a little bit of a different story and take on it. And that here in here in Lamentations we have foreign and alien nations bringing affliction. Here we see that his own afflicted him, which makes it even worse. The ones that he was supposed to be able to trust were the ones that broke his teeth. Or it says here in Acts, him being delivered by the determined purpose and foreknowledge of God. You have taken by lawless hands, have crucified and put to death. Again, speaking of his people, and a different nation, the Romans. In Lamentations, we absolutely see the historical reality of Israel's warriors being led into tragic powerlessness. No hope, but they are but a shadow of what Jesus Christ Himself had to face in the judgment of God. But a shadow of what Samson had to face in the judgment of the Philistines or any other character. And that is the darkness that you have to see in order to get the contrast with the light. This is a darkness that is deeper than you realize. Because you are reading this darkness in lamentation as if it is only speaking about your darkness. But you have to admit with me that whatever is going on here with darkness, it has to be, which you'll see in just a moment, it has to be the kind of darkness that would meet anybody's darkness. Any human being ever. It must be present. What if you were a person who ext Experience darkness like you've never anyone else has ever experienced darkness. Would the hope that is coming up in this passage be a hope for you, or would it not be strong enough to save you That's what I'm saying, is that lamentations go so deep in the darkness, so no matter who you are, no matter what you face, no matter how deep the affliction, it can be met by what is getting ready to happen in this passage. If you met darkness in the atrocities of war, would this still be applicable to you? Or if you meet the kind of a kind of darkness that we are experiencing, which is momentary in light relatively. That's the kind of depth that we're talking about here. We're talking about God summing up any kind of darkness that could enter into the human existence. And that's the first part. That's the first contrast as we then start to move into light. The second part of the contrast enters in in 21 through 24. It will continue, but I just want to focus on 21 through 24. In the face of that darkness, there is a light that dawns. In the stench of death and bitterness, a sweet fragrance ends up circling in the wind. Which is not expected. If you were to go home and read Lamentation, starting at chapter one and going to the end, looking for any kind of light in the midst of the darkness, you would have trouble finding any except here. And that is significant because it even enhances the contrast more starkly. This is the center of the Book of Lamentation, and you know all about those kind of literary features. We have studied chiasms before. This is the poetic center of this book. It is the only mention of hope. And so what you have here, if you want to think about this literature over into reality, is that this moment in this book that we're reading, in twenty-one through twenty-four. All around it is like a black and a dark sea filled with tears and filled with misery. All of the tears of humanity, all of the misery of humanity. And yet, right in the center of it, there is a moment of hope. Just when it looked like the candle was going to flicker out, it flamed up again. And he notices it. The warrior with powerlessness notices the hope. But it is more than just a literary feature. When we start making our connections like we have to Christ, It ends up being a picture of the reality of the life of the Christ and those connected with the Christ. I have a question for you. What is in the center? What island is there? What is the light? You say to me, well, Jeffy, today's Advent Sunday on Hope. I read it in the bulletin. That must be the island. Okay. But here's the thing. Tell me that you don't have a thousand hopes. We have to be really careful how we talk about this. I was dehydrated the other day, and I had hopes that if I drank water, I would not be dehydrated. And we go through our day with a thousand in a thousand different ways where we put our hopes But what are we talking about here? Is that the same kind of hope? What is the hope when you are facing those kinds of miseries and afflictions that human beings face? What is the hope for you knowing that all people will face the judgment seat of God? So we're asking, what is the hope, really? Or why do I why can I be so hopeful? Let me put it this way In light of the reality and the intensity of all human suffering and sin, what could possibly be strong enough to bear us up to give us hope in the midst of that? Now, this is where we really learn from Jesus Christ. You remember last week when I said, Behold the man? Well, here we're doing the same thing again, but in a different aspect. Here we have the Geber, the man. And I'm saying, behold him again. What does he teach us? He is the one who has the greatest pain in his flesh. When his flesh tore and burned. When he cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Where did he turn? When he faced the judgment of God on behalf of his people, where did he turn for hope? And when our flesh aches and we live with the miseries of humanity, to where shall we turn for hope? That's the real question. And the answer is in twenty-two through twenty-four. This I recall to my mind, therefore I have hope. What does he recall? Though the Lord's mercy, through the Lord's mercies we are not consumed. Why? Because his compassions don't fail. And then here's this phrase that you've had on your refrigerator since you became a Christian. They are new every morning. And here's the song that you have sung so many Sundays. Great is your faithfulness. The Lord is my portion, says my soul, and therefore I hope in him. Can you believe it? Can you believe that someone in such circumstances Whether it be the shadow of the man, the warrior in lamentation, or the shadow of Samson, or the reality of Christ himself, can you believe that he had hope? In the midst of that, he believed that he would actually get out of the situation somehow. His answer was God. It is simple enough for every child in here to know that your hope is in God And yet that answer stands in the face of the most profound experiences of humanity. Listen to what Jesus Christ says in his affliction. Then the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was torn in two. And when Jesus had cried out with a loud voice, he said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. And then he breathed his last. Even in that moment, our great hero and mighty warrior turned to his father in hopes, committing his spirit to him. At the center of lamentation, this is what we find. And literally the literary center. The heart is that we find that there is a hero, and just when it seems like darkness will overcome. I mean, the water is up to here, right? Maybe the head is bobbing. Will I be able to keep breathing? And then hope enters. But it's not a methodology, it's not a technique, it's God and His faithfulness. At the center of the reality of lamentation is the crucified hero, really. And we find him with the same hope in a judgment unprecedented in the scriptures. And he says, as he commits his spirit, or what is implied in the committing of his spirit to his father, is that his father is faithful. And we know later in this calendar season, when we celebrate Easter, that he is faithful. At the center of all of our lamentation, therefore, we find the same reality as his people. We, the people of the flesh, are united to God the Son, who took on flesh, and we find hope for our flesh in the God who is faithful. The question that we're asking is what is the significance of Christ? And the answer that we said in the beginning and that has been proven out within even lamentation is that he is the one who reveals the glory of God. You don't need to look to the burning bush, says Charles Spurgeon. Just look to Christ if you want to see the glory of God. He is the one when he reveals God, as Moses saw when he was in the cleft of the rock, that the glory of God is this: that he is compassionate. That he's merciful, and that he's faithful. And that is the glory that shines in the face of the sun. As the Son is even teaching us about the Father's faithfulness, so too the Son, in him voluntarily taking upon himself human nature, being both God and man, shows the nature of God in the very acts of what he is doing. in his faithfulness to save his people. Oh, the wisdom of God, as Paul would say. But that's not all. And then you have the wisdom of God the Father and God the Son and sending the Spirit as the Father reveals the faithfulness of Himself and the Son and the Father to us by illuminating our minds. by planting within us through the word a seed that would blossom into faith and to love and to hope. And ultimately we discover what Christ said to his apostles that we rarely read correctly We discover that what he meant in Matthew 28 when he said that you are to be baptized, that we are to be baptized, yes, in the name of the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Spirit, but in hope. The hope that comes with what the Godhead is doing and who the Godhead is. It is hope in the name of the Father, it is hope in the Son, and it is hope in the Holy Spirit. There is no greater hope, and it is a hope that is strong enough to face the greatest of darkness. The greatest darkness. We put it like this early on, with the words of Jesus. Who do people say that I am? That was his question to Peter. And now we can answer. And of course, Peter answers this way now, too. You are the Lord whose mercies are not consumed. Because your compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness And we say with all of the saints, the Lord is my portion, therefore we have hope in him. Let's pray.