The title of the sermon was Hope and Holiness But I'm going to break it into two parts, and tonight we'll just be on hope. This is 1 Peter 1, verses 13 through 16. sixteen. Therefore, gird up the loins of your mind. Be sober, and rest your hope fully upon the grace that is to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ As obedient children, not conforming yourselves to the former lusts, says in your ignorance, but as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct, because it is it was written, Be holy, for I am holy. Please pray with me. Lord Christ, as the King and Head of your church, I ask that through your Spirit you would teach us. I ask that you would show us the preparation that must be done in order for us to obey the command to hope. And I pray that we would be known as a people full of hope, even in the midst of sorrow. Tomorrow. Amen. We may be seated. Before becoming a pastor here at Severn Run, way back in the day, I was a deacon at a another local EP church, and as a deacon One of the responsibilities we had was to help to settle disputes amongst the congregation. It was actually called the peacemaking team. We received training for mediation and counseling difficult Christian conflicts It could be the workplace. But most often, guess where the greatest conflicts were found? True, it's in the it was yes, definitely. In the church, but in marriages. Those were often the most difficult. There were years and years of we always pictured it as conflict being like a brick, and that each conflict was a separate brick. And for each conflict a brick was laid down, and in twenty-five to thirty years of marriage, before you know it, you have a wall of bricks separating the couple. Well, it was difficult, and in order to bring any kind of health or the grace of God, and by God's grace, to those relationships We were very careful. There was a careful treatment of the marriage relationships, and in being careful, guess what we sought to establish in a marriage as a regular course of bringing reconciliation. In other words, what was the fundamental way that we always sought to nurture a marriage It's going to be the same answer to what is it that makes a marriage fall apart. The answer is hope. Our saying actually on the team was, when hope leaves the relationship, divorce papers enter in. You know, it's a really important question for you to ask. Whether you're married or not, do you have hope If you had a scale from one of ten and you were to apply that scale to each of the domains of your life, what number would the hope be? The Hope scale? What about your friendships? What about your job? Your marriage we mentioned? What about your family life? Your church life? As a citizen living in your country, your finances. The truth is it wouldn't take much of a conversation to unearth the fact that in all areas of life, not just including marriage, everything is affected by the level of financial of hope that one has. In fact, the scriptures say that a person without hope is like one whose very bones are rotting within them. That's not a pretty existence. Now you may have missed it, but Peter's letter, what we've called Peter's catechism, has been filled with the topic of hope In verse 3, as a review, we praise the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ for the living hope that he gives to Christians. This the word is right there. And if we were to see the concept and not just the word, we'd also have to see, as a part of our review, that despite present afflictions We know that all of those afflictions are worth it in the end, because we have hope. This salvation was promised long ago by the prophets, but the beginning of their hope had dawned in the preaching of the apostles. In the giving of the Spirit to Jew and to Gentile. And so the theme of hope dominates this letter, at least it has so far, and there's no difference now, because what we're entering into here with verse 13 has to do with hope. I have two parts, the preparation for hope and the main command of hope. And then when we get into the conclusion, we'll go back to the main command of hope and the and that preparation and start to apply it. But there's two parts here as we consider the theme of hope. There's a preparation for hope, and there is a main command of hope. That's just the way that the passage is structured grammatically, which I'm not We can do that over dinner. I love talking about participles over potluck. So let's begin with the preparation for hope. It's all in verse 13, and we're going to take this bit by bit. Peter writes the beginning of verse 13 with two metaphors. Take a look with me. Therefore, gird up the loins of your mind, that's one, and then be sober. And really it's girding up the loins of your mind, being sober is a better way to voice it. The first metaphor is like it says right there, girding the loins. Do you know what it means to gird the loins? Some of you are nodding, some of you are just staring at me blankly. During Peter's day they wore long robes. Have you seen the pictures of folks during this time wearing longer robes? Yeah, um even the men wore those robes and the women wore something like Well if you had a long robe but were called to get some kind of work done quickly, or to fight in a battle, what would be the problem? The robe would get in the way. Now, we actually have a modern day example of this because uh how many of you here have attended our Reformation service? any of the years, I'm seeing some nods. Well in our Reformation service, most of the pastors wear robes, clerical robes. And I'd encourage you as this upcoming year comes up in the Reformation that you would watch them closely They usually sit right there, and then as they get up, they usually trip on their robe, and then when they try to walk up these stairs, they trip on their robe. At least I do So, when you see them walking up the steps, ask that they get used to their robe if they're not used to wearing it. You see that they'll actually lift their robe a little bit in order to no longer be in to have uninhibited movement. Which in this case is called girding. In Peter's day, in battle, they would tuck the robe in their belt, which is a far more manly image than what I just gave you with the clerical robe. But the whole idea is that they would gird up their loins. That's the picture. That's a literal description of what's going on here. But Peter does not mean this in a He's not exhorting you to pull up your dress or robe when you want to move fastly in the narthex. That's not his concern. It turned in his culture and in ours into a figure of speech that was far more general than the literal description. Peter is not asking you to tuck your robe into your belt. That would be quite embarrassing. He is exhorting you to remove anything that would trip you up and slow you down. The whole idea. And that's the first metaphor, gird up the loins. But there's a second metaphor here of sobriety, still in verse 13. And we all pretty much know what that means, or we do know. What it means, not pretty much. Literally, uh in this um sense, it not only means don't be drunk, but it carries with it, and you can see this in other verses of the scriptures also Don't be drunk and therefore don't do stupid stuff that drunk people do. There's a something that happens to a person where they have all kinds of regret after the night is over That's typical of being drunk. But this too became a figure of speech. Generally, it means don't become intoxicated with anything. Because any kind of intoxication, any kind of drunkenness leads to you doing dumb stuff. It dulls the mind. You become uh you ever see a d uh a drunk person begin Back in the day it was called a stimulant, but now we know through through science that it is a kind of depressant. And it uh Starts to ruin a person's faculty. They're not sharp any longer. Now if you think about it, we have even within our culture, we'd not are j you cannot just get drunk on alcohol Can't a person be drunk with pride? And doesn't it have the same unhealthy effects? Can't they be drunk with lust Can't you be drunk with greed or envy or whatever it is? There's all kinds of ways in which human beings can be intoxicated. There are many things that we can be addicted to. And this drunkenness leads to blindness and it leads to bad stuff. That's his point here. And so, in summary, then Peter exhorts Christians and even us to be focused. And not to be dulled or intoxicated. To be uninhibited and and sober. Now you know you have to ask a question like when you use figures Of speech like this, you have to ask the question, what does it look like to be focused and not dull? Because it really depends on the situation, on how you would say, gird up the loins and be sober. Each situation being sober or girding up the loins would look a bit different. So for example, if you went home with a friend, It was after nightfall, and you went inside and you realized that there was an intruder in your home. Your friend turned to you and they said, gird up your loins and be sober. What would they mean? You can you can begin to think of the I you know I don't know a friend that would actually say that. But if they did, you you would know what they meant in the moment. It would mean don't give way to fear. Don't become paralyzed in the fetal position in the corner. We've got to move to action. Think quickly. Find the phone. Find whatever it is. A plan of action. Find an exit. I don't know. Find a baseball bat, whatever it is that comes to your mind. That's what it would mean within that situation. But that's not the situation that we have here within the passage. The situation is not about girding the loins and being sober when someone breaks into your home. That's not what Peter's point here Is. And so we do have to ask the question: well, what is the situation that Peter has in mind where he would give those exhortations? And that's where we move into this second main division of 13 We find this in the main command. The main command is also in verse 13. We have, therefore, gird up the loins of your mind, or girding up the loins of your mind, by the way, that's one part of the I can't resist. Being uh so sober, second participle, and then the main verb and rest your hope fully upon the grace that is to be brought to you. So that's why I said it's the main command. It's also in the imperative or the command form of speech. And he says that we are to rest our hope upon the grace that is to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. That's the context, that's the situation, not an intrusion. The context is not breaking and entering, but hoping upon the grace. Now let me ask you, what is the grace here when you look at your past? Passage. Grace just means favor. It can mean a gift. And God shows favor in a lot of forms, does He not? God is gracious to us, for example, in sending Jesus Christ, is He not? Is that not a form of His grace? Is not also another form of His grace giving us these scriptures? Would it also be a form of his grace to give us church communion and fellowship with each other? Mutual encouragement and admonition? What about sending his Holy Spirit To teach us about our sin and about righteousness, and to comfort us so that we're not orphans. What about apostolic teaching? What about training us through trials so that we persevere to the end and can obtain our salvation? Those are all graces that have already been mentioned in the first chapter. Are those the graces that Peter is talking about here? What is the grace in which we hope? Well, that's defined by the rest of verse 13 when you look closely. He says, And rest your hope fully upon the grace, and then he Goes in to limit the kind of grace that it is, so you could see what it is, that is to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. In other words, it is all the future grace That Christ will bring with him upon his return. Everything that is included with that, that is the grace that's present here. All of the promises of paradise Are a hope for us, for which we must keep hoping, and that's what it means by the word fully, that you would mature in your hope over the years as we're waiting for Christ Himself. And so that's the main command. The main command is to grow in our hope more and more and more and more and more, etc. That's the effect of the fully being present there. And that hope is not something that we have at present, but it's the future grace that comes when Jesus Jesus Christ returns. This letter really is about hope. We'll actually continue and we'll see the working out of this hope throughout the rest of the letter. Here we can see it in the two main methods. Wherein we prepare for our hope, and that hope is Peter's main command. The coming of Jesus Christ and all that he brings with him. Now what I want to do is I want to go back to those metaphors because they now that we know what the hope is, that it's what Christ brings. Now we can better understand how we would want to prepare for that specific situation. Remember, I said that the metaphor only makes sense, the metaphor of girding the loins or the Of an intruder. The situation here is that we are waiting for Jesus Christ to bring this world back to paradise that we might be in his presence forever. Of course, that's the Greatest. And now, since that is the situation, you will need to continue to work this out. But the basic question that we have to ask: if if that is the situation, waiting for Christ to return To renew heaven and earth, what does it mean for you now to be girding your loins and to be being sober? To be uninhibited in your movement and to not be dull, to be sharp and to be focused. I would say it very at the very least meaningful That you don't let anything and you don't let anyone trip you up from your hope. I would have to say that it doesn't it definitely means that you don't let anything and you don't let anyone make your hope dull or make you dull toward your hope And there are a thousand ways that people can do that. They can tell you you're a fool. And if you believe them, if they're an important person to you in your life If they downplay the hope of the return of Christ and they're an important person in your life, if they're influential, they can dull your hope. They can make this one little seat of doubt and say, well, maybe Maybe I'm off. And there it was, just a little duller, just a little intoxicated, not as sharp as you used to be. Instead, what we would want is that we would want to keep your hope of relief from the harsh fallen world. and the hope of a return of paradise alive and vivid before our eyes We gird our loins and we stay sober around those that make us doubt our hope. We put boundaries on relationships which are toxic to our hope. We nurture our hope so that it would grow up and be full and mature, just like you would nurture a child. We add more and more fuel to the fire of our hopes so that it burns higher and higher. We add rational arguments. We add stories. We encourage one another to hold on to the end. This should all be a part of the life of a Christian if we're going to take Peter's command seriously. To become hopeful people fully. I have a stupid example of hope. Really, it's just kind of a trivial one relative to the things that we've been talking about here in First Peter. But recently I bought Holly a gift. It wasn't anything major, it was a puzzle. But she loves puzzles. She would do puzzles all the time if we let her And I was very excited about this. She had no idea that the gift was coming. I couldn't wait for it to arrive. I had done it all in secret. I lived in anticipation and hope, not for the puzzle. I could care less about the puzzle, but to see the smile on her face and to see the surprise For her to receive the gift, for her to be blessed. And this is what I would do, and and this happens with a number of things within my life as I began to think about it. Every so often I would go back to that place on Amazon where I had ordered the puzzle and I'd read things about the puzzle. Because I couldn't wait for it to get there, so I had to somehow get connected with The puzzle and look at the pictures on the puzzle and the reviews on the puzzle and how many stars it got. I was nurturing this idea and letting it play out in my imagination what it would be like and and how are we gonna get her to open the box which worked out perfectly by the way I'd look at the gift and I'd get all excited again and my hope for it, my anticipation would just skyrocket. I could see it clearly And now I know far more about puzzles than I want to know. This one has 1,080 pieces, not 1,000. And then what I what happened to me Oh, this really nurtured the hope. This really set the flame on fire. I received a shipping notification. And then after receiving the shipping notification, I got a text saying my shipment was close. So I clicked on it and a map opened up and I saw a red dot and it was the Amazon person and it said Your puzzle is eight stops away, and I could see the car over on Evergreen, and I knew it was almost to me. And I sat in my living room filled with hope and anticipation of the day and that it would ride that it would arrive. Now this is I'm actually still really excited about it apparently. But you can see that there's although a trivial topic here, although I don't consider it too trivial to bless my wife You can see how I was making and stoking and tending and nurturing to a hope to the anticipation And it is a good picture for what we would do as Christians for the coming of Jesus Christ and all that he brings with him. I would want to know what's it going to be like? What's it going to look like when he comes in the clouds? What's he going to bring with him? And just use our holy imagination by faith. That is provided for us in apostolic teaching. There's actually a number of passages that deal with his return. We see it especially in visions and revelation. We heard it on Christmas Eve, what it would be like. We got a chance to imagine that final day. The glorious day of the wedding? Do you see how I was making my hope of the arrival of the gift and the blessing to Holly vivid? How it went to full color in my imagination, how I stoked and I nurtured the anticipation, that's what Peter's commanding here That's what it means to gird up the loins for a puzzle. But it has such an analogue to our Christian life. How are you nurturing and how are you stoking your hope of Christ's return and all that that means? I hear some of you tell me when uh for example For example, certain movies are coming out. You get all excited and you try to sell me on it. Like The Joker or Jumanji or uh Return of the Jedi I can see the hope in your eyes of being able to go to see it. You could sell anybody on the movie with the rhetoric that you form from the excitement comes out of your heart. But why don't I hear the same kind of rhetoric when it's Talking about the hope of the return of Jesus Christ. Maybe you're just keeping it from me, but let's start sharing. How are you nurturing and stoking your hope of Christ's return and all that that means? Let me say something that really sobers us. What is true of human marriage that I learned in my time as a mediator in reconciliation of difficult Christian marriages What is true of that human marriage is also true for our marriage to Christ the husband. When hope leaves the relationship, unhealthy stuff enters in. It's why Peter is preaching this to this group of people originally and through the Spirit preaching it to us today. That we wouldn't lose hope, that we would have hope vividly placed before us, that we'd be able to persevere through anything. Some of you have some pretty tough stuff in your life. If you do not have hope, you will not make it. But Christ, through his Spirit, is seeking to give you hope. Hope. And perhaps this is even the beginning for you to be ultimately conscious of it. And so I remind you here with Peter that you would be girding up the loins And that you would be sober-minded. And that you would set your hope fully upon the grace that is to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Let me pray for you. Father, you give us other commands. You tell us that we are to be able to give a reason for the hope that we have. But what if, Lord, your modern Christian community hasn't spent much time thinking about the hope that you've given us? What if we're not able to describe it very well? What if we've lost the vision? Well, Lord, I pray that you would give it back to us. I pray that you would give us the hope of our inheritance. You have only given us a deposit as of now. The majority of our hope will not be seen in this life Lord, there are people across the globe that will mourn and then they will die. It is only when they meet you, or when you meet them. That they will be comforted as you promise in the Beatitude. Lord, I pray for us that we would stop seeking to have our hopes met by this world. That we would be patient and that we would wait. And I pray that you would give us perseverance as we disentangle ourselves from the aspirations that this world sets up. And the comforts, and as we set our h our sights on that which we for which we must wait. And I pray that in the meantime, so that we can keep waiting, we would be a people that is continually speaking of the great hope that is in our future. I pray in other words, Lord, that you would give us through your grace, yet another grace, the ability to be obedient to Peter's command, that we would hope fully, more and more. In the name of Christ. Amen.