Matthew 1, 1 through 17. The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the Son of Abraham. Abraham begot Isaac, Isaac begot Jacob, and Jacob begot Judah and his brothers. Judah begot Perez and Zerah by Tamar. Perez begot Hezron and Hezron begot Ram. Raham begot Aminadab. Aminadab begot Nashan, and Nashan begot Salmon. Salmon begot Boaz by Rahab Boaz begot Obed by Ruth. Obed begot Jesse. And Jesse begot David the king. David the king begot Solomon by her who had been the wife of Uriah Solomon begot Rehoboam. Rehoboam begot Abijah, and Abijah begot Esah, and Esah begot Jehosaphat Jehoshaphat begot Joram, and Joram begot Uzziah. Uzziah begot Jopham. Jopham begot Ahaz, and Ahaz begot Hezekiah Hezekiah begot Manasseh, and Manasseh begot Imon, and Imon begot Josiah, Josiah begot Jechoniah, and his brothers about the time they were carried away to Babylon. And after they were brought to Babylon, Jechaniah, we got Sheeltiel. And Sheeltiel we got Zerubabel. And Zerubabel begot Abayud. Abayud begot Eliakim, and Eliakim begot Azor. Azor begot Zadok, Zadok begot Akam, and Akum begot Alu excuse me Eluid. Eluad begot Eliezer, Eliezer begot Nathan, Nathan begot Jacob, and Jacob begot Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ. So all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations. From David until the captivity in Babylon are fourteen generations. And from the captivity in Babylon until the Christ are fourteen generations. Let us pray. Christ, I ask that you would be with your congregation this morning by way of your spirit. I pray that you would show them that all things are leading to you being the head. All things living and moving and having their being in you. I pray that you would impress upon their souls the very Image of Psalm eight and its meaning. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. We're taking a break from our uh regular series in Philippians to start our Advent series. That should be obvious to you by now. The sanctuary is decorated differently. We have candles in the front. We have Christmas carols for Chase's benefit, Advent carols also. And there's a number of things that are changing here. And then we've also moved into the Gospel of Matthew which will continue in throughout the Advent and into the Christmas season. The main question that uh this passage is really working on is the main question of Advent. And Advent is a word that just means arrival. And the question that you should be asking, well what's arriving? Who has arrived? Will he arrive again? And I think we all, or most of us here, will know the answer to that, that the answer is that we're here to celebrate the first advent or arrival of Jesus Christ, and our hope lies with his return to restore all things. But that's the main thing that you want to keep in your mind with this passage is the arrival of Christ and why that's meaningful and why that is important. Now, initially Figuring out while that's meaningful and why that is important by way of this passage could be a little difficult on you. I felt your prayers As you knew I was going to have to read these names. You all know my struggle, and I know a couple of you said, like quite literally, oh Lord. I pray for Jesse when he gets to whatever that name is. I did pretty well with SheLTL. Man, Rad was rooting me on. A lot of us get to this passage and I bet you that you don't go all the way through the names. You don't really know what's going on with the names. That's one of the things about this passage. You get to it and you say, oh, uh, next. Uh or this can you know that this is a list in the Bible, so you're you are respectful, so you you kind of skim it. But you don't it's just this odd thing that's kind of just sticking out there and you're not really sure. So really for you, and you would be normal. Uh Matthew begins at verse 18. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. But here's the thing is that uh the the we're told even in the scriptures themselves by those who have very great wisdom who are inspired and and are Don't have any error, that all of the scripture is meaningful and beneficial for you. And that includes this genealogy. It's just at first glance, it's a little difficult to tease out what's going on here and why would this be relevant to me, because it's being written primarily first and foremost to a Jewish mindset And not to our mindset. But I think after a little bit of time together, we're going to see that it's actually not that different from our mindset. In fact, let me just remind you of a couple statistics About genealogies. In our culture, we call them ancestry lists And as soon as I say that, you can already begin to see that there is a connection in the importance of a genealogy and the importance that we place on genealogies today. Now, if you don't think genealogies are important and you just don't you don't dabble in genealogies, that's fine. But there are statistics. For example, there's one company called My Heritage, and this is a statistic from 2021 That 4. 8 million people have sent their DNA to figure out their background and their ancestry 23andMe is another company, and in 2021 the statistic was 13. 8 million people are trying to figure out their ancestry and all the markers that are within their DNA so that they can figure out the different uh nations from which they are derived, so to speak. So there's obviously something going on here, just statistically speaking, that you would have to account for that people actually care quite a bit about their family lines. Their family bloodlines and where they come from. And I think it has to do with a crisis in identity and a crisis in meaning, especially within the United States of America, but it's global now. Community has collapsed. Different things that would give you meaning have collapsed. And so this is one of the ways in which folks will figure out the answer to this question. Who am I? And what am I supposed to care about? And what am I, whatever I do in my life is going to be hard work. So what am I supposed to do where the hard work would be worth it? And they start to look down these bloodlines to sort of answer those questions. When I did Ancestry. com, I have not sent my blood to strangers yet, like some of you. But when I did the Ancestry. com it was um it was uh actually refreshing to find that basically we're carpenters all the way back. I thought, well, that makes sense and I can It was a kind of solidification in who I am and who my grandfather was and my great-grandfather and my father. And so there really is something to these genealogies. In other words, people are looking to their genealogies to understand themselves, to understand their identity, and hopefully to gain some kind of meaning. So what we can do is we can have the same kind of expectation when we come to this genealogy. In fact, I think your expectations can be higher. Because at the end I'll share some other statistics with you that this genealogy has been read by more people than any of the other genealogies from Ancestry. com So the first thing I want to point out to you when we're looking at this, just to see what the meaning is, is that this is a highly patterned genealogy. Did you notice any of the patterns when I was Reading through, I hope you weren't too distracted by the names. But like all things that communicate meaning or have a presence This list also, like them, has a carefully planned pattern and patterns. And the first pattern I want you to see is in verse number one. You see it right there, it says, the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, that's number one, the son of David, the son of Abraham. That's the first beginning of this pattern. I want you to compare that then to verse number 17, because like it is often crafted, we here have bookends, and in 17, though there's an addition, which we'll get to in a minute. We still see the same pattern, so I'll read 17 to you again. So all the generations from Abraham to David and from David to the captivity in Babylon are 14 generations and from the captivity in Babylon and to the Christ are 14 generations. So there are additions there, but you still see the three center points or centerpieces. You have Jesus Christ, David, and Abraham. And then you have mentioned, and then in 17 you have in reverse, Abraham, David, and then Jesus Christ with the exile thrown into the mix there. So that's that first pattern is we do have a kind of bookend here and there's something emerging from the genealogy where the genealogy is not just uh a level field of strange names. All of a sudden we're starting to notice there are names that are above other names. That are starting to form a kind of pattern or structure for you to be able to read this genealogy and understand the meeting. And that's just the first pattern. Here's the second pattern. You can notice That all of the paragraphs have the same paragraphs have the same pattern. It's now divided up into verse number two, Abraham begot Isaac. Then if you jump to verse number six, David, the king, begot Solomon. And then if you go to twelve, that's going to deal with Babylon, and we get eventually 16 to Christ. So the whole genealogy is divided up into those main names or themes that we're hearing in the bookends. So now a few names and an event called the exile have really surfaced. And you kind of have a topography here to where you can see what does the Holy Spirit want you to focus on? What does he want you to care about And if he does want you to care about it, what that means is that he's trying to tell you a story, really. But he's doing so in a very particular form. Now here's the third pattern. The basic pattern of Abraham, David, and Jesus, as he says in 16 and 17, they're set up in groups of 14. And the Hebrew numerical value of the word David is 14. So we have 14, 14, 14. But these are selections. I mean, if you were to go back and do an actual graphing of the linear model of generations, you would find that it's not matching up with exactly 14. based on the actual generations that were alive and well. These are selections in order to show you a particular meaning or to make a theological point and not a factual point, though there are though all of this is historical. There's a theological point that he's making with all of this. You have all of these different patterns. It's not just a list of three equal parts, but it is moving forward, really. And this is how I want you to think about this. So you have you see all these patterns. What has been raised up quite obviously is Abraham David, Jesus Christ. Now here's the question that I have for you. Are they all at the same level? Or are we moving toward a pinnacle? And you're already starting to nod when I said the word pinnacle because you know. That we're moving to a climax or an apex or a pinnacle in Jesus Christ, the one whose advent we celebrate here today. So you don't have three equal names. You have names that are leading to the name And that allows us, especially during this season, for you, if you want, you can picture this passage in this genealogy as a kind of Christmas tree. And I'll blow your mind right now. Christian Christmas trees are just mountains in your house. Just so you know. It always comes back to mountains. Sorry, those of you who are tired of the mountain talk. Well you have a Christmas tree and it goes to the top where all of the attention is drawn, if you have a star, and that's where it would be. And the same and the genealogy is all I'm really trying to say to you is that It would be helpful to you to think about this genealogy as set up in a Christmas tree-like structure where you're being drawn from the bottom of the tree. All of your eyes should be going up, and that is what what Matthew wants you to pay attention to. In fact, every single author Of every single book of the Bible wants your eyes to climb the tree and only pay attention to that one thing. There's a famous painting of John the Baptist with his finger like this and he's pointing. to the Christ. And that's the point. Everything is leading to the arrival and the rearrival of Jesus. And that's why we're celebrating Avon here this morning. So I want to begin just at the bottom of the tree. I'm just going to say a few words. I'm not going to dwell long on this. We a lot of us know these kind of things, but it's worth just mentioning a few things beginning at the bottom of the tree. And the bottom of the tree is Abraham. This is important for us to realize because oftentimes being influenced by a kind of distorted Christianity We sometimes think that the understanding of our faith begins right here in Matthew And we think that this white page right here is a divider, and then we don't really need to go back here to figure things out or have any kind of continuity with. But Matthew is blowing that out of the water. He's saying if you really want to understand who Jesus Christ is, the roots go all the way back into the beginning here. And that the Old Testament is a part of relaying to you the knowledge of your faith and who your Savior is, not just the new. And so we go all the way to the bottom of the tree with Abraham, who is the father of the faith. God makes a covenant with him. This is what is most relevant on Matthew's mind, is that God makes a covenant with Abraham to bless all of the nations. I just want you to hear the the blessing of the nations in Genesis chapter 12, 1 through 3. You can reflect on this over lunch. But it says this: Now the Lord had said to Abram, Get out of your country, from your family, and from your father's house. To a land that I will show you. I will make you a great nation. I will bless you and make your name great, and you shall be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who curses you. And in you All the families of the earth shall be blessed. So as far back as Abraham, it goes back even further, but As far back as Abraham, this argument in this genealogy goes all the way back, and if you want to understand the big picture and the meaning of your life, if you want to understand the true ancestry of humanity And what God is doing, what you're going to need to do is go back, the true ancestry of the church, you're going to need to go back to Abraham, and you're going to need to see what took place with him. Well, God revealed himself to him. And his the revelations that God gave to Abraham were enscripturated. That's why we call this scripture. It's another way of just saying it was written down. for the preservate preservation of future generations that they might know the plan of redemption, that they themselves might repent and believe. And don't think that this has become irrelevant all of a sudden just because it's a part of our ancient history. Galatians chapter 3, 7 through 8. Paul is still talking about the Abrahamic covenant as the covenant that we are in by faith, because Abraham is the father of faith It says this, referring to Abraham and saying that he preached the gospel to Abraham Galatians 3:7 through eight. Therefore, know that only those who are of faith are sons of Abraham. And the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith. Preached the gospel to Abraham beforehand, saying, In you all the nations shall be blessed. So what you're a part of, living today as a Christian, has its roots way back in history. When God was revealing Himself to Abraham, way at the bottom of the tree. Now we can move up from the bottom of the tree, and we can move forward in the genealogy, and we can move to that next marker in verse number six. That has to do with David. His name is repeated throughout this because it's not just David, but it's also going to be the greater David who is Christ. But in verse number five, you can see, and Jesse begot David the king. Then David's name is repeated again. David the king begot Solomon in verse number six. And that moves us to the really the middle of the tree, if we're still using the Christmas tree model. Now God gives David A promise. And he says this, he says, when your days are fulfilled and the rest and you rest with your fathers, I will set up your seat after you, who will come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be his father, and he shall be my son. If he commits iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men and with the blows of the sons of men. But my mercy shall not depart from him as I took it from Saul, whom I removed from before you. And your house and your kingdom shall be established forever before you Your throne shall be established forever. So this is a continuation and a link with the promise to bless all nations. is now being linked to the Davidic throne and this kingdom that shall be an eternal kingdom. It's slowly unfolding. That we can understand what God is doing in the world, helping us to understand what our meaning and our purpose is by way of the genealogy Here we see that God has not forgotten his promises. In fact, right there at the end, we see that however God ends up working everything out. He's going to be working it out forever, and it will be in the form of a kingdom and a king. That's what's being revealed to us. And this is where the suspense starts to enter in the genealogy, where you see that little extra ingredient when he starts to talk about entering into exile in Babylon. Because the kings which succeeded David, and even David himself, did you notice the little remark about David? Who who took your who was the wife of Uriah? Yeah, that's a tough one. But that's part of the point leading into When you look at David, this is again in verse number six, David the king begot Solomon by her who had been the wife of Uriah. And there's the whole story in front of you. And there's going to be a declension, a descending of the kings. And it it's as if everyone forgot about the promises, forgot about the curses, and forgot that they were supposed to be cla pointing everybody towards the top of the tree. And now in many ways God will need to cut the tree down. That's the way that the scriptures end up putting it, and that cutting of the tree down is a metaphor or an analogy of sending the nation due to their sin into Babylonian exile. And that's mentioned here specifically in the genealogy as an important event in verse number 12, and after they were brought to Babylon. So that's a lot of suspense right there, because what we're dealing with here, we can see in the genealogy, is not just the story of one group of people. It's the story of one group of people which is representative of the story of what's going to happen with all of humanity. And really all of creation. Will God bring everything into its proper place? And the way it's expressed in Revelation 21 is, will God ever have a time in his creation where there are no more tears? That's really the question that's here. And you can begin to see that when you start to read in the Psalms, the Psalms that this group of people wrote during that exilic period. When they are crying out to God, existential cries of the human condition, the sacred community. Those who still had ears to hear could still hear that divine whisper that was given to Abraham in those promises and the promises that were made to David in that kingdom that would last forever They still hear those things, and there's still a kind of hope and wrestling therefore in their hearts. And they cry out, like for example, in Psalm 89. 38 through 39. Listen to this just on based based on everything I've said to you today. Listen to what they say in the Psalms. But you have cast off and abhorred. You have been furious with your anointed. You have renounced the covenant of your servant. You see how concerned they are about that covenant? You have profaned his crown by casting it to the ground. Now that's not just talking about their concern about, hey, you've really hurt David's feelings. You've really hurt those who have inherited the throne's feelings. He's using the throne and the kingship as a symbol of what God is seeking to do in the world, which is to bring all things under a single head that shall bring order. And now, though there have been these promises in the past, the crown is in the dust. And everyone is scattered. And if you read Lamentations, they are facing what seems like formless and void. They even had to practice cannibalism. If you turn to Psalm 137, you don't need to do that now, I'll just read it to you. You can still hear this hope in their hearts. That in the center of God's heart is faithfulness. They're still holding on to hope, and they say By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat down. Yea, we wept when we remembered Zion. Remembering those former days. They had a glimpse of the star at the top of the tree, though it was still just a type of a different star and a different kingdom that was yet to come They're mourning in their hearts for what they had lost. And you go on to Psalm 88 through 13, and it continues here. You can hear again the existential cries of humanity. You have brought a vine out of Egypt. This gives you a kind of tree imagery. You have cast out the nations and planted it You prepared room for it. It's telling the story of Israel and how successful it used to be moving into a land filled with milk and honey. You prepared room for it and caused it to take deep root And it filled the land. Catch the picture. Takes deep root, and it's going to fill the land. Now listen to this description. The hills were covered with its shadow. This is the people of God in their heyday. And the mighty cedars with its boughs. She sent out her boughs to the sea and her branches to the river. But it's not like that anymore. Why have you broken down her hedges, so that all who pass by the way pluck her fruit? The boar out of the woods uproots it, and the wild beast of the field devours it. They've moved back into a place of wilderness and chaos. And that's a real cry that has been used not just to locate a particular historical phenomenon called the Babylonian exile, which of course has historical records. but also as God often does as a representation of the state and the condition of humans broadly speaking. It is not unusual to see authors pick this up throughout history and specifically speak about the human condition in terms of their experience in exile and how we feel like We may have a house, but we still feel like we do not have a home. C. S. Lewis talks about this as hearing uh a song from a or overhearing a tune of a song he just can't reach. And all of us know how that feels. One author says the exile is the great metaphor for the human condition. We are all wanderers, seeking something that will make us feel at home, something that will make sense of our lives. And we are. How many times have you heard quoted St. Augustine saying, my heart is restless? You just stop there, because that's where we are with the exile. My heart is restless. Until it finds its rest in you. Well that's a suspense that comes in. We've looked at Abraham at the bottom of the tree. We tried to make it to the center of the tree, and we did for a little while with David. But then with the sins, especially of the kings that were leading the people, there was a kind of chopping down of the tree. But we know if you were to read in Isaiah 11 that even from the stump There will be a new shoot of growth that will rise up, making sure that God's promises are fulfilled in Abraham. The eternal Christ, in revelations to prophets, including David, would push away the dark clouds of exile, and the people of God would begin to see the star again. If you stayed in the Psalms, they're going to start saying things that are quite curious with this promise at the center of the universe. Psalm 110. The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand till I make your enemies your footstool. The Lord shall send the rod of your strength out of Zion. Rule in the midst of your enemies. Now Peter's going to pick this up in his sermon in Acts chapter 2, and he's going to implicitly raise the question: well, it says the Lord said to my Lord, let's say my Lord is David, and the Lord says to my Lord Wait a second, what is going on here? Who is the Lord? If David is the Lord and he says to my Lord, If there's a Lord above David, who are we talking about? There's something else going on here that's not going to be fulfilled in the literal historic David, but there's someone else who's coming who shall reign on the throne forever. We start to see glimpses of this again in Psalm 72, for example. It says this, yes, all kings shall fall down before him. All nations shall serve him. And the big question that should be going on in your mind is, who is this king? Who is going to be this one? And if you were to go to the book of Hebrews, you could start to ask: well, then who is this priest that we're talking about? And who is this prophet that we're talking about? Who is it that says in the book it is written of me? You were not pleased with bulls and goats, but a body you have prepared for me. Who is this person? Those are revealed in the Psalms, and this is all starting to clear those clouds of exile away to show That at the center of all things, the push, the energy of all things is the faithfulness of God, determined to take his creation to the top and put everything under in order. Under his king. He will make sure that Psalm number two is fulfilled. And that's our hope. In fact, we're going to sing here in just a little bit. O come, O come, Emmanuel, and ransom captive Israel that mourns in lonely exile here. Did you ever notice that it picks up that theme? And you you didn't notice that it picked up a specific historical theme of literal exile, and yet you as a human being connected to it. It was relevant to you. And that's part of the point here, is that God hasn't given up and left his people in exile. He's still determined to bring them back into the garden. And we, that is the hope of one of the reasons why we sing that song. And that brings us now to the top of the tree. You've seen the bottom with Abraham. You've seen the middle with David. We've gone, we've descended to the hell in Babylon in exile, and God's faithfulness rises again. To where we can still see the top of the tree and the star at the top of that tree. And the rest of the song, of course, Ocome, O come Emmanuel. after speaking about the exile is until the Son of God appear. That's the full lyric, by the way. It says, O come Ocama Emmanuel, and ransom captive Israel That mourns in lonely exile here until the Son of God appear. And that brings us to the top of the tree. Rejoice, rejoice. Emmanuel shall come to you, O Israel. He shall arrive. There has been an advent and there shall be a second. And this is where we can pick back up in our genealogy in verses 17 and 18. So all the generations from Abraham to David are 14 generations. From David until the captivity in Babylon are 14 generations. And from the captivity in Babylon until the Christ or anointed one, just like Psalm 2, are 14 generations. And then for many of you the Gospel of Matthew begins. Now the birth of Jesus Christ. See what he did there? It's Jesus of Nazareth who is the Christ. He's the one that was spoken of in the Psalms. His birth was as follows. After his mother Mary was betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Spirit. And the story begins. The consummation and the apex of all of history. Your eyes have climbed a tree and you see the top. And all things, all of creation, are ordered under him. In other words, it's another way of me just saying to you, He is your hope. He is your hope. And all of this is from genealogy. The genealogy tells a story, but it's not that unusual that we would seek to find some kind of meaning and identity in genealogies. I gave you a few statistics earlier on. And there's one statistic that I left out. I mentioned my heritage, I mentioned 23 of me. I never told you the most popular one, which was ancestry. com. Ancestry. com in 2023 reported 25 million DNA samples and in seeking to understand a person's background and bloodline. The search for meaning continues. Even to your surprise by way of genealogies. Just like we have here within Matthew. But there's a greater statistic than this. Is anybody here a fan of the Guinness Book of World Records? Does that ever uh I think that we have someone here actually who rode with someone who's in the Guinness Book of World Records. Their friend is the person who has the longest wheelie. What yeah, yep, yeah, longest wheelie. I think is he in the Guinness Book of World Records? He is, yeah. Thoughts so. He has he has ridden in a wheelie the longest. And I don't know how long that is, but it was long. But the Guinness Book of World Records uh has uh was b began documenting records in nineteen fifty-five And uh since and they they note um that the Bible has made it into the Guinness Book of World Records. The Bible has made it into the Guinness Book of World Records as being that which has the greatest published or printed book in all of the world. They can only do estimates because they can't treat keep track of how many times this is happening. But uh since the printing press, there have been an estimate of seven billion Bibles printed. And my point is that that's seven billion as opposed to twenty-five million, which you don't realize it, but that's really different. And it is a Bible that has things like this genealogy in it. And it just goes to show you that for a really long time, among a lot of different kinds of people from a lot of different countries, Where they could have gone and sent their blood away to Ancestry. com. They were still left hanging, still looking for the big picture of their lives and meaning. And there are millions and millions who have read genealogies like this and finally were able to see what the purpose of their lives are. And that there actually is some hope for the human race. I think that's what part of that statistic teaches us. I mean you have to bear with a statistic like that. There's a certain reality that that points to. It shows us that all of creation Including you, finds hope in moving from the blessing of Abraham at the base of the tree, and through the middle with David, and even through the exile. To the star who is at the top, who is Jesus of Nazareth, who is the Christ. He is the King. And this is captured in ways that pale in comparison to this genealogy. Across our culture, once you finally know what to look for. I was thinking about how Rafiki and the Lion King held up the young lion cub. At the tip of the rock, and all of creation gathered underneath of him with their eyes looking up at the newborn king. And that is just a kind of picture that humans seem to pick up on because of what God is doing in the world. A picture that we see here in the story of this genealogy. Matthew, by way of this Jewish mindset, has taken Christ and he has raised him to the highest heights. And he is saying to you, and will continue to say to you in this gospel. The Father is gathering all of creation under him as their head, as he restores all things to himself. And it is by looking at him and being united to him, grafted into him, that we find our meaning, our identity, and especially for today, you find your hope. We celebrate here his advent, and we celebrate even his future arrival. Amen. Please pray with me.