Listen O coast lands to me and take heed you peoples from afar The Lord has called me from the womb, from the matrix of my mother. He has made mention of my name, and he has made my mouth like a sharp sword. In the shadow of his hand he has hidden me, and made me a polished shaft. In his quiver he has hidden me And he said to me, You are my servant, O Israel, in whom I will be glorified. Then I said, I have labored in vain. I have spent my strength for nothing, and in vain. Yet surely my just reward is with the Lord, and my work with my God. And now the Lord says, who formed me from the womb to be his servant, to bring back Jacob to him, so that Israel is gathered to him For I shall be glorious in the eyes of my Lord, and my God shall be my strength. Indeed, he says, It is too small a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob And to restore the preserved ones of Israel. I will also give you as a light to the Gentiles, that you should be my salvation to the ends of the earth Thus says the Lord, the Redeemer of Israel, their holy one, to him whom man despises, to him whom the nation abhors, to the servant of rulers. Kings shall see and arise. Princes also shall worship, because of the Lord who is faithful, the Holy One of Israel, and He has chosen you. Thus says the Lord, In an acceptable time I have heard you, and in the day of visit salvation I have helped you. I will preserve you and give you as a covenant to the people, to restore the earth, to cause them to inherit the desolate heritages. That you may say to the prisoners, Go forth to those who are in darkness. Show yourselves. They shall feed along the roads, and their pasture shall be on all desolate heights. They shall neither hunger nor thirst, neither heat nor sun shall strike them, for he who has mercy on them will lead them. Even by the springs of water he will guide them I will make each of my mountains a road, and my highways shall be elevated. Surely these shall come from afar. Look, those from the north and the west, and these from the land of Sinam. Sing, O heavens, be joyful, O earth, and break out in singing, O mountains, for the Lord has comforted his people and will have mercy on his afflicted. Let us pray. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we ask that you would glorify your Son, and that you, Son, would glorify the Father. We ask, Spirit, that you would work in us, that we would know the glory of you, our God. That we would not just be hearers, but we would be doers. And in this case, Lord, that we would be characterized as a people of hope. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. I imagine that many of you have heard of the servant's songs. Uh there's uh many times in which you'd hear uh the servant songs uh from Isaiah chapter fifty-three, for example. where he took our iniquity and transgression. We're familiar with quotes like that. That's those those uh sections are a part of what we call the servant songs, and they're not just in Isaiah chapter fifty-three, they're in other chapters. So one of the the first servant song we see is in Isaiah 42, and then here we land upon another one in Isaiah chapter 49 Now, each of the songs have a little bit of a different theme. And that includes this one here. In the first song in 42. It was more of a declaration, but you can see here when you take a look at verse 1, this whole thing can be a little confusing because it's a prophetic vision. But if you look at verse 1, this is written in such a way where this is autobiographical. The servant himself is speaking about the calling that he has received. You can begin to see the scope of the calling, for example. He's calling out not just to Jacob. A little bit later he's going to call out to Israel by way of this name, Jacob. And of course he's going to bring redemption to Israel. But you can see here with the way that he talks about himself and the way that he understands God's plan that it's not just isolated to Israel. He is calling out to the whole world here in verse one, listen, O coastlands, to me, and take heed, you peoples from afar. It's calling out to the whole world. His calling out to the whole world has to do with a calling that he himself has received. He has received, like other prophets, a calling from his mother's womb. You can see there. But there are many ways in which he's not like other prophets. This is something that is a similarity. But the Lord has called him from the womb, just like you would see Samuel called from the womb, or John the Baptist called from the womb, those important redemptive figures that show up to move forward the plan of God for the redemption of his people and the restoration of his creation. So too is he tapping into that language here that he also is called from his mother's womb. And then it moves into some pictures here of a sword and an arrow. His calling, therefore, is largely characterized as judgment. You could turn to Isaiah chapter 11 during lunch, or you could do some other cross-referencing. And you find that this sword in the mouth is a characteristic or a feature of a person that steps into a situation that has become corrupt and they straighten it all out. They bring order back to society because they themselves are not corrupt, and they exercise right judgments, and they have the power to put in place the correct order that they pronounce. That's all going on here with the sword. His mouth is like a sword. And then there is this other image of the arrow, which gets at a couple Different features. Still thinking about the judgment, we see that his judgment will be of a large scope because the arrow can be shot at distances and still have effect. But the primary emphasis is that this servant has remained hidden like a quiver in an archer's, or like an arrow in an archer's quiver. And it has not been drawn yet, but the time is coming when the bow will spring. The whole passage, therefore, is set off with this with joyful anticipation. Of this servant that God the Father is going to bring into the world. This servant that will speak and bring about a new creation. That's the first thing I want you to notice, especially in those first two verses here in Isaiah 49. Now take a look at verses 3 and 4. You can see that the servant is speaking to Yahweh, and this is super interesting because the servant is not even born. But there is a a conversation that Isaiah is witnessing between what is called the servants and the Father He's having a heavenly vision of a kind of a conversation between those who have dwelled with each other from eternity, and this starts to get at the profound doctrine of Christ our Lord And in this conversation, the servant is has some concern over and expressing frustration over seeking to restore the world, especially Israel but with Israel especially being unresponsive to his work. But you can see that the servant knows better than to live by sight. He says here in verse 4, Then I said, I have labored in vain, I have spent my strength for nothing and in vain. Then we have this yet. Yet surely my just reward is with the Lord, and my work with my God. So, this is not a hopeless occasion, and we cannot live by sight. We must live by faith in what the Lord has decreed and what he will execute through this servant. He, the servant, will in fact regather those chosen in Israel, and he will even bring back the chosen from across all of the nations. You can see this if you jump down to verse number six. In verse 5, you can see that he is to bring back Jacob so that Israel is gathered back to the Lord. You can imagine Israel having astrayed from God, and this servant is going to bring them back to God But it doesn't stop there, and we already know this from the first passage. In verse six it says, Indeed he it sa indeed God the Father says it is too small a thing that my servant should just bring redemption to Israel. I will have him bring redemption to Israel. To the whole world to all nations. And that's the second thing I wanted you to notice. Is this servant grabbing on to the promises and decrees of God Himself as to what his calling is? Not just to Israel, but to the whole world. And now for the third thing, take a look at verse number seven. The Redeemer and the Holy One of Israel will be this servant. And some of this is going to start to sound really familiar from Good Friday and from Easter. He will be despised. Nations will abhor him. However, Yahweh will make sure that in the end, kings from every nation will rise up. In order to be able to bow down and worship the chosen one. Perhaps you're reminded of the words of Jesus Christ when he says, All authority has been given to me in heaven and in earth. In fact, Yahweh verse eight will preserve this servant and make him a covenant to the people. And as verse eight says, we're now at the broadest scope that you can get. He will restore the earth. That's quite the calling, huh? Well it goes even further. In observation number four, the thing I want you to notice now is once we get to this place where it says that he's going to restore the earth, we switch over into a kind of Exodus theme to understand what God's servant is going to accomplish. In verses 9 through 12, an Exodus theme is used to explain what it will be like to live under the servant. He will act like a shepherd. You can see that all over this place in this passage. But let's begin with verse number nine. Take a look there. That you may say to the prisoners, Go forth to those who are in darkness, show yourselves. This is the same kind of thing with Moses bringing those people out from under the bondage of Pharaoh and through the Red Sea Into the wilderness to be shepherded into the promised land. And the same framework is given to us here to understand the work of the servant across the whole face of the world. We are imprisoned. Analogously to sin and to death, but we will find freedom from our slavery. This same servant will act like a shepherd, and he will bring his sheep. Along with him along the roads. Verse number nine. Take a look at how he's going to be with them. They shall feed along the roads. I want you to picture now a shepherd among his sheep. And he's walking them out the pasture and enter the promised land. And they're all feeding along the roads. Can you see hundreds or thousands of sheep? And the shepherd's standing there with his crook, they're feeding along the roads, and their pastures shall be on all the desolate heights That means green grass will be there where there wasn't before. And in verse 10, you begin to see how the shepherd conducts himself and what it's like to be under him. Because we're neither going to hunger or thirst. He's going to protect us from the heat and the sun. He will show compassion and he'll show mercy on his people. And you keep going all the way to verse 11, and he says, I will even, you can put that in there, I will even make each of my mountains a road. They're his mountains, and though they would be an obstacle and it'd be difficult to take the sheep over the mountain, he can just turn them into roads if he wants to. There's nothing that can stand in the way of what he wants to do through his servants and what the servant wants to accomplish for the sake of his God In fact, it's not just how high of a height can he overcome in the redemption of his people, but how far shall they come to him? You can see that in verse number twelve. Surely these shall come from afar. Look, those from the north and the west. He's going to gather in all nations, are going to stream to Mount Zion under the shepherding ability and capacity of this servant which the Lord Yahweh has established. Not even mountains can get in the way. The last thing I'll uh make note of is verse number thirteen. The appropriate response for everyone is to sing. Sing, O heavens, be joyful, O earth, and break out in singing, O mountains. For the Lord has comforted his people and will have mercy on his afflicted. We can see how this progresses then where the servant is speaking, the son is speaking Later we'll understand this even more by way of the apostles and Christ's instruction to them. But here we have a vision where Isaiah is watching the Son communicate with the Father As to what his mission will be in his incarnation, ascension, and glory What his calling will be will not just be to Israel, it will be to the whole world. The whole world under his shepherding will become the true Israel. And we are to sing about this. Sing because of the hope that He will have mercy on us, the afflicted, whether Jew or Gentile. And this brings us to our main teaching this morning. And it is this: the servant of Yahweh brings hope to all the world. This servant of Yahweh brings hope to all the world. Imagine if you were to live in light of that doctrine every single day, with total conviction and belief. How would your life look differently? The servant of Yahweh brings hope to all the world. I'd like to unfold that a little bit and maybe and maybe help us to answer that question of how would our life look differently? I like to do that by looking at our Christian faith and our Christian hope. The servant of Yahweh brings hope to all the world, our Christian faith and our Christian hope. This is Advent season, and it is a great time to remind ourselves of our Christian faith. I want you to think about it for a moment. Do not answer out loud, because I'm trying to keep going here. Why are you a Christian? Why are you a Christian? Now I know some of you, and I know that there's going to be lots of different starting points here on how you would answer that question Some of you have already answered inside your head because God decreed it. That's the way you're going to answer it Some of you didn't that didn't occur to you on the first thought, though you agree with it. Some of you will answer by way of your own experiences. You'll think about the misery that you were in. And you'll have certain hymns that come to mind. I once was lost, but now I'm found. You'll think of the confusion that you were in and darkness, and then you'll think of light and the one who brought light. And that had a lot to do with why you are a Christian. And same thing with the sin where you were just stuck at the bottom of a ditch. And if you ever got out, you'd walk right back down the path and fall right back in. There are a lot of different answers to this depending on the perspective that you're you're looking at the problem from. Why are you a Christian? But here's what I want to do on this first point. By way of contrast, Those who were living during the time of the apostles, if they were sitting before me here, and we were in synagogue, and I asked them, Why are you a Christian? What do you think they would say? That's an interesting questi uh question. And I believe that surely some of them would give the same answers that you gave in your own minds just now. But I wonder if they would also give different answers than what occurs to you. When you look at the pages of the New Testament, Quite interestingly, to find the answer to that question, what would they say? Why are you a Christian? We gain great illumination if we look at the pages of the New Testament, and when we do, we find that that Christian community Is quoting the book of Isaiah all the time for the reason as to why they are Christian. Isaiah, along with the sign of the Psalms, is a kind of foundation and basis for why the communities in whether it's Jerusalem or Judea or the surrounding cities that surround the Mediterranean They end the this these books, Isaiah and Psalm, end up being quoted all the time as to why a person says that they are a Christian. Or if they are standing there and they are not a Christian and then someone is giving a sermon or an apologetic talk, one of the reasons why they decide to take the step forward and convert to Christianity is because of some arguments that some apostle gave from Isaiah. Or from the Psalms. Now, if I ask you the question, why are you a Christian? I wonder how many of you said, well, because of Isaiah. Because I read the book of Isaiah. Duh. I bet you it's a pretty lower low percentage. So that's an interesting contrast between us as a people and between them as a people. Let me put it this way. When you get a chance, grab a Bible and start to read the Christmas story of Jesus and Matthew and Luke. Many of you. I hope we'll be doing Advent readings within your homes during dinner time. When you read Matthew and Luke and you have those Advent readings, notice the cross references. Read a Bible that has cross references And just take note how many times they're trying to get you to understand who Jesus is by quoting Isaiah. That's how some of them would answer. They would say, Have you not read Isaiah? In other words, one main reason that our forefathers became Christians was because they believed that Jesus is, in fact, the servant. In these songs that we see in Isaiah, they were all looking for the servant to finally arrive to save them and the world And they became convinced, of course, by the illumination of the Holy Spirit, that Jesus is in fact that servant. And I encourage you this morning, whatever the reasons were that you said, I know why I'm a Christian because of this, whatever those reasons were, I encourage you to add this morning to your reasons for being a Christian. And that you would say one of the reasons, or a major reason, that I am a Christian is because of Isaiah. And because of I'm following the apostolic reading of Isaiah. I'm following an authoritative reading of Isaiah. And it has become clear to me by the grace of God and his Son and the Spirit. That this Jesus who is from Nazareth is the Christ and is the servant that Isaiah sell in that heavenly prophetic vision That he is, in fact, the eternal Son of God that has taken upon himself human nature to do this work of redemption, to not only bring in Jacob and Israel, but to save the world. And perhaps that would help us to understand the book of Acts also when we begin to see Ethiopians. What passage does he need help with? Isaiah. And we see that once he sees it, he says, might I also be baptized? He became convinced. If you were to ask that Ethiopian that day, why are you a Christian when no one else in your nation is? Because I understood Isaiah. So I encourage you to add that to your reasons of why you are a Christian. And if you do then you're going to have to start talking about your faith in a little bit of a different way. You're going to have to start talking like this. In times past, God revealed Himself and His plans for His creation to men who were prophets. God gave prophets like Isaiah entrance into his secret plans in heaven. They saw visions and they heard conversations between God the Father and the Son, with the Spirit present. They heard what they planned and how they would perform the plan, though it was filled with mystery, and many pieces of the puzzle were left to figure out how it should fit together. And then at a certain time, thousands of people reported that this same plan is coming to be and has come to fruition in this one person, Jesus of Nazareth. We've written these things down and they're called gospels. Jesus confirmed this Himself and even set aside a special group called the Apostles. To explain much of what was happening so that we'd have an authoritative interpretation and not be lost in some hermeneutical maze for the rest of our lives. They even explained the great mystery that the Holy One, the one seen in the vision, who has eternally dwelled with the Father. That he himself has taken upon himself human nature in order to restore the world. And we call this the incarnation and celebrate it every year at Christmas. In fact, this is why we use even the word advent. We gained that word from the Latin and therefore the Roman Empire. It means simply to arrive. And so when we ask ourselves, who or what has arrived, from where? As Christians, we answer the servant of Isaiah has come. And if you're explaining, I'm kind of imagining you explaining this to somebody. Somebody says, Why are you a Christian? And these are the things I I think you should add to your toolbox. You could end, then you could say, one last thing I'd like to tell you on why I'm a Christian. It's because Jesus is the arrow. Jesus is the arrow that the Father said he would lift from his quiver, and he would shoot into the world. And that arrow has landed on me. Jesus has a sword in his mouth, and his sword went deep into my thoughts. His sword penetrated into the intents of my heart. He knew everything I have ever thought. I was naked before him, and he offered me mercy. And now, though he is still my sword offering me wise judgment, He is now also my life, and he is the light of the world. Jesus is the shepherd, and I am the sheep. All my brothers and sisters, when I go to church on Sunday morning, they're my fellow sheep. Sometimes they bite me, but they're still my sheep. And now that all of this is true, now that I'm you know that I'm a Christian and why I'm a Christian. Let me just tell you one more thing. The most appropriate action I could ever take every day is to sing. To sing of the mercy and the compassion. To sing of the hope that has come into my life, though I am not a Jew, a Gentile. If you are a Jew, you could say the hope that has come into my life. Despite the track record of my people. Now I don't know if you noticed or not, but I just stepped through the whole 49-1 through 13. It began with the calling of the servant. It was like an arrow that flies out into the world to bring his salvation, and a sword that brings perfect judgment where we must repent and believe. He is also the light of the world because he is the light of the Gentiles. And Jesus is the shepherd. He walks us along the road to pastures and to deep waters, cool, refreshing waters. And therefore we sing. I hope that you can add those things to your Christian testimony and remember why you are a Christian. Perhaps You've already known why you're a Christian. But I encourage you to add this to your resume. Add this to your toolbox as you are considering our Christ this Christmas. I'd also like to just think for a moment about our Christian hope, not just about our Christian faith and why are you a Christian, but also our Christian hope. Advent is also a great time to review our hope. I call it my hope meter. I kind of wake up in the morning and I ask, what level, what is my hope meter? If you uh thought of yourself as having a hope meter, which you're not weird like me, so you probably don't, let's just say that there's a kind of scale from 0 to 10. Zero is I have no hope. Ten is I've got all the hope in the world. What hope do you have for your life and for this world? Where would you hit? Where would you mark it off? After reviewing this Isaiah passage, it would be right for all of us to say, I am a ten. But that is not how we often feel, and it is not how we often think. So it's important to talk about our Christian hope I wonder, just as a question for you, why do you think it is that we so often lose hope when we have passages like this? When you know the whole Christian story, when you know about all the reason why we celebrate Christmas, how is it that our hope meters could get so low? Part of it is that we start to lose hope when we don't see Jesus shepherding us in the way that the passage describes. You could think, wait a second, he says neither heat or sun will strike them. I remember going on a cruise and I got sunburnt like nobody's business. Well, you can think neither hunger nor thirst, but then you can think of examples of people who hunger and thirst who are Christians. For he will have mercy on them, will lead them, even by the springs of water, he will guide them. And it is not exactly a passage that we would use to describe some of the experiences that we have in our lives And I think that in part, part of the problem is when we see a passage like this in Isaiah 49, 9 through 10, with all of these promises, that we misunderstand how we're supposed to be reading this passage. You must remember that the larger frame is the exodus and the journey through the wilderness. The same thing, the analogous thing that you saw those people when they went through the Red Sea And they enter into the wilderness, so too are you to take that framework to understand your own life. He made the same kind of promises to them, and yet when they go through the Red Sea and they enter into the wilderness, they Encounter all kinds of difficulty and problems. So Isaiah 49, 9 through 10 is not a promise First and foremost, in this that you will automatically enter into eternal happiness the moment that you become a Christian. That's not what he's communicating You would know that if you hold it up against the thing that is supposed to give this meaning to you, and that is the Exodus story. They had plenty of problems. And you know what they did when they would have problems because they make the same mistake that we do? They would bring lawsuits against God. saying that he did not keep his end of the bargain and he's not a good shepherd. And those are the same things that can happen to us. We can fall back. into this kind of thinking just like the people that were in the desert. You're not there for me. If you were there for me, then such and such This never would have happened. I never would have even thought about being thirsty. You said you were always going to provide water. I want to go back to Egypt where there was water and leeks and onions. Now that doesn't sound appetizing to me I think my wife loves leaks. But you get the picture. And we do the same kind of thing as the people in the wilderness. And we can lose the same kind of hope that they lost. But the Lord always responds and ends up always being right in every single lawsuit that is brought against him. I'm not the problem, you are. There was never any reason for you to lose any hope. I am the Good Shepherd. And part of our maturity is learning to believe that. Let me put it this way. If you have trouble with hope, then that does not surprise God. I want you to do me a favor if you have your Bibles still open. We read 49, 1 through 13. Which cuts off right before a passage I've already preached to you at another time. I actually preached the next passage, Isaiah 49, 14, to you on the very first service we had under COVID. I was in Florida and you heard and I heard about COVID and so did you and this was on video. 4914 4914 and it says this This is how God says all these things. Isaiah reveals a conversation between the eternal Son and the Father. They record it, and then this is Israel's response. Zion, the Lord has forsaken me, and the Lord has forgotten me. If you read the rest of follow, then you will find that on our pilgrimage to glory, we will in fact face trouble and difficulty. But from this you may not conclude that Jesus is not shepherding us or that he will not lead us into the glorious green pastures. If you draw that conclusion, then you have done so invalidly. Now, all that being said, let me just ask you if you're struggling with hope this season. I think you'd be willing to admit, you know what, Jesse, you're right. I don't have any good reasons to not have hope. I'm just, you know. But there it is. So I want to give you a couple pictures, and I'm hoping that the spirit will use these pictures Giving you faith and that you would believe this, and that your hope meter would go up today, and perhaps through this season. For those of you who are low on hope because you cannot feel the presence of Christ, And he seems far from you. I give you this picture. And I encourage you to look at this today. I'm getting ready to quote a section from Revelation chapter 1, verse 13 through 16. And it says this as it describes our Christ: In the midst of the seven lampstands, one like the Son of Man. And out of his mouth went a sharp two-edged sword. And his countenance was like the sun shining in its strength. Now, if you were to look up a bunch of different verses from cross-referencing in your Bible Then one of the verses they give here is what? Isaiah chapter 49, verse 2. Here he is with the sword in his mouth. And so there are two main points for our hope here in this passage. This Jesus is the servant of Isaiah. This is an express declaration of that. They're referencing the Isaiah prophecy. And it is especially geared towards his people that they would have hope. And the first point, in order for you to have hope, is that he walks among the landstands. A little bit later he's going to interpret that for us and he says the lampstands are the churches. So I don't know what you think is going on in your life. But I'm telling you right now that Jesus Christ, though he be in his ascension, is not absent from what's happening to you. If you go on to read Revelation, you will find that he knows every detail Not only external actions, but what people are thinking in their hearts in every single church that has been established in Jerusalem, Judea, and all around the Mediterranean. He knows exactly what is going on with you. He knows exactly what you need. And he remains for you a good shepherd. He knows every detail of what is happening in your life, and he is shepherding you in the exact way that he thinks he should. in order to accomplish the plans that he has for you, the plans that he has for his church, and the plans that he has for this creation, all for the glory of God. And now I'll offer one more encouragement this morning. If you are low on hope, I encourage you to do something that might seem odd. As Americans, we think we have to know something first, and then we can do it. But the scriptures tell us that in a very real sense, we start to do in order to be able to know. So if you're struggling on the hope meter, I would encourage you to get to doing that you might know the hope of God. And that doing is singing. That doing is singing. That's how our passage ends. And so if you are low on hope, I encourage you to build up your hope by expressing your faith in song. I'm not sure how you situate or how you think about these morning services, but one of the reasons that God gives them to you is for you to climb in your hope meter. For you to sing about what he has done and what he's doing and the kind of person that he is, and what he thinks about you. I wonder if you've ever seen anybody just turn a whole situation around by a song. Have you ever had anybody just turn the whole mood around in a total place by beginning to sing or turning the radio on and letting music change the whole atmosphere? That can happen in good and bad ways. I wonder if you have different examples of how song has increased hope. I have an example for you. I remember watching a few years ago a video of a woman who had lost her house in floods in Hurricane Harvey. Does anybody remember Hurricane Harvey? The hurricane caused the sea level to rise and her house was underwater, and there were many more who were in her exact situation sleeping on cots in the Lone Star Expo Center. And uh what they ended up capturing was even in the middle of that, someone caught on phone that her that she Began singing a gospel hymn in the midst of it all. Those who were there reported that though their life seemed dark, all of a sudden there was a great light. And then they report and then they reported to her, hey, did you know that somebody posted this online and now the whole world has seen teeny sing this gospel song? Man. She sang, Our Father, all of heaven, roars your name Imagine this in the middle of a shelter in the expo center with people sitting on their cots with their houses underwater. Our Father, all of heaven, roars your name. Sing louder. Let this place erupt with praise. Can you hear it? The sound of heaven touching earth. The sound of heaven touching earth. King Jesus, you are the name we're lifting high. Your glory shaking up the earth and sky. Revival. We want to see your kingdom here. We want to see your kingdom here. Later, when it was reported to her that the whole world heard her sing that uh that gospel song, she said, I had no idea this was being recorded, but God had a plan She continued and she said, Not only did he want to love on those gathered in the Lone Star Expo Center who suffered loss at the hands of Hurricane Harvey. But he wanted to love one people across the world who were dealing with their own personal storms Amen to that, sister. Honestly, if you're going to do Advent well this year and not just have a Coles Christmas, Or an Amazon Advent. If you're going to do Advent well this year, then we need to remember our faith is built on the prophets, what they saw and what they heard. And what has been explained by the in the prophets to us by the apostles. We need to remember our hope is there. We need to remember our hope. And there is no better cure to a forgetful heart than to start singing God's praises again. We have good reasons to sing, brothers and sisters. We have the same reason as that woman in the Expo Center. The servant of Yahweh brings hope to all of the world. Amen. Let us pray.