Turn to Colossians chapter four, and we'll be looking at verses two through six tonight. I'd ask that you'd stand for the reading of his word. Chapter four and two through six Of Colossians. Continue earnestly in prayer, being vigilant in it with thanksgiving. Meanwhile, praying also for us that God would open to us a door for the Word, to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in chains, that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak. Walk in wisdom toward those who are outside, redeeming the time. Let your speech always be with grace, seasoned with salt, that you may know how you ought to answer each one. Pray. Lord, we're going to spend what is your will Much time in prayer this evening. And so I pray that the words of this text would motivate us to become a church who prays for those on the outside. I ask that you would work mightily. I ask these things according to your will and in your name. Amen. Amen. Please be seated. I am hoping to finish the I uh um evening guys. I originally was going to address everything that we see here within these verses. Take a look at your Bibles with me real quickly. I was originally going to address, there's an obvious division here starting in verse 2 dealing with prayer. It then moves into walking in wisdom and how we use our mouth. Right? There's a wisdom and there's a prayer, or there's a witness and a prayer in these two divisions, both dealing with outsiders. I'll talk to you about that in just a a second. Tonight, what I'd like to do is I'm going to make this a two-parter. I'm going to focus on the prayer. And then we're, and the perfect application of that is, you know what? We're going to pray. That'll be a great opportunity for us to begin that. It's a foretaste of what I'll be saying at the congregational meeting and how I hope to proceed this coming year. And so tonight we're we're going to be dealing with that first part of prayer. And I just want to give you a heads up on that. Now there's another thing I want to point out to you from this passage. From this whole section. Go back to chapter three. In chapter three, the first seventeen verses Have to do with church life. What is it supposed to be like in your church? Number one, there is a lot of difficulty. It's hard getting along with sheep that know how to bite. And every one of you here has teeth. So he gives us instruction on what to do and what not to do, what to put on and what not to put on, what to put on and what to take off That's the church life. Now, when you get to verse 18 through 21, he switches over into home life. You see, Christ has been raised from the dead and has ushered in the new heavens and the new earth. At some point And that means things are changing in your church and in your home. And so you can see that in verses 18 through 21. Well, then in 3:22 through 4. 1, we see the new creation showing up within our workplaces. Employer-employee relationships. And that's the last sermon that you heard from me. Now, this is really exciting what I get to say to you right now, because the next domain, according to chapter 4, verses 2 through 5. Is, in the new creation, how are you to relate to those who are outside of the church? Haven't you always wanted to know that? There are a million books written every year with some kind of code or mystery puzzle solved on how you're supposed to relate to the unbeliever. And usually those kind of books lack biblical references But here we see in these verses how you are supposed to relate to the outsider, those who are non-Christians. And I'm very excited about this. There's very clear direction here that is well within your grasp I really want it to set the tone for what we do for for at least all of 2019. And I'll talk to you about that in the application. So that's what we're looking at. I told you this morning, don't leave your Sabbath without a takeaway. Make sure you take away something that makes you stronger in the Lord. Now, hopefully you remembered the proposition from this morning, but Here's another one in case you forgot that one. Christians should relate to outsiders with prayer and witness. It's that simple. We'll do the witness thing next week. Christians should relate to outsiders, non-Christians. Christians, those outside the church, with prayer and witness. And so we're going to look at the prayer thing tonight. Let's begin with the with prayer. And I just want to step through. He gives us a list here of the way that we should be praying. Notice number one first in verse two of chapter four that we are to continue earnestly in prayer. Notice that I'm not making this whole thing up in verse 5, that it is toward those who are outside. Now you could say to me, no, he says, walk in wisdom towards those who are outside. Outside. No, no, no, you don't understand. Every verse in 2 through 5 is dealing with those who are on the outside. Look at what Paul says. What is he concerned about? Preaching the mystery of Christ to those who are on the outside. So we would pray for that kind of thing. We would walk in wisdom for that kind of thing. We would use our mouths for that kind of thing. This whole section has to do with the outsider. And the first thing he says is that we are to continue earnestly in prayer. Now, what does that mean? Earnestly does not mean with blood, sweat, and tears, although that may accompany It means to persevere in prayer. This is how the word is used throughout the scriptures. Here's an example of Jesus using it in Luke 18:1 through 5. Then he spoke a parable to them That men always ought to pray and not lose heart, saying, there was in a certain city a judge who did not fear God nor regard man. Now there was a widow in that city, and she came to him, saying, Get justice for me for my adversary. And he would not for a while. But afterward he said within himself, Though I do not fear God, nor regard man, yet because this widow troubles me, I will avenge her, lest her by her continual coming she wearies me She was persistent and persevered. And that was the same idea that we see here amongst Paul. Praying for work among outsiders. Is always accompanied by persevering and prolonged prayer. That's the point. And Paul knows that, so he enlists this congregation to make sure that it's happening for his gospel ministry Look at Acts 1:14, or just listen. These all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication with the women and Mary, the mother of Jesus, and with his brothers. And you know what happened after that. The tongues of fire descended. Thousands were converted. They were devoted to prayer. There's going to be a pattern. You're going to notice that whenever outsiders are brought into the kingdom, prayer was there. And it was persevering and prolonging. Longed prayer. Very important. Acts 2. 42. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship in the breaking of bread and in prayers And three or five thousand were converted or stepped into the church that day. This persevering prayer that must be amongst them. Or in Acts 431. You see, this is the formation of the church. This is when thousands are entering. It's accompanied. There's the accoutrement Of prayer, prolonged prayer. And when they had prayed, the place where they were assembled together was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and they spoke the word of God with boldness. But he says here, if you look back down at your scriptures, he says you would continue earnestly in prayer. And then he mentions being vigilant in it with thanksgiving. So it's not just persevering in it, it's being vigilant in it. Vigilantly has the meaning of watchfulness and sobriety within your prayer life, that you are aware of what is going on around you, and your prayers record that fact Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. There are places in Colorado that I hear that you could circle up the mountain and it's very, very steep, and there's no guardrail. And we take the turns with sobriety and wrong And the same thing is being said here in terms of the prayers that we would have. In 1 Thessalonians 5, 5 through 6, you were all sons of light and sons of the day. We are not of the night nor of the darkness. Therefore, let us not sleep as others do, but let us watch and be sober. The prayers are meant to be intelligent with what is going on around you, relative to outsiders. What is going on within our culture? That should determine the kind of prayers that you are offering. The charge then seems equivalent of knowing what is going on around you and being culturally aware. How is the enemy working against our work with outsiders? What are the issues at hand? What are the dangers even amongst our own children who have not made a profession of faith? Now so he says, Persevere, continue earnestly in prayer. He says, be vigilant in it. And then he says, with thanksgiving. This is a wonderful reminder. I'd encourage you just to look through Paul's letters for this word thanksgiving. In Colossians, there's a special theme of thanksgiving. For example, he uses Thanksgiving in verse 12 of chapter 1, verse 7 of chapter 2, verse 15 of chapter 1. Chapter three, verse seventeen of chapter three, and then he also uses it here. Look at Philippians in his use of thanksgiving also. And sober. He makes sure that his prayers are also full of thanksgiving. And I notice that he does that so that he can always be motivated by the goodness of God. I think he's infusing hope into the situation that otherwise would seem hopeless. When you are seeking to minister to those who are outside the church Tell me that you sometimes don't feel like you're at the end of your rope and you have no idea what to say anymore. If you were to try to reach out to them on Facebook, is there a right word that you could say without being criticized? Well, we need to infuse hope into that situation. We need to remember that when everything seems impossible, what people intend for evil, God always intends for evil. Those who end up in a pit are sold by their brothers, who are accused wrongfully of rape, end up being the prince of Egypt and celebrated by Disney. And we need to remember that in our prayers also as we continue to pray for those who are outside. We're persevering, we're vigilant in it, being watchful and sober, but we are thanksgiving. It is joyful Because we know what is possible with the Lord and what he can do. I get the sense that there is an extreme skepticism amongst the church because usually, particularly in PCA churches, the only thing we see the these days is people moving from one church to the next and people not coming out of an unchurched situation into the church. And that skepticism can create a real bitterness and hopelessness amongst us. No expectation that God is growing his kingdom, no expectation that God is going to take people that have never been to church and bring him into his kingdom. And that is not remembering redemptive history. He took people from Ur of the Chaldeans and brought them into his kingdom, and he will continue to do so today. And therefore we must pray with thanksgiving, always knowing what the Lord is up to. He's always up to something good. As you therefore have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him. Rooted and built up in him and established in the faith as you have been taught. He's reminding them of what it meant to meet Christ The joy of the Holy Spirit that they received. And he closes that same verse saying, abounding in it with thanksgiving. Remember the possibilities as we pray for outsiders. It will keep you showing up to prayer meetings for outsiders if you keep believing that God is going to do something amazing. Paul had the habit of rezer of rehearsing all of God's inspiring works, and we are going to need to do that if at least for this year we're going to continue praying for outsiders. And some of those outsiders you might think of as your children. You're going to need to be inspired to keep showing up. I was just having a conversation over some strange lunch I had This afternoon, I was eating fermented soybeans dipped in buffalo sauce with some kind of coleslaw thing. Don't ask. But while we're sitting there having lunch, it's delicious actually. And I rise to praise my wife. Thank you, Holly. For feeding me healthy things. We were we were we were sitting there And we were we were working out the k the children were working out what they were going to do on the Lord's Day. Principle that caught the purpose of the Lord's Day. And I said, this may not be the perfect language, but do something That remind you of how inspiring God is. Read a book about a good reformed missionary so that not so that you can focus on the missionary but so that you can see what God is up to all across the globe. Be inspired today. And that's the same kind of thing that's going on here when we're talking about entering into prayer with Thanksgiving. When we enter into prayer and thanksgiving and we rehearse the inspiring acts of God in his creation and in his redemption. We will continue to pray. We will not give up because we know he always has something good up his sleeve. I think that's what Paul is getting at as we look at all of the scriptures that include Thanksgiving. And so we have perseverance, which he My translation says earnestly, we are meant to be vigilant in our prayer, always watchful and sober. It is to be hopeful and therefore full of thanksgiving. And then he starts to move in here to the goal of this prayer. And there are some words when we start to get into the goal. That we need to define. He says here, let me read it to you in its entirety. Meanwhile, praying also for us. Well, why, Paul? Why would we want to do that? Then he gives a purpose clause, that. That God would open to us a door for the Word, to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in chains, that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak. Those are beautiful words. Worth a thousand books off of Amazon. Perhaps a million. What I want to do is go through a couple of these words to make sure you understand what he's saying. Did you notice that he uses this terminology open door? An open door in the scriptures refers to the opportunities that God provides and the successes that God accomplishes. He's asking for the congregation of Colossae to pray for those kinds of things. For doors to be opened. Now it goes throughout the scriptures. For example, in Acts 14, 27. Now, when they had come and gathered the church together, they reported all that God had done with them, and that God had opened the door of faith to the Gentiles. I hope you're starting to put two and two of what happens when Christians Christians get together and pray. The door opened to the Gentiles. Now listen to this from 2 Corinthians 2. 12. Furthermore, when I came to Troas to preach Christ's gospel And a door was opened to me by the Lord. Or again, in 1 Corinthians 16, 8 through 9, but I will tarry in Ephesus until Pentecost. For a great and effective door has opened to me, and there are many adversaries. He's making the most of the opportunity right there in the moment, with the door open Now the mystery that he's referring to, that when that door would be opened, that he'd be able to proclaim the mystery of Christ. That's funny language for us, but this is what What he means. The mystery refers to God's plan that was unclear or unknown in the past, but has now been revealed. Nobody knew what was going to happen. They were all guessing, like the magi, trying to follow a star and figure this thing out. But it has been revealed that God the Father is fulfilling all promises. In the Lord Jesus Christ and through his spirit. And that was given to Paul, and he was able to take that to Gentiles like us. The word mystery is most often used in Daniel. Essentially, Paul is pointing out that the great promise of the Messiah, who he is, when he will be here, where this is going to happen, how, and the purpose or for what end, had been revealed to him. We had that that's why I had that reading in the beginning. and he has opportunity when the doors are opened. And the doors are opened when Christians are praying. Do you see that? It's beautiful. There's a nice ladder that you can walk up. There's these rungs that you can climb within the passage. There is persevering and vigilant prayer of the Christian that leads them by God's grace to opening doors that then the gospel would be able to be preached through that door and people would be able to hear about Jesus Christ. Now tell me that's not exactly what we need. I have heard over and over again from you that the door is shut. I was I was thinking as Brad was going through his confession, there are moments and opportunities that I miss for gospel opportunities. But I was also thinking this. Some doors are shut. I have tried to bring things up and the door gets shut in my face all the time. Do you know what I think the implication is? The implication can't be that God is not giving salvation to humanity because he hasn't come in judgment, which means he's still calling people into his kingdom. The implication can't be that he's not good. The implication could be, according to this passage, is that the church is not praying for the outsider as they ought to be praying for the outsider. And I became convicted in even just pondering this that we don't have a Wednesday night prayer meeting. Wednesday night prayer meetings are traditional within the church. We pray at other times That's fine. And we do have a prayer meeting that happens during the week that was started by Carol Spirgis. And let me tell you what has happened since she started that prayer meeting. More people have come to me to tell me how the Word of Christ is working within their heart hearts than ever than I since I've been here since 2009. And that, because of this passage, I can see as no longer as a coincidence. It is exactly how God has always worked. He has always worked and made prayer an effective means to that end. He incorporates secondary means into his side. It's a part of our confession. I hope that you're starting to see and tie together the implications of this passage and what this means for us. Do you love the lost? Then we need to start praying together. Let me draw out a couple implications here, and then we're going to go into a time of prayer Just understanding the two words open door and mystery has profound implications. If we want to give the gospel of Jesus Christ to outsiders, if we want to see God gather people in, then God must open doors for proclaiming the gospel of Jesus Christ. Paul never says that when the door is open and the proclamation can happen, that everyone will accept. He never says that. All those whom God has chosen are brought into his kingdom. He does say that. But we're dealing with a situation where I don't even see open doors. Where are we supposed to have dialogue with our culture about Jesus Christ? Where can there be a public proclamation? Those doors are opened through persevering, watchful, and thankful prayers of God's people. They are not opened through psychological and manipulative pressure, which I think is what we have resorted to in the broadly evangelical church Our evangelism has become psychologically manipulative pressure. And I think it's a result of a deformity within our prayer life. You know, when one part of your body becomes deform or starts to lose its power, you start to favor and you start to kind of walk crooked in circles. And that's kind of what has happened to the church today. Let me read this quote that is really insightful from J. I. Packer. Pushing us towards prayer and away from psychological manipulation, feeling like we have to ask some kitschy or witty question at the nursery all the time. Evangelism must rather be conceived as a long time, a long-term enterprise of patient teaching and instruction. In which God's servants seek simply to be faithful in delivering the gospel message and applying it to human lives. And leave it to God's Spirit to draw men to faith through this message in his own way and at his own speed. Amen to that. And you know what we do in the background, that the Spirit uses as an effectual means, as the Spirit takes his time in working with people, is that we are in the background persevering in our Prayer, full of vigilance, because we're watchful and sober of exactly what this world needs. And we are full of thanksgiving. So we keep showing up in anticipation of God's Work to these prayer meetings. This is what God requires of us. I believe that this is timeless and that you should take this away this Lord's Day. Christians should relate to the outcome of the outsider to those who are outside the church with prayer. And next week we'll consider how we are to walk wisely and speak wisely before them. In our witness. But tonight, let's begin with prayer. We have 15 minutes less. I did not expect to go that long. We have 15 minutes left We can focus on the prayers that are in the back of the bulletin, but I surely would like you to focus on the prayer for the outsider. You know those in your life who have not who are not followers of Jesus Christ. I want you to pray for them. Let's go before our Lord now and ask for Open doors for the proclamation of his gospel. Please join me.