Please follow along. The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the Son of David, the Son of Abraham. Abraham begot Isaac, Isaac begot Jacob, and Jacob begot Judah and his brothers. Judah begot Perez and Zerah by Tamar, Perez begot Hezron, and Hezron begot Ram. Ram begot Aminadab, and Aminadab begot Nashan, and Nashan begot Salmon. Salmon begot Boaz by Rahab Boaz begot Obed by Ruth, Obed begot Jesse, and Jesse begot David the king. David the king begot Solomon by her who had been the wife of Uriah. Solomon begot Rehoboam. Rehoboam begot Abijah, and Abijah begot Asa Asah begot Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat begot Joram, and Joram begot Uzziah. Uzziah begot Jotham, Joseham begot Ahaz, and Ahaz begot Hezekiah. Hezekiah begot Manasseh, Manasseh begot Amon, and Amon begot Josiah. Josiah begot Jeconiah and his brothers about the time they were carried away to Babylon. And after they were brought to Babylon, Jeconiah begot Sheeltiel. And Sheeltiel begot Zerubbabel And Zerubabel begot Abyud, and Abayud begot Eliakim, and Eliakim begot Azor. Azor begot Zadok, and Zadok begot Achim, and Achaem begot Eluid. And Eliad, I'm sorry, Eliad begot Eliezer, Eliezar begot Mathan, and Mathan begot Jacob. And Jacob begot Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus. Who is called Christ. So all the generations from Abraham to David are 14 generations. From David until the captivity in Babylon are 14 generations And from the captivity in Babylon until the Christ are fourteen generations. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we of ourselves are not able to accomplish anything without you. We are meant to live in a holy dependence upon you. I pray therefore that you would work through the preached word. That you would make it effective. I pray that you would work in the hearts and the minds of your congregation. I pray, Lord, that as your word goes out, that it would not fail. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. You may be seated. It's been on more than one occasion that I've heard uh different conversations where people are lamenting the loss of public figures. I've heard just recently someone lamenting the loss of J. I. Packer. And they also another person was lamenting the loss of R. C. Sproll. And there were a few other names and that keep coming up. I'll just be in normal conversation and I'll notice this pattern and and I wonder, have you been in a situation like that where there's been the lament of these these public figures And if so, what kind of conversation is happening then? It usually goes like this, right? I'm not sure now that they're gone I'm not sure how things will continue in a positive direction without their influence. Well we all understand what they're getting at and we know that because of the way that God works, that depending who's around, what rulers, what scholars, what philosophers what theologians, what moms and dads, whichever ones are around, it really does make a difference for the community. So we get what they're saying. But if we were to go to the ultimate, however, this is a really great reason for a really great season for us to remember that it's no one of those individuals That's going to take us to a good place at the end of history. Instead, really what when we turn to the scriptures Especially, and all of you, whether you're Christians or not, you have probably heard most of the scriptures just from being a part of our culture. How many human beings in here looked like they were going to be the solution and ended up being more of the problem? They contributed what they contributed, but they ended up also contributing some problems. But then there arises or someone arrives. Where there is no problem. It's only positive contribution. And his name is Jesus. Now you just heard me use the word arrive, and that's what the word advent means. Advent is just a Latin word that means arrival. I'm sure you knew that, but I just thought I would clarify. And we're here celebrating and we're looking at scriptures that help us to understand what the arrival of Jesus meant. and what his second arrival will mean when he brings everything to uh consummation. That's really what we're going to focus through with the whole series. And I and and I think that'll really tie in well when we get back to the Sermon on the Mount. You'll have seen some of the beginning chapters of Matthew too. And that'll help us to continue on our Sermon of the Mount series. So let me just ask you, before I move into telling you what we're going to learn here today, who are you putting your hope into? When it really comes down to it. I had a friend pose a question on uh Facebook the other day. And he said, depending on your calendar, it really reveals where your heart is. This is a paraphrase. He says things more eloquently than me. Depending on your calendar, it really reveals where your heart is. Are you more about Black Friday or Good Friday? Now we're not celebrating Good Friday here, we're in Advent, but you see the point as to where is our heart, and you can see that there's a competition for our time and who we're supposed to be focused on. So I just ask you, who are you putting your hope in, especially this season? Who occupies your attention? My prayer for this sermon is that it would be Jesus. The Holy Spirit is here with us now, and He's teaching us, and He's going to teach us from His Word. And he's basically going to teach us three main things from this passage that we have here today. Jesus renews the whole world. There's a new creation. Jesus is the long-awaited king and takes his rule forever and ever. And then finally we'll see that Jesus is the servant and he's rescuing us from exile. And we desperately need that. Those are the three parts of the genealogy. Isn't it, you know, have you heard that the Gospel of Matthew has been donned the gr one of the greatest books, or perhaps the greatest book? in all of human history. Have you ever heard that? Well when you if someone said that to you, if someone said to you, Matthew is the greatest book in human history, you would say, man, well I gotta read that book. And then you would open the book and you'd say, um, what's up with the genealogy? How could that be great? And how am I supposed to even know what's I did a pretty good job with the names this year. And how am I supposed to how am I supposed to read this with a she LTL? But I'm telling you right now, when we divide up this genealogy, though it you may not be familiar with it, this is a a very If you were to grew up as a Jew during this time, you'd see it right away that he's announcing that Jesus is making a new creation. Jesus is the King forever. And Jesus is rescuing, as the suffering servant, he's rescuing his people from exile. Those are the three things we're going to see within the the genealogy. So I just want to go through each one of those here with you this morning. Let's take a look first at where we see in the There's so much here we could talk about this for a really long time. If you've studied the genealogy, you know that. But I want to just first want to show you that Jesus is the one who arrives or advents to bless the whole world with his new creation. You can see this in the very first verse, which is where we're going to start. It says, the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Now when you read that there in 1-1, it says the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, because you don't have that original language in front of you, And you're most likely not studying the Greek version of the Old Testament, you're not able to match things up very quickly. But if you could read the Greek version of the Old Testament, which is called the Septuagint And then if you were to look at this sentence here in the original language, you would see that this sentence and the first sentence of the book of Genesis are the same sentence. So you could read Matthew, it's the book of the Genesis. It's the book of Genesis. Now it goes on and it says the Genesis of Jesus Christ, but it's the same thing that we see within the book of Genesis itself. And this is meant to invite us. Matthew is writing and he's saying he's inviting you and he's saying, if you want to understand who this Jesus really is, the one who has come, If you really want to understand what Advent is all about, you have to begin with the book of Genesis. You have to begin with the book of Genesis. Judaism thought of redemption. Judaism and those who would have been reading this in the beginning, Judaism thought of redemption and renewal as a new beginning. And that's what Matthew is doing here. He's taking us all the way back by just with this first title, inviting us back to see that this is the, we're we're rewriting, we're rewriting there's a new creation that is going to happen. Not only would the last Redeemer, the Messiah, he would be the next Moses, he would bring us into our rest. He would bring us into this new world, and he would bring us into a world that was meant to be as it was in the beginning. All of those things are there between the lines as Matthew begins to deliver this message. And if we wanted to, we could go through the Gospel of Matthew and we could see how Jesus capitalizes on this theme. That he is really beginning things anew. Now we know that by the time we get to the end of our scriptures in Revelation 20 21, 4, or in chapter 21, When we get towards the end of all of the scriptures, you can see how the end of history will be will be and that it's actually a new beginning. That's the whole point here, that the new beginning is coming through this person who has been sent. And it's Jesus from Nazareth. In Revelation twenty-four, I'm sure you're familiar with this, it says, And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more pain, for the former things have passed away. And if you were to read that same chapter, you would see that there is a mountain, like the mountain of Eden. You would see that there is a garden that is present. Always meant to be. You'll see that there's a husband and a wife in the garden, just as we see within the book of Genesis. And all of this is captured here by Matthew in starting this off and just saying, the one that we've been waiting for, who's going to bring things back to the beginning. But even better, it's this one. This is the book of Genesis. This is the consummation of all time, which I'll get to in just a moment. But this is the book of Genesis, and it's the Genesis of Jesus Christ, who is the Son of David, the Son of Abraham. Now that's a lot to say, and you can see how important that would be for us to be able to start to understand this genealogy. But if you grew up in that culture, there's no way you could miss that. I wanted to say one more thing here, if we were to go into verse number two, just showing again that the one arrives is the one who's blessing the whole world. He's recreating the whole world. But he's now, and we could also talk about that as he's going to bless the whole world, and he's and that is what Matthew is getting at, especially by bringing up Abraham in verse number two. When he says Abraham begot Isaac, or in the first verse he mentions the son of Abraham. Those of you who have been reading the scriptures, you know that from Galatians, the Apostle Paul teaches us a lot about the Abrahamic promise. Have we all read that section in Galatians? It says this, it says, just as Abraham believed God and it was accounted to him for righteousness, therefore know that only those who are of faith are sons of Abraham. And the Scripture foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel to Abraham beforehand, saying And this is the key. In you all the nations shall be blessed. That's the whole point, is that Matthew is pointing out here that this Jesus is the one who's going to, he's the long-awaited one coming from the loins, if you will, or the seed of Abraham, that you bless the whole world. and to remake the whole world. In you all the nations shall be blessed, so then those who are of faith are blessed with believing Abraham. That's the first part of this. I'm not going to read through all of the different names for you. That's not what we're going to do this morning. But that's the first part of the genealogy. We see in the genealogy first that this is the uh inviting us back into the book of Genesis to depend on it because Jesus is making a new creative. And also that Jesus is the one, according to Matthew, that will be blessing the whole world as was promised to Abraham. Have you looked through the scriptures to see that Jesus is the one who created the world to begin with? The Son incarnate? Do you recognize who you're dealing with? You know, going back to the introduction of this sermon and saying we lament the loss of J. I. Packer or whoever. And then me saying, you know, our real hope is in Jesus, why would I say such a thing? What is he capable of? What could we be saying about him where he's going to recreate the world? That all the world will be blessed in him? What kind of person is that to say those kinds of things? You know, there was a clue to the disciples in Matthew 8, 26 through 27, as to who they were dealing with. It says in Matthew 8, But he said to them, Why are you fearful, O you of little faith? This is when the storm arose Then he arose, Jesus arose, and he rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm. So the men marveled, saying, Who can this be that even the winds and the sea obey him? Go ahead and ask yourself that question. Who is this that controls the wind and the waves? If you're familiar with the scriptures, then you would of course think of Psalm 89, verse 9, where it says, of God, you rule the raging of the sea. When its waves rise, you still them. And that's what the disciples were starting to realize is that this Jesus was not just another zealot, a political zealot. But that this Jesus was God in the flesh. And so they'd go on and they'd start to understand under other scriptures that that from eternity the Son who eventually became incarnate, but from eternity it was the Son who had created all things In Job 38, 8 through 11, or in Psalm 89, verse 9, in 104, 5 through 7, or Proverbs 8, 27 through 8, especially it talks about the Son being the master craftsman who creates all the worlds. And what I'm delivering to you here this morning by way of the genealogy of Matthew is I'm saying the reason why we can say that this Jesus, who has arrived, is able to recreate the world. To create paradise. And the reason why we can say he will bless the world is because he is the incarnate craftsman from Proverbs 8 who created the world to begin with. He already has built this house once. He knows how to restore it. That's the message that Matthew is giving us here. And now you can begin to see, brothers and sisters. Is this one of the, is this the best book that's among the human race? Well, so far so good. So far so good. We got deep real quick And the question that comes before you is you're here with this candle, which is not wishful thinking. I'm not optimistic. I'm not glass half full like every Irishman. That was a that had double meaning. I'm saying who could stop Jesus if he's the incarnate Son who created the heavens and the earth? That's what's being published here. Now the genealogy continues. You see we we took a look at the really the title of the book, which is that this is the book of Genesis. It's about new beginnings. And that it's about blessing the whole world by way of the promises that were given to Abraham. They are fulfilled in Christ. But the second is that this one who has arrived, Jesus, is the king over the whole world. And we see that as we get into the second section of the verse number six in our genealogy. Verse 6 starts with the preceding paragraph, at least within my translation, and it says, And Jesse begot David the king. And then it picks up again in 6B there. David the king begot Solomon, and then it continues after that. And the reason why he's bringing this up is to tie Jesus to that Davidic kingship. And really, when you see this, you should be remembering that What Matthew is saying here is all that we had heard in the past about a king that will be placed on a throne, based on the promises that were given to David, this one named Jesus from Nazareth, that's the king That's the one. In 2 Samuel 7, there was a promise that was given to David. It says, when your days are fulfilled and you rest with your fathers, I will set up your seed after you, who will come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be his father, and he shall be my son. And then it continues on specifically speaking about Solomon. Now we see the apostles picking up the same message about waiting for the king so that the kingdom could happen forever. Because all of the kings that succeeded David fell They either fell into idolatry or they just died. So how will this dynasty continue? How will the kingdom continue? Well, in Acts 2, 34 through 36, the apostle picks this theme up and he says, For David did not ascend into the heavens, pointing out he's not the one that fulfilled the royal psalm. But he says himself, David said himself, the Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand till I make your enemies your footstool. And then Peter goes on to conclude after a very long inductive sermon in verse number 36 of chapter 2. Therefore, let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and the Messiah or the Christ. It's the same theme here that we're waiting for the tree to grow up out of the stalk of David. to see who the branch will be that is given the kingdom forever and ever. And here this morning I have the privilege of declaring to you that it's the one whose advent we celebrate It is Jesus who is Lord in Christ. It is Jesus who is Lord in Christ. Now, I want to point out, just in support of that, verse number 17. You can see in the way that this comes across that verse number 17 really situates itself outside of just a continuation of the genealogy. It's not a list of name after name after name. There's some kind of summarizing effect going on here. some kind of consummate action that's happening before we switch over into the birth of Christ as we move into verse number 18. But in verse number 17, let me just reread it for you. So all the generations from Abraham to David are 14 generations From David until the captivity in Babylon are 14 generations, and from the captivity in Babylon until the Christ are 14 generations. Now what's the emphasis here? We've already heard the name Abraham, Jesus, and David. I get that. It's repeating all the time and the title it repeats. Throughout the genealogy, those three things repeat. Here in verse number 17, it repeats again. But what do you see as an emphasis going on here with each of them? It's the 14, right? And we're not used to that kind of a thing. But Matthew really is seeking to communicate to us here within these genealogies. particularly in this summary, which is a selective genealogy, he's seeking to communicate meaning to us by way of numbers. Now, we are very fortunate here this morning in that we have children who have returned home from college who actually know how to do math. So some of them are like really good at math. And if I asked them, okay, well 14, isn't that 7 plus 7? They'd say, yeah. And then if I were to look at this, the way that this is laid out, where there's 14, 14, 14, how many pairs of sevens do we have? Right? We have a total of six sevens. Am I those of you who do math, am I making a fool of myself? Am I doing all right? Andrew, I'm looking at you, brother. All right. Six sevens. Now, I'm so sorry that I had to say that. I just realized how deep this goes. Man, six, seven. Where's Addison? Sorry, huh? But we don't stay there. Let me recapture your attention. So we're just yes, thank you. So what you can see here within this passage is that we're missing one. There are all these generations that have come before and we don't have the seventh seven yet. Because seven is the number of perfection, not six sevens And in fact, if you were to go to Daniel in chapter 7, which is why we began our preaching in the Great Commission on Daniel 7 and Daniel 9. If you go to Daniel 7 and to Daniel 9, they're counting weeks as to when the Messiah comes. And guess how many weeks is his arrival? Seven sevens. And that's what's going on here. The king has come. You can know that not only because of what is being said to him in terms of Abrahamic lineage. And Davidic lineage, but even the numerology that's taking place within the passage, Matthew is lining everything up for you to see the end is here. The Advent has come. The 7-7 is here. The kingdom has arrived. The branch has grown from the tree. And so I just pose to you again, if that's true, if Jesus is the 7-7, who will stop him? If this is God's plan and the consummation of it for all of history, how will he be stopped? Do you realize the depth of hope that you have? All of history has come to this point and is the hope of the human race. Well that's the second part of the genealogy. And we finally get into the third part, when we get into verse uh right at the end of eleven, but also the beginning of twelve, you can see that that's a pattern also. Josiah begot Jechaniah and his brothers about the time they were carried away to And so we move into the third point, and that is that this Jesus is also the servant who will bring the world out of exile. Begins with his people and then spreads to the Gentiles, bringing the world out of exile. You see that in verse number 12 also, and they be and they were brought to Babylon. And that is talking about exile. Jesus being that servant who brings them out of exile. Now we we've seen this story before, haven't we? After Jesus is crucified, buried, raised again, and goes into his ascension, The word goes out to Jerusalem, which I read to you in Acts. There's a sermon going out, and the Jewish people are realizing Well, we really have put our foot in it here because we just crucified the Messiah, but come to find out, God had foreordained that we would do so and now offers us his mercy. for us to to turn to him in repentance and faith for the remission of sins. Once Stephen is martyred, there is a great fleeing from Jerusalem into the outer countrysides. And you begin to see that this Jesus is going to start fulfilling that Abrahamic promise of saving not just the Jewish people, but both Jew and Gentile. And you see this especially as Gentiles begin to realize that Jesus is the one who's the suffering servant, who brings people back from their transgressions and their sins. And you see this in the story especially of the Ethiopian. In Acts 8, 31 through 35 it says, And he said, How can I, speaking of the the eunuch, And he said, how can I, unless someone guides me, understand this passage from Isaiah? And he asked Philip to come up and sit with him in the chariot. Does everyone remember this story? The place in the scripture which he read was this: he was led as a sheep to the slaughter, and as the lamb before its shears is silent, so he opened not his mouth. in humil his humiliation, his justice was taken away. And who will declare his generation? For his life is taken from the earth? So the eunuch answered Philip and said, I ask you, of whom does the prophet say this? Of himself or some other man. Then Philip opened his mouth and in beginning at this scripture, preached Jesus to him. Now, up to this point this gentleman knew that he could only re report to the outer court of the Gentiles. He felt his exile in the way that a Gentile feels. Jews have felt that exile in being under Roman occupation or have been dragged off into Babylon. And here we see that though transgressions took us away into exile, even back to the garden, being removed with that flaming sword with the angel. Even if we have been taken away our transgressions, Jesus, having taken on our transgressions, takes us back. Brings us back into the presence of God. One author writes in terms of exile, calling it a kind of a perpetual homelessness that humanity feels. He says home is where you fit. Home is where you can be yourself. But Genesis 3 tells us what's wrong with the human race. We are homeless. To see the great goods the gospel brings to us, we need to first see what's fundamentally wrong with the human race. What we are told here is that the condition of the human race is homelessness and exile, writ large. And because of and that is because of our transgressions, but we have the suffering servant who comes along, even as Philip taught in the chariot that day. It's not of another man that this is spoken of. This is spoken of And he preached to him Jesus. And he preached to him Jesus all the way from Isaiah on. Truly, Jesus is the suffering servant that takes away our transgressions, and he brings the prodigal son back home. So that there can be a feast and the prodigal doctor, a daughter. Truly we can see and eat as we divide out this genealogy, truly we can see that Jesus renews the world, there is a regenesis, a new creation, that it is Jesus that is the long-awaited king who takes up the throne of David to rule over heaven and earth. And truly it is Jesus who is the servant rescuing us from our homelessness and our exile because of our transgressions. And looking over at the candle again, all of this, as I've said throughout the sermon, is meant to bring you here this morning not hope in R. C. Sprole. Or J. I. Packer or whatever philosopher you might have put your hope in. What Matthew is saying here, writing the best book of the world Jesus is your hope. Jesus is your hope because of who he is and what he's doing. Now I was reading from a gentleman that I really enjoy, and he was recounting a story which I'd like to recount to you. He said that several years ago a friend of his uh who was a missionary with the Wycliffe Bible Translators worked among a group of people who had never heard the gospel in their language. That's exciting work. But it's also really difficult work. He goes on to say, the people for whom she was working could not write or read. So that creates a problem. You're going to create a translation for people that can't read it. So all of their communication was oral. The missionary's first task was to learn the language of the tribe. Then she had to change that oral language into a written form and then teach the people to read it and to write it It was a laborious task that took many years. Only after all that was accomplished could she undertake the task of translating the Bible into this language. She began with the Gospel of Matthew. To expedite the project, she skipped the genealogy to get to the meat and the substance of the story of Christ, and then she sent her translation work off to be printed by a publisher in a distant city. She waited months for the first copies of Matthew to arrive at the compound, and when the trucks came in with the Bibles, or at least came in with the Gospel of Matthew, The people were much more interested in the trucks than they were in the translation. After having spent ten years on the project, she was crushed when she saw that people did not care at all. Nevertheless, she persevered in her task, and in the second edition of Matthew, she included the genealogy. When that arrived, the missionary explained the genealogy to the tribal chief. And the tribal chief said Are you trying to say that this Jesus you've been telling us about for 10 years was a real person? And she replied, yes, of course. And he said, I thought you were telling us a story about some mythical character. Once he understood that this Christ was real in space and time, the chief came to Christ. And shortly thereafter, the whole tribe became followers of Jesus. It's such a lovely story, and it makes me just want to ask you, you know, this whole time that I've been speaking up here or other times that you've heard about Jesus, have you just thought that he's kind of a philosophical idea? Because what Matthew is pointing out here in a ancestry list is that Jesus is a real person. That Jesus is God in the flesh, in time and in space And that he is the hope of the world. Not ideas, not a new book, not a philosophy That Jesus, His person and His work, is our hope. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I know that we can make the same mistake as that tribal chief in thinking that Jesus is just a good set of ideas. Or just some moral teacher. If he was real, then he was just some moral teacher or was good at politics or that he was a savvy pacifist or whatever it is. But when we listen to his disciples who have been authorized to pen these words and these genealogies, we hear so much more. Lord, there is no one here in their natural state who will just accept the preaching of this word here. I therefore pray for the people here that you would open their eyes and their ears and that you would permit them to see the glory of Jesus. that he is God incarnate. And I pray, Lord, that you would give them the faith to confess that he is God. And to confess that he is the hope of the world, that he is the Lord and the Christ, that he is the one who takes away their sins. Oh Lord, I beg you for your mercy. I beg you that you would permit this congregation and these children to not have the word snatched from them. Make them soil that can receive this word here this morning in the name of Christ. Amen.