Father, honestly, this scripture should have us sobered up immediately and shaking in our boots. With the recognition that we too are priests as the priesthood of believers. I pray, therefore, Lord, that you would give the kind of humility and docility that is necessary to receive your word and then to take the path of your will. Pray that your congregation would hear and do. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Well you can see that for the next few weeks We are leading the Acts series for the Advent series, as we do each year. And to the pleasure of much of you, we will not be going through Lamentations. Woo, rookie mistake. We will be going through Luke. It'll be cheerful and bright and lovely, full of smiles, butterflies. This is going to be a good change of pace. And it's appropriate that we would go through Luke because really on our full-time series we're going through Luke part two anyway. So why not go back to Luke part one? In Luke Part 2, or Acts, you see the church spreading out from Jerusalem into the nations of that ancient world, consummating in the gospel in Rome. Well, you see something different in Luke part one. In Luke part one, the movement is not away from Jerusalem, but toward Jerusalem. Traditionally, Elizabeth and Zacharias, the parents of John the Baptist, are thought to live northwest of Jerusalem, for example, and it'll be from these places or just a little bit further out northwest where Jesus himself heads into Jerusalem. And then in Acts the movement changes where it's from Jerusalem to the world. Now that's a general observation. And let's start to become specific here about what's going on in our passage. I have to say that this passage is largely misread, so it'll be good to clarify a few things this morning. Observation number one Please do not overlook all of the unfamiliar details about the priesthood. It's actually the main point of this passage. Here you see in verse 5 that Zacharias is a priest. His wife, moreover, is of the daughters of Aaron, verse 5. Luke is really going to labor that the priesthood should be on your mind here in these passages. Verse number six, they are both righteous and blameless. Verse number seven, they had no child because Elizabeth was barren. That should remind you of another priest and priestly situations When you see those kinds of key words, when you see the keywords that are in that arena of priesthood and priests Then you know, and you should know already, having been in the preaching here in this church, that what you have happening in this passage is far more than just a historical recording It is not less than history, but it is so much more than that. Let me point out two reasons why what's really going on here, or two more observations on what's really going on here under observation number one Number one, I want you to recognize that Elizabeth here, she is a figure. She is barren. That is a figure that is all throughout the scriptures. And here, when we start to connecting the dots, she is primarily a figure for Hannah from the books of Samuel. And her son John 5th verse 15, who was under a Nazirite vow, is just like Hannah's son Samuel. That's really what's framing this whole thing is Hannah and Samuel. That story is being rehearsed or refigured here within this passage. That's observation number one. Observation number two, the angel Gabriel, who we last saw in Daniel Has come to start opening the seals, ushering the world into a new era. That's another thing that we see here as quite significant It says this in Jan Daniel chapter twelve, verse nine. And he said, Go your way, Daniel, for the words are closed up and sealed till the time of the end. The beginning of this new era was with John in verse 16, turning many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. Now, what you need to know about that, or what you need to see with that quote and with verse 17, is that these are quotations from minor prophets, particularly Malachi. To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedience to the wisdom of the just, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. That's all Malachi, and we had a reading from that earlier. That's observation number two. Observation number three. Here's where we can take all of those details about her being a figure of Hannah and John being a figure of Samuel. The details about the priesthood, the quotation from Malachi, and the context of corrupt priests. Here we can start to connect all of those dots with observation number three. If you're familiar with Hannah's context in 1 Samuel and the quote from Malachi from the angel, and the emphasis on the priesthood through Zacharias, Connecting him to Aaron, even, then you know that Luke is highlighting the upcoming reformation of the kingdom of God, beginning with the wicked shepherds that are in the church. That will be why Jerusalem is burned down in 70 A. D. , by the way, is unrepentant priestly class. They will be replaced by the apostles. In 1 Samuel, wicked priests prevail, and Samuel is born to reform the church. Go ahead and read 1 Samuel. It's the same, very similar story to what we have here And that's meant to be that way. In Malachi, it's the same thing. The main problem is the evil shepherds. I mean it was quite the transition this morning to sing that lovely song at first and then For me to say refuse, right? So what we end up seeing here is that John the Baptist is coming and he's doing the same kind of work that Samuel was doing. He's doing the same kind of work that was promised in Malachi. In other words, he is the promised First reformer of the church in the new era under the Christ. Now, this explains, by the way, Gabriel shutting Zachariah's mouth. Zacharias's mouth. As a priest and teacher of Israel, Zachariah should have known that God makes barren women fruitful as a beginning of major reformation. It happened over and over again throughout the scriptures. I'd encourage you this afternoon, just think about how many times that happened, where you have the barren theme and then reformation. This is happening over and over again. But here's the problem with Zacharias, and Zacharias stands as a kind of consummate priest for the whole corrupt priesthood at that time, though he himself, I don't consider to be corrupt like them. But just like all of the other priests, Zacharias has become dull in his understanding of who God is and what he's doing, and therefore he deserves his ability to teach He deserves to lose his ability to teach, and therefore his mouth is m is shut. Once the prophecy is fulfilled and John is born, his mouth is open, we'll see next week, and he's able to prophesy of the truth of what God has been doing from the beginning. But it's a commentary on the whole priesthood at that time that their mouth needs to be shut because they have forgotten truth. Well, that's quite a bit, but you can really boil it down to this. God is committed to Reformation, beginning with the church That's really what's happening here. It's just happening in a very specific way at this particular time. I'll state that for you again. If you take those observations and you read this in light and through the framework of Malachi And 1 Samuel, this is the main doctrine. God is committed to reformation beginning with the church. Now, for the application this morning, I want to talk a little bit about history, because the scriptures tell us how we are to view history. And that helps to support our teaching this morning. And then obviously we need to talk about hope because today is the day of hope for Advent. So let's begin with history. Here's why I want to start with history. When I say this sentence to you, I kind of expect you to walk down a certain path. God is committed to reformation, beginning with the church. You are trained as modern Christians to hear that as a bald and mirrored description of what took place during the time of John the Baptist. It is, in fact, a true description of what is going on here in this Luke passage. The Reformation has begun. It will start with the church. Especially the wicked shepherds. That's the point. But the Spirit expects us to see so much more than a truth about the past. He is giving us a view into the nature of history itself. Many of us think of history as just moving forward linearly. And that is how history feels to us. That's how we interpret our experience. We're kind of on a line, and we're all just walking forward, all of us in history. That's how we would explain our experience And in a sense, that is true. The scriptures tell us, for example, that we are closer to the final advent and return of Christ than our forefathers. That's true. So, in that sense, there's this progression and linear movement forward. But that is only part of the picture that we see within the scriptures. The scriptures also show us that history is cyclical Let me give you a couple examples. And now these are not just meant to be read as old stories that used to be beneficial to people. God is giving us insight into the nature of reality when He tells us these things. For example, Israel's calendars are on a cycle For a reason that you might understand the very nature of reality and history. For example, the week repeats. And it repeats on a specific day, and that day changes after the resurrection of Christ It's there were cycles also in their festival calendar. The book of Judges, for example, presents us with a liturgical view of like I'm talking about here, with History as cycles. Have you read the book of Judges to see how it just keeps looping, though there's a kind of progression They keep looping back, they repent, they become seduced, they move into sin, they cry out in pain to be released from the consequences of their sin. And then they start, and it goes like that all the way through And the same thing is present here in the passage. He's trying to show you the nature of reality. Even in our passage here, do you not know that we are part of a cycle repeating the time of Hannah and Samuel? You think this is just a cute literary technique. No, it's not. This is how God has organized history, where He has cycled back to an earlier time of Hannah and Samuel. When you end up putting these two things together, the cycle that I'm talking about and the linear history that you take for granted, what you end up having is a kind of uh moving in a circle while moving forward in a straight line. And that's about what the scriptures present to us. It would be like taking all of history and turning it into a soccer ball and pushing it That it turns over and over, but it's also moving forward. Or you could think of a spiral. I don't want to get too philosophical. And one of the reasons I don't want to get too philosophical, though it's too late, I know. Is that some of you will say to me, Thank you so much for the philosophy of history. Excuse me while I take a nap or check my email. But I would encourage you, please don't do that. Because I really am trying to give this to you as a group of modern church-going people that you might tap into what they took for granted in the historiography of the scriptures themselves. I encourage you therefore to stay awake and see the foundation that's being laid that you can better understand the teaching or the doctrine. Let me put it down like this. If history is as I have presented it, then when I say God is committed to reformation beginning with the church Then that is truly a description of what we see in the passage. But since what comes around goes around, we will see God exercise the same commitment throughout the entire history of the church in different eras. And that is very important for you, as you will see later, for your hope. In other words, I am not preaching to you this morning, God was committed to Reformation beginning with the church I am telling you, with this foundation of history underneath of me, I am telling you that God is committed to Reformation, beginning with the church. Knowing this, I think that the question that you need to ask is: are we in that part of the cycle wherein God is reforming the church? And I would be interested to know what you think on your own time. Are we in an era where God is reforming the church, starting with wicked shepherds? Those who really should just have their mouth shut. Well, I say yes. We're at least having a mini-reformation. I'm not going to belabor this point because I feel like I've been telling you that since COVID started. You have heard me frame COVID and the woke movement under this category Of the reformation of God in his church. God is calling the church, primarily to evaluate and repent of her relationship to the major institutional structures of our society. That is what I see. Government, science, university Those institutions are meant, from their perspective, to legitimize themselves as a plausible alternate world order. And what we are supposed to see is that they are an alternate world order which is sent against Christ and his kingdom, but we have lost in many ways that kind of eyesight. The church, if you want to put this in terms of Old Testament injury uh imagery, which is always dangerous, I already talked about refuse this morning, and that's a polite translation Let me put it this way, the church has been caught with her arm around those institutions. And her husband, who is Christ, wants her to return and to be faithful. We uh I think we know this, and so that is why I say that the answer is yes, and this is just part of the picture. There's more to talk about and what God is doing in the reformation of his church. You know, when we think through history and we think through our passage, we don't have a desert around here. I don't know of anyone who's eating locusts and honey around here, but even now you can see that history comes full circle. God is in fact reforming the church in our time. I have many particular examples, even of evil shepherds being removed. So that's our first application, which is history, which is a very important foundation for us to lay and to have as a church. The second is hope. What this should do is it should fill you with great hope. It really should. For here's the first thing under hope. For if our time is analogous to other times of Reformation, including the time of Zacharias, then now is our time for hope. Maybe things will become more difficult before they become better, but the purpose in God's hands of things becoming difficult is so that they will be better. And that should give us hope. If God is cleaning up the place and He has to flip over some tables again, we can do that in hope because we know the end of the story. And he will continue to do that in our day because our time is a time that is like their time. That's the first thing that gives us hope, we cycle back and God arrives or visits in different ways. Here's the second thing that gives us hope. I hope that you noticed in the passage that it was ordinary people like us and their prayers that caused God to rise and to do his work of reformation. That should be very hopeful for you. In Jerusalem, in this passage, lived all of the right religious movers and shakers. The Pharisees and the Sadducees, the High Priest and Herod, all of those with money, all of those with all the greatest education, and were published in the theological journals But you know well enough that in fact they are the problem. In other words, one of the we ways that we, given who we are, can have hope Is that it is not the famous, it is not the higher-ups which are at the center of the Reformation, and it is never the case when we look through the Gospels Later, or here in this passage, we see Zacharias and Elizabeth outside the city. I would say he's a country priest with his wife. And that's a country congregation, if I've ever seen one. And later it will be a country girl named Mary. He works through us little people. And that gives me hope that no matter how little people think I am, I can pray to a big God. And he hears us. Now here's a third reason to have hope. God works through ways that are within your grasp. You will not see Zacharias and Elizabeth, you will not see Joseph and Mary, or John the Baptist and others form a military militia and storm the capital in Jerusalem. That will not be what they do. They will do what the church always does. They will turn on their lamps, like we saw them in the book of Acts. They will turn on their identifying markers of the church, and Jesus Christ, by way of his Spirit, will work through them. He will work through them in their sacred worship on regular rhythms Especially through the preaching of the Word, especially through fellowship, as they give up their lives for each other as a testimony to the world. And what we see at the time of incense in this passage is that they will work through their prayers. They will take their prayers before their Almighty God and plead with them for reformation. Take a look at verse 10. And the whole multitude of the people was praying outside at the hour of incense. What a beautiful picture of the smoke going up in the air as a representation of the prayers of the saints Going before God. The angel Gabriel comes down to tell them that God has heard your prayers and He's going to act now. He didn't just hear the prayers of Zacharias and Elizabeth for a child They heard the prayers of the whole congregation of a child for reformation to prepare the way of the Lord. And he heard their prayers even for the sending of the Christ himself. It's just country people at a prayer meeting. You know, it makes me wonder if it was on a Wednesday. Makes me wonder if it was after an evening service. It's just country people on their knees pleading to God for reformation. It is from their prayers, including those of Zacharias and Elizabeth, that God acts to send John to turn many back to God. And I'm telling you that this is hopeful because we too can pray just like that congregation of saints. We can see that there is reformation that is needed In fact, let me put that in the form of a question. Where do you see the need for reformation in the church? That's what I'm talking about. In the church. Now, church is a big thing. It's not just the PCA. Where do you see the need for reformation in the church And what hope do you have that we can become a bright witness to the world again? Well, the answer at least is that we would get together and we would pray. Knowing that one day God will hear our prayers and He will act. And I hope you, Severn Run, have some experiences already during our last two years together of praying and seeing the Lord answer the prayers. In mighty ways. I can testify to several times that he has done so quite explicitly. You really can't miss it. Are you praying? You know, one of the first signs of not having hope is not having a prayer life. If we have hope, we pray. If not, if you're not praying, then I'd encourage you to join us at our hour of prayer without any incense in the evening service. If you have in fact been praying, I know we have prayer veterans and warriors out there. Every time I go to talk to you, I'm interrupting you because you're in prayer. I don't want you to lose heart. Please keep praying. I I wish I could tell you all of the personal examples that I experienced. I can't because I don't want to embarrass people and what they're going through with their lives But I'm telling you right now, those of you who are praying, your prayers are being answered. Your prayers are answered every day as I see Christ work amongst the people here in this congregation Please do not lose heart. The Lord is answering your prayers. The bottom line for our passage this morning and the beginning of Hope for Us for Advent Is that God is in fact committed to reformation and he begins with his church? This is not just a descriptive statement about God's commitments in the past. History repeats. Our time is their time. Reformation is now also. And therefore, we must have hope. I know that none of you are senators. This I don't think. Let me know if you are. I know that none of you are millionaires. Let me know if you are. We're just some country or some suburban folk. But God will work through us. He will work through our preaching. And he will especially work through our prayers. Please pray with me