Joshua judges Ruth, unless you have a Hebrew Bible. We c we'll talk later. Yes. So this morning you can also find the text in the bulletin. I'll be reading Ruth 1, 1 through 6. Please follow along. Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled that there was a famine in the land. And a certain man of Bethlehem, Judah, went to dwell in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. The name of the man was Elimelech The name of his wife was Naomi, and the names of his two sons were Melon and Kileon. Ephertis of Bethlehem, Judah, and they went to the country of Moab and remained there Now then Elimelech, Naomi's husband, died, and she was left, and her two sons. Now they took wives of the women of Moab. The name of the one was Orpah, and the name of the other Ruth. And they dwelt there about ten years. Then both Melon and Kileon also died. So the woman survived, her two sons, and her husband. Then she arose with her daughters in law that she might return from the country of Moab, for she had heard in the country of Moab that the Lord had visited his people by giving them bread. Let us pray. O Lord God, we beg you and plead this morning that you would make The words of your scripture preached, effectual. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. There's some interesting background to the book of Ruth. I mentioned, for example, one place in the location for the location of Ruth in the canon is not where you see it in your English translation. And we'll talk about that as we go through the book instead of me just giving a long introduction on those matters I want to begin right away, really, in some observations about our passage before us, and I'll sprinkle in there a couple observations on the book as a whole But we'll gather that up as we go along with a total of six sermons for the series of Ruth. The first thing I want to mention to you with this book is I hope that you have read it. The more time that I've been able to spend in the book of Ruth, the more beautiful and artful and inspiring I believe it to be. It's exactly what we need right now, actually, for the life in our church. And I'm really looking forward to going through this book. Now, if you had to categorize it, what kind of thing is it? What kind of thing would you see in front of us? That's a pretty large discussion in my world. And just for fun, but also because I think this is accurate even in a technical sense We should uh categorize the Book of Ruth as a romantic comedy, which will excite my wife. She loves romantic comedies. But this is a romantic comedy. It's not a comedy in the sense of being funny. It's not really funny at all. But it does have a happy ending, and that's more of a proper sense of what a comedy is, a comedic uh romantic comedy. So what you should expect therefore is you should not start see uh just like a perfectly wrapped up and and um glorious beginning, but it should start with darkness. And lead through various complication points to an end where everyone lives happily ever after. And that is exactly what we find. In fact, we have a series of events which take us step by step and tragedy upon tragedy into darkness and loss. It is a major theme that runs through this romantic comedy. I'm sure you notice tragedy number one. It doesn't The narrator here does not give us much time to breathe. As soon as we start in on this story, it's in your face. Due to the worldliness of the church, we see tragedy number one, and a curse has descended in the form of a fanon in verse one. Take a look at verse one with me. Now, when I said due to the worldliness of the church, what did that remind you of? Judges. Right. So take a look in verse number one. This is a little bit of the background and why Ruth is located here in our English Bibles. Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled that there was a famine in the land. This is taking place during the same time that we just studied, but it is not in the book of Judges because Ruth cannot find a place there Because she has not canonized like the rest of them. She's moving in an opposite trajectory into faith in the Lord. Now, when you look at this famine, you can feel the pangs of starvation. Elimelech moves his family. His wife and his two sons, they move from Bethlehem to Moab, Bethlehem and Moab, people have been moving back and forth there in Judges chapter 19 through 21. That's another connection point. And to get the sense of the tragedy, however, to see that the darkness of God's curse has really descended on this people I want you to notice the wordplay in this first tragedy that he has to move from Bethlehem over to Moab. Now that's significant because Bethlehem literally translated means house of bread. And as we heard last week. With Bill's sermon in terms of the irony of God, what you have before you is a place called the house of bread, and there is nothing to eat. It's irony in its epitome, really. And that's just the first tragedy. There's a second tragedy that enters in, taking us a bit lower in the spiral, just like we saw within Judges And you can see this in verse 3. While strangers in a foreign land during the famine, Naomi's husband dies. Now, it is quickly mentioned that she is survived by two sons. And so we think, well, maybe we see a little light of hope here that there's going to be this family and it will develop and it won't end up being a total dark tragedy right here in the beginning But if we keep reading, we immediately move into the third tragedy, where even her sons Melon and Kileon in verse 5. Die leaving her behind with just her two daughter-in-laws. Now you know I don't want you to look at this from our modern perspective. You know, you now have in this story three women who have no men around them living during the time of the judges. It was not a great time to be a woman They were, we already examined one of the major ways in which the worldliness of the church shows up is the abusiveness, especially of men, especially of men in leadership. And you can see, therefore, this three-step tragedy spiraling Naomi in darkness, and you will hear her, and actually her bitterness, when she wants to be renamed Mara or Mara next week. And we'll get into that a little bit more. But this is truly a three steps into darkness. That's the first thing I wanted you to notice about these first six verses. Here's the second thing. Though it seems like the door is shut on their future, verse 6 cracks the door, and there is a little bit of light that shines through. And that's beautiful. Naomi, Urupah, and Ruth move back to Bethlehem. Why? Because they had heard in the country of Moab that the Lord had visited his people by giving them bread. There's a little bit of light. And from that crack in the door with that light shining through, that door is just going to open more and more, even in the final genealogy of this book. where the door is almost fully open as we read about the Davidic Messiah's grandfather. Though the sun has set in the dark era of the judges, here we see the sun begin to rise. And that is a bit abstract, but we already read that the direct cause of the curse lifting is the Lord visiting his people and giving them bread. Bethlehem Is becoming the house of bread again. Now, if we were to gather all of this up, uh I'd like being able to kind of summarize what we have just read in the these first six verses and Kind of placing it in my own words for our doctrine this morning. But I actually found that Lamentations chapter 3, verses 22 and 23 do a great job of summarizing these first six verses. So why not learn Scripture by way of Scripture? So here's our doctrine this morning from Lamentations 3, 22 through 23. Through the Lord's mercies we are not consumed, because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. That is what we see between the contrast of the three-step tragedy and then the light breaking in in verse number six, is that they were not consumed, even in the face of death and loss. They're not consumed. And verse 6 clearly points out to us because it is that the Lord's mercies are new every morning when he gives us bread. And you can use that word bread to symbolize any good thing, really. And so that's our doctrine this morning. Through the Lord's mercies, we are not consumed because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. That is the cry of the Christian in maturity. So, what I'd like to do is I'd like to build on this doctrine with just two main points. The first, and children, especially if you're taking notes, the first point will all be captured under the word famine. And the second point will all be captured under the word visitation. So famine and visitation. So let's begin with famine together. This famine in Bethlehem and the irony of the house of bread, having no bread, is a direct curse from God. as you can read about in Leviticus 26 and Deuteronomy 28. This is what he said would happen. We observed the worldliness of God's people in the book of Judges, and at first it seemed, just like it seems today, that there are no consequences for human actions. and that people can just do whatever they want if they have enough money and if they're powerful enough. But that is not how it works out. It would work out that way if God were not a sovereign God who was full of justice and did not have the final word, but he is full of justice. And he does have the final word. And so here we see the famine set down upon them like a cold night. And yet, what is perhaps more f uh terrifying as I read this, what is more terrifying during this famine is that there were some, like Naomi's family, who appear not to be cut from the same cloth as those who were Canaanizing. There are is a little sprinkling in there that they even they themselves are not free from this. Notice the Moabite marriage, for example But nevertheless, this is not the same kind of family. They do not belong to the same ilk or cut from the same cloth that we see with some of those like Samson in the book of Judges. That's not going to be their story. What we end up seeing here is quite difficult to accept as a major reality within the world, and it is this, it's that when God's judgment visits The unrighteous in famines and natural disasters, sometimes it does not discriminate. You will be caught up in the same tide What is even worse, then, think about the difference there. Think about the righteous and the unrighteous during judgment undergoing some of the same realities like famine. What ends up being worse is when this kind of judgment, present for Naomi and her family, is a judgment. where she and her whole nation have no agency. Now this is the worst No agency is the worst. Worst. Now do you know what I mean by that? Do you know what I mean when I say having no agency is the worst? In other words, it is one thing to face difficulties where you can be creative. And you could join together as a community. And somebody could stand up and say, listen, I know it hasn't worked so far, but let's think outside of the box. so that we can come up with a solution. I know what we're going to do. We're going to buy a homestead and we're going to have chickens and we're going to use our hard work. to be able to afford to put food on our table and if we have diligence and we join together as a community, then we can make it But that's having agency. What if you lived during a time or if there were a set of circumstances where you had no power, where you had no way out? Where you had no agency, you could be the most creative person in the world, and there's no solution to the issue You express your will with all of your might. Each day you get up and you try something new, and it still doesn't work. You actually move backwards every time. What happens when the human will, even collectively, becomes too weak to overcome what is before them? Do you see how that could be the worst? That's the worst. I've noticed lately that I'm attracted to this theme of no agency and then having agency. God has built this into me. I've noticed this because I was recently just kind of thinking through some movies and I thought, you know, I really love underdog movies. I like it when there's someone who has no will to accomplish something, but they're trying to do something good, and then they overcome and they're able to accomplish it. For example, I love the movie Rudy. Are there any Rudy fans here this morning? Yes, there is. Very good. I love Seabiscuit. That is such a great movie. I'm full of hope and inspiration. During COVID, I did after I was depressed, I decided I'm just watching inspiring movies. This should include Rudy, Seabiscuit, whatever else. And an all-time favorite for me ends up being Cinderella Man in this same category. Now, Cinderella Man is played by Russell Crowe, and he's playing Jim Braddock, who is a boxer. A manly man. If you want to see what a picture of a man is, look at Jim Braddock. Stands upright, tall, full of muscle, and could knock you out with one punch. He was also a family man. He was also a family man and he was a community man. That's to say he's strong. He and his wife did all that they could during the depression to keep their family warm and fed, but no matter the effort, they would just lose. And what you did, what you saw in this movie in Cinderella man, was a man and his family and his children in their glory. Eaten away as they lost agency in the depression. And that's one of the the brilliant parts of this movie. And so as a last ditch effort. Jim is reduced to showing up at a boxing club, his boxing club. He enters the room, he looks out at all of the boxing managers who are doing their numbers or having coffee together. or eating their lunches and he takes his hat off and holds it in his hand like someone would have to on the street when they were begging and he has to Just say a speech to all of them. They all quiet down, they turn their head from their activities to look at him, and they realize that he has something to say, and he ends up saying this. The thing is, I can't afford to pay the heat. And I had to send my kids to live with my relatives They keep cutting shifts down at the dock. You just don't get picked every day. I sold everything I got to anybody who would buy I went on public assistance at the relief office. They gave me $19. I need another $18. 38 so I can pay the heating bill and get the kids back. You all know me well enough to know if I had anywhere else to go, I would not be here with you today. If I could if you could help me through this time, I would surely be grateful Most of them sitting there doing their numbers and stopping eating their salads for a moment turned their back to Jim in the scene. One friend, who ended up being his manager, gives or pulls a few coins out of his pocket as much as he can. We find out later that he himself was in desperation. But he does this largely to save Jim's dignity. But, and this is brilliant by the movie maker, he drops a coin. And Jim, with his hat in his hand, has to stoop down and pick it up like a beggar with scraps. Jim the mighty boxer, Jim the hard-working husband, he's knocked out by his circumstances. He's got no will left in him. He's swinging and swinging and swinging, and he gets to a point where he doesn't even know where he what he's fighting any longer. And this ends up being a cinematic moment and picture of what it means for human beings to lose agency, to have no will in the matter. Despite how many shifts you put in down at the docks. And that's what makes it a powerful story because it is the story of us all. Its pedigree, this story, was there far before Hollywood. Its pedigree is the is ancient and it goes back at least to the book of Ruth. wherein we see sinner and saint without discrimination subjected to the same difficult providences of God wherein you have no will to change your life. All you can do is sit there and watch your husband die, and then watch your boy die, and then watch your second boy die. And you are left with your daughter in law. It seems like this Book of Ruth is an ancient story, and in our culture we're just too smart to have any time for it anymore. But I tell you, though it may be ancient in time, there is no distance between this book and ourselves and our lives today. You too will lose your agency. You will lose your agency One day you will watch as death eats away at your loved ones, and you will have no medicine and you will have no medical treatment that will stop it. You will come to grips in that moment that you will have to watch things taken away from you, and you can do nothing about it. Some of us will watch our children make decisions that we cannot stop, no matter how hard we try. We will send them to 150 youth conferences, and it would make no difference. Because you have no agency. In some matters of our life. You may even wake up one day and you don't even have the agency due to the arthritis in your knuckles to tie your own shoes any longer. You may wake up one day and in this country have no avenue to establish basic justice because your agency through the courts will have been taken away. I don't know when it will happen, but one day you and I, in some arenas, will lose our agency. you will experience the futility under which this creation is subjected that Paul talks about in Romans 8. Now, do you get a sense of what the Spirit wants us to see by way of the word famine in the book of Ruth? And you'll understand Naomi a little bit next week when you see how she responds and the loss that she has. But there is not only in this passage famine, there's also visitation. Listen, sometimes it comes a little more easily to us to be these depressed beatniks who feel the existential anguish of the famine. But you have got to know that there is a reality that is present also called visitation. And I would say that it's actually more real than the famine, because the famine is on the way out and the visitation shall be forever. So I encourage you to throw your beatnik berets in the trash can and join us in the Christian faith as we wait for Jesus Christ to return. Let us take courage and move into the second point. Now let me ask you, am I just making this up? When you look at the passage. What do you see is the answer to the loss of human agency? As Christians, you should have your eyes trained to see the answer every time. It is found in verse 6, and it is captured in a word that is at the heart of the heart of Christianity in his visitation. The Lord had visited his people by giving them bread. Now, visitation is the same word used when God heard the groans of his people and delivered them in the Exodus. He visited them. That's how big this is. Visitation is the same word when the Lord delivered them from the woes of lamentation of Jeremiah. He visited them with his grace and his mercy. And gave them agency back. Visitation is the same word used in Luke chapter 1, verse 38, speaking of the redeeming Christ. He visited them. I preached on that during Christmas time. that they've been visited by the Redeemer. When Christ sends his Spirit and His apostles to deliver the Gentiles from their sin and their death and their futility in their minds. Acts says it is a visitation of God to do so. Visitation is the same word for the revisitation of Christ, wherein He will raise our dead and our dead loved ones to eternal life. Those who are members of his bride. Right when we lose our will, right when our lives become futile, He visits us and He gives us our agency again. Now that's a beautiful statement, and it should sound a little bit strange to you that he is giving you your agency back. That's not how we would actually put it often within the evangelical world. I wonder if you would have just kept rolling along with me if I would have said this statement instead. Perhaps you would have expected me to say The Lord saves us despite our will. What does um the human will have to do with anything? The Lord just saves us. We're kind of used to that. And that is true, but in another sense. But in our passions, something else is going on that is enormous in the scriptures as to what God is doing. When it says that he gave, for example, just I just want to look at this scripture. I want to not overlook anything. I don't want to just uh gloss over what's actually there. When it says that he gave house to the house of bread again, what does that mean? Did bread fall from the sky? Just a bunch of you walk out one afternoon and there's a bunch of baguettes hitting you in the face? No, this is what this means. Rain fell from the sky. The seeds which the farmer planted grew, and they weren't eaten by insects. The farmers harvested the grain. They milled the grain. The families took the flour and they baked it and it came out warm and it was delicious and they were all excited and they had a festival which still goes on to this day. In other words, God visits. What do we mean when we talk about a visitation through the scriptures? God visits And his grace is always the reason for our redemption. And he graciously allows us to be participants wherein our agency instrumentally still plays a part. Redemption And the God of redemption knows that you're not a robot, but that you were built for agency. So in the restoration of you as a human race, he conducts himself in grace even in such a way where your agency is restored He split the Red Sea. And they didn't all just stand there or sit down in their recliners and say, Take me through the sea, God. They walked. He sends his Spirit, who gives us faith. And what do we do? We believe. Even though faith is a gift. It is a gift that we instrumentally engage with God with. Should we boast that our good works are the cause of our redemption? No. Do you not know what church you're in? But we still acknowledge faith as an instrumental cause. Now I expect you to be surprised by this message. The typical modern evangelical message is only that God saves us, period, the end. Which is fine if we're just having like a mild devotion and there's no problems in our life. But guess what? Those days are gone. These are the days of problems. And so we have to become more nuanced and understanding in the will of God. Now I understand within the modern evangelical world, behind them saying God saves us, period, the end, behind that is an a pious impulse, desiring to give God all of the glory. But it ends up missing a major point. wherein God glorifies himself. And it ends up missing the main point of the book of Ruth, as if it's not in the canon. God likes to save by reinvigorating the power of the normal means which he put in place from the beginning. Futility and curse is when no matter how hard you work at the dominion mandate given to you in the garden, You only get thorns and thistles, and you are overcome by the vines. The animals eat you, and your family dies. But part of salvation, therefore, is not taking the dominion away from you. It is establishing you in the dominion. It is giving you the power to do it. The will to love what is good The will to defend what is good, the agency for good to be established. This is Christianity, Salvation is not the removal of human power, will, and agency and responsibility. It is the re-establishment of human will to do God's will. That is salvation. Now, I want to put it this way, because I think this puts all the pieces right in order with all of the faithful who have been a part of Christ's Church God visits his people by reestablishing the power of the human will to do his will first in the will of the man Jesus Christ. Who overcomes sin and death. Did you not know that Jesus is a man? And that as a man, both God and man, but having taken upon himself our nature, do you not see That as our Redeemer, he has the agency to beat back the curse. And did you not know that he is the first of all of us who are being restored to agency to do the same? We will follow in his train in the fulfillment of Psalm number eight. That is the story of Christianity. Jesus Christ sends his Spirit revivifying our wills to live in faith and hope and love. As we follow him who is already in full agency in faith and hope and love, conquering sin and death and the devil Then, through a beautiful fellowship between the vine and the branches, life and light are brought into the darkness of the world. We all end up, and I will see this through the book of Ruth, we all end up By the power of Christ, through the visitation of His Holy Spirit, free to exercise our will for the love of God and the love of our neighbor. There's going to be a major question that surfaces in the book of Ruth. I mean, it's major. There's a couple major questions. But one major one is, when you live in a day of problems like we live today, when you live in a day of darkness like we live in today, What can the human will do empowered by the Holy Spirit? And we are going to see the answer to that question as we go through the book of Ruth. You will watch Naomi and Ruth and Boaz exercise what is called Hasid. And it will be the major instrumental means that God will use to bring salvation. We need to hear this. So far, what we have seen in our passage this morning in verse 6 is the Hasid of God. It shows up across the scriptures, and we need to be aware of this. We need to be aware that it is present. And that it takes into consideration that part of salvation is not the loss or continued loss or suffocation of human agency, but its re-establishment If we were to put it in terms of Jim's Braddock's, we could just say our future is this, Christian. Our punch, someday soon, will pack power again. Through the Lord's mercies, we are not consumed. I want you to hear this with agency in mind now, as opposed to thinking, you're passive amoebas. Through the Lord's mercies we are not consumed because his compassions fail not fail not. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness And hear this from Paul from 1 Corinthians 15, 57 through 58, who has the same thought. But thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. I remember reading that one time and stopping there. And a child of the church, who's now an adult of the church, his name is James Maccus, he said, Jesse, read the next verse. And it says this. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, be immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. It was important for James to know that we had agency, that Christ gave him agency. And it is important for us to realize that also. And it is based upon the Hasid of God. Amen. Amen. Let's pray.