You can bring that down, Brandon. Thanks. You can br uh thank you for bringing us into evening worship with you. And we ask Christ, that of course, as always, you would send your spirit, that we can hear aright, that we can see aright and think aright, that we can be prepared to offer our lives as living sacrifices. Pray, Lord, that we would hear more of your glory and enjoy you more and more, glorifying Pray also, Lord, that you give us a blessing Blessed time and visitation with Miss Brown, our visiting missionary, that you'd also give us a blessed time of prayer for her and the mission in Japan. And we ask Let's stand for our call to worship from Psalm 66, 1 through 2 Make a joyful shout to God, all the earth. Sing out the honor of his name. Make his praise glorious. Let's do so by singing hymn number one, all peaceful that on earth Do dwell. All people have worked well seem to the Lord with Him served with dear His praise for me before we We are his body. All entertain his breakfast with what is going on to Praise the Lord and bless his name for the For my Lord not his border, his birth before. It is true that all times were needed to be to wish. Our reading for the confession of sin tonight is from Romans 1, 18 through 23. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. Who suppress the truth and unrighteousness, because what may be known of God is manifest in them, for God has shown it to them. For since the creation of the world his invisible attributes are clearly seen In their thoughts, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Professing to be wise, they became fools, and changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like corruptible Man and birds and four-footed animals and creeping things. Amen. You may be seated. Please join me in a time of confession. Father, you tell us in the book of Proverbs that the beginning of wisdom. is fear of the Lord. And yet we see that a part of our race of humans Our main problem is to not have that wisdom, to not fear you, but instead to enter into idolatry. Lord, we could recount many ways this past week where a lack of fear of you and of our life living our lives in reference to you. you has resulted not in wisdom and wise dealings, but in foolishness. Lord, we come before you now as your saints to recount the ways in which we have sinned against you and sinned against our neighbor, and to ask you to give us repentance, to give us that wisdom that leads into being more and more like Christ, our great second Adam. I ask now that you hear that Lord, before we sin, we often suppress the truth and unrighteousness so that we can justify our actions, at least in our own mind. and sometimes justify them before those we hurt. We pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that we would be people that do not support The truth, but that we live according to your truth and your way and your life. And for that, Lord, we ask that you would continue to work in us by your Holy Spirit. Sanctifying us for the good of our neighbor and for your glory. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Our assurance of pardon this evening is from 1 John 1:8 If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us. We're going to now have a time of the word preached. So let's stand for the reading of the word. It's a uh just a few versus this evening. And I'll on purpose keep this brief so that we have more time for Miss Roberta Brown to speak with us. after our service. This evening is taken from Proverbs chapter 3, verses 19 through 20. And I'll read that for us now. The Lord by wisdom founded the earth. By understanding he established the heavens. By his knowledge the depths were broken up and clouds dropped down the dew. Amen. Let's pray. Father, though brief, we pray that you'd still give us instruction. Help us to know you and what you require of us. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. It's been a while since we have been here at the evening service. It's good to be here and to worship with you in both the morning and the evening. We obviously need to start off with a little bit of review. If you don't remember, we're in the middle of the book of Proverbs. That's the series that we have, actually not the middle of the book, but we are in chapter 3, 19 through 20. Prior to several weeks off, we acknowledged that to grow in wisdom it will require discipline. Well, that's a tough thing to hear, to tell you the truth. Discipline can be thought of in two ways. The constant pursuit of wisdom, that's the idea of like discipleship, and be Being mentored toward that end. But there is also the constant care of God as Father, teaching us His paternal wisdom through the kind of discipline we we would receive through his providence? Perhaps the admonishment from a friend that he sends to us. Perhaps a broken down car. What are all of the ways that he could work and bring it discipline into your life that you would grow into the image of his son. But whether it is the first kind of discipline or the second kind of discipline, we have to admit, and it is admittedly present within the book of Proverbs. That having to gain wisdom this way is quite honest honestly tedious and it is difficult. In a word, growing in wisdom or holding on to wisdom. Is a trial. That's something that they're upfront about in the Proverbs. A person, thing, or situation That tests a person's endurance or forbearance. That is the road of becoming wise. Now let me give you a picture. I'm sure that you have plenty of pictures on your own to know what I just said, but let me give you one that's pretty common from day to day Sometimes, for example, in my family, one of my children finishes their schoolwork before the others. That means that one of my children is out riding a bike. or using chalk on the sidewalk to draw lovely pictures and enjoying the beautiful sunshine while the other is slaving away inside at Latin or Math. Are you familiar with the kinds of temptations that enter in in that moment with the one who's stuck inside? The temptation is for the student to give up on their education that day, to grieve over their plight and fortune in life. You can tell it becomes very dramatic in my home. And the same thing can be said more generally in the pursuit of all kinds of wisdom. Do you know what folks need when the time is like that? When they're feeling the tedious nature of pers of the pursuit of the the difficulty of the pursuit. What they need is motivation. They need to believe that their sacrifices are worth it Like a runner in a race, they need to keep the prize before their eyes. And this explains, getting back to our review of what we covered before we were all off from the evening service. This explains chapter three, verses thirteen through twenty. It is a kind of motivational interlude between proverbial lessons on wisdom. And this interlude, the one in where we're in now, the different interludes have different foci, but this one, this interlude, is solely focused on motivating us. To continue in the pursuit of godly wisdom, which we need. The proverbists accomplish this, for example, in verses 13 through 18 by listing all of the benefits of wisdom. Do you remember some of those and the comparisons that he made there in the earlier verses? He said things like silver and gold and rubies, they are definitely worth working towards. Think of all of the profit that they could get you. But the proverbist says, from his perspective, in reference to God and his kingdom, wisdom will actually give you greater benefits and profits than wealth. And that can be difficult to believe, number one, but if a one if a person can hold on to that and see that it is the case, then motivation begins. Here would be an example in the difference Where one can give you and then the other can give you. For example, if you had silver and gold and rubies, then you can buy quite a house. Anyone with money can do that But through wisdom, that is the only way that your house can become a home. And that is far more valuable. Having wisdom, as lastly mentioned, in that just again by way of review is mentioned in a kind of consummate fashion as like owning or having access to the tree of life. And you could see again how this ties into the motivational aspects that we would need to keep going when it has become tedious. And that's what this interlude is all about. Those are the kind of arguments given to keep the youth pursuing wisdom. especially when all their friends are off having fun and they're done with all the tedious stuff. And this brings us to tonight's verses. And so what I'd like to do is I want to be brief in my observations and then brief in my applications so that we can then hear from Ms. Brown. Here's the first thing I'd like you to notice with these two verses. This is well worth your time to meditate on by the way and to make some other connections in Proverbs that I won't do tonight. The Proverbist in verse 19 and verse 20 likens God and his creation and his providence over his creation. To a construction project. That's the language throughout the whole passage, is that God is a builder. In verse 19, it says, the Lord by wisdom founded the earth. The word founded is a building term, and it refers to something like mountains, which act like footers or pillars that hold up the earth from the subterranean waters. Has anyone here ever seen a picture of how uh the the Hebrew mind can saw the world, a Hebrew cosmology? Well, uh uh I'm seeing some Some people say yes and what yes? Yeah, okay. If you haven't seen that, I have a picture in my office. I can show you how they pictured the whole cosmos. And it would be like mountains acting as pillars that God then set the earth upon. And that's the first image that we have here. And those are building terms. When we get to verse 19B, and he says, by understanding He established the heavens. Established is again another building term. And the proverbist moves to the heavens being established. We've moved from the earth being set on the uh a foundation that's as sturdy as a mountain and now we're talking about the heavens being placed on pillars or established on pillars Above our heads in the sky. You can see how he's constructing everything here, according to the proverbist. Well, next then, after we have the act of creation and that a very Very quick act of creation. Next is the act of providence, wherein God maintains all that He has created. And we can see this in verse 20. It says, By his knowledge the depths were broken up. And here we have a picture of waters coming up from beneath the rocks of the earth and issuing in springs that feed all living things. You'll want to think about, for example, Psalm 112 with this one, where the spring comes out of the mountain, goes down into the valley, and then you see how everything is affected. Lion, stork, grass, you name it. It's all coming from that subterranean water. Well, that's 20, that's verse 20, and then when we look at 20 B and clouds drop down the dew, this shows that blessing from above instead of blessing from above. From beneath our normal experience of rainfall, bringing life and vitality to the earth. Now, here's another observation that I want to give you now that we've looked more closely closely at the building project of God. What is the whole point of him mentioning these things? The whole point of recounting the creation and the providence of God may be summed up in one question. How did God do that? And the answer that the proverbist gives is wisdom, knowledge, understanding. That's the answer. He doesn't tell us what kind of wisdom. He doesn't tell us what kind of knowledge or the kind of understanding. He's just letting you know the means by which he did it. And the reason why he doesn't tell you the kind of wisdom or knowledge or understanding is because he just wants you to be motivated. He's not interested in anything else at this point. He's just trying to say, look at what wisdom accomplishes, even in the hands of God. Don't you want to strive for that? It is worth it to keep striving for wisdom because it is by wisdom that God created and providentially sustains his heavens and the earth. And the interesting thing here is that In a manner of speaking, we could say that God has a construction project and accomplishes it by wisdom. And you could say that God built a house. That's also some of the language that's used if you start to connect the dots. God builds a house, and that should tie in to our motivation also. Also, don't you want to build a house? I'm not trying to be too literal now. I'm talking about building a life that is worth living Well then, if that's what you want, get wisdom. That's the message. So it's not telling you how to build the house here, but it's telling you the means by which you can do so. And so you could see, or at least I hope you can begin to taste and see that when you hear a message like this, it should spurn you forward to keep going, even though it's been difficult up till now. To keep striving after this because it's worth it. Do you want to build a house or life with analogous beauty that we see within the creation, how God takes care of his house? Then get worth Wisdom. That's the message. So let me say that one more time just so the doctrine is clear in our minds. It is worth it to keep striving for wisdom because it is by wisdom that God created and providentially sustains his heaven and the earth. Do you want to have wisdom like that? Do you want to have a life that is ordered like that? Do you want to build a house or life? With analogous beauty, then you must keep going. You must get wisdom. That's the message. Now let me just give a few brief applications that are actually mostly located towards you. Ms. Brown. Surprise. For our application tonight, I simply want to draw attention to our visiting missionary like I I've done before and her involvement, if I'm I'm correct in saying in your mission of Christ in Japan. And your co-workers with uh Dan Iverson, is that correct? Yeah, I just We just had lunch with him about a month ago. That was very enjoyable. He's a very passionate man about the mission. It's great great spending time with him. And so, just as by wisdom God built the house of this cosmos, so too will Miss Brown and other missionaries and her co-workers by wisdom granted by Christ build the household of God in Japan. Consequently, they need our prayers and they need our supports. And so we will pray for them this evening. I want you to think, for example, of all that must be involved, and I'm sure that Ms. Brown can share this With us, but think of for example all that must be involved in building the household of God in that country and the motivation one would need to keep striving after wisdom in doing so. What prudence is needed? To do such a work? What courage is needed to do such a work? This morning, in a word, we talked about peacemaking. What kind of peacemaking, the wisdom of peacemaking is necessary on the mission field. What administrative and accounting abilities even to just keep track of the books? with everything that goes into that mission in Japan. And what motivation when the mission is difficult and under the disciplining hand of God? That they might continue. By wisdom, may the mission in Japan be founded on the cornerstone of Jesus Christ. By knowledge, may the Christian church In Japan be established on the pillars of the apostolic faith. And by understanding, may the Japanese be filled with the Spirit like dew from the heavens. Evidence. Amen. Amen. Please pray with me. Father, we thank you that you Take the work that you have done with which is eminently greater than our work, and yet you relate it to the kind of work that we have to do. Like creating a house and a household, creating a life. And you show us how we can be like you And how we can even, in the mission field, view it as a kind of house-building project. Lord, we know that we will need wisdom And as we heard earlier in the book of Proverbs, even if we have wisdom, if the Lord does not allow the house to be built, nothing will come And so, Lord, we thank you that we can see that we need wisdom. I ask that you would give motivation to your congregation here, even at times when it becomes Tedious or difficult that they would keep striving after you and not join the gang that we read about in chapter two of Proverbs. And I pray, Lord, that you would give wisdom to Mr. Roberta Brown and all of her co-workers, and I pray that you'd be with us later as we pray for her and that mission. We thank you, Christ, for sending your spirit Spirit of wisdom to us, and may all things be ordered and built unto your glory that you might glorify the Father who is in heaven. In the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. Let's um we have one other song. Let's stand and we're going to sing hymn number two, all praise to God who reigns above. Oh praise to God. With killing for my soul, suffering suffrage to God of Great Within the life, no, it's right, to God of praise and glory. I try to hear it, I love me. Oh God of here, my body. For every day like the team and touch by the falling For this my shall and with me, all things can thank God, God with me, to God all praise and glory. He gives their refuge and their wrong, their feast and their salvation. As with a mother in their hands. He leaves his own is chosen and to God's of praise and glory He who the Father things to God give praise and glory. That he falls by God from his throne, the glory God, and we are known to God of praise and glory. Then not before his presence now is be expanded. True, you'll be perfect, you're not as we're joy and land. Thorough greatness, dress my story fell, the Lord my God in all things well, to God of praise and glory. And now receive the Lord's benediction, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God the Father And the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all, Amen. Amen.