Please turn to our text that we're preaching today. It's from Hebrews chapter ten. And we're beginning in verse thirty-two. This is the last uh uh sermon before we get into chapter eleven, which I know some of you have really been looking forward to the faith section. And this is really beginning that thought already. Begin in verse 32, and we'll go to the end of the chapter. But recall the former days in which, after you were illuminated, you endured a great struggle with sufferings. Partly while you were made a spectacle, both by reproaches and tribulations, and partly while you became companions of those who were so treated. For you had compassion on me in my change, and joyfully accepted the plundering of your goods Therefore do not cast away your confidence, which has great reward, for you have Have need of endurance, so that after you have done the will of God you may receive the promise. For yet a little while, and he who is coming will come and will not tarry. Now the just shall live by faith, but if anyone draws back, my soul has no pleasure in him. But we are not of those who draw back to perdition, but of those who believe to the saving of the soul. Father, we ask that the fruit of this sermon, this preached word, would be perseverance and preservation. We ask, Lord, for this, for your glory Amen. Last week I had you put your finger on verse 23 of the same chapter. And I'm going to ask you to do the same thing, not forgetting that after verse 23, those were means to be able to accomplish holding on to the confession of your faith. So all of that is included when I say put your finger on verse 23. Now I said put your finger on verse 23 last week. Do you remember the spiritual strategy? that the apostle would was giving us for you to be able to perform well holding fast the confession of your faith. Do you remember what he Basically said to you. The spiritual strategy of number one is that you need to keep it personal. To reject Christianity, you could consider it really, if you want to trick yourself, enlighten what's happening. You could say, well, Christianity is a series of propositions and a worldview. And I reject those propositions. That's not the way that you should say that. You're not going to be very motivated to not do that And so he says you need to keep it personal. Individually. Now there's a spiritual strategy too in this passage Starting in verse 32, and we're still keeping our finger on verse 23. How is it that we can hold fast the confession of faith? Well, one, you can keep it personal, and two, you see here a second command Recall or remember the former days. Have you ever heard of this before? Has anyone ever told you to practice the art of remembering the former days? It's uh come to find out within our faith amongst the the faithful for several thousand years now, they've been doing this in order to I want you to be aware of something that's happening here though. in the passage, just to orient you. Look at what is taking place in verse 32 all the way down to the end. Just glance over it. Remember what I had read to you. And notice that although it doesn't exactly feel like it, the Apostle Paul is telling you a story. And what's even more interesting is he's telling you the story of another person's story. Now that's really helpful when you start to think about the nature of narratives. This is all for the sake of orienting you, so just hold on here. You have become aware in living in America of the idea of narrative Control. Have you heard that phrase before? He who controls the narrative wins. We're really familiar with that. Depending I've mentioned this to you before, depending on the news organization That particular news organization will control the narrative to their political advantage. There's no longer any sense that the news is unbiased. Is there? Does anyone still Think that? Okay. But it's not just within the news genre that you see instances like that. It's really narrative across the board. For instance, consider the genre of leadership narrative Leadership Guru John Maxwell, in his book Twenty One Laws of Leadership, he gives an example of Dick and Maurice MacDonald. They hit the American jackpot, he says, in this new hamburger joint, and he says that uh that this restaurant with these two brothers, it still didn't reach its full potential when they were selling the hamburgers. It took a guy by the name of Ray Kroc to really take the leadership to the next level for this restaurant Restaurant to flourish. They had remained somewhat of a mom and pop idea. Ray Kroc enters and he establishes from 1955 to 19 uh fifty-nine 100 new McDonald's And then by today, with his leadership and those who have taken over, there are now 31,000 restaurants in 119 different countries, McDonald's. 31,000. On the other hand, now that's how John Maxwell thinks of Ray Krock. But have you watched the movie The Founder? Did he get portrayed that way? It really does depend on who's controlling the narrative. The founder of 2016 American Biographical Drama, directed by John Lee Hancock and Robert Siegel, the film stars Michael Keaton and as businessman Ray Krock and portrays Ray Kroc as desperate, calculating, adulterous, and a con artist And that's what I'm talking about with narrative control. And now what you have to do as Americans, which is very difficult, is you have to sift between the narratives and figure out what's the truth. There's there's that old adage that we remember: there's your story and there's my story. And then there's the truth. We're very aware of that saying. Here's the interesting thing about this passage. You have it an inspired apostle, inspired by the Holy Spirit, who does not lie, giving you a narrative of another person's life Life, which means you have an authentic, genuine, fully reliable narrative before you that you can just trust is good for you and how you should How should you be telling your story? If you're gonna remember the days, if that's the art of the the spiritually advanced art, if you're gonna remember your story, recall your former days, what version of your story? Should you listen to? How should you tell the story? That's what the apostle is going to do here. He's going to give you a template. As we look on to these people, you can pull a template out so you can see how you should tell an authentic Story for yourself to be able to benefit from. The apostle provides us with a spiritually advanced art of how to remember our past for us to stay strong in the present to carry on into the future. That's what's happening here within this passage. It's very exciting. This is worth your time. I'm glad you showed up this morning. This is totally worth your time. Now Well, I want to start by looking at the first thing you're supposed to remember. Recall the former days is going to be broken up into three parts. There's three things that you need to remember. The first of which is that you've got to remember the real story. You can't sugarcoat it. Some of you are sugarcoaters. Can't do that. Some of you are real pessimistic too. Some of you are Debbie Downers. Can't do that either But we're going to start with not sugarcoating. You've got to see the real. Remember the real. Notice here the story. Paul does not shy away from the realities of the Christian life. Take a look here in verse 26, or 32. Let's go through this together. But recall the former days in which, after you were illuminated, you endured a great struggle with sufferings. Hartley you were made a spectacle both by reproaches and tribulations, and he goes on and he's telling this story. Notice how he begins. He's saying there was a time when you were illuminated. Paul uses this language elsewhere to talk about a person being translated from the darkness into the light of Jesus Christ. Did you see the difference between how you could see the world whether you're in the dark or in the light on the day that the eclipse came? I was very surprised that even here in Maryland, how How different everything looked. How a kinda how the kind of a different shape and aura and atmosphere took place when there was darkness over the sun because of the But then when there was full brightness again, there was a clarity that came. He's speaking about the same thing here, the illumination that is giving these folks. The gospel message was preached to them and they accepted who Jesus Christ is and what he is accomplishing. from the mouth of the apostles. They accepted the wonders and the signs, and we've heard about these things. They received the truth. However, after they received They immediately, according to the story that we see here, they started with sufferings and reproaches and tribulations, verses 32 and 33. Now, what were some of the things that they would have underwent? If you return to Acts chapter 8, verse 1, you don't need to do that now, but just read through that story and see what the first century church went through after they received the message of Christ. Now Saul was consenting to Stephen's death. At that time a great persecution arose against the church, which was at Jerusalem, and they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles. Here's a congregation that was scattered due to persecution. For you, brethren, became imitators of the churches of God which are in Judea, like this church in Christ Jesus. How were they imitators? Well, you suffered the same things from your own countrymen just as they did. There was a great deal of persecution that was going on during that time against those who were receiving the message of Jesus Christ. The specific suffering is mentioned here in verse 33. It says that they were reproached. This refers to public humiliation, arrest and beating, including the stoning of Stephen, for example. You can see that in Acts 20, uh or um humiliation and beating in Acts twenty-two. 219. The plundering of possessions it also mentions. Can you imagine that? These are the kind of things that they underwent. They broke down their doors because they had warrants to do so. The Apostle Paul went to the Sanhedrin, or formerly Saul, went to the Sanhedrin to gain those warrants, to break down doors. He took their household furniture and their possessions. They fined them. They excommunicated them from the synagogue. They became ostracized from the society. Today it would be a brick through a window with a note on it saying, Leave the neighborhood. It would be social services taking your children because you have weird practices like eating flesh and drinking blood. That's the way they interpreted the Lord's Supper as a way To disparage us. Eviction from your home, which still is happening today. There are some missionaries who, when they are found out, they are missionaries, or they you are associated in another country particularly Particularly Egypt, if you're associated with a missionary, you will in fact be evicted from your home. Those are the kind of things that they were going through. That's the reproach, that's the plundering of possessions. They became, in addition to the things they suffered themselves and because of their own profession, it mentions, and this one's a little tougher for you to see, is they became companions with the apostles. Well, what does that mean in a situation like that? Like this. It means they became companions and associated with themselves that the culture hated. And if you associate yourself with the with who the culture hates, then you yourself can become hated. Imagine sticking up for the pedophiles within your neighborhood while everyone else is trying to keep their children safe. How good is your reputation going to be? That is the equivalent here of what was going on with them. They decided to associate themselves with the Apostle Paul, and they looked on the Apostle Paul and his profession of Jesus Christ with just as much disdain as we would look in our culture upon those who are uh who are abusing children. This led to their being persecuted because of their sympathy with the apostles. You can see this clearly, for example, happening in the life of Peter. Why did Peter deny Christ? Didn't someone ask him, isn't he one of Jesus? Jesus' disciples? Wasn't he afraid to stand too long in a light like this? Well, this church wasn't afraid then They had received illumination, they had re then they began going under reproaches, they were had their possessions plunder, they gladly accepted the uh associating themselves with the Christian Christians. And I want you to think about what he's doing here because this is the story. He's telling them you need to hold on to the confession of your faith. Let me tell you how bad it was. Doesn't that seem a little counterintuitive? If you want somebody to go somewhere with you and to hold on, are you going to help them recall how bad it was the last time they did it? That really proves to us that you've but you've got to remain real. You can't sugarcoat. And the other steps that he gives us here rely on this. The this inspired control of the narrative, although counterintuitive is necessary, the apostle is seeking for this congregation to stand with courage, and yet he tells them truthfully about the prior realities of what it means to be Christian. When you are trying to allay your own fears and doubts, do you recall your pain with honest realism? is the question for you this morning. Really think about that. When you are telling your own story, are you honest with yourself about what the past looked like in being a Christian. If you're not, you're setting yourself up for failure. That's what he's saying here. It's necessary for us as Christians to remember the nature of walking with Christ. It is, according here, notice in verse 32. He says that it is a great struggle. Now, Barry, I don't like to bring these kind of things up because sometimes they're a distraction. But the word struggle there is a Greek word that sounds like this. Athlesis. It's where we get our word athletic. And really, the metaphor that's happening here, as he uses elsewhere, is he's trying to let you know And to and to to not be fake about it, that the Christian is a the Christian life is the hardest thing that you will ever have to do. Does that surprise you to hear that? Being a Christian will be the hardest thing that you will ever have to do. It will be like, he says, a great athletic struggle. It'll be like a marathon. You ever been in a marathon? You ever ha you ever been in a great athletic struggle? For some of you, getting around the high school track four times was a great great athletic struggle. But you remember the pain even in that? You remember how you felt like everything was gonna come up? Like you you just Drank too much chocolate milk before gym, uh whatever it was. That's what he's telling you the life will be like here. And you have to be realistic about that. That that your life, if you want to choose a metaphor, and metaphors are very important Which one are you choosing for being a follower of Jesus Christ? What's your metaphor? Because he's telling you here, it's like a marathon. And some of you are saying, Well, I've been at the marathon for a long time now. And you're and I'm telling you, yeah, the marathon is going to keep going. It goes all the way to the end, folks. All the way to the end. And I'm just a spring chicken. Please remind me of that. I'm just at 40. Please remind me of that. That's the metaphor that he gives us here. It's this great at this great athletic struggle, therefore, you should expect upward uphill pangs, cramps, exhaustion, and overheating. Sometimes you might sit down on the track and you need someone to come over and pick you up and say, no, no, no, don't be that guy. Let's keep going. Let's keep going. Let's keep going. Now that's the remember the reality of the situation. Christian life. You are called, in fact, to bear a cross is the way that the scriptures put it. Now here's the second thing. You can't just focus on all of the pain You have got to see the grace in the midst of your story. Remember the grace, not just the difficulties. Paul wisely includes the moments of grace in the midst of Look at verse 32 again. But recall the former days in which, after you were illuminated, you endured a great struggle with suffering, something a very very gracious aspect to the Then he goes on: partly while you were made a spectacle by reproaches and tribulations, and partly while you became companions, there was compassion, and they joyfully accepted the plundering of their goods. Those are all elements of grace within a person's life as they're going through the difficulties. And he says, you've got to tell that part of your story. Now, this is what I mean by grace, though. Because you could read this wrong. When I say you've got to look at the grace within your life, you could say to yourself, look at how God relieved me from my suffering. That is sometimes the case. You can look back and you can see, thank God he got me out of that. But I'm telling you right now that the way that he's telling this story is he's saying a lot of the times the suffering is only slightly relieved or not relieved at all And the grace is not the relief of suffering. It's you being loyal to God in the midst of suffering. That's what grace is. Grace means that you are a virtuous person. You are a person of upstanding character in the midst of it all. That's what grace is. Grace usually uh is in the midst of your athletic contest, not to take you out of the marathon, but so that you can It looked like joy in the midst of suffering, counting all of their trials, joys, and their affliction. Here's the overall picture that you have learned From this letter. The Holy Spirit regenerated this group of people, giving them grace. Now, what does that mean? It means he gave them faith to believe in Jesus Christ. His work and his person. He gave them hope. In the end, judgment and day that they would receive their reward. He gave them joy in rejoicing. He gave them love for each other. He gave them providences, such as the Holy Spirit, showing up in their life, so that they could see that the apostles were authentic. These are all graces. God worked in and with them to stir up the graces so that as scorn and persecution. Set in, they became more and more loyal to Christ and His cause. It caused great confusion in the second century. When women and children were taken to the stake and they would not renounce the name of Jesus Christ, but their faith got bigger. The buds and the blooms became more, it was so confusing to them. It ended up really tipping over the whole culture because of that. God did not remove the circumstance, he gave them the grace to serve him in the circumstance. Circumstance. And that's typical when you look at the biblical story and you match your narrative over it. Consider 2 Corinthians 12. Considering this thing, I pleaded with the Lord three times that it might depart from me. This is the Apostle Paul. Some think that the Apostle Paul had to travel around the Mediterranean Sea on ships and on foot where there's bandits and he was going blind. That would be and how scary, going blind and having to go those things through those things. And so Paul, if that's the case, is asking for Christ to solve this problem for him. And this is what Christ says to him My grace is sufficient for you. No, I will not take it away. For my strength is made perfect in weakness. Therefore, most gladly I will rather boast in my infirmities grace that the power of Christ may rest upon me. He does not remove the hardship. He gives the apostle grace in order for him to be able to be loyal in the midst of the hardship. He shows his power, he shows his presence, he shows his love, and he shows his wisdom. And the deeper the suffering, oftentimes Christ and for that if not all the time, Christ gives deeper graces. Someone who has lost a child, and you ask them to recall the former days of the grace of Jesus Christ and how their faith flourished in the midst of of that. How that which they only knew in their mind became dear to their heart, and it went from a VHS video playing about God's power and presence to 4K TV, crystal clear on who God was. When you need renewed strength to walk with Christ, you must look back at the real, but do not forget to recall the grace. I'm not just saying in general. I mean the specific grace that has been given to you. You should have a list of what those graces are. How did God get you through it? What providences did God give you for encouragement? Did you know that I found out about my father having cancer on the day that I finished seminary? And found out that I was going to be called here to this church. It was very curious that the Lord had done that. I'd never thought about my father dying before. When was the first time you thought about one of your parents dying? When you're younger, like they're just always going to be there for you. And then you find out that's not going to be the case because they're going to die. I remember going to the hospital and being very worried. I still didn't know much about what was happening, and it all seemed very serious to me. I didn't know how much longer I had with my father And I'm very concerned about my father's salvation. I'm standing there as he's getting ready to go into the uh operating room and I wanted this one time before he goes back because before people have medical treatment That's this serious, they usually start thinking about their life and about God. And I wanted to say something to him. I wanted to at least pray for him. But right before things were getting ready to happen, he was going to be taken back. He was surrounded by And do you know what happened in God's process? This is one of my this is me recalling a former day in front of you. The doctor stopped the entire show. He looked at me and he said, Aren't you a pastor? Pray for your father. And I went over and I grabbed my father's hand and I held my stepmother's hand and the doctor stood there and we all prayed for my father. And in my prayer, I was able to speak about the gospel And ask that my Lord, that my father would learn about the Lord Jesus Christ as he contemplates his mortality. That's recalling the past days. Now that's just the grace of Providence. What are the providences in your life showing you the power, love, and presence of God? Wasn't that a God thing? Of course it was If you doubt that, then we need to start working on that. Please please set up an appointment with Marcy. Others of you will remember a heightened awareness of God's love in Christ. Like I said, it will go from VHS or beta to 4K T T V. When these difficult times came into your life in the past You knew that God loved you, but when that happened, it it heightened. You were broken by how much God loved you. Maybe it happened. I've seen it on your face Sometimes when the love of the cross dawns on you in a Good Friday service, I've seen some some of those things drop on you. Or the love or the wonder of the incarnation on the delight when all the lights go out and you just have the candle and you're singing on Christmas Eve. That's recalling the former days. The providences, the heightened faith and love that He gives to you, the strength that you didn't know was there. That's the Holy Spirit turning up the knob and saying, We're going to take your faith from a level three to a level five. Others will be overcome with sympathy for their fellow brothers and sisters. You used to not care about people, and now you've got this thing inside your heart where you really, really care about your brothers and sisters. Christ, you'll even help them move on your only Saturday. There's a sympathy for their fellow brothers and sisters. And you overflow with the grace of love, and you end up having all of the accessories and the amendments that attend that. Kindness and patience, and you don't envy. Do you remember times like that within your life? That's what he's asking you to do here. Those were in the midst of a struggle. And you had to be real about that. But there was grace that was there for you. There was grace of a church body praying for you, of people stopping by, of a phone call that you didn't expect, of a card that you didn't know was going to be so important to you That's this is these things are so important for us to look back at the grace that God has given to you and to take confidence that He will give it to you again And this is really, really, really important because your default setting is to believe that God is not really active in your life and you can't really trust him when you're going through suffering and you've got to figure out some other way. When you are building a house, when you're doing the second floor, if there's a basement, there's already a kind of Second floor. Any stairwell well that is bit built, usually there is not a staircase in it yet. So one could fall down the stairwell. And so you have to by OSHA standards and comment Of putting up a railing around the stairwell, and I watched them, and they only put one nail in each two by four. And I watched a person walk by the stairwell and I said, Don't lean on that Now I'm wondering if you say the same thing to yourself when you are going through struggles, which is why you don't have the practice of recalling. Do you say, if God is there, do you say, don't lean on God? I can't lean on him He's not really that trustworthy. He abandons me. I feel like an orphan. He said all of the contrary things. You have to recall and get into the practice of recalling the grace so that you can begin to see all the ways in which God is present within your life so that you can begin to see how trustworthy he is for this current suffering that you are going through. The goal is for you to be able to see, you know what? God is with me. I don't even know that I can see it right now, but I know he's with me because as I look at the past, he's always there despite what things look like around me. We have to see him in our own experiences. Does that sound strange to you that you have to see him in your own experiences? People will say to you, you've got to see God in the Bible. But I'm not telling you that. Sure, see God in the scriptures. It's your authoritative rule for all of life and godliness. But you must see him in the experiences of your life. How could that be true Don't we just have to rely on the words and there is no real experience because we're not. But isn't Jesus alive? And isn't Jesus your great high priest? Isn't that what you've been learning here? That he has sympathy and compassion? How do you know that he has sympathy and compassion for you? Is it just because you've read the words on the page? Or do you have experiences with him being sympathetic and compassionate towards you? What about your regeneration and being adopted into his family? Who caused that one? beginning. Shouldn't you be able to recall experiences of Christ through his Spirit working within your life? Yes, you should. And you should be compiling these. You should have a journal of them. You should have a photo album, if you will, by faith, of all the ways that Christ has been present within you. In your life. You must be convinced that God is present with you in the flames of your life. Here is a story for you. And this should be your story. It should be the summary of everything that you see. Therefore, this is from uh Daniel, therefore, because the king's command was urgent and the furnace exceedingly hot, the flame of the fire killed those men who took up Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. And these three men, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, fell down bound into the midst of the burning fiery furnace. That's you. And that's your son. Suffering. That's your Christian life carrying the cross. Then King Nebuchadnezzar was astonished, and he rose in haste and spoke, saying to his counselors, Did we not cast three men bound into the midst of the fire? They answered and said to the king, True, King, look, he answered, I see four men loose walking in the midst of the fire, and they are not hurt, and the form of the firth is like the Son of God. In every trial that you have in your past, you should be able to see there in the furnace with you, not just you, but when you look again back at the story, you should see someone accompanying you. And it's Jesus Christ by his Spirit that you apprehend by faith. So we remember, we recall, we remember, lastly, his glory You remember the real, you remember the grace, and you've got to remember the glory. All of these come together. You can't miss one of these pieces. or the thing falls apart. You've got to have them all. If you don't have the real, then you don't see the grace. If you sugarcoat everything, everything's great anyway. You've got to have those opposites. You've got to see the stark contrast that's created. And this one is particularly important. Perhaps maybe the most important is to To see the glory. It's the primary motivator for you to hold on to your confession. Paul calls you and them to remember the finish line and the reward that you would receive In order to stay motivated through this whole ordeal called life. Verse 34: Knowing that you have a better and an enduring possession for yourselves in heaven. Heaven. Now it's a participle, so a lot of you can get bored with participles, but this one's really important. Knowing they knew something They had a developed conviction about some things. They didn't doubt certain things. What was it? They knew They knew the whole world looked on the Christians as pitiful in this world and damned in the next. But the Christians knew it otherwise. They knew from Christ's words Blessed are you when they revile and persecute you, and say all kinds of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceedingly gat glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets. who went before you. They knew from the assurance of the Holy Spirit given them as a guarantee of their future heavenly life, and so do you The Holy Spirit is given to you as a guarantee that you are one that belongs to the heavenlies, one sent from heaven to show you you too are from heaven and are going to heaven. Assurance from your illumination, from their illumination, assurance from the fruits of faith in Christ, in his person, and his work, love for God and love for neighbor. These were all seen, the first fruits, and then as a sign of a bigger harvest for them. They knew from the life of Christ. When all looked dark and they looked back on their master and how he had to live his life, they saw that he was crucified, but that he was resurrected as victor, and they applied the same narrative to themselves, saying, Although things are difficult now, I will come out Unashamed at the end. I will not be reproached in the end. I will not be the one that is ashamed. You will be if you are not with the cause of Christ. They knew that blessed eternal life with Christ and his inherit inheritance far outweighed any earthly possession acquired. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time You're familiar with that kind of motivation, aren't you? Aren't you? Aren't there a bunch of things within your life where you say, yeah, this is uncomfortable, but it's worth it? You ever said that? He's talking about the same thing here. And that's the question you have to ask yourself as you're starting to recall your story and remember the past, is all this worth it? What is the reward? Is it worth it Here's the great evaluation that we have to use. And I've given this example before, and I'm depending on the familiarity of it for you, so that we can move on. one. I've told you this before that if you want to motivate someone you have to have two parts. You've got to they've got to believe that it's true and they have to believe that it's good or beautiful. Both of the parts have to be there, otherwise they won't move forward unless you count worse than with a gun or something. But even it's still happening there because they anyway. Let me give you this example. If I said Calvert, we're gonna go in the backfield and we're gonna dig a 20-foot pit and when we're done I'm gonna give you all the dirt that we dug You're gonna say, I don't think I'm your guy. And the reason being, maybe there's a bunch of reasons, but the one of the reasons is that it's not that you don't believe me. We really would you say, yeah, okay. I believe Jesse would take me back there to dig in the hole in the pit in the backfield. It's not good to you. There's no good reward there. You believe that it's true, but it's not good or delightful for you to receive But if I said, let's go back, we're gonna dig a 20 foot hole, Mr. Young, and when we're done, there's gonna at the bottom I know for a fact, and I can prove this to you when I prove it to you that there's uh twenty million dollars worth of gold there and we get to keep it. You'd say, when can I be there? And that's because if you believe that that's true, it's also a good thing to you. And that's what that's what's happening, I'll tell you that because that's what's happening here with this motivation. You will only sacrifice if you believe. You will only consider this worthy. You will only hold on to the faith. You will only stay with the cause of Christ if you believe it's true and if you believe that it's good. So, what are the rewards? Will you in fact receive them? Do you believe that you actually will? Insofar that you believe it, you're already starting to be motivated. Are they good to you, though? When you think about heaven And you see pictures of it and you think, and then someone says, Well, you know what you get, your eternal reward is life with Christ, and you go, Man, I was hoping for an ATV. That's what I'm talking about. You have to wrestle through that. You have to grow in your love of Christ so much that He becomes a genuinely motivational reward for you. And all of the life that he brings with himself. By faith, Moses, when he became of age, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. He chose rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the passing pleasures of sin. Sin, esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt, for he looked to the reward. He saw all that was offered to him as a prince in Egypt, and he said, That or Christ? Ah, Christ. And that's the same thing that is placed before you as you tell your story. Is it worth it? Is the reward worth it? The problem is that you say yes and I say yes The apostle elsewhere says that there are desires of the spirit and they wage war with desires of the flesh. So you in fact will have a warfare and consider This is true and good. So, what does that mean? When you recall the past, you're going to have to remind yourself for the sake of the future that you actually believe this stuff and that it's good to you Sometimes it will not be appetizing to you, but as a Christian, you can put to death the lusts of the flesh and you can thrive within the spirit, growing more and more in love with Christ and His kingdom. But I'm going to tell you right now, it is the hardest thing that you will ever do in your life. And it is continual and perpetual. You must kill the deeds of the body daily. You are in a warfare. You're in a warfare for who you love. You're in a warfare for who owns your heart. The devil or Christ That's the picture here. And so this already begins to tell us practices that you should have if you're going to have this tug of war. Let me ask this question, and then we'll start moving towards the Lord's supper, and we're going to we're Going to practice this a little bit. If you truly have this wrestling, you're going to struggle with it being true, and you're going to be struggle with it being good and delightful, the reward. Let's start with this. Let's do a little test and to see where you are in your spiritual life and being able to make it through a difficulty. Are you ready? If what we said here is true, then it is from this from this passage. You should have several things pop up immediately here. And you should have delight in them. Are you ready? What are the rewards for making it through If you're having trouble coming up with one, you're not prepared for suffering. You need to go through and you need to see what are the rewards of yours in Christ. And then you need to start working on is that true? Because you're going to have doubts that arise. So you need to have a firm grasp of the rewards, but you also need to have a settled conviction of How could it be true when he's been gone for so long? There's one How do you handle that? How do you handle all the doubts that arise within your mind that'll keep you from truly being convicted that these are yours? And then lastly Are they delightful to you? I don't mean they look cool to you now and in a week they don't look cool to you anymore. Do you know there's a parable about those who are excited about the Christian faith I'm talking about not affection for the things of God, I'm talking about a ripened Affection. You know when you first get married, you think you know how to love, and then you get a ripened affection and you really learn how to love. And the love deepens and turns out to be something something you didn't even know l what love was. It has a lot less to do with uh well it has a lot to do with sacrifice, doesn't it? Doesn't sac doesn't love look a lot like loving the other person so much that you give up your own stuff for them And it just feels great, even though you don't get anything except the joy of seeing them joyful. That's all you would want. Are you delighted? Christ. Are they in fact true against the doubts that arise within you and that you hear from skeptics? And are they delightful for you? Work on a ripened affection. If you look at something that Christ offers to you and you say How's that a reward? Start talking to others. Let's start working through this. Why is it delightful to other people? Do you see other people around you delighted in the candle? What do they have that you don't have? Find out right away so that you can control the narrative and tell the story. you can remember the real, so that you can remember the grace, and so that you can remember the uh what was the final point? Sorry. The glory. Thank you Yeah. So that you can remember the glory. Let's go ahead and practice these things now and remembering all these things as we go to the Lord's Supper. Please pray with me. Father, we thank you for these lessons that you give us within your scripture to teach us how to hold on to your faith that you've given to us, how to make it through. Lord, I thank you that you gave this to those people then, that they would not at least some of those who did not turn back to perdition would not have been destroyed. And we ask, Lord, that we would not be destroyed. We ask that you'd confirm all of these things to us through the signs that you give us and the seals here and the Lord's Supper with the bread and the wine And we ask these things in Christ's name, Amen.