Let us now direct our attention to the word preached. We're continuing in our series of Proverbs, and we are moving to Proverbs chapter 26, the first 13 verses. If you need a Bible, please raise your hand and I'll have one brought to you. It's very important that you have a Bible with you. Alright. Great. Thank you. Alright, this is the first thirteen verses of chapter twenty-six of uh Uh yeah, chapter twenty-six, sorry. As snow in summer and rain in harvest, so honor is not fitting for a fool. Like a flitting sparrow, like a flying swallow, so a curse, without a cause, shall not alight. A whip for the horse, a bridle for the donkey, and a rod for the fool's back. Do not answer a fool according to his folly, lest you also be like him. Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own eyes. He who sends a message by the hand of a fool cuts off his own feet and drinks violence. Like the legs of the lame that hang limp is a proverb of the mouth of fools. Like one who binds a stone and a sling is he who gives honor to a fool. Like a thorn that goes into the hand of a drunkard is a proverb in the mouth of fools. The great God who formed everything gives the fool his hire and the transgressor his wages. And there's a very different take on that in your translation if you don't have NKJ. As a dog returns to his vomit, so a fool repeats his folly. Do you see a man wise in his own eyes? There is more hope for a fool than for him. I know I said thirteen, but one through twelve. That's Proverbs one through twelve. Please join me in prayer. Father, the shameful thing is that we are the fools. But you have given us wisdom by your spirit. And you teach us things now, the very mind of Christ, through your Spirit. And we ask, Holy Spirit, that you would illuminate our minds this very morning, that we would not just hear your word, but we would be doers of it. That we would be a blessing, especially to the community of the saints, but to this whole world. In the name of Christ. Amen. Proverbs is little used in the church today. And I think part of the reason why is because there is an inappropriate focus on simply the forgiveness of sins on the cross. And there is a forgetfulness of the purpose of the cross, is to look forward to what Jesus was seeking to accomplish, which is his great work in the recreation of a new humanity. One scholar remarks, in returning to the Proverbs and having the theology to do so, we have a theology here at Severn Run to where we can preach on the book of Proverbs and not feel ashamed of it. About it, because we know that Jesus Christ is calling our whole lives to him. One scholar remarks, in a world bombarded by inane cliches, Trivial catchwords and godless sound bites, the expression of true wisdom is in short supply today. And I'll add this, even amongst the church, Proverbs, however, remains the model of curriculum for humanity to learn how to live under God and before humankind. And that is what Jesus Christ Is accomplishing. He's not just seeking to die on a cross for forgiveness. It was a means, and I don't mean this any disrespect, it was a means to an end. It was through the cross that he went you could even and think of it that way, through the cross, into his resurrection and exaltation, that he might accomplish in his people what the Father had always planned, a new creation We've been seeing what the new creation is supposed to look like and what the ministry of Christ is in our lives by going through the different proverbs. It's summarized under the term wisdom, and we've seen that that means social skill, how to live before and with each other and before the face of God, Corum Deo. Now we've looked at collection number one, which was the first nine chapters of Proverbs, and we know that that was primarily a plea for you to just become teachable. Submit yourself beneath the Word of God so that you can actually hear what He has to say in the rest of the Proverbs, which we began in collection 2, which is chapters 10, which is chapters 10 through 22, 16. We looked at chapter 10 verses 1 through 5, which talked to us about the social skills or wisdom of being money-wise. And then we looked in chapter 10, verses 6 through 14, dealing with our communication last week. Now if you look in your bulletin, go ahead, I have lots of treats for you today. We'll get to the chiasm later. Very exciting whenever a chiasm shows up in your bulletin. I know you're all thrilled. I didn't. Yeah, you probably weren't able to sleep last night. Notice now that we were just in collection number two. And that we've just jumped to chapter 26. Remember, part of the purpose here is not to go through the whole book of Proverbs, but to open the book of Proverbs for you so that you can read it on your own also. So we've seen collection 2, a couple of Proverbs from there. Collection 3 is 22, 17 through 24, 22, and then you can read the rest. You can see that we're in collection 5, labeled Solomon 2, but there's two more collections after this. And this is a just good for you to hold on to as you study the book. You can see where these different collections begin and end, and there's editorial statements most of the time showing the new section to begin. Now furthermore, as we move into this collection number five, And we're at chapter 26. I want to point out to you an overall structure that goes beyond just the passage that we're looking at this morning. Really, what's unfolding here is that there are seven inferior types of people. That is not a very popular thing to talk about these days. Everyone who participates now gets a participation. Participation award, there's no one that's inferior any longer, but actually there is, and we all know that. So in in those proverbs, it's It's recounted for us in the number seven, which is the number of perfection. There's seven inferior types of people. If you want to put little dots in chapter twenty-six, I'll show you where these begin and end, just very quickly, just so you can be aware of the overall context. In chapter 25, verse 28, the first inferior type of person is the undisciplined The second inferior type of person for the community, these are all people that hurt the Christian community. People that we don't aspire to be. The second one is the fool, and that's 26, 1 through 12. That's the one we're dealing with today. The third is the sluggard, and that's 26, 12 through 16. Then we have the busybody. Which is 26, 17. You hear all these names in the New Testament too. It's very interesting. Then we have the mischief maker, which is 26, 18, and 19. And I can send these to you if you desire. The slanderer is in 26, 20 through 22. And then the sons or the covenant leader's personal enemies is in 26-23. This morning we're dealing with the second inferior type of person, which is the fool. So take a look at 26, 1 through 12, and notice that in each of the number verses, it says fool. It's the uh Kassel is the Hebrew word there. Remember that when we're dealing with Proverbs, they get grouped together by way of association. So when we were looking in chapter 10, we saw a associative network of money and we saw an associative network of communication. Here there's an associative network of the fool. And so we want to relate all of them together into these groupings. The word full, cell, derives from the word meaning confidence, but with the full, it means overconfidence. In Job 31, 24 and 28, he says this, same word here, if I have made gold my cass, or hope, or my confidence, if I've made gold my confidence, Or said to fine gold, You are my confidence, Cassell, this also would be an iniquity deserving of judgment, for I would have denied God who is above. He's placing confidence in something that's not supposed to be, you're not supposed to be confident about is overconfidence. Job 8, 13 through 14, so are the paths of all who forget. And the hope, Cassel, of the hypocrite shall perish, whose confidence, again, Cassell, shall be cut off, and whose trust is a spider's web So the root of it has to do with confidence, but here it's overconfidence, and you are familiar with this character because of the time that you've spent in Proverbs. This is the overconfident one, smug in their own position, and therefore they do not listen. Most of the time, I'll add. There are little glimmers of hope, which I'll show you by the end. But in and of itself, and in a nutshell, there's no heart for a godly education in the pool, in the fool They err their own opinion gladly. And it's a reckless opinion. In fact, they are reckless and they like to engage in mindless amusements, and money is wasted in their hands These are all characteristics of this fool. There are examples in the New Testament, if we were to trace the line through, and if you want to, take a look in Luke chapter 11, particularly in verse 40, Jesus calls the Pharisees fool. If you want to get a sense of the kind of smugness that I'm talking about. Here's the question for us this morning that the passage is going to answer for us. How should we deal with or manage fools? It is an exceptionally relevant question for us. How should we deal or manage fools? Now you'll see in your bulletin that the outline gives the answers. You can see there you can take notes. I've given you declarative statements as opposed to just words so that you can rehearse those this afternoon Do not give social standing to a fool, verses 1 through 3. Communication with a fool must be calculated, 4 and 5. Do not give specific social standing to a fool. Verses 6 through 10, and then there's some final words on dealing with the fool. And so those are the answers that he gives. And I just want to make sure you understand each of those answers. And I'm telling you, this is super practical for you right now. You can put this to work today. You can put this to work today. So the first answer in how should we deal with fools is you do not give them honor or social standing. That's the first three verses. As snow in summer and rain in harvest, so honor is not fitter fitting for a fool. Like a flitting sparrow, like a flying swallow, so a curse without cause shall not alight And then we have, we move into animals, horse, donkey, fool. The honor here is Kavad, which actually we're quite familiar with this word because there's a lot of word studies that's been done on it. You've seen it translated as glory or as weight or as significance, but you know the major theme within Proverbs has to do with social standing Therefore, social weight, social significance, social glory, social prestige. And so that's the explicit statement that's being said here. So honor is not or social esteem or social standing is not fitting for a fool and therefore do not give it to them. The reason why is given to us in different metaphors, which are very interesting and require some deep thought. You're gonna have to keep thinking about these things. The reason why is the way that you should manage a fool by not giving them social standing is actually quite deep because it says that it here it is unfitting. Do you see that? That it's not fitting for a fool. That fitting theme actually runs through this whole thing. It's not suitable in the heart of the universe and the cosmos. It is not fitting. That's really what's being said here. It's that deep. It is deeply unfitting and unsuitable. It goes against the grain of social laws. You could even think of them as cosmic laws, because that's the illustration that's given to us, is that the very way in which seasons are suitable for certain times. It's saying that uh that um or if seasons were to come along at other times, then it would be unfitting. In that deep of a way, it is unfitting to give a full social standing. Notice the metaphors. This is This is marvelous, as snow in summer and rain in harvest. Now when we think of that, we think, oh, well, how pretty would it be to have snowflakes in summer? There'd probably be a rainbow, I'd be able to get a good picture. That is not what is being communicated here. Both events signal times that are out of joint. Things that are not supposed to be and actually are catastrophic. Talk to a farmer and tell them there'll be a frost in the summer and see what their face looks like. looks like. That's what's happening here. To have snow in summer would mean crop devastation, and to have rain during harvest would mean no harvest at all because the rains would actually cause the food to rot. Right there on the vine. God sets the seasons, and man aligns with the seasons to be fruitful for himself and his community. We align ourselves with the laws that God upholds. But if everything goes topsy-turvy, then everything starts to become catastrophic and dangerous and collapses. And likewise, you can see him comparing social laws. . with the laws of the universe. That's what's happening here. It's actually happening through the whole passage. It's very deep what he's saying here. These laws are violated, social laws, and people are hurt when a fool gains social standing. If you give a fool influence, He will hurt people just as a snow hurts the crops in the summer. He's like a bitter frost that takes away all of your production. Now you have a contrast here, and it really is just set up for a contrast for that main truth that fools shouldn't have social standards. There's a contrast here of something else that's unfitting, and that is that a curse without cause would not would alight on someone who Who has not offended? The point here in verse 2 is to contrast with verse 1. What it's saying is that if there's an innocent person and someone is trying to accuse them The accusation will have nowhere to land because they are blameless in the same way that flittering blur birds never land. That's the example that they give. If you'd like to, you could think of Noah, how he sends out his dove when all the waters are covering the face of the earth. The dove has nowhere to place his foot. And in the same way, an accusation has nowhere to place its foot on those who cannot be accused because they are innocent. That's just as unfitting in this world that God has created as it is To give social standing to a fool. The idea of fittingness or suitability is present here in the first part, and that's meant to contrast and to get your mind working. Now the question arises Well, what is fitting for a fool? And that's where you get into verse 3. And they are lumped together in the category of the animal. Notice what's being said here. Well, what is fitting for a fool? Well, there's a whip for a horse, and there is a bridle for a donkey. And there is a rod or a cane for the fool's back. And again, I'll say right up front, as I said last week, this is not an excuse to abuse. This is not speaking of abuse that we would cause in other people. I'll just say that outright. The physical punishment is obvious, you can't deny that. But I want you to notice the variety Going on within the animals. We tend to focus on the whip and we tend to focus on the cane, but what about the what about the bit? I think it shows, and if you were to do a word study, it shows that the rod can take many different forms. Sure, it could happen in sphanking But there is a chastisement that can become far more creative. Rods that God hands out in your own life that you're experienced with because you know how He deals with you when you won't listen. When you want to act the fool, he chastises you. He told you that in chapter 3. It's called learning the hard way. The word study shows that God uses many kinds of rods, and so we could use different kinds of rods. I was reading once in a book of a child who kept showing up past his curfew, and therefore the father, while the child was in bed, went out to the child's car, removed the battery. and hit it, so that when the child woke up in the morning they couldn't get to work no matter what. He called that dropping the hammer. I would call that a rod. The child is now going to have to learn that there's certain things that happen if I choose not to listen. And the child did. Apparently the father reported they never were late again. That's a kind of rod. You could I've heard of another rod where a young man refused to listen and was getting in all kinds of trouble at school and so the father took that child out of school and made them work on a harsh construction site and boy did they want to get back to school. That was another rod. The idea is that you don't elevate a fool to a level of moral incompetence It will hurt the community. Instead, what is fitting for a fool is creative discipline. And by the time we get to the end, we'll actually see that there is some hope for a fool through particularly this kind of discipline. That you'd be creative in doing so. And I actually think if you're an experienced parent, you've experienced this, that you've had to really come up with some stuff in order to keep people from becoming as foolish as possible. So after we have this thought here that you don't give social standing to a fool, I want you to notice what ends up happening. After further thought, I believe that the next point is an example of a kind of rod. That not only would there be a kind of creative discipline, as you see with animals, according to species, you need a bit or a ho or a whip or a or a cane or a rod. But I also think he's saying the way that you communicate with a fool can act as a rod. The way that you would choose to talk with them. And so that's our next point that we would learn. That when you communicate with a fool, this is how you deal with them, you have got to be calculated in how you do so. These two verses are often quoted to prove that Proverbs is contradictory and who knows what in the world God meant by this book. These verses really throw people for a loop. When they start reading the book of Proverbs, they And they stop reading, they use these two verses as excuses to never read it again. The reason being is because it says, do not answer a fool according to his folly, and then verse 5, answer a fool according to his folly. And it seems like it's contradictory, but if you were to study the passage, you see it's not contradictory at all. There's two different things that are going on here, two different angles with two different rationales. Let's take a look at verse 4. This is the second way in which we have to deal with the fool, our communication. It's saying, don't become like the fool. That's the rationale for why you wouldn't answer a fool according to his folly. It is unfitting to meet the fool insult with insult, but it is the greatest temptation to give them a p a taste of their own medicine. There is even a proverb in our culture that says, oh great, they got a taste of their own medicine. Here it's saying, don't answer a fool according to their folly. In the way that a fool talks to people, don't talk to people that way. That's not how you communicate. In 1 Peter 3, 8-9, it says, Finally, all of you be of one mind, having compassion for one another, love as brothers, be tender-hearted, be courteous Not returning evil for evil or reviling or for reviling, but on the contrary, blessing, knowing that you were called to this, that you may inherit a blessing If you reply to the fool vindictively, harshly, with lies, you have become the fool. That's the point. And fools bring out fools in other people. But that's the first way in which we have to be calculated. It means you're really gonna have to bite your tongue there and have some self-discipline and and work through that. And and that that talk on communication from chapter ten could come in handy for us. As we seek to do that. Now, verse 5 says the same thing, but it gives a different rationale. Do you notice that? That's the difference. That's why it's not contradictory. Do not answer a fool according to his folly in verse 4. Why? Because you don't want to communicate like a fool. In verse 5, it says, answer a fool according to his folly. Why? So that he's not wise in his own eyes. See, there's different rationales and different angles that on why you would do one form of communication versus another. This is what he's saying here. This is one of the most important truths that I've heard in a while. You must communicate with a fool so they do not grow in their confidence as fools. That's what's being said here. One biblical scholar says it this way the wise person must expose the fool's distortions to serve his own interests at the expense of the community, and must not silently accept it, and thereby contribute to establishing the fool's topsy-turvy world against the rule of God There's an example of this that maybe some of you have heard with Francis Schaeffer. He's a late apologist and kind of prophetic in where he saw the culture going. Perhaps some of you have read him. While he was working with college students who came up with all kinds of different philosophical conundrums for him, one gentleman was invited over by Francis Schaefer for tea And the gentleman sat across from him and refused to hear anything that Francis Schaefer said because he said, human language and communication is not possible. And so what Francis Schaeffer did to not allow the fool to rest in his comfort or castle himself in his conceit is that he picked up the hot tea kettle and he went to pour it on his lap. And then he backed up. Uh he said, I'm gonna pour this hot tea kettle on your lap. And he backed up and he said, Wait, what are you doing? And he said, I think we're communicating now, aren't we? And that shook him right out of that. That's exactly what's being talked about here in all kinds of a thousand different creative ways where we don't allow the fool to remain within their conceit, and yet we don't become a fool within our communication So just giving them a tongue lashing isn't the option that's being proposed here, although I could see where that could be appropriate too sometimes, that they wouldn't stay in their conceit. Now that's the second way in which we have to handle fools. We would handle them in not giving them social standing, and we would handle them in the way that we would communicate them with them. them. Very wisely. Now when we move on to this third point, there are specific ways in which we are to not give the fool's social standing. I could have grouped this with the first point, but I like keeping the um order that's in the biblical text because I think that's also given to us by the Holy Spirit. So I don't want to mix things around. And so here it is. Do not give specific social standing to a fool. It's fine to say he shouldn't receive so or she shouldn't receive social standing. But what are some of the specific practical ways in which they shouldn't receive social standing? The structure of the passage gives an emphasis to this point. Now take a look at the bulletin because here we see something that we're used to now. This is the old analogy that I gave you in the first or the second sermon, where we have this what's called a chiasm or chiasm, some people pronounce it that way. And the analogy that I gave you is that if you drop a pebble in the pond, then there will be rings that emanate out from the pebble The center where the stone is dropped is the emphasis in this kind of passage. And if you take a look here in C, the dead center. Like one who binds a stone in a sling is he who gives honor to a fool. Notice it's a repetition of the first verse of this passage that we've returned. We've returned to the main emphasis is that honor should not be given to a fool. And surrounding it on either side with A and B and B prime and A, as you see on your bulletin. Are the specific ways in which you should not give social standing. Those surrounding verses are specifics and not just general truths through a metaphor of summer and snow. And so let's go through some of the specific ways in which we should not be giving. And you could read through the book of Proverbs and find lots of other specific ways to not give honor to a fool, but these are very helpful. Here's the first one. Specific number one on how you should not give honor to a fool. Do not commit important business to a fool. Perhaps some of you already have some experience in doing so, and I bet you you still are suffering from the consequences He says here in verse 6, he who sends a message by the hand of a fool cuts off his own feet, not a delightful thing to do, and drinks violence. Sending messages by the hand of a fool is equivalent to chopping off one's feet, and it's as deadly, this is the point, as drinking poison. When a fool represents you or speaks for you, instead of persuading the recipient of your message and calling them onto your campaign and into the way that you see things and being able to to move forward. Instead they frustrate that person and you lose another strong pair of legs that could be a part of your cause. They actually could become quite exasperated with you to you and become your enemy in time. Instead of bringing refreshing healing to others as you intended your words to do, the fool will take your words and he will or she will inflict pain on that person Elevating a fool to communicate important business is dangerously unfitting like snow in the summer on your crops. Now here's specific number two. Do not give a precious education to fools. Education here is not separated off into a mind thing that's never put into practice This would be, you could think of in terms of like apprenticeship. Think more of like a bricklayer bringing someone on board to be able to build things. And this is in verse 7. Like the legs of the lame that hang limp is a proverb in the mouth of fools. The picture Not to be offensive, is one of disabled or paralyzed from the waist down. The legs, therefore, can carry no weight, and the person gets nowhere. So too is the fool with an education, a precious, a precious one. If you educate a fool by giving them wisdom Their foolishness will dis not only, as we saw in the first point, hurt other people, it won't come with any authority because of their defective moral character character will come across as wishy-washy And they are so dull morally that they won't speak at the right time or in the right way. No one will be able to put any bearing or weight on anything, and no one will get anywhere. That's the point. Now, I'm sorry to say that I'll get to a scriptural example, but one of the ways in which I see this happening within our sphere is young men. With Calvinism and the Reformed faith. And that's all I'll say about that. The other example is the Pharisee, and you can see this all through the Sermon on the Mount with Jesus, and he says, You have heard that it was said. by these fools over here, but I tell you, this is what's really meant. They were able to take what God had taught them and distort everything to where everyone was being hurt by it instead of it bringing healing to the community. And so the whole education of the scribe and the Pharisee and the Sadducee was wasted on them. It actually caused the demise of an entire nation. Now there are matching and middle verses. We have seen six on what happens when you give a message to them, or if you give them an education. Now when we move into 8 and to 9 and to 10, I can't get into all the details of that. I just want to point out something real quick. Notice that in 8 there's a stone. Notice that in 9 there's a thorn bush, and if you have a good translation, there'll be an arrow in the next one. Now, Proverbs, I'm going to read Proverbs 26:10 because not all of us have a translation that makes a lot of sense at this point. It gets a little confusing. This is the one that I accept. Like an archer who wounds everyone. So is he who hires a fool or hires those who pass by. So you have a stone, you have a thorn bush, and you have an arrow. And it's quite simply that all are dangerous items. And so if you give a fool a message to communicate, if you give them your precious education, if you devote yourself to them, then you are handling you are handing them a dangerous item. I want you to think of of taking a young person who's a part of this community, let's say they're seven years old, and I want you to give them a loaded shotgun and send them into the sanctuary. That's not what we want to do. Because they don't know how to handle a firearm. In fact, one of the things you have to do in a safety in a safety course At least the one that I go to is after you take the test state, you have to go to the back of a pickup truck, grab an empty firearm, and the instructor has to watch you go through the woods, go over a barbed wire, uh a fence, etc. , with a group of people, seeing that you're always handling the firearm well. That's wisdom. And when I work with Jack, I give him an unloaded firearm and he has to carry it around whenever we go hunting. I'm always giving him instruction because I understand that it's dangerous and it can hurt people, and it is the same thing with the Christian education It is the same thing with a proverb in a fool's mouth, or that giving them a message that we shouldn't handle it lightly. You should not give them the social esteem of important business in the same way that you don't give a firearm to a young person that has no firearm safety. That's the point that's being made here. And now there are the final words in dealing with the fool. The final words in dealing with the fool return us back to that first section. Notice the animal imagery in 11 and 12. And this is the one that's most famous, I think, amongst us, isn't it? As a dog returns to his vomit, so a fool repeats his folly. Do you see a wise man in his own eyes? There is more hopeful for a fool. than him. These are negative animal images that we saw within the first part, and we're returning to what is fitting for a fool. And that is very interesting. There's actually some light that comes through a crack in these closing statements for a fool. It reiterates the nature of a fool that they're as stubborn as a mule. But there's light that comes through here in the light that we've already begun to see in saying that what is fitting for a fool is corporeal punishment. Creative corporeal punishment, like taking the battery out of a car or removing someone from school and putting them in a construction job. Now compared to the to the one now we see in verse 12, compared to the person who is wise in their own eyes, a fool actually has hope. You see that? He lets it in there just a little bit. That there actually is hope for fools and for the foolish. The comparison opens the door of hope for the fool's salvation through discipline a bit wider. The sage cracked the door open by suggesting that a rod is fitting for a fool, and now he opens it wider by the admonition, he opened it wider by the admonition to rebut the fool before he becomes wise in his own eyes seeking that you would communicate with him, not allowing him to stay in his conceit or her and her conceit. Worse than a fool is a deluded fool. Although the fool cannot learn from mistakes in verse 11, timely physical and verbal correction can save him from castling himself in his own conceit, as one scholar. Says that there actually is hope. It says here very clearly that you do not give social standing to a fool in verses 1 through 3. This is how we deal with fools. Communication with a fool must be calculated. There are two angles on that and two rationales. Do not give specific standing to a fool. Don't entrust important business, whether it be messages. or a timely and precious education and apprenticeship. And then these final words give us great hope that through wisdom God heals fools. And that's really our whole story. The story of everyone sitting here. It's the story of the wise discipline of the Trinity with his own children. Working his chastisement as it says in Proverbs 3, and upholding the moral order, that through his providence we would learn to trust. In the love of our Father, that He's not against us, that He's for us, and that we would be subdued and do what He says. That we would trust Him in all our hearts, that in other words, we would no longer stand on the shoreline but walk out onto the ice. in that other image that we have. His own children, in fact, and we can lump ourselves together with him, his own children were so foolish, they were actually called scoffers. That they crucified the Lord of glory. This is how foolish they were in 1 Corinthians 2, 7 through 9. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the ages for our glory, which none of the rulers of this age knew. None of the rulers of this age knew. And he's speaking about the rulers that crucify the Lord. For that had they known, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. But as it is written, I have not seen, nor ear heard, nor have entered into the heart of man the things which God has prepared for those who love him. However, in Acts chapter 2, after the crucifixion, Peter preaches to the same people who yelled, crucified him. Who were scoffers and who were too foolish, too vain in their own opinions as to who the Messiah was meant to be. Peter goes and he preaches a sermon at Pentecost. God the Father, through the mediation of His Son and through the ministry of the Holy Spirit, brought those people to be cut in the depths of their heart at the message of Jesus Christ. And at that moment they cried aloud, what must we do? Repent and believe, and be baptized in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Their wills were subdued through the goad and through the rod of that sermon, through the communication of that. of Peter and not allowing them to remain in their conceit. But calling, I would call you to return to that sermon in Acts 2. He called them out on the carpet. You were the ones that crucified the Messiah. What a rod from his mouth He spoke to them. And the Holy Spirit worked it into their hearts because there's hope for a fool. And they repented by the grace of Jesus Christ and were baptized in allegiance to the name and the authority of the one that they had just crucified. It is the story of anyone who is a Christian. The natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God. Continuing in 1 Corinthians, for they are foolishness to him, nor can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. But he who is spiritual judges all things, the ones who have received the Spirit. Yet he himself is rightly judged by no one, for who has known the mind of the Lord that he may instruct him, but we have the mind of God. Christ. That's the picture. The picture painted presents you again with the invitation if you have remained in your foolishness and have rejected the love of God in Jesus Christ. Christ, and if you're sitting here this morning, having rejected it, or not made your mind up about it, cry aloud that the Spirit would take you from being a fool to having even just a little bit of wisdom that you might see the secret wisdom of who Jesus is, that He's the Christ, that He's the Messiah. And for those of us who have the Spirit and who have been praising Jesus perhaps even for 27 years at this particular spot. Let us continue to praise Jesus for his wisdom and the wisdom that he has given us. Rods and all, let us not despise the chastisement of our God. We have seen the good that it has worked. out of. We are stubborn as mules. But he has made our hearts malleable over time. And he's forming us into something good, someone who's wise that's teaching us And I can listen. For all of those reasons, all the things that He has driven out of us, all of our foolishness, let us give praise to Jesus Christ. In his name. Amen. Amen. Please pray with me. Heavenly Father, we thank you for not leaving us in our foolishness, but while we are sinners, Lord Jesus Christ, you died for us. We pray that you would prepare our hearts now to see by faith your death, your resurrection, your victory In the sacrament that you have given to us. We pray that through the administration, your good news will be proclaimed. In the name of Christ, Amen.