Please turn with me to Deuteronomy, and we'll start in chapter seventeen today. And if you could please stand for the reading of God's Word. I will be reading verses fourteen through twenty-four. When you come to the land which the Lord your God is giving you, and possess it and dwell in it, And say, I will set a king over me like all the nations that are around me. You shall surely set a king over you, whom the Lord your God chooses. One from among your brethren, you shall set as king over you You may not set a foreigner over you who is not your brother, but he shall not I'm sorry, you may not set a foreigner over you who is not your brother, but he shall not multiply horses for himself, nor cause the people to return to Egypt. To multiply horses, for the Lord has said to you, you shall not return that way again. Neither shall he multiply wives for himself, lest his heart turn away, nor shall he greatly multiply silver and gold for himself. Also it shall be, when he sits on the throne of his kingdom, that he shall write for himself a copy of this law in a book, from the one before the priests, the Levites. And it shall be with him, and he shall read it all the days of his life, that he may learn to fear the Lord his God, and be careful to observe all the words of this law and these statutes. That his heart may not be lifted above his brethren, that he may not turn aside from the commandment to the right hand or to the left, and that he may prolong his days in his kingdom, he and his children in the midst of Israel Please pray with me. Father, we ask that you would grant us true understanding of this and that we would see not just ancient kings. but the Ancient of Days, our Lord Jesus Christ, who is our King. Lord Jesus Christ, we ask that you would shine this morning, and that it would not result just in wonder, in amazement, but in obedience. Obedience. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Last Sunday we observed, we've made very important observations last Sunday on the nature of God's kingdom. It is still the nature of God's kingdom today. If you want to know what your purpose is as a Christian, if you want to be in line with the work of Jesus Christ and heaven, His ascension and the work of his spirit that he has sent, this is his work. Righteousness. His work is righteousness beginning within you. And one day he will return and he will make the whole world righteous. The way in which we see Moses teaching about righteousness is that sometimes righteousness breaks down. That's the sermon last week. And the way to restore that, and I was just speaking about what was happening within the people of God and the church, is justice. Last Sunday we observed righteousness and justice. Righteousness is living in relationship to God and others as God intends. Justice is restoring righteousness as God has instructed when that righteousness is broken. And he gives specific examples. We gave a New Testament example of Matthew eighteen fifteen through twenty-one on a kind of procedure that we can follow even today in the restoring of righteousness. We know that it will take the return of Christ for all of righteousness to be restored. And we await for that day. And may it happen soon. So a few things are necessary to have a good, righteous church community, and really any community uh at all. The goal, which we've stated from last week's sermon, was righteousness. We need to have a way to restore righteousness when it breaks down, when you're dealing with people that have fallen, who have lapsed into sin. We see that process in Matthew 18, even to today. But did you notice some of the personnel that was required last Sunday? You needed just judges who don't take bribes, who know how to try cases. Well, this morning there's another individual that I hope you've noticed right away in verses 14 through 21. Not only do we need the judges from last week in order to enact justice Not only if those judges are unable to enact those or try those cases, do we need the priests that study the law all the time? But you see in 14 through 21 that a king can be helpful to the righteousness of a community. You can see that in the setting in verse 14. When you come to the land which the Lord your God is giving you, and possess it and dwell in it, and say, I will set a king over me like all the nations that are around me. Verses 14 through 21 is all about a king. It's the next person on the list to establish righteousness within the community. Remember, the key word from last week was a repetition. Petition Sedek Sedek Righteousness Righteousness That was From the sermon last Sunday, and that is going to continue. Not only judges and priests, but also kings are given to God's people for righteousness to prevail Once the Israelites enter Canaan and settle, they will say, we would like a king over us, like the other nations have. Now God, you see in this passage, does not forbid a king. It doesn't seem necessary either. But he does place parameters on it if they do want to A king. And he shows how to preserve in this kingship and the practices that this king should have. That's really the whole passage. The parameters for the king In establishing the king? That's the first part. How this king will be preserved and not fall into his own unrighteousness, so that's the preservation of the king And then lastly, we'll see the practices of the king. So that's three P's. I'm alliterating this morning. You can thank me later. Parameters, preservation, and practice. Practices. The three P's of Deuteronomy 17, 14 through 20. So that's what we'll look at this morning, and then we have the opportunity to commune with our Lord in the Supper. directly afterward. So let's begin with the parameters beginning in verses 14 and 15. The parameters for having a king really begin in verse 15. I've already read to you verse 14. They would like a king. And now if you are going to have a king, you shall surely set a king over you whom the Lord your God chooses. One from among your brethren, and then he continues to say, You shall set as king over you, you may not set a foreigner over you who is not your brother. So the first parameter is that it must surely be a king whom the Lord your God chooses. This law is followed in future biblical accounts. And I'm spending time on this. I could move past this very quickly, but I'm spending time on this because it helps you to understand the rest of the biblical narrative that comes up in the scriptures as you're reading through your Bible once a year, which you should be doing. You'll see multiple kings coming up and you'll see this God choosing them. And now you can see where that comes from. It comes from here in Deuteronomy. This law is followed in future biblical accounts. Samuel, for example, a prophet, will reveal whom God chooses. Later you will see different kings arise, David, Solomon, Jeroboam, Jehu. These are different kings that God will appoint. There's one specific example where you can see this whole principle played out in 1 Samuel chapter 16, and I'll just summarize it for you very quickly. There are seven sons that Jesse presents And God chooses none of them, but instead he chooses to bring the one that is least suspected. His name is David, and he's the eighth. And Samuel said to Jesse, Are all the young men here? Then he said, There remains yet the youngest, and there he is keeping the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and bring him, for we will not sit down till he comes here. So he sent and he brought him in. Now he was ruddy, with bright eyes and good looking. And the Lord said, Arise, anoint him, for this is the one. You see, this is exactly what's being spoken of in Deuteronomy. You're seeing here in 1 Samuel 16. And I would encourage you to use the same kind of language as you understand the the ministry of Jesus Christ and his anointing, with God choosing him. So then Samuel took the horn of oil. And anointed him in the midst of his brothers, and the Spirit of the Lord came upon David from that day forward. So Samuel arose and went to Ramah. That's the first parameter. You can see that throughout the biblical accounts, as God is the one that will appoint and choose and anoint. We even see that in our Lord Jesus Christ. So you can see the historical continuity between the covenants once again. Now there's a second parameter that he gives. It must be from among their brethren and not a foreigner. And I can move through this one pretty quickly. There must be two issues going on here. First, choosing a king from another nation was a regular practice to have alliances with the surrounding nation. This is a political technique that one could perform. But then secondly, the reason why he has to warn them against this is that the overall context is obviously concerned that the Israelites will turn to the religious practices of the surrounding nations. If you were to flip back to chapter seven in Deuteronomy, which you can do at another time, this same kind of language is used in speaking about the Canaanites where they s where the Lord instructs through Moses, you shall have no covenants with this group of people. And you shall have no marriages with those who are outside of the faith. And it is the same kind of thing here. You shall only have a king who is from the nation that I have rescued out of Egypt. That is the second perimeter. And the reason why is because God is sober about the nature of human nature. And he wants no way for his people to be tempted and to turn back to the gods of other lands, because he alone is God. Those are the parameters Once these are met and the king is established, the king has to be preserved. Because here, for quite a long time, until the ad- Christ, we will have fallen human kings. And so there's their preservation that is put in where the king is preserved and he preserves. Remember, the point of a king is the point of a judge or of any leader within Israel They are meant as public servants for the righteousness of the Israelite nation. That's why they're there. The whole point of their existence is the righteousness of the nation. And so the king must be preserved in his own righteousness. And in fact, the king should be the exemplar of righteousness for the entire nation. a kind of great light spreading out across the whole nation as to what you're supposed to be like as a human being. And in order to preserve that within fallen human kings, we see three restrictions here within this text. Beginning in verse 16. There's a repetition. Those of you who are taking the Sunday school class, you can use your repetition tool. Do you see the word that's repeated in the passage? It rhymes with roltiply. You see it? Multiply. It's reported three it's uh it's multiplied three times, begins in verse sixteen, and then you'll see another one in seventeen and a third one also in seventeen. So let's take a look at the first one. The first restriction to preserve this king in righteousness for the sake of the nation is that he shall not multiply horses. Now, we are modern folk, and so we could think of this incorrectly. You should not be thinking of a picnic blanket and cheese and crackers out on a pasture of some rich friend who has a stable full of horses, where you can be a country gentleman and a country lady with really expensive leather boots. This is about war. The image is a sign of military strength. He who has the most horses wins is the idea in terms of the military that's going on during this time And so what God is doing here by saying you shall not multiply horses is that God is setting limits to the king's military force and power. And you know why he's doing so. Have you ever seen a human being that has too much power? God knows the hearts of men. Power corrupts, and more power corrupts more fully. And absolute power corrupts absolutely. And so the military force of this king must be limited. The king must be preserved in an appropriate estimation of himself in each way. And so, for example, if you were to turn to Deuteronomy chapter 20, you can see the way that the Lord is going to govern his people. When you go out to battle against yourself, this is chapter 20, verse 1, if you want to When you go out to battle against your enemies and see horses and chariots, and it's not their horses and chariots. And people more numerous than you, do not be afraid of them, for the Lord your God is with you, who brought you up from the land of Egypt. He understands that the human heart would stray, that the heart of the king could stray into thinking that he would be responsible for the victory of his people. And God never wants him to forget that the victory always comes through Yahweh, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And so there's a prohibition or a restriction on the multiplication of military weaponry namely the horse. Now in verse 17 there's another restriction. He said, you shall not multiply wives. This is another preservation, and it is not primarily about pleasure. We're not talking about a pleasure principle here. It is really more, if you understand ancient Near Eastern governments, this is more about status A king would marry the daughters of surrounding nations to form alliances, which is what we see Solomon doing. And we see that it is the very downfall of Solomon himself. There's that little editorial comment at the end of that narrative A king would choose, actually, the most beautiful women in all of the land. And he would keep them in his court to show them off, especially when other dignitaries Would visit. Consider the book of Daniel, for example, and how this was done in other nations. Then the king instructed Aspinath. The master of his eunuchs to bring some of the children of Israel and some of the king's descendants, the king's descendants, Not just the peasants' descendants, the king's descendants, some of the nobles, young men in whom there is no blemish But good looking, gifted in all wisdom, possessing knowledge, and quick to understand, who had the ability to serve in the king's palace, and whom they might teach the language and literature. Of the Chaldeans, nobles, no blemish, good-looking, gifted, knowledgeable, quick to understand. He was decking everything out as a kind of status symbol of his greatness. And when someone would visit, the status of the king would be impressive. But this way of gaining status for a king that is under God's rule is a Trap. As King Lemuel's mother teaches in Proverbs chapter 31, there are two things that destroy a king, or really any man, and we always focus on the second one. And never on the first, but there are two things. If you read all of Proverbs 31, and not just the part about the woman, there are two things that can destroy a king. That King Lemuel's mother warns the king about, too much alcohol and the wrong woman. That's our second prohibition. There's a third prohibition in order to keep the righteousness of the king for the righteousness of the nation, and that is also found at the very tail end there of verse 17. He shall not multiply silver or gold. And this one's really obvious for us. You can see that lust for wealth is an obvious danger Lust for wealth is perhaps the purpose of the taxation of people. Unjust taxation. Beyond necessary. Unjust wars, perhaps It leads to all kinds of evil. And it rounds out the overarching picture. The overarching picture, it's kind of funny to me because it's the same three ways that leaders can fall today, weapons, women, and wealth But the sobriety about human nature is refreshing. That even those who would be in the greatest places of leadership, God is sober about them And it reminds me of the Fourth of July. It reminds me that power and status and wealth are like fireworks. You know, even the thing that looks like it would be the least dangerous, like sparklers, when taken by a little kid who's not paying attention while lit and laid on the arm of another kid, leaves a Great wealth. Or if you were to think of firecrackers, or if you were to go to the top of all firecrackers, which is dynamite, we use dynamite for great good within our society to mine all kinds of resources for the human. Population, but it is also the very same thing that could destroy you or the entire camp that is working in that place. And so too with those three things. Military might is not wrong in and of itself. Being able to protect yourself is considered a great good, even amongst your household. There's nothing wrong with women. Women are good and made in the image of God. And there is nothing wrong with money either, but all of those things can be used by men in ways that corrupt and tear them down. And when a king is at stake, who is supposed to be an example for the righteousness of the entire nation, you can see why the restrictions will be put in place. Because they like dynamite can go off in their hands if they're not careful. And therefore, God preserves the health of the king and righteousness by forbidding him to multiply or have an excess of women, of weapons, or women, or wealth. But then when we continue going through this passage and the rest of the verses, we can see that prohibition is not enough. There's always a speakeasy. The king must have positive practices also. And that's the remainder of this. And it begins in verse 18 for our final P: practices. Take a look at verse 18 with me. Also it shall be when he sits on the throne of his kingdom that he shall write for himself a copy of this law and a book, for the one before the priests, the Levites. And it shall be with him, and he shall read it all the days of his life, that he may learn to fear the Lord his God, and be careful. Those are the practices that you can begin to see. The king has to write for himself a copy of the law, and it is not just the Ten Commandments. It is the Pentateuch. It's the Torah. He is to write all of that, and He is to do so from the official copy that he has from the priests in front of the priests to make sure that every jot and tittle, that's actually true within the Hebrew language, is correct. That everything is exactly as it should be. That there's not one mistaken word in his copying of every word of the law. And the king will read that law all the days of his life. He gets other work done. This is an another way of saying that he is to be devoted to it. It is to be on his lips. It is to be consume his heart and his mind. The fur is the first of his thoughts in the morning. And it is with those practices that you can begin to see how the rest of the scriptures fit very nicely once again into the development of this section of Deuteronomy. You know, scholars say that the Psalms are written for royalty. Have you ever heard that? That first and foremost they are written for royalty, and then because we are to mimic or imitate royalty. They are written for us. They have been democratized, they say, in the mere publishing of them. But originally they're in a royal setting and a royal court. And you could see why they would say that based on looking at the Psalms, seeing what the king has to do here when he comes into power on his throne. So, for example, consider Psalm 1. From the lens of a royal setting. The man meditating on the law day and night is the king. And he is the righteous one who sets an example and allows the entire community to flourish. And then Psalm 2, being Psalm 1, part 2, confirms this as God the Father anoints the king, even though the nations rebel against him. And that is a correct reading of those two Psalms. They're always sits together. That is universally acknowledged. But since the Psalms are published for the whole community, It shows that we are meant to be like the king. The king must embody righteousness, and we must embody the king. Now, I want you to see one more thing here in this passage under the practices and the results that they are meant to lead to. And I want you, as we're reading this, to ask this question. Then when you read the Torah or any of the other inscripturated words of God, are these the results in your life? Some of you will say, sorta. Some of you will say no. Some of you will say sometimes. And this gives you plenty to work on in your Bible study. And it shall be with him, and he shall read it all the days of his life. Verse 19. Now notice the word that. This is the purpose for the reading. These are the results that should happen. That he may learn to fear the Lord his God. And that he would be careful to observe all the words of this law and these statutes. And that his heart may not be lifted above his brethren, and that he may not turn aside from the commandment to the right hand or to the left, and that he may prolong his days in his kingdom, he and his children. in the midst of Israel. That's why the king reads. The king reads that he may fear the Lord. When you are done your Bible study, do you fear God? I'd encourage you to understand. You can look back at some of the sermons we've given in this series, that I've given in this series, and understand What the fear of the Lord is. But when you were done reading your scriptures, if you want to imitate the King, you should leave fearing God. When you get done reading your scriptures, are you like the king and that you are careful to observe all the words? Have you ever met Christians that seem like they study all the time and they've never learned one thing? Meaning they've never actually worked it out. That they are seemingly hearers of the word, but not doers. No, not the king. And not us who imitate the king. We must be careful to observe all the words. And number three is especially insightful. That his heart be not lifted above his brothers. Do you know how in reading of the law the king's heart would not be lifted up above his brothers' hearts? Because the king realizes He's under the sovereignty of another. When you are done your scripture reading, when you set it aside after your morning or after your evening readings, Do you come to the realization that you're not in charge? That you are under the sovereignty and the laws of another? That should be the result of our scripture reading if we are to imitate the King. That we would not then turn to turn aside to the right or to the left, but that we would stay on that path. Through the fear of the Lord, through understanding and having our hearts humbled, knowing that we are creatures and He is the creator, He is the lawgiver, and we are the law-obeyer. That God would not remove him from his position. And we can see that played out in David, when David sins against the Lord, the ruination of his family and the end of his kingdom. And it's the same thing. with Solomon. The main point that you have before here, as I've analytically gone through this passage for you to see all the parts, and how they're connected, is that the king is preserved in righteousness by limiting his power, limiting his status, limiting his wealth, and by growing in righteousness through the practices of the study of the Of God's law, particularly the Torah. And of course, our privilege exceeds the people in this passage. When they went to see righteousness, they looked to the king. And they had Joshua, and they had David, and they had Solomon, but we have Jesus the Christ. There is no flaw within him. He is perfect in his endeavors, in righteousness. God the Father has appointed, it is clear throughout all of the scriptures, has appointed and anointed Jesus from Nazareth as the King of heaven and earth. Do you often think of Jesus as your king? Do you realize that you are truly in a monarchy and not in a democracy? I think that's lost on us. I often hear almost entirely, if I had to give a percentage, I hear of Jesus 98% And that is very important. Because it is the priest who offers himself as the perfect sacrifice for the atonement of our sins. Sins. But the priest offers the sacrifice, as we'll learn here in the supper in just a moment, as a means to an end. As it says in Titus, he sacrifices himself to gather unto himself a people who are equipped for righteousness and all good works. Now that's the work of a king. We just read that within the confession, that the king is the one who gathers his nation to himself, correcting them when they are wrong, instructing them so that they can be right and they can be righteous. That's the question, do you think of Jesus as your king? Let's ask it a different way. Do you live as if Jesus is your king Do you imitate him in the way in which he performs his righteousness? What has happened to the imitation of Christ? We become confused as to the meaning of our life and what we're supposed to do with our lives and how we're supposed to act. And God the Father has sent God the Son to take upon himself human nature that we might see in the flesh exactly what it means to be a human being in all righteousness. And yet we remain in our confusion, because we refuse to behold Christ by faith and to imitate. Him. Do you want to know what you're supposed to do with your life? You are to imitate Christ. And Christ is righteous. As our king, we must obey him and follow his example. As therefore the king studies the law, so too should we. But not for academic purposes. That's not how I see Jesus studying it. I think Jesus is smarter than anybody in any seminary And yet I don't see him as just academic. There is a dynamism to how he acts out his righteousness in understanding the mind of the Lord. And that is what you are to be like. You know what's really frustrating to me is that there are celebrity pastors across our nation that receive more commendation, praise, and wonder from Christians than Jesus does himself. I hear more about R. S. Sprawl or whoever than Jesus. You know those men Who are at the top of their game and are celebrity pastors, if they are worth their weight, they're trying to imitate Jesus, not some other guy, and not some other girl. Where is our imitation of the king? Jesus is our celebrity. And you know a lot of those celebrity pastors get it wrong. Because sometimes I get the impression that I could count maybe on one hand those celebrity pastors that know the Ten Commandments. But it says here that if Jesus is going to be the true king, that he would know the law. And certainly he did, because he was able to correct and confound every lawyer in the New Testament. When they confronted him with the law. Jesus understands. You know why Jesus understands the Torah? Because he wrote it. And not for academic purposes. Do you fear the Lord like Jesus feared his Father? Not my will that yours be done Are you humbled as the creature and the servant, as Jesus humbled himself and became a servant, as we read in Philippians? Philippians. Are you more careful to follow the law that you would not go to the right or to the left? Even in the temptations of greatness? You know, Jesus was tempted toward greatness also in the desert. It's exactly what Satan offered to him. Every one of those temptations that a king should not take up. And Jesus resists them that he might more carefully follow the law of his Father. Jesus said that he came not to abolish the law, but to fulfill it, and I have heard so many wrong interpretations of that. But when you look at it in terms of Deuteronomy, what does it mean that a king would come and he would say to his people, I have not come to abolish the law, but to fulfill it? It doesn't mean that he's come to get rid of the law. That's not what kings do. Kings establish the law. They are an example to us of law. And through the sending of his spirit, after his atoning death for our unrighteousness, he will establish the righteousness of the law in all of those in his kingdom. Do you want to know what the Ten Commandments will look like? They will look like you in your glory. Because you are the fulfillment of the law through the work of Jesus Christ. Because you will be love. Because you will be like God, and God is love. You see the nature of his kingdom? As Christians, we can get distracted. The kingdom of God is not about you getting power. It's not about your status. It's not about your wealth. You know what the kingdom of God is about, even in the New Testament? Romans 14, 17. It is about righteousness. Is that surprising to you? If it is, you may have been under antinomian instruction. And if you want to know what that is, come and talk to me afterward. We'll tear it down together and light it on fire. Paul continues in Romans 14:17 after saying that the kingdom is not about food, it's not about drink, it is about righteousness, and he says, and he who serves Christ the King, In these things is acceptable to God, and he is approved by men. The kingdom is still the same as we see here, but we have the perfect king Who is a demonstration of the perfect righteousness for us. And it is in him in multiple ways that we become righteous. And we'll consider that as we go before him now to commune with him in the supper. Please let me end this time in prayer, and then we'll have our invitational song Father, we do thank you for Christ our King, and we pray that you'd help us to understand Him in that light more fully. We spend a lot of time on Him as priest. But He is our King, and He is our Prophet. We pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that as our King we would submit to you, and that you would be our great celebrity. We ask these things in your name. Amen.