Please turn in your scriptures to Hebrews chapter 2. You will do much better if you follow along. If you need a Bible, please raise your hand and I'll have someone bring it to you. All right. This morning we'll be focusing on chapter two and verses ten through eighteen. Beginning in verse 10. For it was fitting for him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things. And bringing many sons to glory to make the captain of their salvation perfect through sufferings. For both he who sanctifies and those who are being sanctified are all of one. For which reason he is not ashamed to call them brethren, saying, I will declare your name to my brethren. In the midst of the assembly I will sing praise to you. And again. I will put my trust in him. And again, here am I in the children whom God has given me. Inasmuch then as the children have partaken of flesh and blood, he himself likewise shared in the same That through death he might destroy him who had the power of death, that is the devil, and release those who, through fear of death, were all their lifetime subject to bondage. For indeed he does not give aid to angels, but he does give aid to the seed of Abraham. Therefore, in all these things he had to be made like his brethren, that he might be a merciful and high and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God. To make propitiations for the sin of the people. For in that he himself has suffered being tempted, he is able to aid those who are tempted. Please pray with me Lord Jesus Christ, we confess our distraction to you And we ask that you would cure this disease that we have by showing yourself to be our high priest. And why you needed to come to earth primarily. Why did you need to take upon yourself human nature primarily? Please help us to see the excellence and the greatness of your high priesthood. Amen. Damon Runyon was born in eighteen eighty, and he was a newspaperman He was well known for a title that he ended up giving to a famous boxer, James J. Braddock. James J. Braddock was a down-on-his luck boxer. He had hand injuries. Looked like all the world was going into the pit for him. But surprisingly, he ended up taking the heavyweight championship from Max Bear. This is a rags to riches story And therefore that led Damon Runyon, the newspaper writer, to title James J. Braddock, Cinderella Man. I think we've all seen that movie, or maybe read the book, or you've heard of it, or maybe You uh were around, I don't know. So far the emphasis in Hebrews has not been a Cinderella story. A Cinderella's story is uh From Rags to Riches. That's a good way to summarize that The title of the sermon series is not Rags to Riches, it's just Riches. It's that Jesus Christ is greater. Chapter 1 pointed out that he's greater than Moses and the angels. He's greater in his person, he's greater in his attributes, he's greater in his titles. And last week we saw this theme continue that he is greater and that he's the one that Psalm 8 was really talking about. He is the one that Saul made as fulfilled. In Jesus, all things are put under his authority. Including the world to come, which we have established as the church. He is the head of the church, and we worked out some applications on that. Now, today we shift Today is a little strange because although the title of the whole series, as you see on the front of your bulletin, is Jesus is greater, today the passage is all about the humiliation of Jesus Christ. which is not greater. It is by definition lesser. However, we'll see that even this humiliation Points to his greatness and the greatness of the Father. In fact, if you look in your bulletin, you can see the main idea there, or the big idea that the Messiah had to enter into the estate of humiliation. in order to glorify his people. It was a means to an end. And there are three points that we're looking at: doubt, humility, and necessity. Now do me a favor. In the second point on your bulletin, if you follow that outline You'll see where it says humility. In the sentence there, under humility, cross out necessarily, because we'll establish that in the third point. And I'm not even going to focus on that in the second point. I'm just just going to focus on Jesus the Messiah entered into humiliation, not that he necessarily did so. We'll look at that in the third point, but it's doubt, humility, and necessity. Now, to begin to be able to unfold why we're moving into a uh a section on his humility, you have got to go back to the text that we looked at last week, and that's namely verses 7 and verses 9. Now I'm just going to say a few words about that to orient us As we continue with the flow of this passage. Take a look at verse 7 and then look at verse 9. And this is what they have in common. Both of them are referring to the fact that Jesus had to become lower. Now in verse 7, it says you've made them a little lower than the angels. And then in verse 9, the main emphasis at the end there is might taste death for everyone. Now, the Jew is asking the question: why in the world did he need to die? This is contrary to everything we've ever believed about the Messiah. The Hebrews, in fact, stumbled over the death of Jesus. They pictured the Messiah as a great general conquering all their enemies. They had no picture of the Messiah being mocked and crucified as a criminal. Jesus sought to teach his disciples that he has got to die. He said it to them over and over again. For example, Matthew 16, 21, from that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests. But he you know, this verse twenty-two of this same chapter, his disciples wouldn't accept it. Peter rises And took Jesus aside and began to rebuke him, saying, Far be it from you, Lord, that this should happen to you. Really clueless as to the true nature of Jesus and his incarnations. the Son of God. In fact, his crucifixion in the mind of the Jews was an evidence that Jesus was in fact not the Messiah. I guarantee That whoever was trying to trick this congregation, and the reason for the writing of this letter, one of their main points of argument was, how could he be the one if he was crucified? And that was persuasive to them because there was a supposition that the Messiah would only live in victory and not be crucified as a criminal. In Luke 23, 39, we can see this same kind of attitude. Then one of the criminals who were hanged blasphemed him, saying, If you are the Christ, save yourself and us. Do you see the expectation? Do you see the presuppositions? The supposition is that if Jesus was truly the Christ or the Messiah, then he would not be undergoing this terrible humiliation. They pictured salvation, that which the Messiah was supposed to bring, as deliverance from Roman occupation and to a position of honor and prosperity. Jesus or Yeshua or Joshua was supposed to bring them into the promised land, conquer all of their enemies, and they'd have milk and honey. You get the picture. But here you see him being crucified, and therefore he's taken out of ever being able to be the Messiah. I imagine that the Hebrews To whom this letter was written struggled over the same things I've mentioned. They'd ask questions like this. He tasted death? Did he just say that? He tasted death? How could that be? And the rest of the passage is answering that question. So, verse number nine, the last set of words, might taste death for everyone, to the Hebrew mind, needs some explanation What in the world are you talking about? And now he's going to unfold in the other verses why Jesus needed to die in order to be the true Messiah that God had always planned. So now you can see under humility that throughout this passage there is a labeling of different aspects of his humiliation. Now we're on to our second point. Jesus the Messiah entered into humiliation. Now this is all over the place. I would really, I'm trying to strike a balance here. This one sermon should really be three sermons. There's so much detail in here. I just I I I You know, there's benefits to both. I'm going to cover one aspect of this passage, which is his high priesthood, because that's the main point, but I could come back and preach three separate sermons just on this. You'll notice some of the information in here that could be developed on his humiliation. For instance, the author admits that the Messiah was humiliated, the Son of God. The second person of the Trinity, being very an eternal God, of one substance and equal with the Father, did, when the fullness of time was come, take upon him man's nature. That's what our confession says. Here you can see the same elements. Look at verse 14. In verse 14, inasmuch as the children have partaken of flesh and blood, he himself likewise shared in the same. He's talking about the human nature that he needed to take on. But it's more than that. Flesh and blood is brought up in that which can die, and that which could be sacrificed. In verse 17, again, it's emphasized again, he became like his brethren so that he could be the high priest. He took on their nature. He offered a sacrifice. In verse 10, he suffered in his body. In verse 14, even to the point of death that I had already pointed out. The emphasis here is certainly I admit his humiliation. In fact, let's start stepping through and see how humiliated he was. The creator is made a creature He was clothed with glory, but then wrapped with rags of flesh. He who is power had to flee from Herod's power to Egypt. And be subject to Roman power. Can you imagine the person who made thorn bushes as a curse for the human race, the thorn bushes turned into a crown and placed on his head? This is the kind of humility that we see within the passage as he takes on human nature. The God who constructed the heavens and the earth becomes a lowly carpenter working with trinkets and wood. How humiliating! Now, instead of this humiliation being something to hide, the author shows that this is the great glorious plan of God. And this goes to the necessity of it. It's necessary in the sense that in order to accomplish the design that God has always had, Jesus must be humiliated. The second person of the Trinity must undergo humiliation, death for the penalty of sin. And this is our third point under necessity. Jesus glorified his people. That's the whole plan. Jesus entered in this humility in order to glorify his people according to the plan of his father. Take a look at verse 10. We'll go into a little bit of detail here. Jesus was following as a means to the end of the great redemptive purpose of God the Father He was following and becoming a means to that end. He was following the design of the Father. Verse 10, for it was fitting for him Now we're talking about God the Father at this point. It was fitting for God the Father, and now I want you to notice another little phrase. It is fitting. Notice that now we are in a conversation about means and ends. When we talk about something being fitting, we talk about is this an appropriate means in order to be able to accomplish that end? The Father has an ultimate plan. Look at the same verse. He wants to bring many sons to glory. That's the ultimate goal here that he's laying forth in this passage. It was fitting, therefore, for the Father, if he wants to bring many sons to glory. And then he goes on to talk about the purposes of the humiliation. In light of that goal, it was fitting that the second person of the Trinity take upon himself human nature and re remain obedient even in suffering, thus becoming the perfect sacrifice without blemish, perfect through sufferings, consecrating himself to be the one that all things may be subject to. And in verse 10, we also see that the author is drawing out the providential goodness and wisdom of God in doing any of his plans. You have to ask yourself when it says, for it was fitting for him, meaning God the Father, why does he go off to start giving some uh uh attributes of the God the Father, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things Why bring that up? Why bring up the digression? The point is to remind them that God has always worked through all his creatures and all their actions in order to bring glory to himself. Everything is from him. He is the Creator. Everything is to him. He is the final end or final cause of all things in his glory. And this too Falling under his providential acts, humiliation, is an act of God's providence. It is an execution of his decree to redeem his people. And just like any other act of providence that works to his glory, so too the humiliation of Jesus Christ taking upon himself human nature. And being subject to death would be for his own glory also. Far from being something that we should be ashamed about or turn back to a mosaic system for these people We should glory in the wisdom of God in working through an act like this. Each act of humility was a means to the end designed by the Father. The end design or goal was promised long ago, 3. 15 of Genesis, and I will crush the head of the serpent. We see a foreshadowing of how this will be accomplished ultimately when they are clothed with animal skins. The goal has always been salvation from the guilt of sin and its penalty and everlasting hell. The state of righteousness regained, reconciliation with God the Father, removal of all actual sin nature and actual sins. And now the Hebrews are discovering the means to accomplish that goal. They just wanted the Romans to no longer be over them. But God had a much larger plan in store that all of sin and its ruination Would be destroyed and that they would be recovered. And in order to be able to accomplish that salvation, salvation correctly defined, in order to be able to accomplish that goal, the Son of God had to take on human nature Verse 11, he had to have perfect obedience in life in our stead. He had to have perfect obedience in death. In order to be able to do those two things, he had to take on human nature. He had to destroy the devil's power over death. And now we can begin to see some of these little listings here and the accomplishment that he has in bringing many sons to glory. Look at verses 14 and 15. Inasmuch then as the children have partaken of flesh and blood, he himself likewise shared in the same, that through death he might destroy him who had the power of death. That is the devil. So here's one of the accomplishments that Jesus is gaining in taking on this human nature in order to win God's goal. He is destroying the devil's power over death. Now what does that mean? The devil doesn't have absolute power over anything. He's only permitted to be able to do certain things by God Himself. So it's not talking here about the devil's absolute power. The devil only has what God permits. He is the author, Satan, is the author of all death through his temptation of Adam and Eve. In that sense, he has power over it, in being the creator of it in some sense. Since he inaugurated our present situation, he is known as the prince of the power of this realm and of death. And in that sense, being a prince, he has power over this kind of realm of death. And Satan is given power to plague humanity with the threat of death. But it says next that Jesus releases those in bondage to the fear of death. Now that can get you scratching your head in verse 15. The second thing that Jesus does is release those who, through fear of death, were all their lifetime subject to bondage. That would be a very difficult proposition to uphold in some kind of dissertation. How would you prove that all people are afraid of death? Now that would be difficult. But when we look at death through a biblical lens, we can begin to understand what he's talking about here. Death is a threat because death is a penalty. Here is a great example of how our world has blinded us. The world, whether we know it or not, washes over us in the media and they redefine things without us knowing. They have redefined death And they have painted death as a natural and relatively painless cessation of existence The worst part is that the family misses the person who dies. That's the worst part of death. Yet the biblical explanation is that death is the entrance into the penalty of sin. The reason why death was given to begin with is because of our sin as a penalty for it. And death is always knocking, reminding you. You keep running away from the responsibility that you have to make to pay for your sins, but one day you won't be able to run. The biblical explanation is that this is an entrance into the penalty of sin. All of our lives we can seek to ignore God and sear our conscience But there is a day that everyone sees, the day of death. God is gracious and he warns you that this day is coming. Now I want you to think about what entered into the human race once they sinned to give them signs of this ultimate death that would come and the penalty, the penalty that would ensue. Was there any sickness before? Was there any arthritis in the left knee? What that points out to us is that every ache Every ailment, every cavity is meant to be a reminder to you that your day is coming and you will face God. You will face God for the sins that you have committed. You can try all you want to see your conscience now, but who will resist death? Christ is saying that he is taking the penalty upon himself by becoming man. He stands in man's place to take the penalty upon himself that he might remove the fear of death. That which was an enemy now becomes a friend, instead of being an entrance into a penalty and a ferocious God. It becomes the threshold to perfect happiness and eternal felicity through Jesus Christ. That's his point here. Death was an enemy, but for the Christian, now has no sting. Oh, death, where is your sting? It has become a threshold to perfect and eternal happiness through, and you see this next part that he brings out, specifically In verse 17, the propitiation for the sins of the people. It's what Jesus is accomplishing as He takes on this incarnation Propitiation for the sins of the people. The Hebrews would have been very familiar with this concept. The Hebrews would have been familiar with this idea. Because their earthly high priest would offer sacrifices on their behalf in order to appease the wrath of God so that they could have a clear conscience that they were reconciled with God. And the whole point of this book is that that was just a shadow. That was just a type of the ultimate sacrifice. All those sacrifices are wiped away because the once-for-all sacrifice of Jesus Christ could truly cleanse your conscience. The author is taking them further and showing them the reality instead of the passing shadows and types It's the Messiah that accomplishes this goal. You want to be a son that's taken to glory? You want to be a daughter that's taken to glory? Then Jesus must be humiliated. We say, No, Lord, far be it from you. And Jesus says, Get behind me, Satan. The Messiah had to enter into the estate of humiliation in order to glorify his people. It was necessary that this would be done. This is not a mark or a shame on his record, is his point. Yeah, he had to taste death for everyone. You better believe it. Doubt, hopefully within these people were erased. Hopefully in us it's erased. The necessity of the humility, what the humility consisted of And then that necessity in being able to accomplish God's main plan. Now there's two inferences that I want to bring out from this main truth. Remember that the big idea here is that the Messiah had to enter into that estate of humiliation in order to glorify his people. It was God's plan. That's the whole point here. It's God's plan. Now here's the first inference. from one of the truths that were that we saw here. You see him listing over and over again his conquering of Satan. That he has gone in and he has bound the strong man, and now he's going to take those captives from him and make them his people. Now, how did that end up looking like in the book of Acts? All those who were once in bondage to Satan and were blinded by his schemes and his devices. They gained eyes to see, and sometimes 5,000 people at a time became followers of Jesus Christ. They understood that they needed a propitiation for sins. They saw Jesus as he was offered in the gospel. That's what it looks like for Satan to be bound It looks like the gospel spreading amongst every tongue, tribe, and nation. And so here is the first inference: the doors are open, and the harvest is white for your evangelism. Would you please preach the gospel? Would you please not be afraid to mention the purpose of Jesus Christ? How people can be washed by his blood from all their sins and begin to be conformed into the image of Jesus Christ. I think you should anticipate that Satan is still bound and that Jesus could work. Figure out how to do that wisely. There's the hope. Matthew 28, in other words, go and make disciples. This is the bedrock foundation and the reason and ground for why we would do so, because Satan has in fact been bound. Now second, second, and more length, we are liable to make the same kind of mistake as the Hebrews concerning our salvation. Not the same exactly. But the same in kind. The Hebrews were confused about Christ's death because salvation was supposed to be a military campaign that resulted in earthly prosperity. I think you've heard that before. What are the ways in which you have mistakenly defined salvation? When Rome remained in power. This is what happened. When Jesus was crucified, they were dismayed. They thought, I've been tricked. And the folks in this that he's writing this letter to are wondering, maybe I've been tricked. Maybe I've been duped. Christ became irrelevant to them, and he became an imposter, someone who had tricked them Have you ever felt like Jesus Christ is irrelevant and it doesn't have much to do with you? They felt that. And the reason why they felt that was because they had misunderstood the purposes of salvation. I wonder if you've ever felt that. If you failed to see the relevance of Jesus Christ, if you've misunderstood the purposes of salvation. Salvation. American Christians are oftentimes confused and believe that Christ came to give them all of their American desires. Americans long for power, they long for prestige, they long for wealth, they long for fame, a name for themselves and beauty, and they do all of that politely so they don't look arrogant or vain. We are skilled in our social interactions, but those are the desires that are underneath. That we clothe with something else so that they can't be seen for what they are. I want you to look, for example, at what you spend your time thinking about and daydreaming about. What do you strive after? Where's your treasure? You want to go to college or you're in college, you're taking 18 credits a semester for what? I'm not saying the college is bad. I just want to know why the ambition. What about work? Why all the time for work? What about your marriage? For what? Why do you want to be married? What are you doing in your marriage? If you were to line up all of those different ambitions, you can think of all of the ways in which those ambitions aren't met and how you cry out to Jesus that the ambitions would be met. That's the kind of thing that I'm talking about. Is Jesus really a means in order for you to accomplish the ambitions that you have for college, work, and marriage? Maybe sometimes, maybe some of the desires are good, but what if the desires are not good? What if we've given in to some vision that America has casted for us and we're trying to get Jesus to fit into that vision? Which is called syncretism. Jesus is not a means to accomplish this. If you are disappointed in Jesus, then it is probably because you thought he was a savior of your ambitions and earthly desires, and he hasn't given you any of those things for a reason. Jesus is the captain of your salvation in the sense that he saves you from your sin. It's the only thing that the passage talks about. There are other passages that talk about him comforting you in hardships. The comfort really is strength so that you wouldn't sin by losing your faith in the hardship. The main focus of the salvation that is given to us in the New Testament is not earthly, it is spiritual. It is Jesus conquering death and sin, the penalty of death. He pays for your sins. He makes you righteous before the Father and thus accepted or justified. He sends a spirit that you would know that you are in fact justified That you are accepted before the Father. And he sends His Spirit to begin progressively killing sin in you now. If you were to make a list of all the things that the New Testament says that Jesus is in fact You're Captain Four, it would be a whole list of how you should have one ambition, and that is to love God and to love neighbor. So two ambitions. To love God and to love neighbor is another way of saying that you are to not sin, that you are to die to sin, and that you are to grow in love of God and neighbor. That's the only ambition that Jesus is interested in serving now. Now let me ask you, is that your life goal Is your life goal worshipful, heartfelt obedience to God and love of neighbor? Is that the goal that you have set up in your home? Is that what your children know is the only important thing in life You know his title is the captain of your salvation. You know, this is an obvious allusion to Joshua. As I had mentioned, when he was going to to to be the forerunner and bring his people into new the new and promised land. Here the picture is supposed to be the same. They would have picked up on the illusion that Jesus is the new Joshua and he's taking his people into victory Christ stands at the Jordan of the Promised Land, and as our great Joshua, he blazes the trail and he bids us to follow into prosperity. But don't misdefine that. It's not earthly prosperity, but the prosperity of holiness of life, of the love of God, and the love of neighbor. And we're going to sing about that right now Here's the first lyric from the song. Man of sorrows, what a name, for the Son of God who came, ruined sinners to reclaim. That's the main ambition. Hallelujah. Let's stand and let's sing to our great savior this final hymn.