Please to first Peter chapter one. And I will read w uh seventeen through twenty one And we'll be in this little paragraph at least next week also. Let's stand for the reading of God's Word. We'll start in thirteen since it's a continuous thought Therefore, gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and rest your hope fully upon the grace that is to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, not conforming yourselves to the former lusts as in your ignorance, but as he who called you as holy, you also be holy in all your conduct, because it is written, Be holy, for I am holy And if you call on the Father, who without partiality judges according to each one's work, conduct yourselves throughout the time of your stay here in fear. Knowing that you were not redeemed with corruptible things like silver or gold from your aimless conduct received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ As of a lamb without blemish and without spot. He indeed was foreordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest in these last times for you. Who through him believe in God, who raised him up from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith and your hope are in God. Please pray with me. O Lord, there is much here that our faith and our hope would be in you. I pray that you would work the incremental means to that end, that our faith would be enlarged this evening. By a due reverence and appreciation for your precious blood, we ask these things in your name. Amen. May be seated. I hope that as we have gone through 1 Peter and then and as you've read it on your own, that you've been overwhelmed With the privileges that have been given to us. Have you picked up on that just in our readings from the morning? Not only within our new covenant, but also within the old covenant, the privileges which the Jewish people had. You hear over and over again how God had gone out of his way to bless them If you've read your scriptures for even just a little bit, the the privileges are overwhelming in the old covenant. Just seeing that in Deuteronomy, you can see a picture and you You you heard the picture this morning that there is one segment of people in a whole world of people. And that whole world is dark except for that one spot where God has chosen to reveal Himself. To fulfill his promises to Abraham eventually in Christ, and even before that in Noah, and in the clothing that he gave Adam and Eve. We see God giving tremendous privileges to a particular group of people. The Israelites became a light on the earth with real law and a humane society as opposed to what was going on in the other community. We just read this morning, there was child sacrifice. The depths of the inhumanity were dark. You can see why Peter would want to say here, as the privileges are extended, the walls are dropped for the Gentiles to enter into the kingdom. You can see why he's wanted to say in this first chapter, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ for choosing some amongst those lost nations. And some are some of you that are sitting here today. And you too can join Peter in saying, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. He has extended an invitation throughout many different countries now to join in the light and to put behind themselves a barbaric existence. to join the new heavens and the new earth. This is really the sentiment of 1 Peter. I hope you have caught that as we've been going through the first chapter In the first chapter, Peter celebrates God's work over and over. God the Father has given Gentiles like us new life. But not only a new life, not only has he begotten us again, but he has begotten us again to a living hope. Which means that there's not only a new life, but there's a future life. A future life that is imperishable and will not be taken away from us. Even if you die tomorrow, the future life will be yours because God the Father has the power to resurrect you from the grave. He has already proven that. In the general resurrection that'll be so. Though Adam And through Adam, the world has fallen. Through the new Adam, Jesus Christ, the world will be raised to a new heaven and a new earth, full of joy, full of love, full of peace. Full of true relationship. I think we hear a whisper every now and again of reality, of what truth and goodness and beauty look like. We see moments of it And a baby smile or the smell. Uh I had uh my youngest she has a blankie and I had it near my face the other day. There's a certain smell to that, it's so sweet. Imagine that being those kind of sentiments, words like joy and love and peace, not being whispers, but being the consummate reality, your everyday existence. That's all promised by the Father and accomplished through Jesus Christ and the sending of the Spirit. And even Gentiles like us have been granted and chosen to inherit such promises. It's no longer of people out there that have have had these things revealed to them and offered and given to them through God. It has become us. And this is just the beginning. This is much needed news. Do you agree? This is much needed news because while we are still here in this world, Before the total renewal of all things, a person can really begin to feel exhausted and beaten down. I myself have felt exhausted as of late. I woke up the other morning, I had bags under my eyes, and I started searching through the medicine cabinet for uh eye freshener, which It's not normal for me, because that's a woman's product. But it's just a it's a it's a symptom of feeling beat down in this world. You know, we when we were going through the book of Colossians, I remember reading in chapter 4 that Paul asked the new church plant to pray that there would be open doors. And that there would be open doors for him to be able to preach the gospel. And that night it occurred to me, you know, YouTube is an open door. And we need to move forward with that. And I was I was excited about the kind of progress that we would be able to make here in this world, even though it was difficult. Do you know they are adopting new policies now? To where if you say anything that makes you superior to anyone else, you can have your channel removed. And that may not be a big deal to you, but I'm sure that you have things within your own life that uh feel kind of the way that that made me feel. I I thought we were going to be able to move forward. I thought we were gonna maybe able to make some progress I thought we were going to be able to bring some light into the darkness, some joy, some peace, some happiness, and then there's a policy handed down which is uh basically an establishment of the Equality Act, but just in a localized area called YouTube You can feel beaten down, is my point when you're living within this world. And those to whom Peter was writing, I'm sure that they felt similar reproaches based on the language that was present there. It reminds me of the movie E. T. Because E. T. was extraterrestrial. He came to this world which was not his own And he began to be sickly and he longed to, we all know, phone home. And I tell you, today in this past week I feel like phoning home. Because this is not my country, and this is not your country. Your country is awaiting for you when Jesus Christ returns. And for now, we can feel a bit sickly, and we can feel like raising our finger to the heavens, pointing to where our true home is. And during those times when Christ has still not returned, although he has not slackened his coming, we can begin to feel faint and no longer want to run the race. And there are so many different responses when a person feels faint-hearted. There are so many poor, ungodly responses that we can have. It mentions in 113 the kind of response that he expects, however. Therefore, gird up the loins of your mind. Sober up. What have you been smoking? And rest your hope fully upon the grace that is to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. So you see the forward orientation there? It's exactly what I'm talking about. It's okay to say phone home because that's the that's the same sentiment that's within the passage that we've seen before in the preaching that we're to set our eyes on our future hope that Jesus will return and he'll make this world to fit The new creation that he's already begun in you by the Holy Spirit. And until that time, we are to sober up. We are to strengthen our knees, as it says in Hebrews, and to continue with the race. That's what Peter tells us. It's not tough love. It's inspired scripture. As you renew your conviction. As to your future, despite what your eyes tell you, despite what policies the world is making, it is important that we remain sober as to the reality of who's winning and get back in the race. And I need to remind myself of that tonight, even with something as dumb as the YouTube thing. Now, essentially, this is a motivation, isn't it? Am I motivated? I mean, do you hear the motivational speech that's happening right now? You all looked so motivated. That's what's supposed to be happening. Peter is already starting to give motivations. When he starts looking at a forward orientation, you can see the finish line and it's worth the keep going. He's motivating people to continue running the race And when we get into the passages, the passage that I just read earlier in 17 through 21, those motivations are going to continue. He's going to double them. It's going to give us two more motivations tonight, and then next week we'll look at the fuller covenant of redemption and what's going on. But that's what I want to focus on. I want to give you two more motivations besides that future orientation to help you sober up, to keep in the race, and to run it well. So there are two more for you as a Christian to keep going as you wait, as you phone home, until you get to your real home. Now here's the first motivation. We see this in verse 17. And if you call on the Father, who without partiality judges according to each one's work, conduct yourselves throughout the time of your stay here. in fear. This is the first one. If you are those that call on the Father. Notice that this is referring back to what happened in chapter one. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. That is a call to him in praise. If you're one of those, if you can say, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, then remember this: He has in fact blessed you. He has broken down that wall that kept you from being God's people. You are now God's people. And he is your Father, our Father who art in heaven. Hallowed be your name. We are able to pray the most intimate prayer ever. But make no mistake, according to verse 17, he does not play favorites with you, but he expects you to live in reverent fear in this race. before him during the remaining time that you have on this earth. Notice the structure in the passage. It's actually quite interesting In verse 17, it would have been very easy for Peter to write this. And if you call on the Father, conduct yourselves throughout the time of your stay here in fear. But there is this whole added phrase that he gives, it's actually a relative clause, where he wants to define specifically for you how he wants you to think of the Father. It could have been, he could have written something if it were if he just left that part out, if he just said, if you call on the Father, then serve him with reverent fear, it would have been equivalent to this morning. Where, hey, you you honor your earthly fathers by the fifth commandment, how much more important would it be for you to honor your heavenly father? That would have been the connection that he was making. But Peter says, if you call on your father, and then he defines the way that he wants you to think about the father in this specific moment, and he says this. The Father is one who impartially judges according to each person's actual work. And now he's not talking about salvation here, justification. It's obvious, just one verse down. But I do believe that this is an anticipation of what Peter will say later in chapter 3, 1 through 4. So let me just read it to you. And you're welcome to look since you're already in the book. You look in chapter 3, 1 through 4. And it's the section on wives and submission. But I think the same thought is being spoken of generally in chapter one Like wives, likewise, be submissive to your own husbands, that even if some do not obey the word, they without a word may be won by the conduct of their wives, while they observe your chaste conduct accompanied by fear There's a kind of reverent fear here. Do not let your adornment be merely outward, arranging the hair, wearing gold, or putting on fine apparel Rather, or in contrast, this is what he expects, rather, it be the hidden person of the heart. This is true beauty, with the incorruptible beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is very precious in the sight of God. I think the same kind of thought is happening here in chapter 1. The God who has given us so much, the God that you call upon, the one that you call Father. The God who we may affectionately call Father is also the God who judges righteously, who does not play favorites, who isn't impressed with your gold earrings and your nice dress and your outward looks. It is the same God who looks at your heart and knows everything that is in it. And it is when he perceives that gentle and quiet spirit that he is pleased. Really, this is the same thing that Calvin says according to uh as he interprets the verse in uh verse chapter 1, verse 17, he says. He judges, he says, without looking on the person, that is, without partiality. That is, no outward mask is of any account with him As the case is with men, but he sees the heart, and his eyes look on faithfulness. So the example in chapter 3 are those who are seeking to look good according to appearance on the outward person, but God finds it precious when the heart is precious. And Calvin picks up on that also. And that's the first motivation. The Father whom you call upon sees all and knows all. Therefore, you must show a fear of complete reverence to him. External acts are not enough. He expects the heart. He doesn't want people just going through the motions. He will not respect you if you look religious, but in your heart you are not devoted. And so we must, with a reverent fear, come before him. It is not reverent fear to go through the motions. So here's the question for you. Are you connected to your Heavenly Father with your heart? Are you reverently connected to him? Or do you just keep up appearances so no one can call you out socially? Do you have a deep respect and reverent fear for your Heavenly Father? Do you know how deep it goes with people just going through the motions? Have you ever felt people go through the motions with you when they ask you for forgiveness After they have hurt you. They could have done something terrible, and you have lost sleep for the last week, and you can't think about anything else when you're driving And finally you get the courage to say something to them and they say, Oh, I'm sorry, do you forgive me? And and then it's and then it's just supposed to be over Some just because we said those words, it's supposed to be over. Is that would that be serving God while you're While you're awaiting his return, while you have a future orientation, is that what he means by serving God with a reverent fear in terms of the Christian life in terms of forgiveness? Is that what it would look like? I just had a person tell me, you know, you know what it actually should look like? It should look like this. I realize that I I've I've hurt you. And then they tell you how you've hurt them. And you don't ask for forgiveness. That's not the first thing that you do. If you're truly serving God with a reverent heart and you know that He wants that gentle, quiet spirit within You say this. Can we talk about this more? How else might have I have hurt you? What were all of the consequences that came from the actions that I took towards you? What has it been like over the last couple days? And if it is with a child, are there other things that you would like to share from your childhood in ways that I have hurt you? Because you are not the kind of person that is settled with just dealing with the fin of the shark when there's a shark of sin beneath the fin. You want to get down into the meat of it, of what the the actual wild animal, and you want that to be submitted to the Lordship of Jesus Christ. You're not just interested in appearances so you look like you know how to humble yourself and ask for for forgiveness and move on with life. You're actually interested in dealing with the heart of the matter. Now that's a very different kind of society with a person that asks, How else have I hurt you? instead of saying, Do you forgive me? I've got stuff I gotta do. It's the kind of person that God is tending within his kingdom The first way is the way to get everything looking okay so you can move on with your life, because you don't really give a crap about other human beings and you don't give a crap about God. The second way is to move from your heart to their heart because your heart is connected to God. That's the first motivation. Now we have a second one, and this one is much shorter. You can say it in a word like this. We see in the further verse, starting in 18, would you please remember at what cost you were redeemed? Do you have any idea what it cost for you to enter into the kingdom of God? And boy do I need to remember this. The verse is quite clear. It doesn't take much interpretation because we have a participle Starting at verse eighteen, which lets us know that he's gonna give us a further motivation, and he says, knowing that you were not redeemed with corruptible things like silver or gold. From your aimless conduct received by tradition from your fathers. That's the contrast. But what were we redeemed with? The precious blood of Jesus Christ. As of a lamb without blemish and without spot. This is supposed to be the ultimate motivation for us to continue in the race. You were not redeemed with money, silver, or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ. The whole section really, if you spent enough time with it, resembles the exact narrative structure of the Exodus. God redeems his people from slavery with the price of the lamb. You can even tie in baptism through the Red Sea in this whole situation. I really think that that's the framework that he's working with. There is a kind of new exodus that has taken place with Gentile and Jew alike The Father has redeemed us from the slavery of sin, the guilt of sin, the punishment of sin, the life of sin, and he has redeemed or ransomed us from those things with this particular price. The precious blood of Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God. That's what it took. That's what it took. That's the second motivation. And so he says that you are not to return to your former slavery to this world. Why? And why should I continue plowing forward within the race? Look at what it costs to free you. That's a good argument. You know, the difficulty with the argument is because just because somebody tells me that Jesus is Christ is precious does not mean that I think or feel it to be precious. It's kind of like babies. I see some people say that newborn babies are precious, and then other people look at newborn babies and they think it's they're the ugliest thing they've ever seen on the face of the earth. Because they're all scrunchy and purple and you know it depends. It depends, but Honestly, you can say that Jesus Christ's blood and his sa which is standing for his sacrifice is the as the Lamb of God. All of his work, which we just sang in the s the immediate song before this, his oblation, his life of oblation. That it is meant to be precious, the fine China, the finest China of all the world. And yet we could say it as many times as we want, but we don't feel it, and so there's not a reality to it to it for us sometimes. There is a re there is there a reality left in America where something is actually present, or precious? I just I had an interaction with a person the other day where they saw a younger person drag the American flag on the ground. And they had a, the other person had a visceral reaction to what was going on with the American flag, and rightfully so, if you have any questions about it. And when they began to not just have a visceral reaction, but to actually share their thoughts, they began to say, do you understand? The sacrifices that it took for us to have the freedoms within this country, the young men that had died, and I know that they were thinking of their own family And you can use the same kind of thing here to try to understand the preciousness. If you would have that kind of visceral reaction for the young men who have died for the freedoms that you enjoy, think of how much more precious Is the sacrifice of the Son of God and the freedoms that you enjoy through Him. How much more the blood of Christ! Here's something that needs to be clarified about this, though. As an American evangelical church member, you may hear me pandering to you right now And that is not what chapter one is about. You could hear me saying this: Look at what Jesus Christ has done for you. Would you please choose him? He took a chance on you. Look at all of his love. Would you would you just please choose him? As if I'm begging you to do so and as if Christ must follow you down the aisle, groping after you so that you maybe you would choose him. Maybe you would see him as precious. That is not the context of chapter one The context of chapter one is he chose you. And now you need to catch up in your affections and thoughts with what he's doing with this universe and you in it. He called on you, and now you are one who calls on him. And there is so much more that you need to learn, O young Christians. And that's what he's saying here. He's trying to raise you in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. He understands that your election took place While you were still a sinner, and there is much sanctification that has to take place. And so he's going to start teaching you about how precious this price was that was paid for you. So that it could begin to dawn on you, so that you could begin to grow in understanding the preciousness of Christ. So, does God scratch his head when you are converted or when you are young? Why don't you believe that or feel that the blood of Christ is precious? No. But are you to grow in understanding the preciousness of the blood of Christ and what He has done for you? Yes. You are to get on board with what God has already done is another way to put the same thing I've seen some people try to accomplish this through pictures, showing you grotesque pictures of Christ. grotesque pictures of animals flashing while we see pictures of Christ. I don't really think that that's the way of the kingdom. You know what we should be doing now because it's 545, is we should be praying to Jesus Christ to teach us by way of his spirit how precious his sacrifice is. is. And that's what we're going to do to round out the application from this sermon. We are going to pray that Jesus Christ would work in us. Not only just in this worship service, but through the rest of this week and weeks to come, that we would understand how precious this sacrifice is. I really think that that's a primary component missing within the Christian life. I'd love to see When you were given the option to give up in the race, I'd love to see and to hear this. How could I ever give up on the one who has died for me? I am constrained by the love of Jesus Christ to stay in this race no matter what I'm experiencing. So we need to pray for such things because it doesn't come naturally. So let's go before him now. I'd encourage you to take up this prayer that I just mentioned. I'm sure there's other ways that you'd like to pray also, other things. Let's go before him now in prayer.