Verses fifteen through nineteen, if you could flip there, please. And let's stand for the reading of God's Word. This is Ephesians 1 verses 15 through 19. Therefore, I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints, Do not cease to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers, that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give to you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of Him, the eyes of your understanding being enlightened. that you may know what is the hope of his calling, what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints, and what is the exceeding greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of his mighty power. Let's pray. Just as your servant David, we come before you and ask for you to illuminate our minds that we would truly be able to perceive your great mysteries and not only to perceive them, but to perceive them receive them in the right manner. We ask to be inspired. We ask to see your excellence. We ask to taste your great works, O God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. And to proclaim that they are good. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Please be seated. There was a story told, and I don't know that I have all of the facts correctly, so you can consider this a paraphrase. I'm sure that many of you are aware of Francis Schaefer. And he began Labris in Switzerland and established it, I believe, also in the Northeast, here in the States. There's a he was dealing with a culture that is still really flourishing and has developed today that began to be cynical of just about everything. That even applied to reading texts, reading writings, not trusting words, not even believing that the things that you would communicate to me could truly be understood The words that you were saying were subjectively understood by you, but once you say them to me, how would I ever know that I would understand them in the way that you understand them? Now I understand that that's kind of a philosophical conundrum that you may not share There are many youth that do share that. There's a great distrust in language today, to where people wonder if they could ever even arrive at the authorial intent of any writing. much less one that was written 2,000 years ago, such as the scriptures, or even before that, when the scriptures were written down. We see that problem in a story that Francis Schaeffer told of him sitting down one day to talk about this linguistic difficulty with this one guy who was pretty philosophical. And he would say something to him about God or about faith, and the man would reply, I have no idea what you mean. There's no way for us to communicate. Maybe you've heard this story. And so Francis Schaefford, as sly as he is, said, okay, well, could you please pour me a cup of tea? The man poured him a hot cup of tea. He then took the tea cup. And was about to say, and he says, I'm going to dump this on your lap, and he begins to turn his cup as if he's going to dump the scolding water on his lap. And then he says, No, no, wait, what are you doing? And he says, Well now we're communicating, aren't we? You know exactly what my words mean. There's a basic distrust still in language. We can see how silly that is from that example, but it still is present today. People struggle in being able to understand the scriptures. They struggle on whether they can trust it. But even if you could get a person to believe that they could understand this Bible that we commit ourselves to, Even after that point, there's still this struggle to receive it in the right manner. Now here's another quick story. I once took Brian Lepiccolo trout fishing. I am a trout fishing enthusiast and an aficionado. I love trout fishing. He we we we rented a guide Holly's father was kind enough to get us a guide who had all of these wonderful patterns to catch these local trout in the streams of Pennsylvania. these cold uh spring-fed streams. Brian hooks stuff with a trout, he yanks it in and beaches it, so to speak, and then says, basically, is that it? That's what trout fishing is, huh? And I think that's an excellent example of of uh here I am uh searching for the ultimate trout experience and enjoying each of their colors and the way that the grass grows up around the stream. and the intricacy of tying each one of the flies. And you know there's an analogy to this that struggle also when we're reading the scriptures. And not only if you get to the point where you would even trust the text, what about responding to the text appropriately? In other words, we have a lot of issues as human beings with just the act of reading. It is no wonder that Mortimer J. Adler had to put out a book entitled How to Read a Book. And yet he did still not get into the heart of the human problem with being able to understand a text such as the Holy Scriptures. Here we see in this passage this evening, the Apostle Paul concerned about the exact same things and addressing to his congregation in the midst of their need the remedy that God supplies in order for us to both be able to understand the mysteries of the scriptures and also to be able to respond that to them in the appropriate manner. I know that each one of you have the experience of not responding like you would want to. We put this display of a shroud on the cross or the the I don't know actually what that's called, but or during our Good Friday service. Or we have Easter, and you know that you are supposed to be excited about that. But I've spoken with you, many of you, and you will tell me after the service, I wish I was as excited as I wanted to be I wish I would have received the truth of Easter or the truth of Good Friday or the truth of Monday Thursday as I know I should have received it. It is a human struggle that has always been around, and Paul addresses it here. And the way that he addresses it is he shows us in this scripture that Christians, that you and I, that we need the light of the Holy Spirit to be able to rightly discern in a right manner, any of the mysteries of God. And let me repeat that for you. That Christians, that we need the light of the Holy Spirit to rightly discern the mysteries of God. And we're going to see this, he develops this under what I've categorized as three main ways. We need to have the necessity of the Spirit for the Christian. We have the light of the Spirit, and then we have the manners of the Spirit. So I want to look under, I want to look into those three things. The necessity of the Spirit, the light of the Spirit, and the manners of the Spirit. The necessity of the Spirit begins in verses 15 and 16. And this is very, very important for you to take a look at. So please take a look at it with me. In fifteen and sixteen, therefore I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints, do not cease to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers. We see here in these two verses that even Christians need the illumination of the Spirit. You can see here that they are Christians, that they've been regenerated of the Spirit. Look at the summary of the summary of the law here and how the Spirit has helped them to begin to live that out. I have heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints. Love of God and love of neighbor is already working within this group of people. Jesus has come. uh and the with the as because of the plan that he has with his father and and sending his spirit to his people and he is already restoring them to the point where they are beginning to obey the law of God summarily comprehended And love of God and love of neighbors. Certainly he's writing to the Ephesian church, not the Ephesian non-church, and yet we see Here that they still need the Spirit, that even as Christians, we need the Spirit. You know, there's been a misconception here as of late It seems like everyone in the world who's seeking a thriving ministry within Christianity is choosing to use the word gospel. We have gospel everything. If you were to just type in the gospel, you would see that everyone is publishing their stuff under the gospel. There's nothing wrong with that if we have a correct understanding of it. But what we end up seeing as a truncated gospel in the modern church, we see where they've unnecessarily narrowed it to not include the fullness of what God is doing through Jesus Christ and Jesus and sending his Spirit Some will say that the gospel is the life and the death and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Or some will just say it's Christ crucified. And yet we see when we explore what some of the apostles thought about the entire gospel, when you take a look at Ephesians chapter 20 verse 27, the Apostle Paul, in spending time with this Ephesian church, says that he shared the entire counsel of God, which would include all of the counsels that the Father and the Son made. And when the Son came as he was promised, all the work that he would have done, and his resurrection, but also his ascension, and then what does he do after his ascension? That is also a part of the story of the gospel that you can't chop off and say that it's not. It is the sending of the Spirit, and it is the sending of the Spirit not only for the regeneration Where you see all of these groups of people around the Mediterranean Sea and then all of the world becoming the people of God in actuality. It is not only that initial regeneration, but it is the continuation and work of the Spirit amongst his people. It's not that you are regenerated and you move on in your own power. It's that the Spirit is given to dwell within you, and he says that you are his temple, and he's making you progressively more and more into the temple of God, fashioning you to be into the image of Jesus Christ. And when we read in James that one day you will look in the mirror and you will see the Ten Commandments embodied. That is what he's doing, and he's speaking, of course, to Christians here. That Christians not only need the Spirit initially for regeneration, for effectual calling, for the gift of faith, being able to express themselves. of their sin and to be reconciled with the Father, but that we need a progressive ministry of the Spirit to us throughout all of our lives, even on to glorification. We have a necessity of the Spirit is what we see here within this passage first and foremost. But secondly, there's the light of the Spirit So we not only have the necessity of the Spirit, but we also necessarily need his light. And that's what we see in verses 17 through 18. That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, as He as He moves into this prayer now, that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give to you the spirit of wisdom and revelation and the knowledge of Him The eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that you may know what is the hope of his calling, what are the riches of his glory, of the glory of his inheritance in the saints. We necessarily need the light of the Spirit. Now here, I disagree that it's a lowercase s here in the passage. If you take a look at verse 17 there, it says lowercase s, spirit of wisdom. I believe that it should be an uppercase S, Spirit of Wisdom. And that when it says spirit of wisdom, there something that we have to understand is the word of may be understood in many different ways. One of the things that really jarred me in seminary was that when we began studying the Greek language and we started looking at the word of, There were pages upon pages upon pages of the different ways in which a person can understand the word of or in. And here I believe that he is speaking of it causally. And he's saying the Spirit who causes wisdom, and the Spirit who causes discovery or revelation of the mysteries of God. That the Spirit Himself is wisdom in His essence, and so who better to cause us to be able to have wisdom or to reveal wisdom to us that we might be able to discover it And so the Apostle Paul says, you not only need the Spirit as Christians, but you need his light to illuminate your minds in order for you to be able to understand any wisdom or to discover any of his revelation. Now when we say this, what Paul is referring to here, and we can get into this a little bit later, but you already see in 18 What is the hope of his calling? What are the riches of his glory? He is not speaking about the Spirit descending upon people and giving them new revelations that are not already a part of the apostolic witness. or the inscripturated word from the prophets of old. He is not speaking about new revelation that each individual would receive, but is rather referring to the understanding and responding in the right manner to the revelation that was given to those who were already chosen to receive those things and to write those down, to enscripturate them. God had always dealt this way. God had never had just random individuals coming up with their own revelation or us being surprised about it. In fact The key to seeing that this is true, that it's not new revelation, but understanding and responding correctly to the old, is just to make sense of these statements within the overall story. To say that it's new revelation is to not understand the plot line of the story. For instance, I use this example with the Sunday school this morning. Everyone pretty much understands the Lord of the Rings. And if I were to say to you, or if someone were to say to you, hey, those little guys are wearing capes, why don't they just fly away from the danger? You would understand that that question makes no sense and what it reveals to you about that person is that they have no idea about what this story really is. You can be invisible by the capes. You can use them as a blanket. You can even put them down as a picnic blanket to eat secondies. But you may not fly because of them, it makes no sense within the folklore of that story. And it's the same thing here God long ago promised that there would be one like unto Moses, but greater than Moses, who would be the last and great and final prophet, who would reveal ultimately the mysteries of God Jesus has come, those mysteries have been revealed. Who else would come to clarify things more than Jesus himself? It is Jesus that revealed his mysteries to his apostles, that they might be able to enscripture it. There is no need for further revelation. Jesus was the last great prophet, and when he returns, he will continue to be the great prophet. It is not new revelation that is being spoken of here, but an understanding of what has already been given. Maybe you could think of it this way. It's not new revelation. It's the revelation of things that are already here in the same way when you use a telescope or binoculars. When I'm deer hunting and I'm seeking that big buck that I always would like to have, or and then when that fails after several days, when I'm just seeking any deer on the face of the earth. I get out my binoculars to be able to look into thick brush. What I can't see with the naked eye, when I lift the binoculars and I look into the brush, I can see more. It's not that it wasn't there before when the binoculars went up. It's just as the Puritans say, when you use binoculars, it increases and enhances your visive faculty. or your eyesight. Or you can think of the same thing as this old story from 2 Kings 6. 17, when Elisha asks for his servant to be able to see that there is no reason to worry about the Assyrian king. There are angels all about us, ready for battle. It's not as if the angels were not present there before. It's that the servant could not see them. He did not have the vis of faculty or the eyesight. His mind was not illuminated to be able to see what was already present. And that is what Paul is saying here. to this Ephesian church, that we need the light of the Spirit to see what is already present, to be able to discern And know, but also know in the right manner the mysteries that God has revealed through His Son. And so you have the necessity of the Spirit, and you have the necessity of the light of the Spirit, and then lastly you have the manners of the Spirit. And it's not really the manners of the Spirit as to his manners, but the manner in which he allows us to receive his word. And this is most fascinating and was most helpful to me this week, and I hope it's a blessing to you. And I'm looking at verses 18 and 19 now. The eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that you may know what is the hope of his calling, what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints, and what is the exceeding greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of his mighty power. These things that he lists here, if we could spend more time, you would see that he's listing out The specifics of what he calls wonderful mysteries within the Old Testament and mysteries of the gospel in the New He's saying that the calling, particularly of the Gentiles, as you'll see in the next upcoming chapters, if you want to continue reading this book, the riches of his glory, of the inheritance and the saints and the greatness of his working toward us who believe. These are the great mysteries that have been revealed to the Apostle Paul, the Apostle of the Gentiles. And they are enumerated for us here. But notice the language Notice that he's not just saying, I pray that the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ would let you know his calling, his inheritance in the saints, and his power. Notice the words that go before it because it's the manner in which you would receive it that is emphasized here Notice that it's not just the calling. It's something that moves your heart and captures your imagination. It's the hope of his calling. And it is not just of his glory, of his inheritance in the saints, it's the riches, it's the treasure, it's the utmost excellence and preciousness of the inheritance in the saints. And it is not just his power toward us who believe, but it is the exceeding greatness of his power toward us who believe You see, it's not just understanding the bare words or being able to recite the propositional statements. It's you taking hope in it. It's you seeing it as your treasure. It's you seeing it as exceedingly great above all things. That this is what he's praying for for the Ephesian church, that they would receive it. And isn't that our most our deepest craving? For us to not only open the words of the Scripture and have someone speak them to us, but for us to receive them in the right and proper and the due manner, to where our minds are enlightened and illuminated, where we go, that is my hope That is my treasure. That is exceedingly rich and great. That is what we are longing for as Christians. And he says here that it comes by the Holy Spirit who has been given to you by Jesus Christ. the spirit of wisdom and the spirit of revelation. Now that is exciting. That is hopeful. Anyone sitting across from us in a conversation about the difficulties of language, someone not being able to appreciate the great mysteries. We experience the Easter service or the Monday Thursday service or the Good Friday service. In a way that we know that we should be experiencing it differently. And here we see that we may call upon the Holy Spirit to help us out of that. Because He is restoring us. to the way that we're supposed to be. Hope, riches, exceeding greatness. This is exactly what the Ephesian church needed, is exactly what we need. Do not be discouraged in thinking that you were dissimilar from these people. Do not think of them as a group of people who did no wrong, who just sat in perfect saintliness on the top of a mountain. They had the same struggles that you did. And yet think of what was given to them out of the mercy of God. They spent a total of three years with the Apostle Paul as their private instructor. They received the full counsel of God from the Apostle Paul. He says in Acts. The young man who would replace him is Timothy. What better replacement could you have? A far better candidate than myself However, when we get into Revelation, we see there as Christ walks among his churches that although the Ephesian church has held their doctrine close They did not hold it close to their heart. He accuses them of leaving their first love and that they must return. And I think that there's something going on with what happens to them in Revelation and what we see here in this passage of this prayer for those folks, that they would not only receive the orthodoxy. and allow it to be dry, but they would understand the hope of the orthodoxy, the riches of the orthodoxy, the exceeding greatness of the orthodoxy. That Paul and Timothy had given to them, and that comes by the Spirit. He is our great minister today. He did not just regenerate you and leave you or abandon you. He is working amongst us right now. Our struggle is a real one. It's a difficult one. It may be the one the most important struggle that I'm having right now in my own existence. I wonder if that's true for you All of these things that I'm saying, that these are the things that you've been desiring, you've been craving to progress, to where you would not just be a person who hears what you've always heard, but you hear it in the right manner. And that's why we need the Spirit as Christians. He's our necessity. He's the one that brings light to us and illuminates our minds. And he is the one that can allow us to receive his truth in the right manner. If you want to receive his truth and be full of conviction and not toss to and fro by every wind and wave of doctrine, that is receiving it in the right manner, and you must call upon the Spirit to be able to do so. That is our great hope. Christians need the light of the Spirit to rightly discern any of the mysteries of God. That is what this teaches us here. What can we do but mimic the Apostle Paul as he prayed for the Ephesians? What could you do as a remedy to your great sinful condition but to begin to pray yourself? We see David in the Psalms, as I've mentioned to you before, that before he would read the law, he would pray that the Lord would allow him to see the wonderful things that are in the law. And if David needs to pray, to be able to see the wonderful things which are in the law, to not only rightly discern, or to discern, but to do so rightly, to see them as wonderful. Full of wonder, his mysteries, so too must we turn to the Spirit. Now here is the thing that we end up doing as sloppy human beings. You know, as I'm speaking to you right now, that you have received benefit and mercy every morning. You've received benefit and mercy day after day. You have received the benefits of the covenant of grace and the work of Jesus Christ over and over and over again. You pick up your scriptures and you understand them You pick up your scriptures and you believe them when other people around you don't believe them. You have centered your life around it. You have joined a church and you you find an intimate identity with that community of believers. No matter how hard you try to shake your faith, it never goes away And you haven't prayed once that he would res give you those mysteries or that you would receive it in the right manner. And so what we end up doing as human beings in misunderstanding his long-suffering and his mercy is we become presumptuous and we think he will always just give it to us. We never need to pray and ask for it as the Apostle Paul does here. Now who was given more mysteries? And who was given more grace? And who was given that grace that they might be able to receive it in the right manner more than the Apostle Paul? And yet he finds it necessary, even in the midst of the mercy and the graciousness of God and all that he dispenses to his church to still ask for it and not be presumptuous. And I think that the reason for that is, and God could just dispense these graces to his church without us ever asking, is because the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit want us to commune with them They want us to understand that this is a relationship that we are talking about. That he is giving to us and we are responding to him. We are not robots. downloading information from one another. We are persons relating to one another. And so he wants you on your knees, understanding that you are entirely dependent upon him. And that he wants you to go to him before you read your scriptures and to cry out that he would reveal the wonder of his mysteries to you And that you would receive them in the right manner, and that you would pray this for your family, and that you would pray this for your friends, that you would pray this really for all of the elect throughout the world. And that we would especially do this on the Lord's Day. Christians need the light of the Spirit to rightly discern the mystery of God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for these gifts that we see here, the hope of your calling, the hope that you have given us. Well Lord, each of us have a story when we were in the pit, and you've brought us up. You've given us an inheritance. You've made us a part of your community. You have adopted us into your family, and you love us with a sweet fatherly love. And Lord, the greatness of your power, that same power you go on to say that raises Christ from the dead, Lord, what have you not given to us? What have you not counseled before time began that we have not benefited from? May you be magnified in all of the earth. May we grow in our dependency upon you, and may we cry out to you for your spirit that we would increase in our measure of faith upon faith upon faith upon faith. That our hearts and that our minds would be illuminated, that we would respond to your great mysteries in the right manner. For your glory. Amen.