See then that you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time, because the days are evil. Therefore, do not be unwise, but understand what the will of the Lord is. And do not be drunk with wine, and which is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit. Speaking to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. Giving thanks always, for all things, to God the Father, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, submitting to one another in the fear of God. This is God's holy word for God's holy people. Let us pray. Our Father in heaven, holy, holy, holy is your name. In your Almost unbelievable goodness, you have given us this, your word, your scriptures. You have preserved it for us. We pray now, Lord, that your Spirit would lead us into the truth. That we would know exactly what you expect of us from this passage. And I pray, O Lord, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength. and my Redeemer. Amen. Please be seated. Well I have uh I've been giving a lot of thought to last week's sermon. And um I I thought that there was something that I needed to do just to make sure that we are all on the same page here this morning. So I've come up with 37 more points illustrating how the world's view on sex is opposite To God's view sorry, that's a bad joke. I'm not gonna do that But I I am serious. Um I have thought a lot and I want to draw our attention briefly back to that list that Paul made because I don't want us to miss the point. Paul has given us this list because it shows precisely that the way of the world is not the way of God The world does not follow God's designed order for human beings. And this is why he gives that list and says what he says. Fornication, uncleanness, covetousness, filthiness, foolish talking, coarse dressing, they are all indications of that disorder of the world's perspective on life. It is disordered about what is morally good and beneficial for humans, what is clean, what is unclean. The world is disordered in regard to how humans should use our words and our speech. It is disordered, opposite to God's order, and how we should view our possessions and all that God has graciously provided for us. As imitators of God, we must reject the disorder of the world, living according to his way, following the example of Jesus Christ. In him we have been made light. In him we have been given life. So we must walk. We must live as he wants us to. If his light is going to shine through us. And expose the unfruitful works of darkness in the world. That's what we saw last week. Christians must live as children of God so that their lives may be used by Him. To overcome the darkness that is in this world. Well, it has been my prayer that as we finish this section and examine together verses 15 through 21 of Ephesians chapter 5, I prayed That we will see that Christians must walk wisely so God might use them to help other Christians get through this life. Christians, you must walk wisely so that God can use you to help each of us get through life We're going to look at this in two divisions, looking first at verses 15 through 17, and we'll examine walking wisely. And then verses 18 through 21, we will examine help from God. So we start by looking at what the Holy Spirit is teaching us about walking wisely. Look with me at verses 15 to 17. The first thing we see is that walking wisely means walking with our eyes open. Look at verse 15. See then that you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise. This word circumspectly is a fun word. It's from the Latin circum meaning around and specere meaning to look We must walk as one who sees what is around us. We must be attentive to what really is in the world. We have to walk as someone who knows what's going on. The Greek word here means accurately or diligently or carefully, and so we can see why the translators chose that word circumspectly. This is not how fools or the unwise go about their lives. Remember what Paul has already said in this letter. We were darkness. Now we are light in Christ. We were the old man. Now we are the new man. We must walk as the beloved children of God, imitating Him, imitating Christ. We were unwise. Now we must walk as one made wise. And these are absolute opposites We can see this from the way that Paul puts it. The word for wise is a Greek word sofoy, and it's the word uh very closely related to the name Sophia, which means wisdom. The word here for fool is asophy. It has the prefix ah, which means not, as in ah-theists. They don't believe in God. The unwise, they are complete opposites. We must live in this world with our eyes open, attentive to what is going on around us, wise to how things really are. We must know what's really happening, but get this, it's more important than just that. We need to be wise to how things should be. We need to be wise to the order that God has designed and defined. Walking wisely means walking with understanding. Look at verses 16 and 17. We understand that God's way is the only way to live which has eternal significance. Right there in verse 16, redeeming the time because the days are evil. Children of God know what truly matters in this life, what is truly worthwhile. And God's word tells us over and over, Paul has stated it beautifully in chapter one of Ephesians. Everything. Everything in this universe is being ordered unto God's glory. Understanding this, we know that we should put our energy and our efforts into those things, those activities which are lasting and permanent. We must put our energy and our effort and our focus into those things which will not be lost, even though one way one day we will die. To imitate God, we must imitate Christ. And so if you have your Bibles with you and you have them open, I encourage you to turn with me. To Matthew chapter 6. Just want to look at a short section from Jesus so we can see his teaching about this. Matthew chapter 6. Verses 19 through 21. You can turn there. If you don't want to turn there, that's okay. I'm going to read it for everybody. Matthew 6, verse 19: Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. Time is so fleeting. It is so limited. Jesus is telling us To put our efforts and our energies towards that which will last, that our heart would be there in heaven with Him. The only way to redeem the time is to use it wisely, as we have already been reminded, to spend it on God's glory, doing that which pleases Him And we do this because we understand that the days are evil. You remember what the preacher says? Vanity of vanities, all is vanity. Or how James puts it in James 4, verse 14, he tells us that we don't know what will happen tomorrow. Our lives are just a vapor, a mist. Appearing for a little while, a little time, and then vanishing away. We are not alive to serve ourselves, or to enjoy ourselves, or to glorify ourselves. We must not follow the way of the world, which tells us that every second is wasted if we aren't only doing what we feel like doing. The world tells us we should be spending our time making our own will into a reality, trusting our own will to be exactly that which will fulfill us, which will make us happy. Or think about that man in Jesus' parable in Luke chapter twelve. In verses sixteen through twenty-one, he gives a parable of a man who who has all of his great harvest, and he builds these barns. And he says to himself, Um He says, soul, you have many goods laid up for many years. Take your ease, eat, drink, and be merry. Do you remember what God said to him in that parable? Fool! This very night your soul will be required of you. Then whose will those things be which you have provided? That word their fool that Jesus uses is the same word that Paul is going to use in this next verse. He imitates Christ in what he tells us here. He says, Therefore, do not be unwise, but understand what the will of the Lord is. That unwise is not the same unwise as was before, Osiphoi. It is the different word. It's a word that means foolish or fool. That be is the same word that we looked at last Sunday from verse 1 that really That's probably better understood as become. And so Paul is reiterating something for us. Don't become fools. Don't go backwards. You are light. Don't go back to the darkness. You are awake. Don't go back to sleep. You've been raised from the grave. Don't go back. Don't go back to death. You have God's grace and mercy, his forgiveness in Christ. You have the Holy Spirit. You are a child of God. And so you must walk wisely. Imitating God, understanding what is His will. Do you not know what God expects of you? Look to his word. You have the examples of the patriarchs. You have the examples of the kings. Well, generally that's more of an example of what not to do. You have the prophets. You have the historical accounts, brothers and sisters. You have the book of Psalms. You have the Ten Commandments, you have the Sermon on the Mount, you have the parables of Jesus, you have all of his teachings. He has shown you, O man, what is good. And what does the Lord require of you but to do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with your God, He's told you. What it is to imitate him. Don't go backwards as though you don't know. Don't be unwise. Brothers and sisters, you must walk wisely with your eyes open. Paying careful attention to every step, looking for opportunities to redeem the time, doing things which are worthwhile, meaningful, lasting, things which glorify God, which please our Father in heaven. Walk with understanding, following God's way, the way of Christ, who has transformed you from darkness into light, you who were dead, but are now alive in Him. You have his word, his holy revelation of what we as beloved children are to believe concerning him and what duty he requires of us. Imitate Christ Walk wisely. As he walked. He walked every step, every moment of his life for his father's glory. Even those steps of Mount Calvary, with your sin, with the cross that should have been yours, weighing him down. Every step was perfect and pleasing to his Father. He gave his life for God's glory to save you and me for God's glory. He gave up his life for his brothers. And so we must do the same. We must give up sin, give up the way of the world, give up being foolish and unwise. We must sacrifice all of that and walk wisely So that we might be used by God to help each other get through this life. So let's look now at verses 18 through 21 and see how you and I might be, for others, a help from God. To be a help from God for others, we must be filled by God Himself. We must be filled by the Holy Spirit. Look at verse 18. And do not be drunk with wine, in which is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit Let's make sure that we understand the first part of this verse so that we aren't mistaken about what God is teaching us through Paul. The Greek here does not say do not drink wine We've got to be clear on that. Now, if you know anything about the ancient Greek and Roman cultures, this will not surprise you They have a word, a word which only and specifically means to get drunk. That's the word that Paul uses here. It only has one meaning. It does not mean to drink in general, it means to get drunk. And so it's not a blanket universal prohibition against all alcohol consumption. The command is don't be drunk. The wine part is incidental. It could be anything which anyone would use to become intoxicated. And we can know this with certainty because God's word does not contradict itself. And if what Paul was saying Was that you should never touch a drop of alcohol, then he would be contradicting himself, wouldn't he? When he told Timothy in 1 Timothy 5, 23, to take a little wine for his stomach. But even worse than contradicting himself, he'd be contradicting Jesus Christ, who turned water into wine at that wedding at Cana. Or how about Jesus commanding his disciples to drink the fruit of the vine? Paul is not saying you must abstain from alcohol. Even a single drop. So, what is Paul saying? He is saying that you must not seek for your life to be filled or fulfilled by anything other than God Himself. Don't seek fulfillment by any other means. If you know about the ancient Greeks and the Romans, you know that they had They had a god of wine, Dionysus or Bacchus, and they had these festivals. They would just go to town getting drunk. They would have some feelings, but the feelings that come from being drunk, they are misleading And we know this because God's Word tells us. If you have your Bibles, you can open with me to Proverbs 23. And we'll look. Very quickly at a section in Proverbs 23. I'm going to read verses 29 through 33. Look at what the Holy Spirit tells us there. Who has woe? Who has sorrow? Who has contentions? Who has complaints? Who has wounds without cause? Who has redness of eyes? Those who linger long at the wine. Those who go in search of mixed wine, that's the really strong stuff. They don't look on the wine when it is red, when it sparkles in the cup, when it swirls around smoothly. The wine looks really good, it's very appetizing. Look at the next verse. At the last, it bites like a serpent. It stings like a viper. Your eyes will see strange things, and your heart will utter perverse things. These are what happened to us. If we are overtaken by drunkenness, this is that word that Paul uses: dissipation. This is how the Greeks and the Romans behaved in those festivals, those buccanals. They got really drunk. And they gave themselves over to dissipation. Dissipation in the English means self-indulgence. Some of your translations may have a different word, the word debauchery. Debauchery means extreme indulgence in bodily pleasures. The Greek word here is literally the word unsaved It's unsavedness. It's the behavior and the activity of one who is unsaved. That is the world's way. That is not God's way. Christians must not live as though we are unsaved, looking to these dark methods to give us fulfillment or to get us through life. So, what does Paul say? But be filled with or by the Spirit. God is the one doing the filling, and he fills us with himself. And to be a help from God, it must be God working through us. People don't need us. They need Christ. The people we love need us. To be filled by Christ's Spirit, if we are actually going to help them see Him, if we're going to help them imitate Him and glorify Him. To be used by God as His help to others, we need His Spirit, and we need His Spirit because of what it produces in us. And the way that God has had Paul construct these last verses shows us that these are the results of being filled by the Spirit. The Holy Spirit uses our lives as a help for each other. He fills us and transforms us using our words and our worship to help each other. Look there. Do you see that? Verse nineteen Speaking to one another. He uses our words. And the one another makes it clear that this isn't just something for us. The Spirit doesn't just fill us so that we can be blessed. He fills us to be a blessing for others. And Paul says something very similar in Colossians 3, verse 16, which helps us really pinpoint What Paul is saying when he says speaking here. There he says teaching and admonishing one another. How we speak to one another matters. What we say matters. Our words can bring light or darkness. If we want to bring the light of Christ, then we must be filled by the Spirit, speaking the words of the Spirit. And so he tells us what these words are. Look there, in psalms, hymns, spiritual songs. This is the content of our speech to one another. It is God's truth We communicate to each other God's praises, odes of adoration to Him, rejoicing in what He's done and what He is doing. This is the speech of the Spirit of God. He uses our worship. Look at what Paul says: singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. Our trust and joy and hope, what we truly believe, all of that comes out of us in our worship. It's sincere. It must be sincere. It must be what is really in our hearts. When we gather together, filled by the Holy Spirit to worship the Almighty Triune Jehovah, we remind each other that we are not delusional. We are not hallucinating. We're not drunk. God is real. He has saved us. He has spoken to his people and revealed himself. And he's revealed himself not just to me, not just to you, to all of us, to Christians the world over. It is a real help to see with our own eyes, or let's stick with Paul's words, to hear with our own ears that we're not alone in faith, and we're not alone in what we believe. That this Christian life isn't, as the world says, true for me. It is true, period. We're not making this stuff up. The Holy Spirit fills us, transforms us, and He uses our attitude to help others get through this life. He says, giving thanks always for all things to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. And the way we see our lives, the way we understand what is happening to us and to each other is important. Gratitude and thanksgiving must dominate our hearts and minds, and it must come out of our mouths. Christians are people of hope. Hopelessness is the dark way. Nothing will ever get better. That is not the message of the Bible The Bible is the good news of Jesus Christ, that God is bringing all things together in him. We are overcome with thanks because God has proven that He is progressing the whole universe to glory. He is making us, his children, more and more like Christ, until ultimately, finally, we will be raised with him. We've been raised from the dead with a body like his, made perfectly glorious like him. Thank the Lord. The Holy Spirit fills us and transforms us and uses our new love to help one another. Look at the very end of this section, verse 21. Paul says, submitting to one another in the fear of God. Well, this idea of submitting can sometimes put us out of joint. Can make us really uncomfortable. This is especially true if we think about submitting in the way that the world around us right now thinks about submitting You know how the world thinks about the idea of submitting? They think it means giving up, giving in, giving over. They see it as a bad thing. But there is nothing that's bad in this. This is not what the Holy Spirit is teaching us. The word here, the Greek word is subordinating or making ourselves subject to. The idea is similar to that in Philippians 2. 3. We must esteem others as better than ourselves. We must look at others and see them as higher than us, more important than us This isn't bad. This is an act of love. It's the same word used in the very next verse. It is to imitate Christ, to follow His example, He who is God, who created all things, and whose name is exalted above every name. He took on flesh. He humbled himself and came in the form of a bondservant to die the death that you earned. We cannot overlook this last phrase, brothers and sisters, in the fear of God. We don't love each other because of what it might get us. We don't love each other because of what we think someone else maybe they all can they can do for us. Or maybe they're doing things for us and it makes us love them. That's not how it works for Christians. That is not the way of wisdom We love each other for God's sake. We love each other because we love God. We love our neighbor as ourselves because we trust God. We know that He sees all things and He will judge the fruit of our lives. We know that whatever we do to the least of these in His name we have done to Him. We show our love for him by serving and showing our love to others. Christians, imitators of God, beloved children of God, you must walk wisely so that God might use you to help each of us get through this life. And so I ask you, do you want to be used by God to help others make it? Do you want to be used by God to help others? Get through life How many of you thought just now That sounds great Bradley? How can I help somebody? I don't know if I'm gonna make it. I don't know how I'm gonna get through it. I hear you. I understand. But that's why this is so important. We need this help, all of us, every one of us. None of us can do this Christian living thing on our own. It's very hard. We are running counter to the rest of the whole world. We need some people in our corner backing us up. You need me to be filled by the Spirit so I can help you. And I need you to be filled by the Spirit so you can help me. If I want to help you, I need to imitate Christ, giving up my own will, my own life for you. And I need to give up sin and to turn away from the way of the world for you. And you must do the same for me if you're going to help me. You must be giving up sin, sacrificing sin in your life because you love her. Because you love him. Because you love her, and because you love him, you need to be walking wisely as God commands us to walk And so let's think about what Paul mentions here. Speaking to one another. Let's think about our speech. And let's think about it in that particular way that Paul has brought us teaching and admonishing one another. Being filled by the Spirit, your speech can be used by God to help others get through life. A dear friend and a Christian I love very, very much reminded me of something that is very important this week. Sometimes there are things that are left unsaid. That's wisdom. Sometimes the best thing to say is nothing at all. And yet we are Christians, children of God, and we know that if we leave those we love in sin because we're too afraid to say something which might hurt their feelings, it does no one any good. It doesn't help them. We are no help to each other if we see each other falling into darkness, plunging off of a cliff, and we don't say anything, we don't do anything. And so we have to walk wisely. We have to walk circumspectly. We have to have our eyes open. We need to be attentive and aware of each other, of what's going on in each other's lives. We have to take into account that everyone has a lot of things going on all the time. I don't know about you guys, but my mortgage is paid every month. It has to be, it better be. There's always something that needs to be done. There's always something going on. There's always a challenge. We are all living in these evil days. If we want to help someone see their mistakes If we want to help someone we love really recognize how they are behaving in a way that is displeasing to God, that they would repent of their sin, then we have to be wise enough to see what's going on. Was it a momentary lapse of judgment? Was it the first time that this has ever happened? Are they fragile? Are they weakened? Are they in a state of weakness because of something else that they're dealing with, because of what's going on All of us will agree. It doesn't help anyone to kick them while they're down If someone we love is sinning, we won't be any help if we speak without thinking. If we run off at the mouth saying what we think they need to hear, and having no care for what God wants them to hear or how God wants them to hear it. You can trust me. I am an expert in foot and mouth disease. And that's something to laugh at, it is, it's funny. But it has taught me many wonderful lessons, not the least of which is Be quick to ask for forgiveness. We are not going to use our words perfectly every single time. When you've messed up and you know you've messed up, just admit it And get past it quickly. If we rely on ourselves, we're going to mess this up. We will Too many factors can ruin our help if it's left up to us. We get cranky, don't we? We get tired. We get hot. We're sweaty. We've been at this thing for 18 hours. We don't know what's going on. We're dealing with something difficult at home or at work. Somebody said something to us 20 minutes ago that's just got us in a tizzy. We have stress. We're hungry. Or more seriously, we deal with chronic pain. You know there are people that we love who have spent decades of their life without a moment's rest from chronic pain. We have to talk to them differently. We have to understand what is happening differently. We must. This is how we speak the truth in love. Because without love, what does Paul say we are? Just a clanging symbol. No one's going to hear anything. It's just, you know, Charlie Brown adults. Wom wom! If we truly want to help, then we must be filled by the Spirit and speaking with His power, speaking with His voice. And that means that the very first thing we need to do. If we notice someone is sinning or someone is in sin, the very first thing we need to do is we must stop and we must pray. Now, yes, we must pray for them, but that's not what I mean right now. I mean we must pray for us. We must beg the Lord to fill us by and with His Holy Spirit. If we're going to confront someone we love about their sin, we must be doing it out of love. Sincerely, from our hearts, wanting what is best for them. humbly putting them above us, esteeming them as better than us. We can't just say anything Right. What is it that we have to say? We have to say what God tells us to say. We have to remind them of God's truth from His Word. We have to remind them of what they have been taught and what they know That's how our words can be used as a help. But God can also use our attitudes. Having a spirit-filled attitude really can be a help from God for others. All of us know that there are some attitudes which just aren't helpful in any situation, don't we? We've experienced this. Who is helped when someone is constantly pointing out all the ways that things are falling apart? That's all they do, is point out what's broken. Who's helped by that? Are we helping anyone by holding everyone to our own personal standard of how we think someone should behave or dress or what accent they should use? Or how they should do something. Are we helping anyone if our attitude is that nothing is ever good enough? Who does that help Sometimes it's a little trickier than that though. Those are the attitudes that are very clear to all of us. They don't help anyone. But sometimes it's tricky. All of us derive great benefit when we have like minded people around us who can help us recognize that we're not crazy. You know what I mean? When they see something that we also see. And something is a problem for them, it's a problem for us. It helps us know we're not insane. But this is where it gets tricky. Is that what we should be doing? Should we be getting together and only commiserating about the problems that we observe? It's good to know that we're not alone in our frustration or our anger or our disappointment or whatever. But is it really helping us? We are called to commiserate with one another. We are called to rejoice with those who rejoice. And to mourn with those who mourn. But we are called to do this as Christians. We don't mourn without hope. We mourn as those who know the truth of the resurrection. And so similarly, when we are commiserating with one another. Letting each other know that they're not alone, that they're not crazy, we observe the same things. We must be filled with the Spirit. Being very careful not to simply be an echo chamber, reinforcing the negativity We need to be careful that we are not helping ourselves and our friends stay comfortable in the darkness, in the negative realm. Especially when we we should be striving with all our might, trying to claw our way into the light, out of the darkness If you are filled by the Spirit, your attitude will be dominated by thanksgiving for all things, always. Consider the man that the Holy Spirit had right that praise. Did he really mean that? Did Paul mean that? Give thanks for shipwrecks? Give thanks for flogging. Give thanks for imprisonment. The same Spirit who filled Paul and gave him the ability to do that and to say that he can fill you and he can transform your attitude. Beg him to fill you with his spirit, to give you an attitude that is helpful, that will help others get through life I highly recommend this simple tactic. If you find yourself having a bad attitude about someone, this is particularly with people, and Particularly, I mean someone who you're supposed to be loving. Which, if you remember what Christ teaches, that's your neighbor, which includes everyone, even your enemies. If you have a problem with someone that you love, maybe they offended you, maybe they insulted you intentionally, unintentionally, maybe they were condescending or rude. Pray. Pray that God will open your eyes. That you would see them as He sees them. Pray that he would soften your heart. That you could love them as God loves them. That you could forgive them as he has forgiven you. Pray that you will be filled by His Spirit and enabled to give thanks always for all things. Can you give thanks for that person? Who has harmed you? Can you give thanks for them? I had been thinking all this week, boy, it's hard to be mad at something that you're grateful for. And then God did what he does best and he reminded me how wrong I was. Because often we are grateful for dogs, and yet it is easy So sometimes get upset at them. We must have God change our attitude, make us grateful. And lastly, brothers and sisters, I thank God every day, because He's shown me without any room for misunderstanding this truth. God uses your love, Seven Run. He uses your love to help others get through this life. He's using your love to help me get through this life. It's the first thing I see every morning. It's the roof over my head. Your love for God. It's why I don't freeze at night. Yours. You people. It's your love. It's your love for God that feeds my children. And so it's your love for God that drives me to praise him, to thank him. To love him more and more every day. Brothers and sisters, know this As children of God, as imitators of Christ, filled by his Spirit, God is using and will use you to help others get through this life. Please pray with me.