Amen. Let's turn in our scriptures together to Ephesians. Our reading this evening will be the first 14 verses, but I am going to just focus on the first two with the preaching. If you ever have the opportunity to read this letter in the Koine or the Greek language, you'll see that this is a giant sentence here in this section. We need to take it a little s little bit at a time. So I'll read the first fourteen verses and then we'll focus on the first two tonight. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, to the saints who are in Ephesus and faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace to you and from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. having predestined us to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, by which he made us accepted in the beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins according to the riches of his grace, which he made to abound toward us in all wisdom and prudence. having made known to us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure which he purposed in himself, that in the dispensation of the fullness of the times he might gather together in one all things in Christ. both which are in heaven and which are on earth, in him. In him we also have obtained an inheritance, being predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will that we who first trusted in Christ should be to the praise of his glory. In him you also trusted after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. in whom also having believed you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, who was the guarantee of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession, to the praise of his glory. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, that's quite a bit. And I pray that you would help us to understand these things. We presume that you have r recorded and preserved this word here so that we would know what it means. So we pray, Lord, that you would help us to do so and that you'd help us with these first two verses. I pray, Lord, for your congregation that you would show them this very special existence that you have called them into, that they would find it beautiful in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Well, this evening we're starting off in our new series, which is Ephesians. And I suppose a helpful way to begin is to just mention to you the major theme of Ephesians. is really the Apostle Paul helping us to understand what God is accomplishing by the creation of the church. So this series will be a great opportunity for you to consider not only what does it mean for you to live before God as an individual. But what does it mean for you to live before God as a congregation? Really, that's the focus of the whole book. You'll see that especially in the first four chapters. And then after we move into the chapters after that, you'll see a little bit of focus on things like family and that kind of stuff. But the larger picture that's being painted here really has to do with us being able to see the beauty. of what God is accomplishing in the church. Now I tried to emphasize it in the reading, but the way that the Apostle Paul is going to seek to get this across is through a term that I'm sure you've heard before, but maybe you've been confused by, and I'm hoping after the first maybe seven sermons. We won't be as confused. But it is the phrase, the prepositional phrase, in Christ. Did you hear that Through the reading. I tried to emphasize it in him, in Christ, in Christ, in Christ. I did a casual counting through the letter to the Ephesus. or the letter of the Ephesians. I did a casual counting and counted twelve times the Apostle Paul uses in Christ. within the letter. So I think that that um just on the surface when you see something like that we ha we have to acknowledge God wants us to teach us, God wants to teach us something like he taught Paul about, well, what does it mean? What's the significance and the meaning? of saying that we are in Christ, even before the foundations of the earth, all of those things that are connected to it. And so I'm hoping here with this series that we would be able to understand and um really actually be excited about being a part of the church. I really would prefer to call it the congregation. Because when I say the church, we can sometimes think of a building. And actually the words used in the New Testament and in the Old Testament never refer to the building. It just that would be synagogue. It usually refers to a group of people. And that I can catch pretty well by saying the congregation. But I don't want us to just understand. I'm really hoping that you can see the beauty. of what God is accomplishing and that you would actually be excited, exhilarated, and thrilled to be a part of this. I wonder if you in your life have been a have been excited to be a part of certain communities. I've seen people get excited that they were finally accepted into the yacht club after giving the entrance fee. I I've seen people really excited to finally make a soccer team. I was excited to make certain teams as I was growing up and to be a part of certain communities. We moved around a lot when I was young, and so it always meant about every six months I had to f figure out a way to be accepted at a school. And you and I wonder if you have that experience where you see like a group of people and you wish, ah, I wish I could be friends with them or be a part of that community. We are excited about being a part of different communities in our life. And it is my prayer for this entire series that we would be able to step back and we'd say, but you know what community I'm most excited about being a part of? God's congregation. It says when we get to chapter 3, you'll see the angels are watching what he's doing in the formation of a new creation called the church, and they are very excited about it. And so I hope that we can be like the angels in that way. And that we can see it as a beautiful thing that God is accomplishing in Jesus Christ. So that's really the big picture of Ephesians. There's lots of little details that we're going to be able to go into, but that's the overarching brushstroke. Tonight I really just want to focus on Understanding this in Christ phrase relative to us being the church by just the first two verses, and I think it's best for us to look at this in really just two main ways. We're going to look at the first the first teaching here in observation is just going to come under the title of the Apostle. And you can see why I would do that in verse 1-1 it says Paul an Apostle And then the second main point I want to bring up is the saints. And you would see why I would want to do that, because in verse 2 it says, or I'm sorry, in the second part of verse 1, it says to the saints. And that's all we're really going to get to here this evening. So first, I want us to j just be able to see that God called Paul as an apostle of Jesus Christ through his will. That God called Paul as an apostle of Jesus Christ. And this actually has a great deal of significance for Tul. share with you in just a moment. You can see this in verse number one. It says Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God. Now there at the end it says, by the will of God, I think you could actually be a little bit you can get across the meaning. uh a little bit by saying through the will of God that that the reason why he became an apostle is because, in other words, God made him one That is important for you to be able to see. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God. It wasn't on Paul's agenda. to go to rabbi school, get his decree, a degree, put in his application, and become an apostle of Jesus Christ. That's not what he had his sight set on. The story is way different than that. The story isn't really about Paul's will initiating anything. The story is about God initiating anything and what God wanted in his will. And he wanted Paul to be an apostle. Through his will and for the sake of Jesus Christ. Now I'm sure you remember the biography of Paul, don't you? It really begins when we look at the martyrdom of Stephen. We look at Stephen and he tells the truth in the earlier chapters of Acts to the Hebrew people. And they're not ready to accept the truth. They're not ready to move into repentance. And so instead of receiving the word that is preached from Stephen, they murder him. They stone Stephen. And when the murder is over, after Stephen looks up and he sees Jesus Christ at the right hand of the Father, they take Stephen's clothes and they bring them and they lay them at the feet of a person who is called Saul. What that ends up indicating to you is that he is uh responsible for the uh act the activities later it'll say that he gathered warrants to arrest Christians. And that is the beginning of his story. We know that as the the Uh story of Acts continues that Jesus is not going to allow this to continue and Jesus confronts Saul on the road to Damascus. All of this sounds familiar, right? Yeah. that confronts him on the road to Damascus. And this is where Paul has a really important discovery to understand, I believe, I wonder if he reflected back. I imagine. Can you imagine him not reflecting back? on the road to Damascus within his own experiences? How many times did he think about that? How many times did he fall asleep thinking about what had happened to him on that road? Well you I wonder if uh especially and especially with the way that Luke records it that there was something really special that happened on that road when Jesus spoke to him. That helps us to understand how Paul would understand himself as an apostle and how we can better understand what ge what uh God is doing uh through the church. The important discovery is when Jesus confronts Paul, he says to him, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? Now if you were to take that as literal, and it is literal, there are no instances recorded for us. where Saul himself has through other people or himself directly persecuted Jesus in his own body and in his own person. It doesn't take much imagination for us to read that and to realize that Jesus must be saying here what he means in other places, like if you give my followers a cup of cool water Then it is as if you have given it to me. That there is an intimacy between Jesus and his people that is so tight That is so tight that when Jesus talks about the persecution of his people, he doesn't say, Saul, Saul, why have you been persecuting my people? He says, Saul, Saul, why have you been persecuting me? And this is the first glimpse, I believe. This is a first glimpse for us to be able to understand how Paul would begin to understand what he means by in Christ. If it means anything, and at the very least, then it will it will mean so much that we would ha we could talk about it uh r really, I would imagine that all of us We could drink some kind of juice and become the smartest people in all of the world, and all of us could go do our dissertation on in Christ, and we still would not even have uh scratched the surface. of what is going on here with this phrase. But at the very least we can see that it that it means that there is an intimacy and a union and a connection between Christ and his people to where Christ is his people and his people are Christ. in a covenantal way that is so intimate that when they are persecuted, he considers it that he is persecuted. That if their heart is hurt, they have hurt his heart. And that helps us to begin to understand what it would mean that we are in Christ. Paul is uh starting to understand that here and in when he hears this phrase, why are you persecuting me? And that is going to be very helpful to him as he carries out this letter and as he carries out his commission. Because what he had to realize was that he was being called through the will of God as an apostle to that group of people. And to communicate to not just the Jewish, but also the Gentile world that being that intimate with the Messiah is possible for them. You can see why Paul would respond the way that he did with Peter in Galatians, where Peter had to repent because he had showing that there he had been acting as if there were some kind of separation between the Gentiles still and the Messiah. And Paul had learned even on this road that, no, don't you understand that Jesus thinks of the Gentiles who are his as they are mine, and I am theirs. And there is no greater intimacy than the intimacy that we see there. He's not just an apostle of Jesus Christ, but he is an apostle of Jesus Christ who is writing for his people and for his saints. Now, one other thing that I would just add to this, opening here with just focusing on the apostle and this realization of the intimacy that he is to have with Christ and that And that all of God's people have with Christ and being in Christ, and why Paul would use that kind of language, is that whatever God is doing, whatever God is doing with the church. We see here that he has seen fit, that he would give the church apostles. Now, uh that sounds like Jesse, I've heard that from the beginning of being a Christian, but could you just let that soak in for a moment? That God, in the creation of even this congregation, not just congregations of old, But in this specific congregation, God Himself in the creation of us here, this community, he has given you the apostles He has given you even the Apostle Paul. And it says in Ephesians 4, which we'll get to, it says that these apostles, among others, are gifts to you. They're there and they're preserved and they're recorded in order to continually be gifting you that you would be able to grow up to the fullness and the stature of Jesus Christ. In Christ. So that's a little bit of a reflection here in the just a greeting and understanding well what do we mean when we say an apostle and how is that significant? How does that tie into in Christ? I really think understanding Paul's biography is a great way into understanding in Christ instead of just studying Greek words. I think we should go to his experience and ask, well, how would he have come to understand what it means to be in Christ? And my argument to you is that it is an intense intimacy. Where Jesus identifies himself with his people, and his people should identify themselves with him. Now, that's the apostle. There is also the second part of verse 1, which is the only other thing we'll get to here this evening, and that is the saints. You and I are called saints. To call to be saints in Christ. That's what it says there. Take a look. It says, to the saints who are in Ephesus and faithful in Christ Jesus. Now, what does it mean to be a saint? When I grew up and attended on Easter and Christmas, St. John Evangelists In Saverna Park, the Roman Catholic Church, if you were to ask me and my family then what it meant to be a saint, or was I a saint, then we would all say no, especially little Jesse. He's not a saint Definitely not a saint. And if we were to explore it further, there would need to be some kind of prolonged process in order for a person to be bestowed sainthood. And yet when we look here at this second part of verse 1, we don't see that the saint is a kind of specialty calling of the elite amongst an already existing class of people. You see all of those who are in Ephesus, those who are the faithful in Christ Jesus, that they are the saints. Now, it could be very helpful to realize that the word here is it really means if you were to wanted to be quite literal about it and kind of draw things out, that can be helpful sometimes to look at words that way. is that it it really means those who are set apart for something. Those who are who have been set apart for a special purpose. You could think about it that way. Now, isn't that very similar to what we have already seen in the theme of the very first verse? Paul himself had been set apart for a very special purpose. He had been actually made a certain way through the will of God he was set apart. And we could bring that whole concept down into this second part of verse 1, and we could say that there are a group of people through the will of God, not on their own initiative, but through the will of God who have been set apart for a special set of purposes. You can see where we're already beginning to get into, well, what is the church? And why is it so exciting? Well, it's because it's so exciting because it is a group of people, it is a nation. It is a group of people or a nation that has been set aside by God Himself to accomplish His specific purposes. It is not only Paul who is in Christ or who is in accordance with the will of God or through the will of God, it is also the saints. It is the whole congregation of the saints. Intimacy with the Christ as his own. He is ours and we are his And um also set aside to a particular purpose. I wonder if you think about your life that way. I recently had the opportunity, I was given a tip by a friend of mine that on uh the Eastern Shore Before Easton, it might actually be within the boundaries of Easton, but before you get over into the more populated area of Easton, if you're heading east on the left-hand side of the highway, There is uh you would normally just think it's like a junkyard or something and you wouldn't even pay any attention to it, but it's called Eastern Outboards. And they said that I should go in there and see what's going on with with what these people are doing. So I did. And when I walked into their the main area where they store all of their stuff They I have pictures I have to show you. I can show you um after the service. I have a quick little film you can see. But from the floor all the way to tall ceilings that were at least as h at least as high as that ceiling. There was layer upon layer and then coming out this way, vintage outboards for boats. I'm talking about things that would have been made in the early 1900s. It's a funny thing to say, by the way. I was born in the 1900s Isn't that kind of funny? But the but this were these were made in the early 1900s and there were some there were some motors there that I had only read about or heard people talk about, but they actually had them and they were in pristine condition. That's what they they did. They would fix up outwards, but then they also collected them. And these were beautiful. I can't wait to show you the pictures after the service. They were beautiful. They collected them. Now, the reason why I bring up that story for you is to say All of those outwards were made by an engineer and by a mechanic originally to fulfill some kind of a purpose. They were made in order to go on the back of a sailboat in case there was no wind. Or they were made for a waterman so that they could continue oystering that season. Or they were made for an offshore fisherman. In case one engine went down, they had a backup engine. Or they were made for a husband and a wife who just wanted to get out of the water. and enjoy each other. Something along those lines. But you you know what had happened to all of the engines? None of them were being used for those purposes. They all had become just collectors items and put on the shelf. And part of what is being taught here within this letter is that God is not doing that with you. That you have not been, through the will of God, set aside as a saint in order to be placed on the shelf. But instead, you have been gathered in as a saint to be used for a particular purpose. You'd be like an outboard that's still being used by the watermen. in order to oyster or to crab or whatever it is if you wanted to keep up that analogy. I found that helpful in just thinking through What does it really mean to be a saint? And do you see when we start to look at things that way, how the first part of verse 1 and how the second part of verse 1 really aren't that different? Both of them we see a major teaching here that has been a part of Christianity from the beginning, and it is the teaching of vocation. That there is a vocare or a ca is that okay, Sarah, there? That is a I try my best. There is a I hate to use Latin in front of Latin people. It just makes me really nervous. I'm sweating right now But it that there is a call that is sent out to us. And you'll find a little bit later here in this chapter that it's irresistible. That when God wants something done and he has a will to accomplish something with you, because he's never going to shelf you, he has purposes for you. then he will accomplish that call and he will accomplish his purposes through you by way of your various vocations. Now that's really important. Do you know one of the most depressing things that could happen to you in your life? Not knowing why you have a life? Not knowing what your purpose is. When you're younger, let's say four to twelve you kind of think don't think much about that. You just kind of go with the flow and whatever game happens to be happening around you at that time, you just kind of become a part of the game. They told me to go to class, so I'm in class, that's fine. Now we're playing hopscotch. Now we're jumping rope. Now we're playing soccer, and that's kind of like the life of a child. Kind of being swept by a wind of games from game to game or fun to fun or something along those lines. But then there we move a little bit further and we enter into the the teenage years and beyond, and there is a question that starts to come up. It's a question that's posed in movies. It's a question that can arise out of emotion and hormones. And it is a question of What am I here for? What is my purpose? And that's such an important question for human beings to be to answer because if you don't know what your purpose is then you can't really make any decisions. A purpose helps you to know what should be prioritized and what should be subordinated What you're noticing here is just within the apostle word, the word apostle, for the apostle Paul, he now knew what his calling was. And everything else would be subordinated to his call as an apostle to the Church of Jesus Christ. His goal in life? To be a gift. to the saints. And now we can see also our story in here also. You are a saint. And now you know what your purpose is, that you have been called through the will of God himself. to be a special people on this earth to accomplish his special redemptive purposes and everything else becomes subordinated to that. That sounds very similar to what we learned this morning, doesn't it? to focus on his kingdom and on his righteousness. And that's where you find your happiness. That's where you find your meaning And that's where you experience at least less, because we all experience depression nevertheless, but we experience less depression having a continual purpose. That is the apostle, and that is the saint. There's one last thing that I want to point out here that I think is really important. Within our culture, uh so far, if you're listening to me, you could still put me in the category of saying Oh, what he one of the things he thinks is so important about this passage is that we've got to we've got to discover and make our and make up our purpose. in order to have a good life. And you're and if you believe that, you're actually still missing what I'm saying because I'm actually trying to point out that a major teaching here is that actually God determines your purpose. And I'll put it this way, because this is a real hot topic in our culture. God determines your identity. And the greatest identity to have is that you are in Christ. It will mean that you have been chosen and translated into a different sphere of existence. That you have been translated into a different sphere of existence. And let me give you a very quick example of this from Acts chapter 10, 9 through 16. I'd encourage you to read this at home. And see and just reflect on it with regard to the comments that I've been making. All of you will know this as the vision of the sheep or of the sheet with Peter. The next day, as they went on their journey and drew near the city, Peter went up on the housetop to pray about the sixth hour. Then he became very hungry and wanted to eat. But while they made ready he fell into a trance and saw heaven opened, and an object, like a great sheet, bound at the four corners, descending to him, and let down to the earth. In it were all kinds of four-footed animals of the earth, wild beasts, creeping things, and birds of the air. And a voice came to him, Rise, Peter, kill and eat! But Peter said, Not so, Lord, for I have never eaten anything common or unclean. And a voice spoke to him again the second time, What God has cleansed, you must not call common This was done three times and the object was taken up into heaven. Now, what is the main point here? What is the main point of the symbology that is present with the sheet? Some of you will say, well, this was a revelation for Peter to be able to know that there is going to be a new way in which we're interacting with food. And all of the Jewish dietary laws, and you could even grow up into a larger category and we and say things are going to change ceremonially. Well that's true. But it's not the immediate meaning. The immediate meaning, if you were to keep reading this passage, is that God was preparing Peter to go to Cornelius. into a gentile home and to really what some call the second Pentecost to deliver the gospel to to all of the Gentile nations to begin delivering the gospel to all the Gentile nations The Holy Spirit will be poured out on those Gentiles, and they too will become the people of God. And here is the thing that I want you to observe that is so important for you to embrace also, to understand yourself, and for you to understand your life. If you notice at the end of that passage, let me read to you it again, and a voice spoke to him again a second time. What God has cleansed you must not call common. How is it that the Gentiles have changed? How is it that they have taken up a new purpose? How is it that their identity is something different now or will be in just a moment? The answer is this. God has said it would be so. God had determined that there were some among the Gentiles that he would call to himself. and make a part of his congregation with his special purposes. Whoever God decides to make clean will become a clean one. And that clean one now has different purposes than they had ever determined for themselves. They are now sucked up into a different sphere of total existence. And do you know what we would call that sphere of existence? That sphere of total existence In Christ. In Christ. And it is determined by the will of God. And brothers and sisters, I am telling your story. There could have been, we could, if if God wanted to, he could have said, there was a sheet that came down and Peter saw One of you or your name on the sheet and said, don't call unclean what I have called clean. And that says a lot. It's not just about dietary laws. It's about a different sphere of existence that God has predetermined and foreordained. We'll find out here soon. For you to be a saint. He had to done the same thing with Paul as an apostle. He does the same thing for you as a congregation. Of all of the people in the world who have a purpose. It's you. Of all of the people who have the best purpose in the world, it is you. And you have been given that purpose by God himself in Christ. I hope that's helpful to you as we just, we've only done the first verse. We're in a lot of trouble if we continue at this pace. I'll try to bring in more next time. Well let's go ahead and end there and give thanks to our God in prayer.