25. This is going to go quick. The fear of man brings a snare, but whoever trusts in the Lord shall be safe. Let us pray. Lord, I pray for your congregation here this evening. I pray that your preached word would be of great use to them. I pray that they would encounter you here in worship. And I pray, Lord, that they would see what you're doing and the and the wisdom that they need to navigate their lives well. Lord, you have declared that this congregation is to have dominion over the different areas of their life. I pray that you would use this proverb to give them power In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. I think each of us, if I had to set down something that we could all agree on, I think each of us would agree that we would like to have wisdom in our lives. When we look at the different uh situations that we're facing in each of the seasons of our lives, whether when we're younger or when we transition over into hashtag adulting There are these different situations that arise and our hope is to be able to gain wisdom. One of the mistakes that we make In trying to figure out what wisdom is, is sometimes we think that wisdom is having an instruction manual that is multi multivolumes long to give us specific directions on how to take every step and movement in that particular situation So it would be, for example, how should I take care of a newborn? And all of a sudden, let's say if wisdom was like this you would receive from a God, something in the mail that's something like a 750 volume set, and then you'd have to read those seven hundred and fifty volumes and it would tell you every bit of minutiae that you would need in order to handle every single situation. And all you have to do is just follow the directions like putting together an IKEA table or something along those lines. Sometimes we can think that it's supposed to be engineered that way and that we're looking for that. But then when we turn to God and we're looking for a kind of volume set like that, we don't find it. Instead, when we turn to the book of Proverbs, which is known as the Book of Wisdom, what we end up with are a bunch of general principles that are meant to be fitted together depending on the situation so that you're able to navigate through smooth waters and avoid the rocks And it's even included in the pro in Proverbs that um you will learn partially of what the Proverbs say after hitting a few rocks. and um being spared, having your s your life spared nevertheless. But it's general principles that when put together are like a puzzle. that end up helping you navigate. And actually there's a few Hebrew words that are a part of the book of Proverbs that talk about this in terms of navigating a ship. If you're a captain of a ship, for example, you don't have volumes telling you what to do in every single situation. So you have to, through experience and general principles, exercise judgment. And that is what Proverbs is seeking to do for us. And that's why we're spending time in it, is because as those who have been given the Holy Spirit and are the people of God, we are meant to exercise dominion and navigate life well. The Proverbs talk about this in terms of staying on a particular path. This funny thing about paths. Paths keep you within a certain set of parameters so you don't fall off to the left or to the right. And they also take you to a destination. And that is what Proverbs is seeking for you to do. The other thing about Proverbs is that it's not just giving you wisdom in an ugly, unpalatable way. These are meant to be fun. I know I sound a little nerdy saying that. But the proverbs are meant to be fun, and you can see that just in their punchy, memorable sayings like this verse that we have in front of us today, 25, the fear of man brings a snare, but whoever trusts in the Lord shall be safe. And those are meant to be memorable. And if they were if we if we could read in the Hebrew, you'd hear all kinds of different uh not just rhymes, but same sounds happening. And if you were a kid, it would be a lot of fun for you to be able to say like rubber baby buggy bumpers or something like that So what you end up having here with these proverbs and these punchy, memorable insights into the nature of reality is that I think they end up being kind of like candy. Kind of like a blow pop. Does anybody like blowpop still? Am I dating myself? Do they sell those things? I used to like the sour apple. Is that still around? Yeah, it's kind of like that because you you enjoy the that tasty, delicious outside, and then once you get through that hard candy shell, you get to the center and there's something to chew on for a while And that's the same thing with the Proverbs. The poetry is like the tasty green apple candy shell, and the insight into a host of human pursuits is the gum which we keep shoo chewing in our meditations and our practice. Now, what we chewed on last week was from Proverbs 29. 18. And that was a very important lesson that we're hearing from the proverbist In 2918, it says that where there is no revelation, the people cast off restraint, but happy is he who keeps the law. And we got the opportunity to meditate on that and see that there Those that we are a blessed people, or you are blessed if you have God's revelation or his word. And actually one of the largest curses that could happen to a human being is for God to be silent. And take away his word. We saw that that can happen in Romans chapter 1, where people become depraved in their minds and can no longer hear God. No longer do what he has said. We all even saw in Amos chapter 8, verses eleven and twelve that the a famine of bread and a famine of water is not even the worst possible famine It says, Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, that I will send a famine on the land, not a famine of bread, not a thirst for water, but of hearing of the words of the Lord. They shall wander from sea to sea and from north to east. They shall run to and fro, seeking the word of the Lord, but shall not find it. What a terrible judgment to not know what God thinks. And not be able to obey him. So that was the delicious candy outside. And then I hope you've been chewing on that for some time, the importance of God's Word in our lives. Now this week we have uh a new piece of candy in front of us. The fear of man brings a snare, but whoever trusts in the Lord shall be safe. What I'd like to do is I'd like to just look at each one of those separately. and uh see what the benefit is really. And so the first is that let's just take a look at the fear of man brings a snare. What I'd all I'd really like to do here is just rehearse for you how that is true. That the fear of man i is not just not a good thing, it's a snare. It's interesting to me when we look at the Proverbs. Proverbs chapter 13, verse 14 says this. It says, the law of the wise, you could even say the words of the wise. De Beer, the words of the wise is a fountain of life to turn you away from the snares of death. Okay, so you can think of the words of the wise being collected in various collections here within Proverbs. And one of the reasons why this has been collected under the supervision of the Holy Spirit is to keep you on a certain path and keep you out of, therefore, the snares of death. Right. That's what it says. Now what are these different snares that we're warned about within the book of Proverbs? What are the what's the where could we fall off the cliffs on the left and leave the path? Or where could we get stuck in the brambles on the right leaving the path? Well there's so many different ones I can't name them to you, but here's a few We could be indiscreet with the use of our mouth. It says in Proverbs 10, 14, the mouth of a fool invites ruination. I wonder if you have any experience with that. Have you ever used your tongue in such a way that brought ruin on you and the people around you? Well, it warns us about that. That's a snare. A person who doesn't control their mouth ends up trapped. Well, here's another one. This is laziness. Proverbs warns us about slothfulness and laziness. I went by the field of the slothful and by the vineyard of the man devoid of understanding, and there it was, all overgrown with thorns, its surface was covered with nettles, its stone wall was broken down. How many times have we been lazy in our relationships and it goes on for years and then all of a sudden you get a clue and you look and you see you're not really connected to anybody anymore. There's a kind of laziness in how we relate to our families or to our church members, and there's consequences for that. Well, Proverbs gave you that already to tell you don't Go to the left. Don't do that. Laziness, that's a snare, it's a trap. Or another one is uh this one's really familiar. You know, uh besides uh your tongue and besides laziness Pride. Oh, pride is a trap. Pride goes before destruction and a haughty spirit before a fall. Proverbs 16, 18. And another one would be the those who can't control their lusts. Immediately he went after her as an ox goes to the slaughter or as a fool to the correction of the stocks Till an arrow struck his liver. You see the different metaphors and the similes that the wise are putting together in order to warn you about certain things in life that are dangerous for you. that are traps or snares. I just gave you a list of some different ones. I have laziness and pride and adultery. And now all we're doing here this evening is we're adding another one. And we're saying that according to the wise, those whom God has gifted with wisdom in the book of Proverbs, we're going to go ahead and add to the list and we're going to say Well, guess what else is dangerous? Guess what else is a snare? Guess what else is a trap? The fear of man. Giving a human being Too much credit, too much authority, too much respect or honor. Putting them into an inordinate place within your life, a place that's out of order. That's what the proverbist is warning us of here. We can add this clearly to the list that it's a snare or a trap. So what are some examples I wonder, you know, there's more examples that I wanted to list here this evening, and I imagine you could think of some too. But what are some examples that could act as a kind of evidence for us to see that when a person decides to fear human beings more than they fear God, that they end up in a trap. And they're not successful. They get caught like a bird. And skinned or eaten by the adversary. Well here's a here's one example, and if you want to write these down to reflect on these character studies. That's part of what it means to reflect on the Torah and the law is to not just look at it in its condensed ten commands, but how does it look as it works itself out in different characters from the Scripture. Well here's one, and his name is Saul. And not the Saul from the New Testament, but the Saul from the Old. In 1 Samuel 15, 24 through 26. Here's an example of someone who feared people more than God and thought it would lead to their success, but really it led to their destruction. It says in 1524, then Saul said to Samuel, I have sinned. For I transgressed the commandment of the Lord and your words, because I feared the people and obeyed their voice. The cause is right there. Now therefore, please pardon my sin and return with me that I may worship the Lord. But Samuel said to Saul I will not return with you, for you have rejected the word of the Lord, and the Lord has rejected you from being king over Israel. Well, how did it work out? He thought he was taking a path that was going to strategically lead to his best life now. And ended up really just being a trap where he lost everything You can look at another example. I'm going to just give you two examples that are pretty serious that we can remember. They stand out on the landscape of the scriptures. These examples stand out. Here we see the loss of kingship and thinking he would retain it. But because he feared people more than the Lord, it was taken away from him. And really he ends up going mad. And then we have Pilate as another one. In John 19, 12 through 16, for then on Pilate sought to release Jesus. But the Jews cried out, saying, If you let this man go, you are not Caesar's friend. Whoever makes himself a king speaks against Caesar. So if you look at the account earlier, Pilate had examined and he doesn't see anything that he had done wrong. The Jews throw this in their face, which is basically a threat that he would receive uh punishment or s uh severe rebuke from a superior. They're calling him out on the carpet. They're pushing him. And Pilate hears this, and he is affected by seeking to please Caesar, seeking to calm down these crowds. And when Pilate therefore heard that saying, He brought Jesus out and he sat down in the judgment seat in a place that is called the pavement, but in Hebrew, Gabbatha. Now it was the preparation day of the Passover and about the sixth hour, and he said to the Jews, Behold your king. But they cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. And Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your king? And the chief priests answered, We have no king but Caesar. And then Pilate delivered him to them to be crucified. And then they took Jesus and led him away. So Pilate must be thinking like a politician. He's trying to figure out how to keep Caesar happy and uh he can do so by making sure that These words of treachery don't reach Caesar, but also to make sure that Israel and its city doesn't erupt in in riots Well, what ends up happening is that Pilate's name goes down in infamy for being the one who was too cowardly and gives permission to crucify. the king of the earth. Those are some examples, and there are many other examples within the scriptures where those who fear men more than God, they think they're going to be successful, but it ends up turning into their ruination. And the ruination of other people. Now there are people within the scriptures who are on this second half of the proverb, which is, but whoever trusts in the Lord shall be safe. And there may be some surprising examples for you. For example, here's one that I think this is a favorite all the time of folks, but it's Daniel. Now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went home, and in his upper room, with his windows open toward Jerusalem, he knelt down on his knees three times that day, and prayed and gave thanks before his God, as was his custom since early days. And so Daniel was taken up out of the den, the lion's den, and no injury whatever was found on him because he believed in his God. In Daniel six twenty-three. Of course, we have the example, uh the ultimate example of Jesus Him being delivered by the determined purpose and foreknowledge of God, you have taken by lawless hands, have crucified, and you have put him to death, Peter says to his fellow Israelites. But then because Jesus had always placed himself within the hands of his father, there is a semicolon, and it goes on and it says But God has raised him up. And actually if you look at the Proverb again, if you wanted to be really s uh specific about the Hebrew language, in twenty-five it says, the fear of the man brings a snare, but whoever trusts in the Lord That shall be safe. It says, put them up on high, out of the reach of mortals. And that's what we find God doing for Jesus Christ. God loosed the pains of death because it was not possible that he should be held by them. Acts 2, 23 through 24. Now, this is the last example that I have of one who is fearing God and finding safety in him more than finding men and trying to find safety in them. Putting their trust in princes, so to speak. This last example is the Apostle Paul, who follows on from the lessons that he has learned from Jesus Christ. It says here in 2 Corinthians 1, 8 through 10, this is worthy of your study. For we do not want you to be ignorant, brethren, of our trouble which came to us in Asia. That we were burdened beyond measure, above strength, so that we despaired even of life. Yes, we had the sentence of death in ourselves That we should not trust in ourselves, but in God who raises the dead, who delivered us from so great a death, and does deliver us. in whom we trust that we will s that he still will still deliver us. Do you see Paul's reason Paul's reasoning there? There's in a in a sense, by a good and necessary consequence, Paul is working this out and he's thinking, Well, but even if they do take my life, he could just raise me back from the dead. And all of these deliverances out of cities, when he's stoned and they try to kill him over and over, he looks at them as God keeping him safe and as a kind of resurrection. A kind of being raised out of a death plight or situation. What an interesting way to view life. To kind of see each step that you would take is that God would keep you safe, raising you out of deadly situations. What would your life be if you approached life like Paul? What if you had that kind of confidence? What would be the things that you would say and that you would do If you really believe that God would keep you safe as you seek to bring His will on earth as it is in heaven, how would that change you as a human being? I wonder how different you would be. It says here in uh Proverbs twenty-five that we're reading, it says that the fear of man brings a snare or a trap, but whoever trusts in the Lord shall be safe. I wonder if one of the differences in you is that you wouldn't feel in bondage anymore. Like you were stuck inside of a cage or you had chains around you. I wonder if you would finally feel free. If you gave yourself over to the Lord, if you trusted your life to him. There's a a writing that has become uh I've uh started to enjoy more and more. If you haven't read this, whether you're a man or a woman, Uh I'd encourage you to read this. This is uh anybody here enjoy the author J. C. Ryle? He died in 1900. He's an English minister. I think he was born around eighteen something or eighteen ten ma I don't know. Uh that doesn't Yeah. So J C Ryle He has a a book that I have I gave to Jack and I have spent some time in myself and it's called Thoughts for Young Men. Anyone get a chance to read that at all? I'd encourage you to read it, whether you're a man or a woman, and especially if you want to give it to a young man who's growing in Christ as part of discipleship. J. C. Ryle addresses them. And one of the sections within the book is him warning young men about the fear of man. But this is applicable across men and women. And he says this. He says The fear of man will indeed prove to be a snare. Proverbs 29, 25. It is terrible to observe the power Which the fear of man has over most minds, and especially over the minds of the young. Few seem to have any opinions of their own Or think for themselves, you know what they're like? They're like dead fish. They're like dead fish that go with the stream and the tide. What others think is right, they think is right. And what others call wrong, they call wrong too. They have these thoughts. They think, what will my friends think of me? And it nips many a good inclination in the butt. The fear of being looked at, the fear of being laughed at, the fear of being ridiculed prevents many good habits from being taken up among young people. There are Bibles that would be read this very day if the owners dared. They know they ought to read them, but they are afraid. What will people say if they see me reading my Bible? There are knees that would be bent in prayer this very night, but the fear of man forbids it. What would my wife think? What would my brother think? What would my friend think? What would my companion say if they saw me praying? Oh, what wretched slavery is this? And yet how common I was afraid of the people, and so I gave in to them, Saul said to Samuel, and so he violated the Lord's command. I'm afraid of the Jews, said Zedekiah, the graceless king of Judah, and so he disobeyed the disobeyed the advice of Jeremiah. Herod was afraid of what his guests would think of him, so he did that which made him greatly distressed. He beheaded John the Baptist. For the approval of his guests. Pilate feared offending the Jews, so he did that which he knew in his conscience was unjust. He delivered up Jesus to be crucified. And then he poses this question at the end. He says, If this is not slavery, then what is? He goes on and he addresses young men and specifically. And he says, Young men, I want you to be free from this bondage. I want each of you to care nothing about man's opinion when the path of duty from God is clear. I think he's calling you your inner warrior instead of your inner coward. Now whether you're a young man or not, I think it's a good question to ask. Are you a dead fish? Are you a dead fish being carried by the stream of opinions of the people around you? The devastation that comes from the fear of man has many forms. It includes parents who are afraid to discipline their children, writes one author, and employees who are unable to call out corruption in their companies. But this author goes on quoting Acts chapter 5 verse 29, but we must obey God rather than men. Isn't that right? The only thing that casts out the fear of man is a deep love relationship with God. And then we can say, the Lord is my helper, I will not be afraid. What can mortals do to me? That's what the proverbist is getting at in this proverb. What could mortals do to me when God is on my side? But there is a good question that we have to keep asking, and that is whose approval is functionally more important to you than God's? All of us have the temptation at least. So this is what I'll leave you with. I'd encourage you whether you need to put it on a t-shirt or whatever it is. I'd encourage you to embrace the proverb and live by this motto, which J. C. Ryle includes in his essay. I fear God. And therefore I have no one else to fear. Let us pray.