The passage for our sermon tonight is coming from Colossians chapter 2. I encourage you to take out a copy of God's Word and to follow along or pull one up on a a program if you if you have to. I'm actually going to be reading from the New American Standard version, which is slightly different than what we're used to It doesn't mean better. Different doesn't mean better. It just means different. And the translators have a different set of principles that they use in the New American Standard than the New King James. And I will tell you wholeheartedly, I think the New King James is Is much more beautiful English language. But the New American standard in this case for this passage tonight, I thought was much closer to the original text. I'm going to go ahead and start at verse 1 of chapter 2, and I'll read through verse 15. Our focus tonight is on verses 6 through 15. Feel free to follow along. For I want you to know how great a struggle I have on your behalf and for those who are at Laodicea and for all those who have not personally seen my face, that their hearts may be encouraged, having been knit together in love and attaining to all the wealth that comes from the full assurance of understanding. Resulting in a true knowledge of God's mystery, that is, Christ Himself, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. I say this that no one will delude you with persuasive argument. For even though I am absent in body, nevertheless I am with you in spirit, rejoicing to see your good discipline and the stability of your faith in Christ. Christ. Therefore, as you have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him, having been firmly rooted, and now being built up in him and established in your faith, just as you were instructed, and overflowing with gratitude. See to it that no one takes you captive through philosophy and empty deception, according to the traditions of men, according to the elementary principles of the world, rather than according to Christ. For in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form, and in him you have been made complete, and he is the head over all rule and authority. And in him you were also circumcised, with a circumcision made without hands, in the removal of the body of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ. Having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised up with him through faith in the working of God who raised him from the dead. When you were dead in your transgressions and in the circumcision of your flesh, he made you alive together with him, having forgiven us all our transgressions. Having cancelled out the certificate of debt consisting of decrees against us, which was hostile to us, and he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. When he had disarmed the rulers and authorities, he made a public display of them, having triumphed over them through him. Let us pray Almighty God, Holy Father, this is your word. You have preserved it for us, your people. We pray that by the power of your Holy Spirit it would take root in our hearts. It would grow up to bear much fruit for your glory in your body. And we pray that we would seriously and sincerely seek to honor you with our attention given to you Your word. And I pray, dear Father, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength, my rock, and my redeemer In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Now I'm sure that all of you are aware of what's been going on for the last year, year and a half or so in Hollywood I'm sure you're aware of all the sordid scandals that have broken out regarding the unsavory and sinful character of some men in privileged positions. Over the past year, the public has become aware that certain stars don't shine that brightly off the screen In fact, if the accounts against them are to believe, some of those stars are completely devoid of light altogether. Now that we know the truth about these people, it changes how we see them, doesn't it? It changes how we view their art. In some ways I feel betrayed. There are some really great movies out there that I just can't stand anymore. I just Can't even try to watch 'em. They are completely implausible because the actor trying to portray a character who's got integrity and is honorable, is a downright nice guy. And yet we know from the scandals that have broken that that person, that actor, is nothing like the person he's trying to portray. It's no longer believable. Well, let's play a thought game. What if the allegations against these men are false? I'm not saying that they are, I'm just just play it out. What if they're wrong? What if they're false, not true allegations? Well, if they're false, then the impact on their character is unjust. And yet it's undeniable that even the simple fact of just having these allegations made against the person It mars them in our minds. It's difficult to overcome. This is what happens when we fall victim to the rumors. Perhaps you've fallen victim to a rumor in your own life. Perhaps a rumor was made about you and it changed how people viewed you and interacted with you. If you've experienced this, then I think you'd agree with me that that experience is unpleasant, to say the least. But another way that we fall victim to rumors is when you believe them. When you believe a rumor to be true, you become a victim of it. And believing it to be true, you change how you view and interact with someone. And simply because you believed the rumor to be true, though indeed it was not true, you have changed, and maybe maybe you've lost a lifelong friendship or damaged a relationship. With a family member. Well, this situation is not unlike the situation that Paul describes for us in the first chapter of Colossians and in the beginning of this part of chapter 2. As Pastor Jesse taught last week, the Apostle Paul is praying fervently for these Colossian Christians. Because they are enduring the temptations of the enemy, who is seeking to deceive them through persuasive words. You see, if only the Christian can be persuaded to think wrongly about his Lord, then such a Christian would be rendered impotent. Powerless in their service to Christ, powerless in their service to his kingdom, which is the kingdom of God, that is actively overthrowing the kingdom of the one who seeks to deceive. So Paul is here in our passage tonight giving us the first part of an exhortation for Christians not to willingly give up the benefits and liberties of their new life in union with Jesus Christ. Here in verses 6 through 15 of the second chapter of this epistle to the Colossians, we are taught that even though in the Christian life you will be tempted to turn away from Christ in your mind. Turning away from him and how you think about him, you will resist this temptation if you meditate, if you focus your mind on Jesus Christ. I'll say that again. Christian, though in your life you will be tempted to turn away from Christ in your mind, you will resist this temptation by focusing your mind. On Jesus Christ. We're going to see this in two sessions here tonight. We'll look first at verses 6 through 8 that show the Christian life. And then we'll look at verses 9 through 15. That show the Christian mind. Paul begins in verse 6 to address the Christian life. As you therefore have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him Having been firmly rooted and now being built up in him and established in your faith, just as you were instructed, and overflowing with gratitude S the Christian life, first that we find here in this passage, is a walk. You walk a Christian Christian life. And Paul tells us that you walk it as you have received. You have received Christ Jesus You've received the gospel of Jesus Christ, and the Colossians here, whom he's writing to, received the gospel and the teaching of Epaphras. It is not something that the Colossians concocted on their own. It's not something that they discovered through mystical processes or through the Gnostic rituals. And that is something that Paul is actually writing against because the Colossians at this time are under a deep attack from philosophers, deep attack from those who would who would change the minds of these young Christians. You had received Christ Jesus as the Lord. The reports of the Colossian Christians' faithfulness had reached Paul and it had reached others. They had confessed Their faith that Jesus Christ is who he claims to be, and their actions supported such claims. They had expressed faith in Jesus Christ. And our shorter catechism, the Westminster shorter catechism in question 86, is very helpful for us. What is faith in Jesus Christ? Faith in Jesus Christ is a saving grace whereby we receive And rest upon him alone for salvation, as he is offered to us in the gospel. We receive from the Father this gospel truth. And we in this room, if we are believers, share this with the Colossian Christians, do we not? If you rightly claim the privileged title Christian, indicating that you are of Christ, then it must be assumed. It must be assumed that you trust in nothing else for your salvation besides Jesus Christ, as he's offered in the gospel. If this is your true condition, then Paul says here that there's something you must do. As you have received, now you must proceed. He says that you must walk in him And he describes how we walk in him, what this condition of walking in Christ is like. He says in verse 7 that it is having been firmly rooted. If you've heard any of my last few sermons through Colossians, you know that I'm a big fan of the perfect participle. The perfect passive participle in the Greek. I won't bore you with it, but I'll remind you that it means It indicates a past action with ongoing continuous significance. This is a one-time completed past action that continues to have significance. So you stand as having been firmly rooted. Those who walk in Christ are rooted, rooted by God. That's the beauty of the passive voice. It's not something that you do. It's something that is done to you. Paul then says, having been firmly rooted, and now being built up in him, rooted was a past action, this is now a present and an ongoing action. God has finished the rooting, the engrafting, if you will, and he is now sustaining and improving the one who is walking with him. And the word here is the same word that's used to build up a house. Paul uses it elsewhere to talk about how he's building up the temple, the body of Christ. The idea here is that in Christ You are being held together. You have been planted and rooted in him, and now he is sustaining you and building you up. A one-time action with continuous effects and a present action that is ongoing and will be ongoing until we reach glory Paul then says, having been firmly rooted and now being built up in him, and established in your faith just as you were instructed. God, who gives the faith that we receive, plants it in the members of his body, and establishes them in it and upon it, these are Christians. No one in this room has ever seen Christ in the flesh. Have you? That's the same condition that the Colossian Christians were in. They had not seen Christ. They did not witness his miracles firsthand. They did not see the power and hear his voice as he taught. Yet they are his sheep and recognize his voice. They had been instructed by those who had been eyewitnesses, just as you and I are, brothers and sisters. We are instructed by God's word in what it is we are to believe. Our faith was seeded by the testimony of others, the eyewitness testimony of the prophets and the apostles in God's holy word. And there's only one thing that remains. For those who walk in Christ, Paul tells us that they are overflowing with gratitude. This is the mark of Christian character. Thankfulness. Thankfulness. Gratitude for having been given the gift of faith. For having received Christ Jesus as Lord. Thankfulness for the mercy shown to us, though we though we all of us know just how much we don't deserve to receive even one tiny bit of mercy. And Paul tells us that this gratitude is overflowing. It's not just a sometimes thing. It's not just a little tiny bit of gratitude. Now, for the mature Christian, no matter what is going on in their life, there is always something for which we can be thankful. There is always something that can prompt us to Overflow with gratitude for our God. Even as we prayed for our brother, as family is dealing with the loss of his daughter-in-law. Klaus, I'm sure, has found something to be thankful for Today. So as you walk in this way Paul is saying, as you have received Christ Jesus, so you must walk in him in these ways. And as you walk, you must watch. You walk, and while you're walking, you must watch out. He says, See to it that no one takes you captive through philosophy and empty deception, according to the tradition of men, according to the elementary principles of the world rather than according to Christ. So what is Paul talking about? He's talking about those persuasive words, those The enemy who seeks to deceive. He seeks to take you captive. Now, the New King James it says cheat, and that's one of the reasons I liked what the New Americans Standard has translated. The word there literally means to take hold of, like to kidnap. And so are those who are seeking to kidnap you, to take you captive. By philosophy, by empty deceptions. Now philosophy literally means, that word literally means love of wisdom. Now it's not saying Paul is definitely not saying that you should turn your brain off, never use it to think ever again. He's not saying that. What he's referring to are those systems of thought which seek to explain the cosmos and explain the whole universe through simply human understanding. These are the philosophies of the Stoics, the philosophies of the Epicureans, the philosophies of the Platonists. These are the philosophies of Those who were attacking the Colossians, those who have been attacking the church Since its inception. It's a temptation of the mind. And that's what we really need to see from this. It's a temptation to believe wrong things About God, to follow after part or even all of these philosophies is a vain deception. It's a vain deception. It's empty. It's the false teaching that has damaged the church from within. When false teachers come and they offer competing interpretations. Of Scripture, which are inconsistent with Scripture. And they draw men away and women away from believing right things about God and about Jesus Christ. Unlike the philosophies which come at us telling us these are the systems of men, these are the thoughts of great thinkers. These empty deceptions actually clothe themselves in Christian garb. They use Christian language. These are those heresies which have never disappeared Yet they flow in and out of fashion amongst outspoken heretics of the church. Well, how does the enemy do that? Paul then says and teaches us how the enemy does this. The enemy seeks to do this in ways that are very, very believable. That are plausible. It says, according to the tradition of men, according to the basic principles of the world, and not according to Christ. According to the tradition of men, it means that these philosophers and these empty deceivers appeal to an innate desire among us all. We want to belong. We want to be part of the group, part of the herd. In philosophies and psychiatry, they call it herd mentality. These are the traditions of men. We ask ourselves, how could so many be so wrong for so long? The traditions of men that say this is how the world works, and this is how people for thousands of years have thought the world works. Why should Christianity which is so different from those traditions, be true. Well There are lots of ways that the world is trying to use its traditions to deceive you, Christian, to tempt you to turn away in your mind from Jesus Christ. Perhaps the world's notions of deism get in the way. And what I mean by that is the world has long had concepts of gods You've known this. The Egyptian gods. You probably had to learn about them in school. The the Greek gods, the blah blah blah gods of every people group that's ever existed. Everybody makes up their own gods Well, in a lot of those systems, that God doesn't give one hoot about the people. The people have to appease that God so that he loves them, right? If you think about the uh Aztec and the Mayan gods, they were appeased through human sacrifice. Well, the tradition of end says, why would God, if he's so big and powerful, care about little old you? Why would he have one care about you, the individual? And if you buy into that tradition of men, you will have wrong ideas about the God of the Bible. You will think wrongly about Jehovah. Or perhaps you've heard this one. It comes up a lot from those atheists who like to attack the faith. If God exists, he can't be good because there's so much suffering and evil in the world. They try to put God underneath their traditions, underneath their understanding. They try to press him down and to oppress him so that none take him seriously Well, Paul also says that these empty deceivers do it by appealing to our fear of being different. The Bible says that if you love Christ Jesus, you will give up your mother and your father and you will walk after him. You'll follow after Jesus. Well This is warring directly against that. To turn your back on all of those whom you have loved in your family? This is what we're called to. Most of us don't want to be claimed we don't we don't want to be cast as the weirdo. We don't want to be cast as the one who stands out in the crowd so very different. The enemy may cause you to think that what you believe about God will have you be ostracized by your peers And so you will be weak and you will be powerless instead of bold and confident in your sharing of the gospel. This is what the enemy seeks to do. He seeks to twist your mind according to the traditions of men. And he also seeks to do it according to the traditions or the basic principles of the world. And what we mean here is that the way that the world works, the basic elementary principles. You know, how many times have you heard that it's impossible for the world to have been created in six days? How many times have you heard someone say that it's impossible that the universe is less than fourteen trillion, whatever, however many years, I think it's fourteen billion now, thirteen. point eight. How many billions of years? We can't possibly have a a universe that's any younger than that. Or perhaps since we see things change over time, they've tried to convince you that, well, if things do change over time, then if we have a whole lot of time, we'll have a whole lot of change Right? You can change from a pig to a gorilla with enough time. And this just isn't the way it works. It's just not how it is. It's not true. And yet it doesn't matter that it's not true. The enemy's going to try to use these things to twist your mind to think wrongly about the God that you serve. Now, Paul has given us a comprehensive list here because he has this last statement, rather than according to Christ. Any system of thought, any worldview that is not based on Jesus Christ, that is not based on God's word, is false And so any way that any person tries to twist your mind away from Jesus, in any way whatsoever, is false and it is wrong. So, what can we do? It seems like the whole world is against us, because it is. There is no neutral ground. One is either for Christ or one is against him. And we are and will continue to be bombarded in every aspect of our lives, in work, in school, in our relationships, in our friendships, with our family. We will be tempted to change our mind about Jesus. And so mature Christians have learned not to worry about the things that try to get in. Mature Christians understand that the full container has no room to accept anything else. So we must move on to the rest of this passage and see that Paul deals with the Christian mind. Because the only defense against the attacks of the enemy and the temptation against our mind is to focus on We focus first on who he is in verses nine to ten. It says, For in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form, and in him you have been made complete. And he is the head over all rule and authority. He is God the Son, the eternal Son of God. He is the eternal word, the creator of all things. As it says in John 1:3, all things were made through him, and without him nothing was made that was made. Jesus is the perfecter of his elect. In him you have been made complete. If this is true, then it stands to reason that the converse is also true. Without Christ, you cannot be complete. Jesus is the sovereign creator king of the universe. He is the head over all rule and authority. He is the king. It is to him that we owe ultimate allegiance. It is his will that must be made manifest, his desires which matter. It is to him, to Jesus Christ that every knee will bow and that every tongue will confess. Any worldview or system or belief that does not have Christ as the absolute ruler of the universe, as the creator of the universe, as the head of all things, it is not a true worldview, and you must remain Rejected. But not only do we focus on who Christ is, as Paul shows us here, we must focus on all that Jesus Christ has accomplished So, to not be tempted in your mind to turn away from Christ, you fill your mind by focusing it on who he is and on what he has accomplished. In him, you are also circumcised, with a circumcision made without hands. And the removal of the body of the sins of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ. He's fulfilled the signs and the seals of the old covenant. Testament of the ceremonial religious activities. There's a new sign. The old sign was circumcision And we know that that old sign was never believed to actually cleanse the one who received it. It's a sign. Nobody thought that removing that part of the human anatomy truly made them sinless. Right? Moses says in Deuteronomy 10, 16, circumcise the foreskin of your heart. Getting at the real purpose behind the sign of circumcision. And by Christ's death, burial, and resurrection, the body of the sins of the flesh has been removed. And this is true. This is a real and actual removal. It is the circumcision not possible by human hands, as Paul says here. He gives us a new sign. Jesus gives us the new sign of covenant membership, having been buried with him in baptism. Baptism, uniting us to Christ. It has replaced the old external sign. And like circumcision, don't be mistaken, baptism signifies a person's place within the covenant community. of God. It does not speak to the matter of their ultimate spiritual state, just as circumcision did not speak to the matter of an ultimate spiritual state. And if that's uh confusing, uh talk to your elders. They can explain that With with much more time. It's an external sign, and we hope that external sign is a sign of what we hope to be the spiritual reality, a reality which can only be accomplished. By Jesus Christ. Not only is there a new sign, there's a new seal. He says, in which you were also raised up with him through faith in the working of God who raised him from the dead. No longer are we required to bring sacrifices to God's holy altar. We are no longer required to present the best lamb we can find so that we can have our sins removed in the cult. System. Now we are united to Christ in faith. Faith in God's working, faith in God's operative power. By God's grace, we believe that He does indeed save sinners Through the atoning work of Jesus Christ. We believe because Christ was raised from the dead. We believe because His Holy Spirit now indwells us as that new temple. We're being built up in Christ. And Jesus has fulfilled all the promises of the covenant of grace. Look here at verse 13. It says, When you were dead in your transgressions, and in the uncircumcision of the flesh, he made you alive together with him. Having forgiven us all our transgressions, having cancelled out the certificate of debt consisting of decrees against us, which was hostile to us, and he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. Reconciliation, the promise of reconciliation. We saw in chapter 1 that it says that God reconciles his enemies to himself through Jesus Christ. We must remind ourselves of this constantly. We were enemies when Christ saved us. It has nothing to do with us. So when we are in our lives being worried about how we might be harming Christ through our continued since Sin, or how we might be displeasing him, and so he will just throw us out. We have to remind ourselves that we did nothing to earn being brought in. It's all the work of God through Jesus Christ. We were his enemies, we were the uncircumcision. This term is a description of status, those outside of his covenant. It was used to describe the Gentiles in the Old Testament, those of the uncircumcision. Yet Jesus Christ has extended his mercy and grace to the dead. He has raised us to life and united us with himself. We have true justification. All the evidence against us, all the decrees we've broken, all the transgression against God's law, all of the debt on this certificate has been wiped away. It's blotted out. It doesn't even exist any longer. That which got in the way of our reconciliation to God has been nailed to the cross, hallelujah. It's gone. Don't let it take power over you again. Don't let your past get in the way of living for Christ. Think about that verse from the song It is Well, my sin, oh the bliss of this glorious thought. My sin, not in part but the whole, has been what? Nailed to the cross. You bear it no more Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord, O my soul. And brothers and sisters, I want to encourage you: the war is done. The promise of the covenant of grace that God would establish his king, his ruler, who would have an everlasting kingdom. Everlasting dominion over the powers and principalities. That is Christ's kingdom. And he has disarmed the rulers and the authorities. He has made a public display of them, having triumphed over them through him. Through Jesus Christ on the cross. Now, the Greek has been really cleaned up for us in the English. The Greek word there means stripped naked. It means ripped off. It basically is the picture of an enemy king who's been conquered by the emperor and he is stripped naked and disgraced. A good word would be despoiled, and he is led in chains, bound and powerless, in the public, before the triumphant hosts of Jehovah. He has no more power. Sin and death have no more power. They have been stripped, disgraced, disarmed. Christ has conquered, and it is for them. So brothers and sisters, we must walk as we've received, faithfully, faithfully walking in Christ Jesus And while we walk, we watch out, being aware that the enemy will try to make us useless in our service to God by corrupting our minds, by twisting how we think about God. And this is not easy. But brothers and sisters, it's not impossible. By no means is it impossible We can stand up and resist this temptation if we focus our minds on Jesus Christ, who He is, what He's done. It's like when someone starts to talk negatively about someone that you know and love, someone you know personally. The better you know that person who's being you know talked trash about. The better you know them, the quicker you are to recognize, oh no, that's not true. That's a lie. That's not real The better you know that person. When someone is talking lies about them, you can say the truth. No, that's not real. You've got this wrong. This is how it actually is. I should know. I know them. You can only do this by knowing Jesus Christ, fixing your gaze on him. You must know him. And to do that, you must prioritize knowing him. Just the same way that you would to w when you first met that girl, and you first saw her at Forty Nine West and said, Hey, she's the one You had to take time to get to know them. You didn't know them then, you were just infatuated. Don't be infatuated with Jesus. Be in love with Jesus. Get to know Jesus. Make it a priority. Your days and your nights must be filled with delighting in His law. Psalm 1. You must meditate on His precepts and commands. Do you know the Ten Commandments? If you don't, why not? If you don't think that they're still applicable, talk to your elders. Giving you guys a lot of homework. Scripture memorization can help us tremendously, but it's not it's not for everyone. Not everyone is good at memorizing things. And this is why the songs of the faith are so important. This is why we sing biblical truths. This is why we are grateful that our leaders pick good hymns Hymns with sound theology, hymns with the right view of Jesus, hymns that we can call to mind and say, My sin, O the bliss of this wondrous Glorious thought. We can do that. And brothers and sisters, you must rely on God. You must depend on His powerful answers to your prayer. If you don't feel like you know Jesus Christ, if you don't think you know much about him, then the very first thing you must do is fall on your face. Confess that you don't know him. Beg him to reveal himself to you. Examine your thoughts and your heart. And confess that you just don't really know him and you just don't really care. That's the first step. Stop pretending to be closer to Jesus than you actually are, and start recognizing the great gulf. That was there, that is no longer. He has made you his. He has made you alive. Now get to work, getting to know Jesus Christ. God will fill your mind with the truth about himself. He will answer your prayers through Christ. All the lies that the enemy can tell have no place to land once he's done that. Focus on Christ. Focus on who he is and what he's done. If you need help doing that, once again, find the officers of this church. Hold them to their vows. Hold me to my vows. Call me, talk to me. Call Pastor Jesse. If you're not sure whether or not you know who Jesus Christ is and what he has accomplished, don't waste another second. Make it the only priority in your life before you go to work, before you eat another meal, before you take another nap. Before you get another shower. Make this the priority of your life because nothing else really matters. Know who it is in whom you have believed. Let us pray. Gracious God in heaven, you are awesome. And we desire to know you more. And so we ask, Father, that you would give us True eyes to see ourselves, true eyes to see how much we do know you. Let us not lie to ourselves any longer. Let us be honest about how much we don't know you. Let us be honest with ourselves about how much we don't care. And we pray, Father, that you will transform us even now, starting even at this moment with this song we will sing. To help us to remember what it is we should think about Jesus Christ. To help us to treasure what it is that He has accomplished. And Lord, above all things, As you hear our prayers and answer them and make us know you more, we pray that you would not allow us to fall into the temptation of thinking that knowing you in our head is the same as knowing you in our heart. Help us to truly love you, to adore you, and to seek after you with all that you have given us every Every ounce of energy in our bodies, every breath in our lungs, every spark of neuron within our minds. Let it be for your glory. Let it be For your pleasure. We have asked these things in Christ's name. Amen