Beginning in verse number nine. And this I pray that your love may abound still more and more in knowledge and all discernments. That you may approve the things that are excellent, that you may be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ, being filled with the fruits of righteousness which are by Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God. Amen. Let us pray. O Christ, you are the king of all fruit. All good things come from you. And so I pray that in fact you'd make the preaching of your word fruitful this morning, useful. to your people. Ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. We ended last week with a story, a famous story about a Sea Biscuit, the horse. And some famous quotes from that movie, one of which was that just because someone or something is beat up a little bit doesn't mean you throw them away. And another one is that you can get all tied up in your own head and in your own heart. And you can forget what it means to be human. Just as Seabiskit forgot what it meant to be a horse, so they took him out to the countryside and just let him run so that he could, quote, learn to be a horse again. And that's what Christ is doing for you. He is teaching you, he's guiding you that you would know how to be human again How to be a good man and a good woman, how to be a good child. Now the question arises for each of us, well There's everybody and their grandmother seems to have a different vision for what it would look like to have a good human life. Where can we turn to find accurate and reliable information on just what is the picture of a human being. Well, what we're doing here is we're turning to the Apostle Paul, who was authorized by Jesus Christ himself to be Jesus' spokesman. We take Paul at his word because underwriting his word is Christ and His Spirit. And so there's been some things that we've learned about being human, what it means to be really real. From the Apostle Paul. Over the last few weeks, we learned that up front, first and foremost, is that human beings are meant to live a life of love. But we need to define that because, again, everybody and their grandmother and their grandfather have a different definition of love. And what we're learning from Paul is that love isn't just impulsive. It's not just spontaneous. It's not just emotional, affectional uh uh drives It's not reckless, but that actually it's based on what God tells us is good. Especially as he reveals it to us from his apostles and prophets that have been written down in the scriptures. If you'll remember, love is a command, for example. And we learn what love looks like by reading the Ten Commandments, looking at the life of Jesus Christ, reading through the rest of the scriptures, seeing it embodied by way of the Spirit in our midsts. On top of that, we are to abound more and more as love in love, our love is supposed to be specific. We're not supposed to be blunt objects. We're supposed to have precision so that when we're working with each other, we know exactly what the person next to us needs. We don't treat two-year-old children and hold them accountable in the same way that we would hold an 18-year-old accountable. We're morally competent. That's the vision that God has for human beings that were morally competent. That we know that sometimes people are faint-hearted and they don't need a harsh word from you, they need encouragement. And you would know the difference, because God is teaching you the differences of what it means to be morally insightful If you were to characterize human life as a craft God has planned for you, craftsmanship of the highest kind, that you'd be a master craftsman, morally speaking. In all of this, Paul is telling us the major features of the real humanity. And he's going to continue to do that this morning in verses 10 and 11. I just covered verse 9. In summary, but in 10 and 11, he's going to point out three more features that should characterize humanity as it grows in the image of God, as it takes on all that God intends. For us as his people. Number one, we are to live with integrity. Number two, we are to be fruitful. And number three, all that we are to do is to be for God's glory. Those are the three things we're going to find in verses 10 and 11. That we are to live with integrity, that we are to be fruitful. And we are to live for God's glory. So let's take a look at the passage together so that you can see this is in fact what the scriptures teach, and it's not just some ideas I have. In beginning in verse number 10, I've characterized the first two words, sincere and blameless, till the day of Christ Jesus. These two words, sincere and blameless, I've captured under the title of integrity. And I think you'll understand why as I unfold this point. So let me go ahead and just explain to you. sincere and then blameless in terms of integrity. Do you know what it means to have integrity? It's a good thing, right? If if someone said, well should I hire them to come over and to take care of stuff? Someone could say, well they have integrity. Or can I trust them with the in business? Well they have integrity. Can I trust them to watch my children? Well they have integrity Those would all be us saying, okay, well that sounds good. I want to work with people who have integrity Integrity means that something is whole. If you looked it up in the dictionary, it doesn't have missing pieces that are fundamental. It's intact. It is entire. I I gave you examples in terms of human beings and primarily within business, but you could also think of objects. You could say Someone could invite you to have a seat with them at the picnic on a wooden chair, and you'd say, no, thank you. The legs have no integrity. Did you see all the termites that had eaten the legs? And perhaps that gives you a picture. In fact, if you were to go in my basement, there is a chair at my in at my desk that I have in the basement And uh it's an IKEA chair, and for whatever reason the front lateral support has been knocked off, and I do not enjoy sitting in the chair because it constantly wobbles, and I think in my mind, this chair has no integrity Well, I wonder if you you know that human beings can lack lateral support. That human beings can seem like something has been eaten by a kind of moral termite. And that's Paul's concern here. And that's what the meaning of this first section is. When he says the word sincere, he's talking about being pure, not corrupted, not missing parts, having integrity. When he says sincere, he means having integrity. Now interestingly, if you were to look up this word, there's actually this interesting history behind the word where some Say that it means to judge something by the sun. Have you ever heard this before? I mean, ha aren't you all looking in Greek concordances throughout the week? It sometimes is speculated that it can mean, this word sincere, it's mainly taken from the idea of the Latin, is to judge by the sun. And apparently this relates to the art of pottery. Those who bought clay jars from potters would hold the jar up to the sun to inspect it to make sure that it was whole and entirety and entire and had integrity. They would check to see if there were any cracks and if those cracks were filled with some other substance like wax. Apparently there was a practice that after the pot was kilned Or however it was dry, that sometimes it would crack and that sometimes they potters would try to hide the cracks by filling in with the kind of wax and then painting it over And apparently one option to make sure that you're not buying a crackpot was that you would hold it up to the sun and you could see because the sun would shine through differently in the wax portion than in the pot portion. The pot, if it did have a crack and was filled with wax, it was insincere. It lost its integrity. And the Spirit here is admonishing you to be a pot that does not have cracks that are covered over with wax. We would call that hypocrisy. You would have integrity that you as a human being are meant to be sincere. You're not supposed to have a public life on the one hand. But then you're very different and you've all the wax is gone and all the cracks are showing in the private life. Or in private life you look a certain way but then as soon as you get into certain circles in the public sphere, we can see there's certain you've lost integrity. I think you can get a picture of what the Apostle Paul is saying here with sincere. It's not the only word that he uses, though, in characterizing what his hopes and prayers are. for the human beings in this church. He moves on and he says not only that they would be sincere, but that they would be blameless. Now that sounds like He wants them to not do anything wrong. But that's not that's too narrow of what he's getting at here in terms of addressing them, uh, that they would be flourishing human beings. He's speaking specifically that you're not going to be the kind of person who destroys other people. It literally means without offense. That you're the kind of person who has integrity and you can become a kind of foundation for other people where they can be built up and have a constructive relationship with you. You're not the kind of person who tears people down and deconstructs them. That would be to bring offense. Now that's a little strange in putting it that way, but that's what Paul means when he says not to bring offense. That's how he uses it in Romans 14, for example, or in 1 Corinthians, when he's talking about An argument that people are having over food. That same word is used in one of Paul's letters to the Corinthian church. They're fighting over eating food from pagan religious ceremonies. Some people are saying, I shouldn't eat food from a pagan religious- I know this is an outdated debate. I get it. But uh this is the debate, and some people are saying, no, it's fine, it doesn't matter. Have you read this in your Bible? And Paul in that same passage says, eating that food is fine in and of itself, but if it destroys the community, Then though it would be lawful for me to do so, it is certainly not helpful. So I'll give up my interests in order for something that is greater than myself. That's the language that he uses. And so he says, stop offending each other. And he uses that word right there. Be blameless. That's the word he uses in 1 Corinthians. Now, here's something interesting. You seem sincere, the cracked pot, that we're to have integrity. You seem blameless that that we're not to tear each other down, we're not to cause offense. to cause deterioration within community, within family, within human beings. We're not supposed to be that. What's interesting now is that after these two words, you can bring them both together because they're meant to be together. In Paul's thought. The idea is that you would be a sincere Christian who is constructive and not a Christian who has selfish motives tripping up the church community or our neighbors, and that brings sincerity and blamelessness together. Really, let me put it this way, because this can get a little confusing. What you need to see is the very last part of this sentence. Till the day of Christ Jesus. You are to be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ. We know that that day lies in the future. And yet we can think of a day when Christ was here on earth in the flesh. We celebrate that at Christmas time. We think about that in terms of a Good Friday and Easter Sunday And him being raised from the dead, and it's only after that that he is ascended into heaven, and we wait for his return. But he did walk among his people with physical feet at a particular time. We can think of his his days from the past among us. You can think of the first time Christ walked the streets with his people. Now, what did he find among his church when he came? Because what Paul is trying to do is to get you to think of the day that he will return again and do something similar that he did when he came before. And that he is to find you sincere and blameless when he does come. That's his point. What he found largely within the church leadership were hypocrites. And those who were not kingdom-minded. They were using their positions of influence for dishonest gain And one very clear example that I would turn you to, and perhaps you could discuss this over lunch, is from Romans chapter 2, verse 17. The Apostle Paul is very plainly saying to these church leaders, you have been given so much. You have studied the law, and he actually says in Romans chapter 2, you know the things that are excellent. The same thing that Paul says here in Philippians, just a sentence before. You are known as the teachers of the nation, moral teachers. You know how to raise up children You know the law. It was given to you by God Himself. Other people are wondering what it means to be human, but God literally has told you. And if you continue on in that passage in Romans 2, Paul points out, but though you knew the law, you did the exact opposite. You would teach people not to take other people's wives, but you would take their wives. And what that ended up resulting in was Christ on that day. Letting them all know that they're not sincere, they're not blameless, but they bring great offense. And at the end of that passage, he says, you actually have brought offense not just to your own people that you're leaders over, but to the nations, because they all now look at you as representatives of God and they want nothing to do with God because of how you represent him. He says at the end of the passage, the Gentiles blaspheme the name of God because of you. Now that's the first visitation for Advent. of Jesus Christ. And when he showed up, the nation, his church, was meant to be sincere and blameless before him, but he found them cracked. With wax smeared in the cracks and paint over it, but he held them all up to the sun. And he was able to ask particular questions to expose that they don't bring good to people. That when they show up, they make people converts of hell instead of heaven. Those were some of the things that Christ had to say about them. And he is saying to you today. Analogously, just as I in my first advent, in my first visitation, I longed for my people to have sincerity and to have blamelessness, especially the leaders. But that's not what I found. And Paul is appealing to that, and he's saying to you, there will be a second Advent. And when there is that second Advent, may you be found sincere and blameless. So there's a stake here, and there is a motivation. Now maybe you're not an obstacle to your neighbor. Maybe you are an obstacle to your fellow church members. The way that these two things connect are if you're not sincere and you have cracks in you as a pot, then it's going to end up showing up when you are resolving, endeavoring to do things together. because instead of fighting for the right things, you're going to fight for your selfish ambitions. Do you see how those two things end up coming together? So that we would be a pot without cracks, we would be working on ourselves, that we wouldn't, that we would have the moral integrity to be able to work well within the particular community. You present yourself as all about God's kingdom when you show up on Sunday mornings. But when you get into the car and you get home, it is discovered that you're insincere. You are really about something else that shows up in the drama and the conflict that you cause within the Christian community. community and the family. And though it took five years for us all to discover it, it's right there. And Paul is praying that you wouldn't be people like that. When the first advent of Christ came, Christ exposed them. But may it be different for us. May we live sincerely and without offense blameless, so that on the second advent of Christ you are not exposed. And up until that day, we would be a thriving community and not embroiled in bitterness. Now that's the first point here that we are to see about being human beings is that we are to live with integrity. And you could see why, and you could see what's at stake. The second thing is that we that we learn from the Apostle Paul here is that we're meant to be fruitful. We're meant to be fruitful. Paul gives you a positive example. He says here in verse number 10, not only that you are to approve the things that are excellent, that you may be sincere and without offense to the day of Christ, but that you are being filled with the fruits of righteousness which are by Christ Jesus. That phrase, which are by Christ Jesus, is very important. It tells you the story that we're a part of. It tells you that God the Father has sent Jesus Christ to change the human race because the human race can't change itself. The human race cannot change its relationship to God. Christ Jesus must do that. The human race cannot change its relationship to itself. Christ Jesus must send us his Spirit to help us with that. The human race can't change its relationship with each other. There are no political solutions. There are no educational solutions. They are like band-aids that eventually get ripped off, unless Jesus Christ is a part of it. And Paul is pointing that out here. There's a big story going on about what God is doing with the world. He has not given up on his creation but instead has sent his only begotten son to redeem us. And it doesn't just mean that you say a prayer at a church event. It means that Christ is really entering into your life and into the life of the community, and he is changing you to be fruitful creatures. There is a great contrast between what God through Christ wants for you as his people and what can really short circuit and go haywire in the human race. Have you seen the story when Jesus Christ enters into Jerusalem? Have you seen the story where Christ curses the fig tree? This is an excellent story to talk about this point. When you read that story, why did Christ curse the fig tree? What was the point? If you take a look at Mark 11 or Matthew 21, there's an editorial comment there that we sometimes just kind of slide right by. Not realizing that they're giving the reasons on why Christ is disappointed in the tree. And it ends up being a symbolic representation of the human beings that he's disappointed in, particularly the church leaders in Judea. It says that the editorial comment says right before the cursing of the tree that Jesus was disappointed in the tree because he found on it nothing but leaves. Do you remember reading that? I know you know there's no fruit, but isn't it interesting that he is disappointed in it because it only has leaves? I think what's going on here, especially with what he's dealing with with those leaders, is that it is the picture of being all dressed up on the outside but not really having anything to offer. It's a picture of pomposity. It's a picture of being dressed up on the outside and not really having fruit. What a picture of the leaders of that time and what a picture of what we can struggle with as human beings that we would want to move as far away as possible from those things. They were clean on the outside like a bleached tombstone, but inside they promoted death. That's another way to say the same thing. They were insincere hypocrites. They were a vine with no grapes, just a bunch of leaves. Now I have personal experience with this. If you want to know how to garden, don't check with me I have personal experience of being able to grow things with a lot of leaves that are supposed to have fruit. But no fruit. I remember buying this wildflower packet and I guess I wasn't trying to grow fruit. I was just buying a wildflower packet. Got this giant packet of wildflowers, scattered it. I read the directions. I don't usually do that. I'm not that kind of guy. Read the directions, scattered all these things all over the place, and these beautiful flowers came up, but so too did this vine with these huge leaves and budding flowers that looked to me like it was going to be. I looked it up. It looked to me like it was going to be cantaloupes. And I thought, man, that will be cool. That at the end of summer, I'm going to to stand before the table having provided for the family, and say not only do we have food from the grocery store, but I have grown you a cantaloupe. Or multiple cantaloupes. And so I let that thing go. Now, has anybody ever been in the business of growing any kind of fruit like that? It it means you're committed to it taking over most of your yard. So that's what happened. I spread this wildflower packet, out comes this vine, big beautiful leaves. I see these flowers. I see bees on the flowers. This is going to be cantaloupe for sure. I let it go. It takes over half the yard. It starts to choke out productive tomato plants. And month after month go by, and it's just leaves and it's no fruit. Just leaves and no fruit. It didn't I I wasn't I was hoping maybe I was just mistaken. Maybe these are pumpkins. That would be cool too. But nothing but leaves, no fruit. And and what Paul is concerned about is that as a human being you would be described that way. And you need to talk to each other and you need to find out if you are in fact a fruitless cantaloupe. I know that's a funny way to put it, but I hope it's it more than that, I hope it's memorable and that you would take it seriously. That you're just taking up a bunch of space and you don't really do anybody good any good. And the things that were going well, you've pretty much suffocated them now. That's not what God intends for you as a human being. He has you in his training program so that you would not be like that. You could, if you wanted to, you could begin to ask your wife. This is a very, very dangerous question, but you could begin to ask your wife, or maybe ask your brother or something, and you could say, Do I just take up a lot of space, but I'm not really fruitful contributing member of the family? And then just be prepared to hear what they have to say. Because it would be for your own good so that you could take the wax out and you could see that Christ needs to heal the cracks so that you could have integrity and stop offending everybody around you And be fruitful is the whole point. And that is a picture of what repentance itself would look like. That is not who Christ is making you. He is making you a field filled with the fruits of righteousness. Now the last point I'll make very quickly is that all of this is intended to go towards God's glory And you can see this very clearly. It's how Paul ends his prayer here. He says that you would approve the things that are excellent for the purpose that you would be able to be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ. And that you'd be filled. You're being filled with the fruits of righteousness which are by Jesus Christ. So we know what story we're a part of. And where is the story ending? That's the last phrase. It's all to the glory and praise of God. That's what Christ's intentions are. That's why he takes you as his farm field so seriously. That's why, even Christian, while you rebel against him, he will chase you down as the hound of heaven to make sure that one day there's a little cantaloupe on you. You could see this in the Spirit showing us the end of this prayer that the end of all of Christian life, the end of all of life, the end of of every stream of narrative of all of the stories of all of our lives is ending in the glory and the praise of God It's the only thing fitting. And this is the logic. You are to abound in real discerning love that you'd know the excellent life so that your life is in And in other words, you'd become a fruitful vineyard which Christ is making. Why? Because Christ is glorifying the Father by doing so. And you are meant to bring him glory. Now we're all familiar with that phrase. If you are visiting or whatever, there our children are taught in schools and in Sunday schools and at home. They get these These threefold repetitions of a question, what is the chief end of man? To glorify God and to enjoy him forever. So we've heard this before, the idea that our lives, our chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy him And yet what does it mean? What does it mean? What's the logic of the glory of God that Paul is giving here? Jesus taught the same concept. That our renewal in obedience by the power of Jesus Christ is headed towards showing God's excellency and glory in how He works with His creatures. You see this specifically in Matthew 5. 16. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven Christ will sing in John chapter 15, it is by this that my Father is glorified that you would obey my commands, or that you be obedient. Jesus teaches this concept all over the place. Yet I think it can be difficult for us to grasp exactly what does it mean for me to be To glorify God. It means for you as His representative that you would show by the work that is done in you and the life that you are leading, that you, being His artwork, Show forth, you reveal His excellency in every area that is excellent. If you were to visit And see a beautiful painting. Let's say that it's of an old skiff on the Chesapeake Bay with waves foaming and somebody standing with old antique oyster tongs. And they were able to capture this kind of 17th-century watermen out on the Chesapeake Bay, and you admire it, and you see another painting that's done to just the same quality, you begin to build within yourself a sense of the glory of the painter. And you would talk about this painter. Have you seen their work? And everybody would recognize it because they would want that person's paintings in exhibits. They would grow in fame. Which is another word for glory. Because of their work displaying and revealing that there is something excellent about this person that is deserving of a kind of praise quote unquote, smaller case P praise. The same kind of concept comes forward With Christ, with our God, our triune, God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, that we are meant by the way that we conduct ourselves are to show forth His excellencies. That when they meet you and they realize that your author and creator is God, that they would realize, oh Look at how merciful God is. Because God is the one that taught them how to be merciful. And he would be praised for the excellencies of his mercy and his compassion. That's what Paul has in his prayer here for you. Another example, just in trying to understand what does it mean to be glorious, you know the university used to be glorious? If you read a history of universities that first started in America and the kind of student that they were seeking to produce, They gained an incredible reputation and received large endowments and funds in order to move forward in their projects and their plans. because of who they were seeking to create, what kind of student, what kind of human being, what kind of contributing member of our society. But what about universities now? I don't know about every university, but some of the reports that I receive and some of the things that I have to deal with from university students the things that they have been taught in class. My basic thought is that the university has lost its glory because this product that you have placed before me, your students, Don't know how to do anything, and they whine 90% of the time. If anything, you have taught them how to be entitled. And that I owe them everything, even if they don't want to work hard for it. Well, I'm not really trying to tear down universities, I'm just trying to give you an example of how something could lose its glory. And then you could go ahead and you can contrast yourself and you could say, What about you who was in the school of Jesus Christ What kind of student are you? And what do your studies and the way that you practice your life, what does it say about your teacher? What his point here is that it should say that your teacher is excellent and everyone would be a want to be under the discipleship of Jesus Christ. But we know that the world is struggling with that right now. It is not unusual for me to go to a party where there's no Christians there, and for me to end up talking about the church, and for them To have concerns about their experiences in the church and all of the emotional immaturity that they witnessed. Do you know what that says about Jesus Christ? It ends up being the same story that we saw in Romans chapter 2: that because of you they blaspheme the name of God. Instead of seeing that God is excellent. Those are all negative examples in order to contrast that you would have the positive, that you are meant to be a body of people. We'll get into The second chapter and third chapter of Philippians, where you are called to be lights of the world. And that would mean that your light would so shine That people would see that your author and your creator must be the most amazing being ever. He must be the best father in the universe. He must be the best teacher. He must have the most compassion. There's no one more merciful than him. There's no one more wise. I remember talking with a man who was staring out over the Everglades. Has anybody had that experience of looking at a kind of nature reserve like that? Let's just say it's not a hot day, and you could actually enjoy the Everglades. Look out at the total ecosystem, the flamingos, the alligators, the different kinds of plant life. He had about five beers, which is important in this story, because it lowered his inhibitions, and he said, he's an atheist Man, there must be a God. Now, when he said that, he meant This God is excellent. The intonation carries meaning too, not just the words. He's looking at not only all the pieces, but how they closely fit together, and he's thinking, what excellence am I willing to do? witnessing and the author of this painting before me called the Everglades. We all know that God reveals his glory by way of his creation in nature. The point here is that your life is also meant to be towards the glory of God, a revelation of his excellencies, particularly his mercy and his compassion. But also his wisdom. Our lives are to cause similar thoughts that God would be glorified for all of his perfections, his forbearance. His justice, his hard work. You know how hardworking our God is? Now that's a great mystery. It's a great mystery. But we are, in many ways, to be like the acorn that turns into the oak tree. And that is the path that you're on right now. Is that you have been given by Christ the seed. You are have been made into this little acorn, and Christ is ministering to you. And Paul is revealing to you a vision of what you will be when Christ is done with you. You move from that acorn, you get your roots down, and you're a sapling, and before you know it, all of you here who are in Christ shall be majestic towering trees. But do you know that those trees are yet a moon compared to the sun? They're all still just pointing off to someone who is more greater, more majestic, and because you're now in your right minds by Jesus Christ, you're actually happy that God is getting the glory Your creatures growing to find all good in your Creator. All praise, all thanks, all rejoicing. I'll end with this. Has anyone read The Velveteen Rabbit? It's worth your time. There's this one scene where I believe it's the rabbit who's asking an old horse toy. And the rabbit says to the old horse toy, Old horse, what is real? And He says, does it mean that I'd have things that buzz inside of me like the other toys, or that I'd have a a stick-out handle like the other toys? Does that make me real? And the horse, wise, says, Real isn't how you were made. It's a thing that happens to you. When a child loves you for a long, long time, not just to play with, but really loves you, then you become real. The rabbit said, does it all happen at once, like being wound up? Or is it bit by bit? And the horse says, doesn't happen all at once. You become. It takes a long time. And generally, by the time you are real, most of your hair has been loved off. And your eyes drop out. And you get loose in the joints. And you're very shabby. But these things don't matter at all. Because once you are real, you can't be ugly, except to people that don't really understand. Paul is seeking to answer the question, well, what is real for us as human beings? What is real for us? Does it happen all at once, like being wound up? Or is it bit by bit? His answer to that is bit by bit. That you'd have bound more and more. What's that's the base and the foundation of us becoming real? It's not that a child would really love us, but that Christ would. That's what you have before you. Christ loving you. That you would be real. Does it hurt? That's another question, another place the rabbit asks. Does it hurt, Mr. Horse? It does hurt. The Lord disciplines those whom he loves. Does it take a long time? Yes. It is no small matter to become creatures who love with moral competence. It is no small matter to become a creature who stands with integrity. And it is no small matter to become a creature who longs to bring glory to God. But that is what is promised to you in Christ Jesus today. And may we embrace this promise and hold on to who we are in the story. Amen. Amen. Let us pray.