And our reading tonight is uh just verse seventeen. As iron sharpens iron, so a man sharpens the countenance of his friend. Amen. And let us pray. Lord, we pray that you would give us understanding of this, that it would lead to further love and trust in you. And Lord, that it would lead to in your name loving each other. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Now children, I have uh some questions for you that I want to start off with. And you can't be too loud because we're not in a VBS. But I wouldn't I wouldn't mind if you gave me an answer to some of these. The questions are going to start off really easy, and then they're going to get harder and harder. Are you up for it? Yes? Okay, here it is. It's all about purpose. First question I have for you is what is the purpose of mittens or gloves? You don't need to raise your hand, just say it. Say that again? To warm your hands. Okay, very good. And what is the purpose of a steak knife? The cut of stake. Okay. That one was pretty easy. I think I need to get I need to make these harder. Okay, here's a pretty here's a pretty difficult one. What is the purpose of Shoes. Okay, to protect your feet? Anything else? What's the purpose of shoes, buddy? Okay, never mind. This feels like Christmas. Okay. Purpose of shoes, we have one is protect your feet. Anything else? Support your feet. That's pretty good. And when I was younger I thought it was to make you run faster and jump higher. Especially after this is gonna date myself, especially after I went to Buster Browns. Anyone remember Buster Browns? Yeah, right. Over at Caldor? Mm-hmm. That's a job. Okay, now this is a this is a difficult this is a really difficult one. We're gonna jump. You're gonna feel like, wow, we just jumped. Okay, this is a really difficult one. What is the purpose of having conversation with other people? That's a really difficult one. And you don't have to answer. You can wait until after the sermon is over and you can tell me what you think the answer is after hearing. But the purpose, at least one of the main purposes of conversation, is seen here within our passage. And you could summarize it like this Christian conversation is a grace from Christ, and it is meant, its purpose is so that we can sharpen each other. The purpose of Christian conversation is to sharpen each other. So you can talk to me about that over Meetball Subs a little bit later, children. And um see if you understand exactly what's going on here. But the purpose of Christian conversation is to sharpen each other. Now, this is just a single verse, so we shouldn't have to talk about it for too long. But uh I do want to I do want to preach about this and I want to to unfold it in just two ways I want to look at the likeness of conversation and the reality of conversation. We have to begin with the likeness of conversation because this is a proverb. And we've really moved into a section where whoever is writing the Proverbs, sometimes it's Solomon, if you write if you look over at uh chapter thirty, if you flipped your Bible page, you'd see there's the wisdom of Agor. And so it's not just Solomon. There's others who are writing too. There's wisdom from people's mothers coming up a little bit later. And they like to look at things, especially in the natural world. And then they like to use that to help people to understand God's kingdom and how we should relate to each other as neighbors. For example, a little bit a couple chapters later you'll see that they reflect on the ants. Everyone's heard that one, right? Consider the ants. They're also going to look at these rock badgers and how they protect themselves with rocks. Well the same thing is here. There's a likeness given here, and it's stated just like this: iron sharpens iron. Now I think that we know pretty much what's going on here, but you have the word iron repeated twice, and so it's not the same, it's not the same thing There's one thing that's iron, as iron, and then there's a sharpening, and then there's another iron. And the image that's going on here, the the the second iron, is some kind of instrument that needs to be sharpened. It could be a lot of different instruments. Most of the time when I hear this verse, people tend to refer to swords, and you kind of hear swords clanging, and one sword sharpening the other sword. But if you were to turn to 1 Samuel 13, 19, look at all the different, listen to all these different instruments they have that blacksmiths sharpened. It says here in 1 Samuel 13, 19, Now there was no blacksmith to be found throughout all the land of Israel, for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make swords or spears But all the Israelites would go down to the Philistines to sharpen each man's plowshare, his mattox, his axe, and his sickle. And the charge for a sharpening was a pim, it's a kind of um uh money For the plowshares, for the mattocks, the forks and the axes, and to set the points of the goats. So we have basically here just an image where this person seeking to give wisdom to the Christian community by reflecting on metallurgy or on um watching a blacksmith And when the blacksmith was working, they took a piece of iron that needed to be sharpened. Maybe it was a uh a pitchfork. Maybe it was uh something that we'd use in your garden, and that would be that second piece of iron. But the first piece of iron is going to be a hard piece of iron that they're going to use as the thing that is sharpening the dull edge of whatever the tool is. Now In our day, the image is a little bit different, isn't it? The image would be, the proverb would be, as a whetstone sharpens iron, or something along those lines. Doesn't sound nearly as good I wonder how many of you have had to sharpen a knife, or you've learned how to do so, in uh taking a knife at a particular angle and and running it across the whetstone to where you get that nice fine edge making it finer and finer to where it could cut right through paper is one of the tests. Well that's the that's the likeness of the conversation. He's reflecting, perhaps sitting in front of a blacksmith, and he gets to thinking, this is like something else I know And that brings us to the reality of the conversation. The reality of the conversation is taken in this second part, and it says: so a man sharpens the countenance of his friend. As iron sharpens iron, so a man sharpens the countenance of his friend Now there's a little bit of well there's not a little bit, there's a lot of wordplay going on here in this second one. The word countenance there is the word for face. Have you ever heard the The description of Moses, that Moses was different and that he knew God face to face. Panim to panim. Well, it's the same word that's being used here. And the wordplay is what? Is that just as we have a face, so too does a knife or an edge. There's the face of an edge. And uh that's the likeness that they're trying to bring over into the reality. What he's pointing out is that that uh there's uh we can see each other's faces And written on our faces is a story. Written on our faces is an attitude. Written on our faces is a condition. It's very important for us to note here that the countenance is a word for face. And this proverb, the wisdom of it, really depends on the fact that we have to read. each other's faces because it's revelatory of our hearts. Now it doesn't just talk about the face, it also talks about sharpening Now, in what way do you sharpen a face? Well you get that when you're talking about sharpening the face of a knife or a chainsaw blade or something along those lines. But here they're playing with the word sharpen The word sharpen is often used throughout the Proverbs, Isaiah, and other biblical literature to refer to that which the tongue does. The tongue, it can be sharp and it can sharpen others. Isaiah 49. 2, if you ever want to get a chance to take a look at that, it talks about The mouth is a sharp sword. Even speaking of Christ Himself is having a sharp tongue in the sense of governing the nations. We, in other words, if you look back then at the proverb, you can see that there is a man who uses his mouth. And his tongue and his speech, reading the countenance and the face and the heart of the other person, they sharpened them. They sharpen them. That's the reality that is going on here. You could put it this way. We see the face of each other. And as friends, we can through gracious conversation and counsel sharpen each other. Now, admittedly, this is all kind of abstract. So I'd like to just bring it down into a very simple story. It's actually one of the most famous conversations uh known in the scriptures. So I'd like us to take a look at Luke chapter 24, 32, and I want you to see Jesus Christ Himself Engaging in conversation and sharpening the people as he reads their face. This is a account known as the Road to Emmaus. You've probably heard this before. It has one of it has probably my favorite verse in it. And so I just want to start in reading verse 13, and then we'll go from there. This is the road to Emmaus. Now behold. Two of them were traveling that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was seven miles from Jerusalem, and they talked to each other of the things which had happened So it was while they conversed. You see all the conversation going on? So it is while they conversed and reasoned that Jesus himself drew near and went with them. Can you imagine this? But their eyes were restrained so that they did not know him. And I love this verse seventeen. And he said to them, What kind of conversation is this that you have with one another as you walk? And then notice how he recognizes their countenance. And you are sad. You see that how he picks up on that? So we're starting to see the manifestation here in real life with the Lord of this very proverb, where he's seeing their countenance, and he is walking up himself as a kind of whetstone in the conversation. Then the one whose name was Cleapus or Cleopas answered and said to him, Can you imagine this? Are you the only stranger in Jerusalem? And have you not known the things which happened there in these days? And I love this, he says to them. What thanks? Isn't this a great conversation? This is called dialectic, by the way. So they said to him, The things concerning Jesus of Nazareth, who was a prophet, mighty in deed and word before God and all the people And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death and crucified him. And now you can begin to see in verse 21 where the sadness starts to come in. The sadness on their face is revelatory of uh is their of their bones riding inside of them because they're starting to lose hope. But we were hoping that it was he who was going to redeem Israel. You could hear you could hear their countenance drop right there. We were hoping that he was going to be the one that redeemed Israel. Indeed, besides all this, today is the third day since these things happened. Yes, and certain women of our company who arrived at the tomb early astonished us. When they did not find his body, they came saying that They had also seen a vision of angels who said he was alive. And certain of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it, just as the women had said. But him they did not see. Now, before we go on to the rest of that conversation that's happening right there, I want you to see that in fact, so they have this countenance and they're sad. Let's just say in line with the imagery of the proverb that their edge is dull in a very particular way here. It's dulled in that they're losing their hope. You can have a dull edge in a lot of ways. Your arrogance could be a dull edge and needs to be sharpened in humility But here that's not the case. The case is that the edge is dulled and that they're losing their hope. Now I do want you to see That when you jump down to verse number 32, that the countenance is totally changed. He says in verse number 32, And they said to one another, Did not our heart burn within us while he talked with us on the road and while he opened the scripture to us? Man, are they not sad anymore? They have officially been sharpened, folks. They have been sharpened. This is the reality of the proverb is getting at. Now, here's a question that I have for you, because we really want to learn from the Master. Jesus knows how to have a good conversation. What did he do to sharpen them? What was the whetstone to put an edge back on the blade of their hearts? Now we can go back up and we can look at verse 25, and I don't want you to think that he's being too harsh here, because I think that would be an over-reading of it. Then he said to them, O foolish ones and slow of heart, to believe in all the prophets have spoken. Ought not the Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory. And then here's verse 27. This is actually what they quote in verse 32. And beginning at Moses and all the prophets He expounded to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. And there it is. In this case, and I think in all cases, it is the whetstone of the scriptures wherein we sharpen the dullness of the countenance of our brothers and sisters in Christ. They had a particular perspective that was largely confused, running out of hope, not sure what's going on, and then Christ uh brought in this to sharpen them by taking them through all of the scriptures so that life would be br breathed back into them. I think this ends up, again, we don't want to overdo it, but I think it ends up being a model for how we ourselves are to have conversation. Now, what are some of the lessons that you can take from this? Number one, I'm sure the road to Emmaus was a large trail. Even if it wasn't, you don't have to walk next to somebody on the road to Emmaus. You could drop back. You could run up ahead. You could, like people at NSA, you could just stare at the ground and not make any human contact. But that's not what Jesus Christ does. He takes the time to care, and caring shows up in that he's willing to have a conversation He reads people's faces and he asks them questions to draw out their heart. I love it. I wonder how many times you go throughout the day. And because there's so many different things that are on your plate, you don't acknowledge what you read on each other's faces. Sometimes it's not appropriate to bring certain things up. You can read something on somebody's face and you say, inside your own mind, now's not the time to talk about this or to ask any questions. But there are times where we could ask questions We could ask what's going on, what happened? Very basic questions. Jesus says, what thinks? It was that simple for that to then be revealed. And then, as a whetstone, he brought the appropriate scripture, not just to have any old idle conversation, but he was seeking to sharpen them. I asked you earlier, I asked the children earlier, what is the purpose of conversation? And I said, the purpose of conversation, according to this passage, is to sharpen one another. And you can ask yourself that question when you're in conversation with each other. Is that what you have on your mind? I asked about mittens. What's the purpose of mittens? Keep your hands warm. Yeah, obviously. We get those things and we use it for those purposes. But what about your conversations with each other? Do you use your conversations and reading each other's countenance to make sure that you're taking off the dull edge? Sometimes the dull edge is hopelessness. You can see it on a person's face. Sometimes the dull edge is their arrogance. You can see that on their face. And you need to say a word that takes them down a notch. What are all of the other things that you read on people's faces? And how could you sharpen them that they would move more and more into the image of Christ Himself? That is the purpose of conversation. You can see the purpose through the likeness of conversation with metallurgy and blacksmithing You can understand it through the reality of conversation, just considering what it the countenance is, that it's the face, and that the tongue is that which sharpens And we can especially have lessons this evening by considering it in the hands of our master, in his own conversations. When we see the face of each other, may we, by the grace of Christ, be like Christ, caring enough to graciously engage in conversation according to its purpose. May we sharpen each other. Amen. Let us pray.