Chapter 2, 6 through ten. As you therefore have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him, rooted and built up in him, and established in the faith, as you have been taught, abounding in it with thanksgiving. Beware lest anyone cheat you through philosophy and empty deceit according to the tradition of men, according to the basic principles of the world, and not according to the to Christ. For in him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily, and you are complete in him, who is the head of all principality and power. Let's pray. Father, we ask for your blessings on us that you would specifically illuminate our minds that we might see the incomparable excellence of Jesus Christ. Amen Please be seated. is such a perfect example in my mind. It brings up all kinds of feelings and truth uh to me. That when uh there was a young lady working with a pastor She was really really struggling with self-esteem. And not just self-esteem, but struggling with Her friends were the kind of friends that the boys liked them, and no boys liked her. Now I don't know if you know what that feels like. Um uh but one of the pastor tried to comfort her and and did so by saying that um you're gonna get through this. What you really Really need to realize is that what makes you the happiest has already taken place since you're a Christian, and that is that God accepts you and God desires you. And the girls resist Response was, how's that going to help me get boys to like me? And you can you can see, uh I just love the story. I've I've probably told it eight times since I've been here in seven years. But I I I you can see in the story the dynamic of the human heart. The human heart has particular things that it longs for, and naturally it is not Longing for God. Even as a Christian, you wrestle not so much, particularly in this church, with knowing what to believe, but Caring about what you're supposed to believe, or seeing it to be meaningful and significant to you. It's all of us struggle with it. And also, the non-Christian, if you're an atheist, or if you just don't know what you believe, you're you're s you're you're presented with Christianity and you see nothing Nothing there that gets your heart beating. You see nothing there that would be relevant to your problems. And you know, Christians struggle with the same thing. They wonder, is Christianity relevant? I mean Do you wonder that? Do you ever wonder sometimes, how is this worth my time? How is Jesus Christ relevant? Do you see that in your in your children or within your friends. I think that we do. And what we've been doing over the past couple weeks is is uh a a while back, about a month ago, we looked at the preeminence of Jesus Christ. Now that's just And that's the big thing that people have trouble accepting that he's better than anything in the universe. But that's what Paul is saying here, the Apostle Paul. And last week we were we were asking the question how can we tie down our commitment to Jesus Christ that He the best thing in the universe. And we looked at how it's going to take personal sacrifice in order for that to take place. And we're not going to be able to do it alone. We're going to have to do it as a community. And we're going to have to begin to see Christ as better, which means I gave this abstract statement last week about comparative evaluation, and all I meant was that you're going to have to put Christ on the scales and weigh him against the other things that compete with him in our culture and see how he's much greater than all things. That's the way that you have to begin thinking about things. And we're going to continue that this week. And Actually, it will be for the at least the next three weeks. We will just be looking, as Paul develops this, how Christ is better than all other things. And how is it that we can come to really believe that and therefore secure our devotion to him? How do we secure our Christian beliefs and our Christian devotion? When there's so much competing and sometimes seeming better than Jesus Christ. That's what Paul unfolds here in this passage, and we're going to look at under three parts. The goal The warning and the art. The goal, the warning, and the art. And the goal begins right there in verse 6. And our goal, as we seek to To tie our beliefs down or to remain devoted to Jesus and seeing him significant is to walk in Jesus Christ. You see that there in verse 6. As you therefore have received Christ Jesus, the Lord, Now this should stand out because it's a command. He gives a um the front end of the sentence is him giving us some things that we'll look at. And then he moves right in to a command. Walk in him. It is the command as Paul thinks about how this group of Christians, although still devoted to Jesus Christ, are on the end of the edge or in our constantly being seduced and tempted away from devotion to him. And he says for them to walk in him. Now what do we mean by that? Well this is a a euphemism that Jews would use for all of life. And it goes through these different paths that we're not to walk in, but instead that we would meditate meditate upon the law day and night and be like a tree that is planted near a river. Perhaps some of you are familiar with Psalm 1. And this is another way of just saying that the way of your life, that you are to live in Him, that your being is to be in Him. And they're not, he's not Saying something here mystical just yet. We're going to get to our union with Christ next week. But he's talking about Christ being the center of your life. You've heard that before. Christ being the center of your life. And the very first way in which that needs to be done is that we need to receive Him. You can see that in the first part of the He's giving a comparison there. You're going to walk in him. You're going to live in him in the same way that you can't even see the Now, receiving in our culture, if you've ever been to a Christian camp, what does it mean if you received Christ that day? It means that you said some kind of prayer and That is uh what you would get at some kind of youth camp, and that's something profound going on there. I don't want to diminish that, about the Holy Spirit being given to us and us being united to Jesus Christ. That's not what they mean here. They don't mean receive Jesus Christ into your heart. It's not the contemporary meaning. Sense and it was taken over by the Jews to refer to the handing down or the transmission of teaching from one generation to another. For instance, compare the Next sentence here in Colossians. Look at what he's talking about. He says, as you have been taught. So what he's talking about here is he's talking about the message that they had received. That that is what they are to walk in, or that is what they are to live in. In the same way that you would receive a letter or a message from the mailman, and then you would read that letter, you would Make what is said in that letter to be the center of your life. You would build your whole life around that. You can see a really beautiful picture. of uh of this reality in 2 Timothy 1. 5 and and then in and then in verse um thirteen. In 2 Timothy 1 5 he says When I call to remember remembrance, this is Paul speaking to a young protege, Timothy, when I call to remembrance the genuine Do you see what's going on there? Is that you can see a whole family had received the message. Of this same letter, hold fast, this is Paul again speaking to Timothy, hold fast the pattern of sound words which you have heard from me in faith Hold on to those words that you have received from me. It's the same kind of reception that we're talking about here. And so for us to walk in Jesus, there must first be a receiving Of him. But it's not just the receiving of teaching. Look again at the passage in Colossians. As you therefore have received, and then look at this little Now you have imagined these apostles have given this message over and over and over again. And they have figured out a very concise way to say the entire gospel message, and it doesn't become more concise than this. Just as you have received Christ Jesus the Lord. Now we take that and we just Or any part of that phrase. Christ is not Jesus' last name. Christ is another word for Messiah, which comes from the Hebrew and it's referring to the anointed one. There was one within the Jewish worldview that was expected to come to restore God's creation and God's people to the place that God had always intended. God intended for the human race to live in paradise. Paradise and their physical surroundings, paradise emotionally, psychologically, relationally. But all of that had fallen away, but God promised that there would be Now you now interestingly, the difference between the Jew and the Christian the Christ. They would never put the two words together. Jesus the Christ. It would be them committing apostasy against Judaism. or against the Jewish religion. It also says that he is Lord, and this is speaking to those in the culture that would have been Greek or Jew. If it was speaking to the Greek during this time, then people would have been hearing them say, This is one who was greater than our king, Caesar. Just the very profession of him being Lord would have been an act of treason politically, and you could have been killed. For the Jews, Lord is a word that comes from the Old Testament meaning Yahweh or the The Lord. It was assigned to God. And so here you see that the Apostle Paul is saying that you have received, that Jesus The man is the Messiah who is going to restore God's creation back to its original intention, and that he is God especially his people. It is this that is to pervade all of your life. Now if you look next in the pass it passage, he gives us a series of metaphors to begin For you to see what you're supposed to be doing. What does it mean to walk in him? You can see a set of metaphors now that he gives, rooted and built up in him and established in the faith as you have been taught, abounding in it with thanksgiving. The first metaphor we spoke about last week, being rooted in this truth, that Jesus is the Christ and he is God. Being rooted in that like an oak tree, not like a brass tree. But he also gives us another image, and that is building. You could think of a building where Jesus Christ is the cornerstone. Stone or the chief stone, and that all of the apostles are the foundation stones, and that you are to build your life on top of that. And it's an it's uh it's expressing And so you could think of in the same way that you build up yourself in school, they're asking you to be built up. Up here. For instance, when you go to school, you re- you learn reading and you learn writing and you learn arithmetic. Those are the cornerstone and the foundation. And then when you go off to college, or then you re receive your master's Degree or a PhD degree, you will enhance in your reading, you will enhance in your writing, and you will enhance in your arithmetic. I was just speaking with someone who graduated college. And the very first thing that they said was, I am so glad that college is done because now I never have to do math ever again. And that is not what is being communicated here. What would be communicated here is that these foundation stones were valuable to us. Have you ever received an education? Have you received an education in any other part of your life where you can look back at that education and you can say, I am so glad that I received those foundation stones? I'm so glad that those things were laid for me early in my life so that I could keep building on them. Maybe it was the way that your parents raised you in a certain way. For me, it was learning the trade of carpentry. Since I was a young man. I worked with my father all through my teenage years, learning how to build houses. And I tell you, it comes in handy every single day that I'm basically able to do whatever I want to do. around my house. Remodel it, modify it, whatever it might be. And I look on that as a foundation that I grew in over time and now is very helpful to me in my life. And I'm very thankful for it. You can see that that being here as a mark of this true education in verse 7, that you would see this foundation that has been laid for you, that you are rooted in, that you would be thankful for it. That is a sign that you truly are in the school of Jesus Christ. Now that's what it means in our first point to have the goal, to walk in Jesus Christ. But there's a problem. As soon as we move into verse 8, you were not learning this in a nice clean atmosphere. Instead, it would be like trying to go to school in the middle of a war zone. Now I think some of us have experienced that in public school, and some worse than others. But you know it's like it's like Um when we go to plant a garden and um and and and the and when we plant a garden weeds crop up and that moves us into our We not only need to know the goal, and that is to walk in Jesus, which means to live our lives in Him, and we have several metaphors to help us with that. the reception of that uh apostolic tradition. But also we need to heed the warning because of human culture. Take a look at verse 8. Look at the next command. Beware lest anyone cheat you through philosophy and empty deceit, according to the tradition of men, according to the basic principles of the world. And not according to Christ. So you are meant to live and be rooted in the fact that Jesus is the Christ And that he is God, and that is the best thing that you've ever heard of. It's the most important part of your life, so you give thanks for it. But there are other things that we must be aware of that seek to take. Take that away from us every moment of our lives. That is your existence. When we go to plant a garden, not only do we see tomato uh plants uh grow up, but we see weeds trying to choke them And every move that you go to step this way to find the excellence of Jesus Christ, there is a we that will grow up to seek To choke that out and compete and show you, you know what, he's not that good. The very first thing that he mentions here that is a kind of weed are empty philosophies. What he's trying to get at here is that The picture of a house that looks good on the outside, but on the inside it should be condemned. Kind of like the picture of a whitewashed tomb. Or if you've ever watched the uh the show um infestation. When I was on a vacation a while back at Deep Creek Lake, I watched Infestation falling asleep one night, and there was this young couple that were so excited to buy their first home. It was uh uh white um white siding, just uh uh very nice, and they started to notice in the backyard uh dozen snakes when the kids were playing And then uh when they would go to sleep at night, they started to hear a scratching in the walls and uh and snakes would start to climb out from underneath the baseboard or from the heating vents. And they finally had someone go into the crawl space and there were hundreds of snakes. And someone had built this house on a snake um breeding ground and they did a little bit of research to find out about this house and uh there was not full disclosure in the real estate sale because they found an old newspaper article titled the snake house. And that's exactly what we have here. We have empty philosophies that look nice on the outside, but they are full of snakes. On the inside. They're not what you bargain for. Throughout the years, there have been different ones. You can think of Platonism for these guys, or Stoicism, or even the Jewish religion. according to Jesus Christ, since they deny him as the Messiah. The other part of this that you see with these weeds is not only an empty philosophy, nice looking on the outside, but snakes on the inside But he describes this as the basic principles of the world. And there is a lot of different debate as to what's going on here. One of the problems that you'll run into with this passage if you start to study it is that they're trying to figure out exactly what is it that Paul is fighting against. Who are the people? Is it a group called the Gnostics? Is it just Jews? Is it some um blend of all of these things? And just to stay on safe footing, just think that he is writing against those Jews that seek to take the people in Colos away from them. From true Christianity. And when he says the basic principles of the world, this is what he's getting at. The bottom line is he's saying that anything that is from this world, that is a human Attempt to solve a problem that only God can solve, it is an empty philosophy. Perhaps you will uh remember the the story Icarus wanted to go to heaven or to fly toward the sun, and so he made himself a pair of wax wings. And as he grew closer and flew closer and closer to the sun The wings melted and he crashed to the earth. That is the story of every man-made endeavor to solve the human condition, is the story of every Icarus. And that is what is Paul is calling every one of these philosophies. So they're not only philosophies that are empty on the outside but or empty on the inside, but look like something we would want to buy, that we w We would want that to be our home. But they are also futile and vain in that they don't really solve the problem. And then he gives this other description and he says that you are cheated by them. And this is where it really it really becomes scary because Because cheated here means that you would be kidnapped. And so the picture that you would have in your mind of this enemy is that thing that we were warned about all growing up, that if you're coming out of the elementary school And you see a van with no windows, and somebody rolls down the front window and offers you some candy, then you run away. Because we heard these horrible stories of children being kidnapped. Now why the candy? Why not just roll up with a van? Because it doesn't uh seduce the children. Children love candy. They do crazy things Things for candy. If you think of the the Narnia series, Edmund uh betrays his entire family for Turkish delight or sweets. And it's the same thing here with our enemy. We're not dealing with An enemy that has nothing to offer. We're in a sense that's true, but we're dealing with an enemy that knows how to seduce us and to pull us over. And remember what they're seeking to do. They are trying to convince you that Jesus Christ Christ is not worth your time. Or if he is, he's only kind of worth your time, but there are other things that are better than him. And so as we're seeking to ground ourselves, we must not only walk in Jesus Christ and make him the center of our life. We must take the warning and realize that there are enemies that are seeking to seduce us. Now, this is brought out in a great many fairy tales come to find out. If you think of Snow White, there's seduction. There's the shiny red apple, but in the center is the poison. It's the same thing that's being offered to you from our secular culture. Or if you think of Hansel and Gretel, when they go and they meet the witch and she encourages them to eat and that Everything is fine, but then they find out they're just being fattened up to be cooked themselves. It's the exact same thing that Paul's talking about here. Or if you consider Aesop's phase fables, um have you ever heard the one about the dog And his master's dinner. A dog has been taught to take his master's dinner to him every day. As he smelled the good things in the basket, he was sorely tempted to taste them. One day all the dogs in the neighborhood followed him with longing eyes and greedy jaws, and tried to steal the dinner from the basket. At first the faithful dog tried to run away from them, but they pressed him so close that at last he stopped to argue with them. This is what the thieves desired, and they soon ridiculed him to the extent that he said, Very well, I will divide with you, and he seized the best piece of chicken in the basket and left the room rest for the others to enjoy. And the moral that Aesop brings out is he who stops to fiddle around with temptation will be very likely to yield. And it's the exact picture that Aesop has captured here, or that Snow White has captured there, or Hansel and Gretel there, or the seduction with the van. All of that is what Paul is warning against for you to realize that is a part of your life as you're seeking to secure your Christian devotion. And so we need to move into the last step, which is the art or the craft of repentance and faith. That's the answer to the temptation. In order to continue walking in Jesus Christ. In the midst of this human culture which is seductive, there must be repentance and there must be faith. First, there must be repentance. You can see this by way of implication in the passage look at verse nine and there's an emphasis here he says for in him dwells all the fullness of the The Godhead bodily, and you are complete in him, who is the head of all principality and power. Do you see what he's doing there? The emphasis is in him The emphasis is all of the God all of the Godhead, all of the fullness dwells in him. Why would you ever look to anyone else? There's no one greater than him Or you are complete in him, why would you ever look to anyone else for completion? If you are filled all the way to the top in Jesus Christ, then what room is there to fill you anymore? That's the thing that we end up not getting, and so we need this repentance because we have sought to fill ourselves with something besides Jesus Christ. It says here that He is our complaints. And we give into temptation and to other philosophies in thinking that they that they are Are better than Jesus Christ. Now let me run through a couple here to and get very, very practical. Let's talk about the act. of denying sin. This is a very philosophical endeavor to deny our sin. Very philosophical. You make lots and lots of philosophical Declarations when you choose in that moment to deny sin. Let's say that you were caught lying. That's something that all of us are very good at. We're good at being deceptive. and we're good at lying. It's something that we struggle with at one time or another in our lives, and you choose to cover over the lie. So you choose to cover anybody ever have this experience of covering over the lie? And being deceptive. Now, how do you do how do you cover it over? What philosophy do you adopt in order to get out of this corner? Is it pop psychology? You made me do it. If you weren't so demanding, I would have never been put in this situation. I would never have had to say these things. Look at what you're doing to me My br my upbringing made me do it. I would never be like this if my mother just if she would have stopped nagging me. by the time I was twenty-three. But what choice do I have? Or it runs in the family. It's a cruxly thing. That's what we do. I had a long day. What do you expect from me? I expect to come home and have sanctuary, and now you're gonna hop on me about this? Come on My life hasn't been fair. This is one of my favorites. My life hasn't been fair. Why are you being so hard on me? My life has not been fair. Look at what I've had to go through. And that can be true, can't it? It can be true that we have gone through quite a ideal and then we use that pop psychology to excuse the lie or we would turn to a pragmatism. I'm using these high-sounding words and you you say Why do we have to bring philosophy into it? That's exactly what we're doing. We're adopting other people's philosophies. And when we lie, this is what we say as pragmatists. What damage did it do? It did Now that's one that we use all the time. Even if you don't say it out loud, what difference does it make? I mean, come on, it's not like I murdered you. It's just Those are all adoptions of ulterior philosophies that as soon as you adopt them, you adopt the entire system. And Satan and the world and the flesh begin to work on you with those. And this is what ends up happening. What happens? I want you to take this to its logical conclusion. If you can deny that you have sin, Then what need do you have of Jesus Christ? None. Even if it's that small little moment right there where you come to find out you know what What? I'm not as bad as I thought I was. Or I don't need Jesus Christ because I can just lie about my sin and still look righteous, which is all that's important to me. So what you've done by already grabbing onto this philosophy, you see how quickly it can happen how how it can happen? That quickly? You don't even realize that you're doing it, but you're adopting this other philosophy and then before Before you know it, you're finding Christ less and less necessary for your life. Now I want you to think this past week, every time, that you have justified yourself in your sin. and how many opportunities you miss to realize how important Jesus Christ is to you. There may be even some of you sitting here right now that have never acknowledged That you're a sinner. You have always given these excuses that it's just your upbringing, or it was just that you've had a difficult life. or or you have learning disabilities or whatever it is that you use to excuse yourself to say, you know what, deep down I'm not that bad. As soon as you say that, Christ becomes up Acknowledge that you're a sinner. If you are a Christian, you need to repent and every single day acknowledge that you're a sinner still. So that you can see and treasure Jesus Christ. If you could just be honest with yourself right now at how awful you are, how glorious would Jesus Christ become? How He would be the only solution in all the universe for you. Your true problems. But if you just have a chemical imbalance, then just go to the psychiatrist and get some medicine. Or if it was your education, then go to college. Take an online course. But if it's deeper than that If it's more profound than that, and it is, then you need Jesus Christ. And so we must repent, whether Christian or non-Christian. And we must also have faith, whether Christian or non-Christian. We must also have faith. We must believe that Jesus Christ completes us. That's the hard part. We go to other things because we don't really believe that Jesus completes us. And I understand that it's very difficult. It has to be done by faith. I didn't put down here repent and then see I said repent and then have faith. Which means you're working against another philosophy called empiricism, where you have to believe in things that you have never seen. seen before. Things from thousands of years ago. All of the blessings in Christ. Now let's go through the example again. You were caught lying. And you are tempted to believe other profound philosophical statements about the nature of human beings, about our sin and what our problems are. is. But instead of giving in to pop psychology or pragmatism, you decide to be honest and you say, I am a sinner. I am a sinner. And immediately, the only solution for you is to see the sin and then to turn and hear the gospel. Message that there is someone that is willing to help you with that. And it is Jesus Christ. It will be Jesus who says, you cannot be obedient. But I will be obedient for you. You cannot transform your will and your emotion and your thought process process But through my spirit I will transform you. I will justify your existence and I will sanctify your existence. That is what what Jesus will say. He does the obeying. He gives you his spirit to transform you. And you can then pronounce with Paul, I am complete in him. Now this is just a single example, folks. This is a single example of dealing with lying of what it means to walk and be rooted and build your life upon the foundation of Jesus Christ. So that you can give thanksgiving. Are you beginning to get the sense of why you would be thankful now that we've come to the end? You can begin to see why thanksgiving is necessary for us in this. Just one area. There are so many other areas of our lives that we need to bring before our Lord Jesus Christ and ask, how do you complete me? I feel empty in the way that I look. I feel empty in my relationships. I feel empty in what I'm able to accomplish. In my job. I feel empty at the end of my days here and what my life meant. Can Jesus fill you? That's the question. Paul says yes Paul says yes. I pray that we as a Christian community would make sacrifices with one another in order to keep this conversation going and to discover in one another how Jesus Christ completes us in everything in our lives. Heavenly Father There is a wall that has been put up. There's a spell that has been cast where we cannot see the value of your Son, Jesus Christ. Lord, there would not be enough room in the world to list all of the blessings that He gives us, and yet we do not see it as blessings. We are like children that have received uh Homemade pajamas on Christmas when we really wanted a remote control airplane. We smile, but we're not really thankful. We're actually very, very Disappointed. It was supposed to be exciting, and now we're let down. Oh Lord, please change that in our hearts. Change us from the inside out. Allow us to see the glory and the incomparable exercise. Excellence of Jesus Christ. Amen.