Every Sabbath morning as Charles Spurgeon ascended the steps to his pulpit, he spoke quietly under his breath, saying, believe in the Holy Spirit. That is our only hope as we come to the Word of God. God's Spirit would take His Word, seal it to our minds and Will you please now stand together as I read our scriptures, Isaiah chapter 42 verses 5 to 9. Please turn in your Bibles if you would be pleased to do that. And as you do that, let me ask a quick question Suppose one of your children or grandchildren or youngster in Sunday school were to ask you the question, Daddy, what is God's name? Do you know the answer? What would you say Our text tells us the answer today. Isaiah 42. Please follow as I read in the American Standard Version, verses 5 to 9. Thus saith God Jehovah, he that created the heavens and stretched them forth, he that spread abroad the earth and that which cometh out of it. He that giveth breath unto the people upon it, and spirit to them that walk therein. I, Jehovah, have called thee in righteousness, and will hold thy hand, and will keep And give thee for a covenant of the people, for a light of the Gentiles, to open blind eyes, to bring out the prisoners from the dungeon, and them that sit in darkness out of the prison house. I am Jehovah. That is my name. And my glory will I not give to another Another neither my praise unto graven images. Behold the former things have come to pass, and new things do I declare before they spring forth. Love them. Pray with them. Gracious Father in heaven, we thank you for your We praise you that your word is profitable for teaching, for improve, for correction, for training in righteousness. And to that end, we commit to your study and your spirit take of your word and change our lives for your glory. We ask in Jesus' name. Oh man, please be seen. I'm sure most of you are familiar with the name Jehovah, but do you remember where you first learned that name? Probably not in your Bible. More likely you first heard it mentioned in him, because the name Jehovah is not found in any of the modern English translations of the A moment ago I read from the American Standard Version of 1901, where in verse eight he reads God says, I am Jehovah, that is my name. But all modern versions substitute the title the Lord, usually in all caps in place of Jehovah. Many translations don't even tell you why they're making that substitution, but the translators of the New American Standard Version In the preface, felt constrained to explain why they omitted the name of Jehovah, the name by which God They usually are very careful in in giving a literal rendering of the Hebrew text, but when they came to the name of God, they blinked. And in the early preface of the New American Standard, they explain why. Listen to their reason. I'm quoting now. To professing Christians, the name of God is most significant. The common name for deity is God, a translation of the Hebrew Elohim. The word for master is Lord, a rendering of the Hebrew Adonai. There is yet another name, which is God's special or proper name, the Hebrew Adonai Hebrew YHWH, usually rendered Yahweh or Jehovah. However, it is felt that this name conveys no religious overtones today It is strange, uncommon, and without sufficient religious and devotional background. No amount of scholarly debate can overcome this deficiency Hence, it was decided to avoid using this name in the translation. Uh the preface of the NIV has a shorter disclaimer if you're using that version. It says in regard to the divine name Yahweh, the translators have adopted the device used in most English versions, the verse of rendering that name as Lord in capital letters. The preface of the ESV, many of you use the ESV, at least the earliest versions of the ESV. Give a much longer explanation on this point. Here's part of what that Preface says God introduced himself to the people of Israel with a special personal name whose consonants are YH W H. The exact pronunciation of this is uncertain. When the vowels of the Hebrew Adonai, Lord, are placed with those consonants, this results in In the familiar word Jehovah. But as is common among English translations today, the ESV renders the personal name of God with the word Jehovah Word more. That's their reasoning. It's common. Most translations do it. And that's true. Almost all modern versions substitute the title For God's proper name. But do you see the problem with that? God specifically tells us his name is Jehovah. I am Jehovah, that is my name. But since all modern English versions substitute the Lord for his name, how will our children and grandchildren Learn and remember his name. The Lord Himself puts special stress on this matter in Exodus 3, verse 15, where he says to Moses Moses, say to the Israelites, Jehovah, the God of your fathers, has sent me to you. This is my name forever, and this is my memorial name. And from that point on, all through the Old Testament, this name, which God says he wants to be remembered by in every Every generation appears over six thousand eight hundred times. And yet all sixty eight hundred times are modern translations substitute to the Lord in place of Jehovah. You see the problem? If God says something once, we better take a Seriously. If he says it sixty eight hundred times, how can we ignore it? How can we fail to teach our children the name by which God God says he wants to be remembered in all generations. Problem is, when we take our children to the Bible to show them God's name, it's not there It's true there are a few verses in the King James Version where the translators include the name Jehovah. In Isaiah twelve, verse two, the King James reads, The Lord Jehovah is my strength and my song, and he has become my subject. At the end of Psalm 83, the psalmist praise that God would put his arm his enemies to open shame, that men may know that thou alone, whose name is Jesus The whole book, our most high, over all the year. But if you're using any version other than the King James or the older American Standard version. You'll look in vain through your Bible to find God's personal revealed name. I trust you realize that remembering God's name is important for all believers, not just for theologians. God's name is meaningful, and it's central to our understanding of who He is. It was a solemn moment when God first revealed His name To Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob I appeared as El Shaddai, God Almighty. But by my name Jehovah, I was not known to them. Wherefore, say to the children of Israel, I am Jehovah, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians And I will redeem you with an outstretched arm, and I will take you to me for a people, and I will be your God, and you shall know that I am Jehovah. God waited until that moment in history to reveal his personal name to his people so that forever after they would link the name Jehovah with his redemption. I am Jehovah who redeemed you. Ten Commandments begins with I am Jehovah your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the House of bondage. You shall have no other gods. And just as God revealed his own personal name when he came to redeem his people from Egypt, so he revealed his sons. name when he came in the New Testament to redeem his people from sin. Remember, he sent his angel Gabriel to announce the birth of his son, saying, You shall call his name Jesus For he shall save his people from their sins. The name Jesus is a combination of the name Jehovah and the verb to save. Jesus means And the reason why these revelations of God's name and his son's name is so important is because in scripture a name reveals a person's true character, his nature. God often in scripture gave a person A new name, a name that showed what he saw that person's nature to be. Remember, he gave to Abram the name Abraham He gave to Jacob the name Israel. He gave to Solomon the name Jedediah. And remember in the New Testament, Jesus gave to Simon the name Peter, a rock. Even today, when scientists discover a new element or invent a new substance, they give it a name That reflects or describes its nature, some unique property that it has. And so it is with the Lord. His name reveals His chief characteristic tells us what his true nature is. Now, our English word God has as its root The English word lord comes from a root referring to referring to sovereign power. And in fact, in most languages around the world, the word for God reflects either his goodness or his greatness. But the most basic essential characteristic of God is revealed in his personal name. The name Jehovah emphasizes something far more central to the essence of who God is. And God Himself explains what that is. Exodus three, beginning at verse thirteen. Will you please turn in your Bible there? Or wait a moment while you do. These are crucial Exodus three, and I'm beginning to read at verse thirteen And Moses said unto God, Behold, when I come unto the children of Israel, and shall say unto them, The God of your fathers hath sent me unto you, and they shall say to me, What is his name? What shall I say unto them? And God said unto Moses, I am that I am. And he said, Thus shalt thou say unto the Children of Israel, I am hath sent me unto you. God said, moreover, unto Moses, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, Israel, Jehovah, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, have sent me unto you. This is my name forever And this is my memorial name unto all generations. What does Jehovah mean? It means I am the I am. Draws attention not to God's goodness, or God's holiness, or God's power, or his sovereignty. but rather to his self-existence. That might seem a bit philosophical, but remember this is not a name that men came up with for God. It's the name that God Self revealed as his personal name. And then he went on in his word to call himself by that name. sixty eight hundred times. So I encourage you to exercise your bright brain a bit this morning. Think about what it means. That God is Self-existent. He am who he am. The name Jehovah reflects what is most basic, most unique about God. He stands alone above all else that exists. Everything else has been made. Everything else came into existence But not God. He always was, always is, always will be. He exists in himself. He am His being is absolutely necessary to the existence of all reality. Everything else derives its existence from him. Everything else comes into being. But he is. Moses reflects on this in Psalm 90, verse 1. He says, Lord, you have been our dwelling place in every generation. Before the mountains were born, or ever you gave birth to the earth and the world Even from everlasting to everlasting, you are, O God. You always are. You are eternal Eternally self-existent. And in this vital way, God is distinct from all creation. He is uncaused, unmade, self-existent. And that more than anything else is what makes God God. We can speak of angels being holy and good. We can speak of men having power and dominion. But we can't speak of anyone being self-existent except God. He alone is I am. And that's why the Jews got so upset when Jesus said in John 858, before Abraham was, I am He was clearly claiming deity, equating himself with Jehovah. And the Jews were furious at him. They were ready to stone him. They at least knew God's name name and understood some of the implications of that name. This morning I would like to point out from our text three implications of the name of Jehovah. The first is in verse five, Thus saith God Jehovah, he that created the heavens and stretched them out For. All through the Old Testament, Jehovah is identified as creator. And there's a very important reason for that. The biblical doctrine of creation Ex nihilo, out of nothing, requires that there be a self-existent God to do the creating. One who stands above the created universe. The Bible teaches us us that in eternity past God alone was self-existent, self-sufficient, self-contained, self-satisfied. Always was. And everything that is created is different from him. All creation is dependent. God is independent. Its existence from me. I am creates. All else is created. The second implication of the name Jehovah is brought out in verse 9. Behold, the former things are come to pass, and new things do I declare, before they spring forth, I tell you of them. Jehovah's not only Christian Creator, he's also revealer. God is saying, because I am, I am above history. I see the beginning and I see the end and everything in between. So I am able to tell you what the future holds. I can explain the purpose of history. I can tell you where it's going. I can reveal future events before they can And all through this book of Jehovah, uh Book of Isaiah, we find God foretelling future events and even even naming names of people not yet known He speaks of Cyrus, for instance, who would be born a hundred years later. And of course, he speaks of the Messiah, whose birth was still 700 years off. And in announcing these details far in advance, he's showing He is able to foretell the future. He is unlike men. He stands above time, above history He's the I am. The name Jehovah points to God's supernatural character. He's above nature, above cause and effect. He does Very few Seminaries today teach that. Even in theology courses and evangelical seminaries, there's a strange silence about the name of God and all that it means It's almost as if Christian scholars feel somehow you have to reconcile the Bible with the laws of nature, the laws of cause and effect fact. We feel it's it's unscientific to believe in a and a supernatural God. So God is viewed as one who's has to put up with all the exigencies of this universe as men do. But the whole import of the name Jehovah is that God is self-existent independent of his creation, above nature, above history. I am is completely different from all that he's made. He is the one who reveals truth, he's the one who explains history. And God taught us his name so that by remembering it, we might understand When God revealed his name, he was showing us that both creation and revelation are unique To him. And so it's not surprising that those two truths are hated by all other religions. Those two truths, creation and inspiration, that Constantly under attack by humanism, by modernism, by liberalism. Wherever you find a church calling apostate, you almost always find these truths of creation and inspiration The idea that we are completely dependent on God for existence, doctrine of creation, the idea that we're completely dependent on God for our knowledge, the doctrine of revelation. These two doctrines exalt Jehovah and clearly show He is I am. And they humble us and remind us that infinitely beneath God in our being and wisdom. We can turn Draws us to worship. But especially this morning, will you please notice from our text the implication that God Himself draws from this profound truth of his his self-existence. And verse 8. I am Jehovah, that is my name And my glory will I not give to another. Because Jehovah is the only true God, he is jealous He deserves to be recognized and acknowledged as creator of all, as the one who upholds the universe by And he has the right to summon the world, to worship him, to bless his name, to confess his majesty, to praise Excellent praise. Those things are his by right. It's what all creatures owe. Worship, honor, bless And he is determined to receive the glory that is his. He says here, he will not share his glory with anyone else. He will not give it to any created being He alone is self-existent. He alone is to be worshipped. And God hates it. When his creatures worship False God, when men give to someone else or something else the glory to his name. Really, that's the thrust of the first two of the Ten Commandments. God says, I am just Jehovah, you shall have no other God. And you shall not bow down to other God or serve them. For I, Jehovah, your God, am a jealous God. Saying that God is jealous means he has a holy intolerance for all other religions. It's not a popular idea today. The one thing people expect of all religions is tolerance of all religions. Every November The Interfaith Council of many cities sponsors an ecumenical Thanksgiving service, an invite Muslim groups, more The Hill Hell Society, the Unification Movement, Baha'i, Knights of Columbus, and all the churches in town to come together and take part in this one service. Christians would surely be tolerant and accepting of all fellow worshipers, no matter what they believe. expected that Christians should tolerate anything and anything that anyone happens to believe. People in their minds equate that with being Christians. But affects the same The true God is in power of all religions. He says, My glory I will not give to another. By nature, God is exclusive. He refuses to show Share his glory with anyone. His glory is unique because he is unique. We must not slight that glory. When we come to worship. We better not let our minds, our hearts wander, better not be daydreaming about other things during the service. We better not pay lip service to God and His Word and His commandments and then leave to live and please ourselves. That's idolatry And it robs God of the glory that belongs to His name. All false religions are offensive to God Jesus said, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. The gospel is inherently exclusive. God has a holy intolerance toward all other faith. He sent only one Savior into the world, and no one will be saved except And if your neighbor objects and says, Well, wait a minute, wait, wait, wait, there's there's some good in all religions. Surely God appreciates the morality and the reverence that's Found in all things. Surely it's better to worship some god than to be an atheist before you can know how to answer that objection. You need to understand what the name Jehovah means. He alone is, and he hates it when his glory is given to another. There is no God but Jehovah. The self-existent one who's unique and will not share his glory. God is intolerant of man's efforts to shape the truth for themselves. He declares the truth and demands that men bow before it And when men bow before any other religion that detracts from Jehovah's Glory, he will not endure that. He alone is to be worshiped. He alone is I am. The essence of true religion is to recognize who God is, that he alone is. And that there is There is no God beside him. We don't determine our own destiny. God's our creator. We don't decide what's true. God reveals truth to us. place is to worship. Again, that's the whole thrust of the first commandment. I am Jehovah. You shall have no other gods. It's by remembering his name, I am that I am, that we understand why God insists we have no other gods, and why he's jealous of us. When we fail to give him the glory that this is true. I love the answer to question 104 of the Westminster Logic Catechism. It asks the question, what is required in the first commandment? Listen to the answer. The duties required in the first commandment are the Knowing and acknowledging of God to be the only true God and our God, and to worship and glorify Him accordingly by thinking Meditating, remembering, highly esteeming, honoring, adoring, choosing, loving. desiring, fearing him, believing him, trusting, hoping, delighting, rejoicing in him, being zealous for him, calling upon him, giving all praise and thanks In yielding all obedience and submission to him with the whole man, being careful in all things to please him, and sorrowful when in anything he is offended. And walking humbly with him. Be worth memorizing that. How can we begin to keep all these duties? It begins with our knowing, with our thinking about God in the right way. With our meditating on him and remembering him. Nothing does more to rob God of his glory than our forgetting him, not thinking about him as often as we should or as highly as we should And some people say, well, I live a pretty good life, I just don't think much about God. You don't realize that's that's the very essence of sin, not thinking about God God, not giving him the glory he deserved. He's the creator of all, the first cause and last end of all that exists. He is the purpose for which everything was made. How did you come to exist God made you. And why are you here? To bring glory to Him. He is your first cause. He is your last end. What's this universe all about. It came from him. He is Jehovah. I am. And the failure to think about him, to remember him, to Meditate on him, to see him in all the events of history, to recognize him in his creation is the very essence of sin. Not having him As your God. Now thinking about him as God is a grievous crime. Psalm 9, verse 17 says: the wicked will be turned back to hell, even all the nations That forget God. That's all it takes. God sends people to hell because they forget. Psalm fifty, verse Verse 22. God says, Consider this, you who forget God, lest I tear you in pieces, and there be none to deliver. God will tear in pieces Jesus, those who fail to consider him, who leave him out of their plans. Jesus said, The foremost commandment is this you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your mind, and with all your strength. So apathy over Jehovah is the height of your reverence. I see you I trust you see then that it's important for us to read our Bible daily, to rise up early and think about God and set our minds to remember Him all the day. You can see the importance of Sabbath worship of of renewing your vows to your Creator. He's worthy to receive your praise, to receive from you the glory to his name. Indeed he can So let me encourage you in your Bible reading, when you come across the word Lord in all Capital Less Letters mentally translated to Jehovah. God intended for us to remember his name. doing that for 15 years. It's become a habit now to me, second nature. I've memorized many verses that way. Jehovah is a strong Strength and shield. To Jehovah the Lord belong escapes from death. Jehovah gives grace and glory. Psalm 148 calls on all men. To praise the name of Jehovah, for his name alone is exalted. It honors God when we remember his personal name. Indeed, that's why he revealed it to us. Now let me meddle a bit. Have you ever yawned in church? Remember the preacher can see. But how can you be Hallhamab Jehovah? When you come to understand he Jehovah is. And that he's jealous for his glory. Well, do your best to get a good night's sleep Saturday night. Rise early on the Sabbath. Confess your sins and prepare your heart for worshiping a good. Give him that glory that is his due. Have you ever gone for a few hours without thinking about God? It's true there are a lot of other things to think about. We have jobs to do, we have homes to care for, cars to fix, meals to prepare, homework to do movies to see, games to play. Hard hard to think about God all the time, is it? Besides, doesn't God want you to be happy? I mean, he offers you a bunch A lot of church churches will will will teach you that God wants you to to feel good. That's what's preached from the pulpit often, week after week, things to make you feel good But is that what's important, how we feel? Is that why we come to church? Is that what God cares about? What God cares about most is his own glory. My glory I will not give to another. And that's what he wants us to care about most. Whatever you do in word or deed, you are to the glory of God. His glory is far more important. And how we feel. Why do we come to church? Let us adore and give him right all glory, power, wisdom, and light. All honor and blessing with angels above. Thanks never ceasing for infinite power. Finally, let me close By pointing out two encouraging notes in the midst of the solemnity of our text. First notice when God says, I am Jehovah, my glory, I will not give to another That should encourage us in our prayers when we're going through difficult or painful times, remembering that sometimes God brings us us to the place where we no longer have any hope in any earthly resource. For this very reason, He wants the glory to go to him Not to the doctor, not to the medicine, the counselor, or any earthly instrument that we might tend to honor as the means for the help we need, the healing we need the comfort we need, the income we need, the broken relationships we need restored. Like those in Psalm 107 who were in desperate straits, God wants all And then a second bright spot here when God says, Behold The former things have come to pass, and new things do I declare before they spring forth I tell you of them. He's assuring us that he is indeed the God of his But he knows the end from the beginning. He knows what he's doing in our lives. He has a purpose and he's carrying it out. Sometimes he wonder why this struggle, why this pain? Jehovah is working, his purpose is out for his glory. That's why He introduced us to his servant back in the first four verses of this chapter. Remind us that he is bringing forth justice on the earth, that he is saving from every Tribe and nation, sinners. He sent a sin to save those who have broken the first commandment, to save those who have forgotten their God and have been loving for themselves He sent his son to pardon their guilt and put his law in their hearts that they might not forget him any longer. So if you You have been leading God out of your plans. You've lost sight of his promises. If you let your heart run after idols, learn from this text, God is jealous jealous for your affection, he wants you to delight in him, to delight in his glory above all else. For that very purpose he has set before you his name. I am who I am. Under his name. Solomon wrote in Proverbs 1810, the name Jehovah is a strong tower. The righteous runs into it in the seat, remembering who God is Remembering his I am who I am. May give you comfort, peace, assurance, hope for life. As will his son's name, Jesus. He's a glorious name, wonderful name, a name that charms our fears, that bids our sorrow cease. sinners ears, it's light, health, peace. Take the name of Jesus with you. Remember it. Delight and draw strength from reading. God says, I am Jehovah, that's my name. May we help us glory in his name.