Me in Isaiah chapter fifty two, the first two verses Please follow along as I read the first twelve verses of Isaiah fifty-two. Our meditation will be on verses one and two. Awake, awake, put on your strength, O Zion. Put on your beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city. The uncircumcised and the unclean shall no longer come to you. Shake yourself from the dust. Arise, sit down, O Jerusalem, loose yourself from the bonds of your neck, O captive daughter of Zion For thus says the Lord, you have sold yourselves for nothing, and you shall be redeemed without money. For thus says the Lord God, My people went down at first into Egypt to dwell there, then the Assyrian oppressed them without cause. Now therefore, what have I here, says the Lord, that my people are taken away for nothing Those who rule over them make them wail, says the Lord, and my name is blasphemed continually every day. Therefore my people shall know my name. Therefore they shall know in that day that I am He who speaks. Behold, it is I. How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, who proclaims peace, who brings glad tidings of good things. Who proclaims salvation? Who says to Zion, Your God reigns. Your watchmen shall lift up their voices. With their voices they shall sing together For they shall see eye to eye when the Lord brings back Zion, break forth into joy, sing together You waste places of Jerusalem. But the Lord has comforted his people. He has redeemed Jerusalem. The Lord has made bare his holy arm in the sight of all the nations And all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God. Depart. Depart. Go out from there. Touch no unclean thing. Go out from the midst of her. Be clean You who bear the vessels of the Lord, for you shall not go out with haste, nor go by flight, for the Lord will go before you, and the God of Israel will be your rear guard. Pray with me. Oh Lord, this is your word. And you've promised it will not fail. We ask that you would cause your word to work in us this hour. Your very good purposes of calling sinners to repentance. Refreshing the souls of your saints and bringing honor to your holy name by the gracious working of your Spirit. Through Jesus Christ our Lord, we pray. Amen. Alice came to a fork in the road and saw a Cheshire cat in a tree. Which road do I take? she asked. Where are you going? asked the cat. I don't know, said Alice. Then, said the cat, it doesn't matter. Have you ever considered how important it is to know where you are going? Our Lord Jesus, in one of his many confrontations with the Pharisees, rebuked them in John 8:14, saying, I know where I came from and I know where I'm going, but you don't. And many more times in the Gospels, especially in John, Jesus spoke about the place where he was going. He said to the Pharisees, where I am going, you cannot come. To his disciples, he said, I am going to him who sent me. And again, I am going to prepare a place for you. Jesus knew where he was going. He was aware of his destination. What about you? Do you know where you're going? Do you know what your destination is? And is it consciously your destination? We Christians are called pilgrims. We're on pilgrimage. We've turned our backs on this world and we've set out for Where? Where are we going? What's our destination? Do you know what your goal is? The Apostle Paul knew what his goal was in Philippians 3. 13 he wrote, Brethren, one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind, and reaching forward to what lies ahead. I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Paul had his eyes fixed on his goal. The goal of his life, which indeed is the goal of the life of every true Christian, and that is the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. But exactly what is that upward call? What is our destination as Christians The writer of Hebrews tells us in chapter 11 that believers are seeking a city, a certain city which has foundations whose builder and maker is God. And in chapter 12 of Hebrews, he identifies that city as Mount Zion, the city of the living God, heavenly Jerusalem. John Bunyan calls it the celestial city, the heavenly city. And if you're a Christian, that is where you're going. And what a blessing it is for us to read in Scripture what the Lord Himself says about that place. It's a place of indescribable pleasures and delights. Paul wrote in 1 Corinthians 2, Eye has not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man the things which God has prepared for them that love him. What a delightful place. is our heavenly destination. And to keep that destination in view, the Lord gives us many pictures of that place in Scripture. Word pictures. Intended to whet our appetites and revive our spirits and spur us on toward that goal. In a moment we'll look at one such word picture in Isaiah. And I hope by the end of our study this morning, your desire for that destination will be renewed. Remember in Pilgrim's Progress when Christian and Hopeful came to the delectable mountains, the shepherds took them up to a very high mountain and showed them through a telescope their destination. The celestial city. And the very sight of that place caused them to go on their way, rejoicing with renewed purpose and hope. It's true of all of us that the more our eyes are fixed on that city, the more eagerly we will rise every morning to press on in our pilgrimage. and the more diligently will run with perseverance the race set before us, even rejoicing in our trials, knowing that they are but light and momentary, compared to the eternal weight of glory awaiting us. The New Testament contains some delightful descriptions of that place, especially in the book of Revelation. And occasionally in the Old Testament, we see glimpses of the glory of that place. Like here in our text, Isaiah 52, verses 1 and 2. Please give attention, if you can, to these words. Notice the Lord introduces them, saying, awake, awake. If anyone here is drowsy, if your mind is drowsy, the Lord says, wake up. Pay attention. Now hear this. And don't miss the noun of address. The Lord is speaking here to Zion, to Jerusalem. He uses both terms in verse 1, and both terms again in verse 2. Zion and Jerusalem are Bible terms for the church. And not just in the Old Testament. We read in Hebrews 12, 22, you have come to Mount Zion. To the city of the living God, to heavenly Jerusalem, and to myriads of angels, to the general assembly and church of the firstborn enrolled in heaven. The writer identifies Zion and Jerusalem with a church. And then in Revelation twenty one, nine, which was read earlier, the angel said to John, Come, and I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb. Now we know the bride, the wife of the Lamb, is the church. When the angel said, I will show you the bride, we read in the next verse, and he carried me away to a high mountain. And showed me the holy city, Jerusalem. So when Scripture speaks of Jerusalem the holy city, in both Old Testament and New, it primarily has in view the church. As Christians, we are heirs of all the precious Bible promises given to Zion. And so our text Today, along with many others, is meant to lift our eyes to our goal, to our destination, heavenly, Jerusalem. The Lord is reminding us here who we are, where we're headed, and what we will be. And how important it is to remember where we're going, what our destination is. For that's the only way that we'll be able to persevere. In days of struggle, weariness, and doubt that make us wonder if it's all worthless, worth it. It will help us see beyond our momentary light afflictions to our eternal home. A while back Malin and I purchased a wooded acre out in the country east of Norman, Oklahoma And then the weeks that followed, we drove out by that plot and often watched as uh bulldozers and backhoes knocked down trees and scarred the earth. It seemed like The crew was out to make the place ugly, with hunks of wood and concrete and metal and dirt everywhere. To us it looked like a mess. But to the construction workers, they were able to see beyond the mess to the beautiful house they had in mind to build. They saw the goal, the finished product, the delightful home that Marilyn and I would eventually move into. And Christians are like those construction workers. We see the mess the world is in. But by faith, we're also able to see where we are headed. Now, I need to be careful in what I'm about to say I am speaking strictly secondhand. Have you ever seen a woman giving herself a beauty treatment I can only go by what I've seen in the movies or on TVS, showing a woman smearing mud and mustard and yogurt and mayonnaise and lemon juice on her face and hair. Sometimes a woman looks terrible in the process of trying to make herself look beautiful But that's okay. She has that certain end in view. And the church, at times, is like a woman during her beauty treatment. Unattractive, everything in disarray. But she has a certain end in view. Our Savior's death on Calvary was an ugly thing to behold. Men hid their faces from him, Isaiah says. But Jesus had that certain end in view. His purpose in going to the cross, Paul says in Ephesians 5. 26, was to make his bride beautiful and holy. Isaiah 52, 1 and 2 is an Old Testament announcement of the same truth. The Lord tells us here what his intentions are for Zion, for the church. He says, put on your strength. He intends for his church to be strong. He says, put on your beautiful garments. He intends for his church to be attractive. He says, shake yourself from the dust. He intends for his church to be clean. He says, sit down, literally sit enthroned. He intends for his church to have dominion. He says, loose yourself from the bonds of your neck. He intends for his church to be free. And that the heart of all these intentions the Lord has for his church, is another quality, the quality that gives the church its strength, that is the church's beauty, that makes the church to reign, that embraces her cleanness and liberty. And we see that quality in the name which the Lord gives to his church in the middle of verse 1. He calls her the holy city. That's the same name by which he calls her in Revelation 21, verse 2. And again in Revelation 21, verse 10. The holy city. The church, above all, is holy. It's the church's holiness that is her beauty and her strength and her liberty At the end of verse 1, he adds, the uncircumcised and unclean will no longer come into you. And John quotes those words in his description of the Holy City in Revelation 21, verse 27. It's a picture of a society with no criminals, no thieves, no idolaters, no murderers, no corrupt politicians. How would you like to live in a place like that? That's what the Lord Jesus came to bring about, to redeem us from every lawless deed and purify for himself a people for his own possession. Zealous for good works. Titus 2. 14. Jesus came to make us holy. Leviticus 11 44, 1 Peter 1. 16, both say, You shall be holy. That is our goal. That is our destination. That's the finished product the Lord has in view for his church. Holiness, a love for him that shows itself in pure and upright living. Think about it When the Lord is done with us, we will be fit for His holy presence. Paul wrote in Ephesians 5. Christ gave himself for the church that he might sanctify her and cleanse her, so that when the wedding day arrives, he may present to himself the church in all her glory having no spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she should be holy and blameless. Jesus will look at you and me And will rejoice in our cleanness, our purity, for we will have put on beautiful garments We will have been loosed from the chains around our neck, the chains of sin, and we will walk at liberty We see here the glory of perfect strength, perfect beauty, and perfect freedom, all summed up in the term holiness. All through this section of Isaiah, the Lord is teaching us about his servant, whom he would send. Notice verse 13 of Isaiah 52. Behold, my servant will prosper. He's talking about his son, the Lord Jesus. He's the one who would come and make his people holy. He came with a perfect plan, a perfect blueprint for his church. And our text gives us a vision of his goal for the church, much like the vision which John had of the Holy City coming down out of heaven to be the bride of the Lamb. prepared and beautifully dressed for her husband. So here's my question. Have you caught sight of what Jesus intends for you? As it sunk in, he came to make you holy, to save you from your sins so that you might stand blameless in the presence of the holy God. Has it sunk in? That's his goal for you. That's his purpose for you. To cleanse you from your sins. And are you praying daily for him to do that? What do you pray for when you pray? Imagine if you're sick, you pray for healing. If you need work, you pray for a job You pray for success in your labors as an employee or a student or an athlete. You pray, if you're married, for a satisfying marriage relationship. What else do you pray for? Jesus can do all those things that you want. But the primary reason Jesus came to earth was to make his bride pure. Do you pray regularly for that? That Jesus will take away your sins and make you holy. Do you ask them to take away your sinful habits? Do you pray, as we sang earlier, take away the love of sinning? He promises to do that for those who call on him, to make them righteous as he is righteous. That's his goal for you. That's why he came and died. So that his church might be strong and beautiful and holy. But especially here in verses 1 and 2, notice not only what the Lord intends to do for his church. But also what he wants you and me to do toward that same goal. In other words, his intention for us should also consciously be our intention for ourselves. The Lord says here, awake! Awake, here are things that you must do. And actually these verses are the Lord's response to the church's prayer in the previous chapter, chapter 51, verse 9. There is people cry out, arm of the Lord, awake, awake, put on strength and a strength. Lord, we're weak. We're failing, we're dirty, we're unattractive, we keep falling captive to sin. Arm of the Lord, awake and help us. But here the Lord turns around and says to us, You awake. We pray, Lord, put on your strength. He says to us, you put on strength. You are weak. You are dirty. Clothe yourself with strength. You are unattractive. Put on your beautiful garments. Shake yourself from the dust. Yes, you are trapped in your sins. Loose yourself. From the bonds of your neck. It's true, salvation is of the Lord. He sovereignly brings us salvation, and yet at the same time, he gives us the privilege Of working with him to achieve his purposes. He's urging us here to pursue his goal for us. You clothe yourself with strength You put on your beautiful garments. You shake off the dust of your sinful habits. You loose yourself from the chains about your neck In other words, when the Lord renews his people, he renews them to pursue holiness. When Jesus brings a sinner to repentance and faith, that's That's only the start of a long process of putting on strength, dressing oneself in garments of righteousness, shaking off the dust. And freeing oneself from the chains of a sinful lifestyle. Becoming a Christian is not a matter of getting your religious questions answered It's rather starting down a path toward a destination that will take a lifetime of toil to reach. It's a process of following the Lord Jesus, being conformed to his likeness. He said, My sheep hear my voice and they follow me. They follow him one step after another down the pathway for a lifetime. They follow me, he said. They imitate me. They watch where I'm going and keep to that same path of holiness. Becoming a Christian. It's not a matter of setting what settling what your eternal destiny will be. Becoming a Christian means setting yourself to pursue holiness. And that is a lifelong process. Remember when the Jews returned from exile in Babylon, which actually is the context of these verses in Isaiah The temple and all Jerusalem was in great disrepair. In fact, the whole promised land needed to be subdued all over again, and God's people had to struggle for many years In that work, and they grew weary. The Lord had to send his prophets Haggai and Zechariah to remind them, You have grown lazy. Get up, get busy. This is no time to quit And maybe there are some here today who've heard the gospel call, who've set out to obey that call, you've been excited about the gospel, the truths of sovereign grace. But after many years of struggling, when you see that your progress toward holiness is painfully slow, when you realize there's no easy answer You grow weary and slack off. There is so far yet to go in becoming holy, isn't there, Christian One of my favorite lines in Pilgrim's Progress is: when Christian and Hopeful have been on pilgrimage for a long time and have gone through many trials, they finally meet up with some shepherds and they ask the shepherds, How far is it? To the celestial city. And the shepherds answer, too far for any but those who will get there. Holiness is a long process. The goal is still far off for all of us, and yet it is our destination, the holy city. The writer of Hebrews draws these themes together in chapter 12. He urges us to pursue holiness, to strengthen the hands that are weak. and the needs that are feeble to exercise holiness. You know when you're exercising, you may be huffing and puffing and feeling pale For the moment, you may actually look weaker than those who are standing around not exercising. But by your exercise, you are putting on strength And that is an earthly picture of a spiritual reality. You who have been trying hard to live a holy life, as weak as you may feel, will in the end be able to stand when others fall. The Lord knows how prone we are to grow weary and give up. So his word is filled with promises, encouraging us to keep on. Your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Let us not lose heart, for in due season we shall reap if we do not faint. And remember again all the promises that the risen Christ gave to his church in Revelation chapter two and chapter three To him who overcomes, I will give a crown of life. To him who overcomes, I will give the right to sit with me on my throne. To him who overcomes, I will give to eat from the tree of life. Him who overcomes I will make to be a pillar in the temple of God. He who overcomes will be dressed in white. He's talking about overcoming the temptations and pressures of this world that would turn us aside from the way of holiness, overcoming the obstacles that we face to clothing ourselves with righteousness And growing more Christ-like. Those who overcome have all these glorious promises to look forward to. In 1 John 3:3 John wrote, He who has this hope within him purifies himself just as he is pure. Those whose eyes are on the prize, whose heart is fixed on the hope of glory will purify himself. He'll walk in holiness and not grow weary of the battle. Echoing in his ears all the day will be these words awake, awake, clothe yourself with strength. Put on your beautiful garments, shake off your dust, free yourself from your chains. What about a Christian? Have you grown weary of the long process? Of subduing their sinful habit. You've been struggling for years to overcome certain temptations Praying that God by His grace would rid your life of those besetting sins that you're so ashamed of, yet you still find yourself falling back into them again and again. You've read books, you've gone to conferences, you've tried every remedy ever suggested. You've searched high and low for some secret that would give you victory over that sin, but you've never found it. And at this point After years of trying, you're about to give up. Ladies, at what point do you give up trying to get your hair to look nice? At what point do you say, my hair will never shape up? I can't do anything with it. Why bother with hairspray? It's hopeless. I quit. Do you ever really give up? Or men, at what point do you give up trying to get your body in shape? You've been working out month after month, maybe year after year. Still can't get that flab flab to turn into muscle. And you say, it's hopeless. I'll never lose weight. I quit. Do you ever really give up? Some of you ladies can look back to your wedding day. Some still have that day to look forward to. But for the moment, picture yourself the morning of your wedding day trying to get your hair to look just right. But your hair won't cooperate. Would you give up and say, oh well, it's hopeless? No, on your wedding day Knowing you must be beautiful, you would do all you can. And with that end in view, you'd give it another shot. Or men, if there's a big day ahead, you're going to be playing in an important ball game, you'll try one more time to get in shape, as hopeless as it seems. Well, I'm here to tell you there is a big day ahead. One day soon you will mount up and ride out in the army of the Lord Jesus and go forth with him, the true and faithful. to do battle against his enemies. It's with that end in view that your Lord calls you today to renew your effort at holiness. He reminds you that the day that is coming is a day of reckoning. And in that day, Scripture says, without holiness, no one will see the Lord. With that day in view, he urges you once more to get in shape. The Church of Jesus Christ is made up of beauties and of champions. And one day the church will have ultimate beauty and ultimate strength, for our Savior Himself is almighty in strength and altogether lovely. And by his finished work, he has assured for us our glorious destination: strength, beauty, purity, and freedom. In a word, holiness. Let me end with an illustration. How many years have you been driving a car? Maybe some of you have to get out your calculator and figure that out. But however long it's been Don't you still find yourself from time to time in the wrong lane? You forgot you needed to get gas on the way to work, and now you're in the left lane and you need to turn right. Or worse yet, you zip by your exit. You remembered too late where you were going. How'd that happen? Well, it happened because you let your mind wander, or you let yourself be distracted. You forgot where you were going, and you ended up in the wrong place. And then all you could do is find a place to turn around and get back to the right road, the sorrowful path of repentance. Christians, this is your life. All day, every day, you face choices. Which road do I take You won't see a cat, but his question will still be there. Where are you going? And it does matter. If you know where you're going and remember where you're going, if your conscious destination is the holy city Then you will choose the way of holiness, the way your master went before you. May these words help you remember where you're going. Awake, awake. Put on your strength, O Zion. Put on your beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city. Pray with me.