Let us now turn to Colossians chapter one. We'll look at verses fifteen through twenty together this evening. Please follow along with me as I read verses fifteen through twenty. I'm actually going to start in verse 13. He has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of His love, in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. For by him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible. whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers. All things were created through him and for him, and he is before all things, and in him all things consist And he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he may have the preeminence. For it pleased the Father that in him all the fullness should dwell, and by him to reconcile all things to himself by him, whether things on earth or things in heaven, having made peace through the blood of his cross. Please pray with me. Lord Christ, we are dependent on you to bring this word home. We pray that you would do so. Pray that we would be changed. That we would grow in our sense of all of who you are, and that we In turn, we would humble ourselves and serve you more diligently. In the name of Christ. Amen. In Mark chapter 8, 27 through 29, it says this. Now Jesus and his disciples went out to the towns of Caesarea Philippi. And on the road he asked his disciples, saying to them, Who do men say that I am? So they answered, John the Baptist, but some say Elijah, and others one of the prophets He said to them, but who do you say that I am? Peter answered and said to him, You are the Christ That was a significant moment for the disciples. We know at this place and mark, which is dead center, really. It was a moment and a turning point as Christ would then reveal more and more what it means for him to be the Christ. If he were to have asked you the question, who am I, how would you have answered? Who is Jesus? What are all of the different answers that we hear within our world today? There are a lot of different answers. It's just an important question especially for the Colossians. Now last week we saw that we are to walk worthy of this Christ, of Jesus. And Paul's point now, as we've moved past the Thanksgiving portion and his prayer for this church plant, is to teach them who Jesus is. It goes perfectly in line with the overarching purposes of this letter. The overarching purposes is to see that Jesus is the Lord. The overarching purposes for the people to whom this letter is written is that they would obey the Lord, that they would walk worthy of him. And so, in line with that, we would need to know who this Lord is. Now, Paul basically communicates to us this: Jesus is Lord of creation and new creation. And he does that in a form of poetry here in 15 through 20. We'll focus on 15 through 18, and we'll get into 19 in the following two weeks. And so Jesus is Lord of creation and new creation. That's who Jesus is, and that's how I hope you would answer after this sermon. So let's begin first by looking at Jesus as the Lord of creation. Begins here in verse 15. These verses are jammed-packed with statements about Jesus. And about who he is. It would take volumes to unfold everything that Paul has said here. So we'll seek to stay in line with his purposes for saying these things. The very first thing he brings about who Jesus is as Lord of creation is that Jesus is the image of the invisible God. You see that there in verse 15? He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn overall creation. And then he'll continue and we'll look at the rest in a moment. But the first is that he's the image of the invisible God. In the history of the church, this phrase has been read quite philosophically, and you can get lost in philosophical conversation over this phrase. However, this is not a letter of philosophy. It's written, if you were to turn to chapters three and four, to regular townsfolk and families like ourselves, the kind of people that fold their own laundry. So this isn't meant to be philosophical, although because of the subject matter, it can be difficult. There are many mysteries that are contained within this paragraph. I can't help but to think of Psalm 8 when I read it. When reading that Jesus is the image of the invisible God, Psalm 8 springs to my attention. Psalm 8 speaks of how God gave dominion to those he made in his image. Humans are weak compared to galaxies and the sun, but God will glorify Himself and His name through these weak humans. The writer of Hebrews says that Psalm 8 is really about Jesus the Christ. Jesus was perceived as weak, born in a manger. Born under the law, carpenter with a normal trade, and yet God worked through Jesus to bring the whole world to glorify God. Just as in Genesis Man was made in the image of the invisible God and given dominion, but fell, so too Jesus, as the new Adam, not fallen, was appointed to reclaim the garden of this world. That's the message of Psalm eight. That's what it means to be in the image of the invisible God, particularly in this context, which is dealing with rule and reign and power and authority. would walk worthy of your Lord, your Adonai, or in the Greek the Kurios. That's the focus. It's not less than that, but it's actually more. It means more than just rule and power. When we see this idea developed throughout the scriptures in John chapter 1, verse 14. Mimicking uh a great deal the same structure as this paragraph, it says, And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. There is a special way in which Christ is revealing the glory of the Father. And it should call to mind, because of John 1. 14, when it says, And the word became flesh and dwelt or tabernacled among us It should remind you of all the ways that God revealed his glory throughout the scriptures, particularly through the tabernacle. And as we go through redemptive history, we see that the tabernacle was built and The glory of God descended upon the tabernacle, and his residence was there that people would be able to commune with him in his glory through a representative high priest. We know that the tabernacle turns into the temple. We know that the temple is destroyed. And that Jesus Christ is the tabernacle of God, the one who reveals the glory of God, as Mount Sinai did, and then the tabernacle. And then the temple. Jesus Christ is the eff efflugence of the glory of God. But in this context about lordship and rule, Paul is not saying less than rule and power, but he Is saying more. And this is just a hint of it. It will come out more fully here as we continue in these verses. It also says: besides the fact that he is the image of the invisible God, that he is the firstborn over all of creation. We have to be very careful here how we we understand the word firstborn. This is another lesson in reading the Bible in context. One journal writer says that the Watchtower Society, Jehovah's Witness, asserts from this passage that our Lord Jesus was the first created being. Because it says firstborn, and if you're born, you're created, then Jesus is created, or that the eternal Son of God is created. the firstborn of all creation. Much emphasis is placed by the witnesses on the term firstborn. If you were to ever have a conversation with them, I'm sure this passage would come up. However, they distort the biblical usage of the term and twist the meaning to support their position. It's actually not very complicated. We don't need I would just ask that you turn to Psalm 89. You see, all we have to do is look at how the words are used within the context of the scriptures. And when we turn to Psalm 89, verse 27, this is what it reads. Also I will make him my firstborn. the highest of the kings of the earth. My mercy I will keep for him forever, and my covenant shall stand firm with him. His seed also I will make to endure forever, and his throne as the days of heaven And this fits the context perfectly dealing with rulership, being the king of kings And thus the point here is not what the Jehovah's Witnesses are saying, but rather that Jesus is pronounced as the appointed ruler of rulers and as the king of kings, just as we read in our earlier statement of Psalm 2. It's a repetition of that. So so far, so good in answer to the question: who is the Christ? He is The image of the invisible God, and He is the firstborn over all creation. The answer so far aligned with the teachings that we have especially received within the Psalms. However, as we've already seen a hint, the teaching deepens now, and we will see that the Christ Is the Son of God, Eternal, who has become man by taking to himself a true body and a reasonable soul Being conceived with the power of the Holy Ghost in the womb of the Virgin Mary and born of her, yet without sin. It's these two distinct natures, but one person that are brought out in the remaining phrases. Have you ever been walking on a beach and you're not really sure as you walk out into the water how the topography of the beach is a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit more. And you expect it to gradually go out, and you're just going to ease yourself in, and then there's a drop-off, and it goes over your head or right up to your shoulders. That's what happens here in this passage There's a drop-off as we've just been speaking about him as the Messiah, about as the new Adam, the image of the invisible God, appointed as the Messiah, the firstborn of creation. Fulfillment of Psalm 89. Same thing was said of David in Psalm 89. We know, of course, in a special way of Christ. But now, as we're just walking and expecting to gradually wade our way in. It drops, and things get very deep in verse 16 and 17. For by him all things were created. That are in heaven or that are on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created through him and for him And he is before all things, and in him all things consist, or he sustains them all. It just got real deep. and profound. We in fact in these verses move back before the incarnation to before creation. And the wording is quite particular. All things were created is in the passive voice, and as such, as we've learned in other sermons, we expect, therefore, the activity of the Father initiating creation. And we see the relationship of the only begotten Son to the Father, as the eternal Son is the creative agent of the Father's decree. Very metaphysical, and you can't escape the way that feels philosophical, but let's just escape it for a moment. Here's what the Father says: let there be oceans. The eternal sun, oceans. And there they are. This is our Christ. Let there be the Swiss Alps, the Father says, and the Eternal Son says, and here are the Wisselps, the creative agent of God's eternal decrees. He mentions here in this passage all of heaven in and on earth. By him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth. And I just chose two, the oceans and the Alps. This is who we're talking about. This is your But the focus, did you notice in the passage, although I brought up the oceans because of the immensity of them and the power that must be within a person to create such a thing. And I mentioned the Alps because of the majesty of them, and thus the person making them must be even more majestic. Psalm 19 says that the creation declares the glory of God, certainly it does of our Christ, as we learn about who He is. But you know it doesn't go on in detail like that. It doesn't bring out aspects of the creation. It just gives a general summary of everything in heaven and everything on earth. Did you notice what he takes the time to list? He says, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, he took the time in this short and succinct and concise paragraph to mention these things To bring us back to his emphasis of what's going on here. The point isn't really surprising. The eternal Son, who became man, created all other lords and kings. Here's the implication. That whether you're Caesar or Satan, Jesus the Christ is your Lord. And you shall submit to him, either willingly or through pacification. In fact, Jesus, the eternal Son of God, sustains those kings. Satan lives and moves and has his being in the Christ. Imagine what that would have done to these people who were under Caesar. Imagine what it should do to us when there are powerful people in our lives that seem to want our loyalty. Or powerful objects in our lives that act as kinds of talismans that promise sustenance, like money. It's in Christ that we live and move. All things were created by Him, and they were created for His Glory. That's the first part. He's the Lord of creation. He's the image of the invisible God. He's the firstborn over all creation. He is the creator and sustainer of all things. He is before all things. He is the eternal Son of God. Jesus, the Christ, is the Lord of creation. But that's the first truth. The second is that Jesus is the Lord of the new creation. Jesus Christ, as you can see here in verse 18, this is most surprising. This should really knock you on your butt, but you're already sitting. And he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he may have the preeminence. Christ is the head of the church. This letter was meant to be shared not only with the Colossians, but with other local churches in the area, Laodicea. It's meant to be passed down to us to show that Jesus Christ is our head. And this is really quite astonishing. The Lord who spoke that we just spoke of as the creator and stander of the cosmos and ruler of all powers, whether human or angelic or demonic, is our ruler. And our head. He is your head. In one sense, that's not really a surprise, is it? In the sense of if Christ rules over those kinds of kings and lords, then of course he rules over us who live in the suburbs. But that's not exactly what I mean. The word head means rulership. But doesn't it also in this pastoral letter to this congregation, doesn't it also in this context denote a covenant obligation that Jesus has to his people? Isn't that part of the point? In other words, the supremacy of Christ as creator speaks to the sufficiency of Christ for all of the church The church has all that they would ever need. That's what's so surprising that he would move from creator to new creation, the church. And that's why I believe it's actually in that order. So that they would realize if they doubted his sufficiency and they were turning to something else, that they would remember who he is. He's the Lord. The Lord of creation. If you were truly to acknowledge the reality of what is said in the first point of this sermon, you would never be able to doubt the second point, which is that He is the sufficient head of the church. In other words, the supremacy of Christ as creator speaks to the sufficiency of Christ for all the church And anything we could ever need. This is very important for us to realize that He is the head of the new creation. Can you imagine if anyone else in all of creation were given the right and appointed as head of the new creation? Let me remind you of what it means to be a part of the church. Under deep distress. Those who will literally cut themselves because they are under so much distress. Those who are involved in pornography, those who are rape victims, those who have been abused, those who have aborted babies, sinners, and those who have been sinned against. Are those who have been gathered to be perfected? Who should we make their head? Who could actually be sex successful over such a group of people who could provide their every need and be their refuge and protecting protection protection? Who is big enough to handle all these people in all of this crisis God gave Jethro to Moses to help those people. But Moses, in the end, struck the rock in anger and wasn't able to enter in with the people. God gave wisdom to Solomon, but through many wives, Solomon was led astray and he worshipped other gods. This is what happens. We need Christ. The eternal Son of God, creator and sustainer of the cosmos, to also be the head of the church. That's why I believe that they're in this order, in this Christ hymn or poem So that you would understand that through who he is as your creator, that he is also sufficient for you as his church. That you would not need to turn to any other. Christ as creator and head really go together. They're intertwined A three, or in this case, a two-fold cord cannot be quickly broken. Don't forget that the eternal Son of God, by the Spirit, hovered over the face of the chaos in the first creation. Creation and made habitable space. We read of this in Genesis 1. Now we read in this passage that the eternal Son of God became man And by the Spirit hovers over the face of moral chaos and makes a second creation, beginning with the church This is the point that Paul makes by saying that Christ is the firstborn from the dead. Firstborn here, as you can see, and he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he may have the preeminence. Firstborn is a repetition from verse 15. He's uh playing here, or uh, that he would have uh uh idea of Psalm sixteen. in his mind here in Peter's sermon. That's often the case within Psalms within Paul's writings. We know he used Psalm 16 in Acts. That as the resurrected one who did not see corruption, Jesus is declared to be the Christ and thus appointed as ruler of this new creation. New Adam. He is the first, which implies that others also are raised over whom he will have authority. Thus, this is the point. Whether in the old creation or the new resurrected creation, Christ in all things has preeminence. And you can see why it would be that way in the wisdom of God. So here's the question. Who is Christ? Who is this Jesus in which you believe that you are to walk worthy of him, as it says in the prayer section that we just heard from last week? Christ is the Lord of creation. And he is the Lord of the new creation. My prayer is that you would acknowledge today that your supreme Christ is your sufficient Christ You know, you're going to have to keep meditating on this hymn, on this section of scripture. I remember going for the first time on a deep-sea fishing trip. And we got out into the area of the ocean where all of a sudden everything turned clear. And you could see 15, 20, 25 feet. And as I was looking down at a shark that was probably fifteen or seventeen feet long. Swam by. It was beautiful. It impressed me. And then we started yanking in 135, 175 Five-pound tuna fish. The experience will never leave me. I've always wanted the experience because my father told me about it. And then I got a chance to experience it out there And I still think about it today, and I want to be able to go back. You know, this scripture here is more than a fishing trip. You know, Christ made the tuna fish. The eternal sun made and sustains that shark. And yet my experience of those things would never leave me. Just as those experiences or experiences that you have in your life change you. My prayer for you is that you would spend enough time with this creed or this hymn or this Christ poem that it would change you. I was meditating for so long on this passage, thinking about Christ as the Creator. And he impressed himself so much on me that I I moved into a time of just great fear. I didn't even want to be alone in the dark because of how holy he is What it means for him to be eternal, for him to sustain me and all those things around me. If you were to even get a glimpse of his glory, it would change you forever. And that's my prayer for you. That as you consider the rest of this letter, as we've moved past the thanksgivings, we've moved past the prayers and And Paul starts the whole letter really as he moves into the body of this letter with who Christ is, that knowing Christ and experiencing and acknowledging who he truly is would change you that you would be able to walk worthy of who he is. If you're unable to be obedient to him, you don't know him. If you're unable to praise him, you don't know him. If he can't keep your attention, you don't know him. Oh, would you spend time with him? Pray? Dream of him? Fall asleep thinking of this passage. Let it roll through your mind. And I'll continue to pray for you that you would know that Jesus is the Lord of creation. So that it would change everything. For you as his new creation. Let's pray. Beautiful Savior, King of creation, Son of God, and Son of Man. Truly we love you. Truly we long to serve you. You are the light of our soul, our joy. and our crown. Oh Christ, that we would know you, that we would know your glory, that we would know your person. It would change everything Oh Lord, how immature we are, how much we need to grow in maturity as believers. We pray as we reach the body of this letter to your Colossians. That you would speak to us through your word, and we would know you as our Lord, and that we would walk worthy of you. Lord, it is a gift to us for us to even know Your name. Amen