First twelve verses, Psalm forty five. And please follow along with me. This is a contemplation of the sons of Korah. And it is a song of, it's actually supposed to be plural, it's a song of loves. I hope that you see that in your text. My heart is overflowing with a good theme. I recite my composition concerning the king. My tongue is the pen of a ready writer You are fairer than the sons of men. Grace is poured upon your lips. Therefore, God has blessed you forever. Gird your sword upon your thigh, O mighty one, with your glory and your majesty, and in your majesty ride prosperously because of truth, humility, and righteousness. And your right hand shall teach you awesome things. Your arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies. The peoples fall under you. Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. A scepter of righteousness is a scepter of your kingdom. You love righteousness and hate wickedness. Therefore, God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness more than your companions. All your garments are scented with mirror and aloes and cassia. Out of the ivory palaces by which they have made you glad. King's daughters are among your honorable women. At your right hand stands the queen in gold from Ophir. Listen, O daughter. Listen, O daughter. Consider and incline your ear. Forget your own people also in your father's house. So the king will greatly desire your beauty, because he is your lord. Worship him, and the daughter of Tyre will come with a gift. The rich among the people will seek your favor. Please pray. With me. Father, we have a single prayer. We ask that our hearts would be overflowing about our King, Jesus Christ. And that our tongues become the pens of ready writers. In his name we pray. Amen. John Newton, the writer of Amazing Grace, learned at first the Christian religion from his mother. However, his father, a Navy man Can you see where this is going? Was more influential in his life, and Newton began to live the life more like a sailor than a Christian at a very early age. I was reading about a basic biography from Christianity Today from him as well as some modern biographers of John Newton. And on each of these occasions where he'd go out to be a sailor, so to speak, I'm remaining euphemistic on purpose, he would end those occasions with great guilt. And he would turn for a time to Christian disciplines such as prayer, pious reading of the Bible, and keeping of spiritual diaries, the same kind of things that you would do. And in all of those activities, he would say that his chief aim was not to please God, but to escape damnation. Now remember that. That's a honest human being right there. Not to fleece God, but to escape damn nation. Many years later, when Newton was aboard the Greyhound, sailing from Brazil to Newfoundland. He entered into a violent storm. Now this is after many experiences of Newton. I encourage you to read his biography. This guy went through some stuff. Well, here's a violent storm that he's now going to go through. If the ship is in poor repair The ship begins to split, it's taking on water, and Newton is awakened from a deep sleep, and he finds that the crew members that were on deck have already been swept away in the raging sea. I mean you can uh imagine that if you've ever been on a boat He ties himself to the ship so that he's not going to be washed away. This is what his biographer pens for us. He says that he pumped and bailed all night until he was called upon to steer the ship. All the while he's doing so, you can see him hauling the buckets, but his mind and his heart are elsewhere, considering his former professions of religion the extraordinary twists of past events, the warnings and deliverances he had met with, his lustful conversation and his mockery of the gospels, all during this time He's seeing the hand of God come upon him in the storm. The Spirit's allowing him to view the storm in this way. And at first, Newton is convinced that he had sinned too much to have any hope for God's forgiveness in the middle of that storm. Yet when the storm does not recede, he really felt that he should soon meet with his God, and he at last clung to the scriptures that taught grace towards sinners, and he breathed a very, very weak prayer. And he recalls in his own words that this is the hour that he first believed It was a very, very weak prayer. If you could forgive someone like me, maybe you would. Yet like many of us, his new faith doesn't find solemn footing for for a solid footing for months. Indeed, uh the next year uh he runs headlong into sin again, and he finds himself on a place of previous uh where he was uh captive to this one gentleman under horrible living conditions. But there the spirit clings to his soul again when he's having a violent fever. The fever must have been God's providence in awakening Newton to these facts again. And Newton again musters enough fare and enough faith, and he goes to the corner of the island that he's on. And between the biographer writes, between the palm trees and the sea, he knelt upon the shore, and he found a new liberty to pray to God. So here you have a man from that liberty of prayer, there will be a heart that is formed that will record many prayers as hymns for the entire Christian church to sing for many men. many ages. Think of the difference. I mean, what has happened in his heart between the two statements that I'm asking you to pay attention to? His chief aim at first was not to please God, but to escape damnation. And then upon the shore between the palm trees, he has found a new freedom and liberty in praying to the God of forgiveness. What has happened in the gentleman's heart? I think it's the same thing that the Holy Spirit works in each of our hearts And it's the same thing that is in the heart of this psalmist. Psalm 45 will make you blush Because this is a psalm of loves between your Christ and you This is very, very intimate. This psalm should remind you of the Song of Songs between the husband and the bride, the same kind of language is used in here. The intimacy that Jesus Christ is longing for for us and that he is working in our hearts through the Spirit is expressed in this. And here's the big idea. You can look at it. It's perhaps the simplest, biggest idea. that uh I've ever preached on. You can see it in your your bulletin there. Jesus is lovely. You should be able to remember this sermon. What did Jesse talk about today? What did he teach in the scriptures? What was there? Jesus is lovely. And we're going to see that he is lovely in his person, he is lovely in his kingdom, and he is lovely in his love. You see his person immediately and the loveliness of it in verse 2. Verse 2 says, You are fairer than the sons of men. We all have a song that we sing, Fairest Lord Jesus. We're speaking about his loveliness. That's what he means there. Fair. with scripture, because in Isaiah 53. 2, it describes his physical appearance as this, that he shall grow up as a tender plant and as a root out of dry ground. He will have no former comeliness. And in case you don't know what that means, here's the next sentence. And when we see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. And yet here in verse 2, it's saying that he is fairer than all other men. Well, you can see even in John 1. 14 that really what's going on here is not a love song to his appearance, but to his person. John 1. 14 declares, and the word became flesh. And he dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. The glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. That's the loveliness of Jesus Christ. And fittingly, for Advent, we're speaking about his person, particularly in the incarnation. The king is fairer and lovelier than the sons of men in many different ways that are listed throughout all the Psalms. You can you'll see a couple here that can be grouped under this, but we can't pass over just The wonderful loveliness of his person as the incarnate Christ. What could be more wondrously lovely than being conceived in the womb of the Virgin Mary by the Holy Spirit? I would say perhaps this: that the second person of the Trinity, being of one substance and equal with God the Father, took upon himself human nature, so that two whole distinct natures, the Godhead and manhood, were inseparably joined together in one person. That's what we mean when we declare the incarnation. Thus, he is God and man, and yet one Christ, the only mediator between God and man. And then we see throughout the scriptures this proof of Jesus being God. Your king in this love song. In John 1:3, he's described as the creator of heaven and earth. What's more wonderful than to have a husband as the creator of heaven and earth? Or that he providentially sustains every moment of life and every molecule. There's also a description of his divine attributes in Matthew 28-20. He's described as omnipresent. In John 1, he has no beginning and no end, which means he's eternal. In 1 Timothy 3. 16, he is literally called God. And he is proven to be perfect man from Luke 24, 39. He has a body. And Matthew 26, he has a soul. Matthew 26, 39, he has a will. Mark 3, he has emotions. Luke 2, he has a mind. Behold your Christ. Behold your husband in all of his loveliness. To whom does he compare? To whom compares to him? You see, in the continuing of the of the passage, after we move past this person, it begins to mention the grace that is poured upon his lips. Now this is speaking about the grace from God the Father that is given to him above measure to perform his offices in general of prophet, priest, and king. The anointing of the king was symbolized by the pouring of oil upon the king. And Christ is anointed above all, without measure by the Spirit of God, we read in the New Testament. And very quickly it mentions that His grace, that this grace is poured upon His lips Which if we're going to be specific, then it has to mean the way in which he speaks to his bride Have you ever wanted to be a bride that was spoken to well? Or if you're a man that someone spoke to you respectfully He's gracious to whom he speaks. He's the great king and the creator of heaven and earth, and yet he speaks with the lowest of people, like John Newton, who used to run a slave trade. And like you, he'll hear your voice. And he pays attention to you. You have his undivided attention. If you were to walk into his office, he wouldn't keep looking at his computer. He'd stop everything and he'd sit with you. The news that he speaks to you, he does not speak cruelly to you, he speaks gently with you, always bearing good news to you and always for your good. His news is full of grace and opportunity. Now it's just his offices in general. He's been given the spirit above measure. He's been anointed above measure to perform all that he does as the husband for his bride in a way that is glorious and that is lovely. But as we move into verses four through seven, you can see that he is lovely not just in his person, in his offices, but also in his kingdom in particular. In verse 4, start to look at some of the language here. And in your majesty bride prosperously because of truth, humility, and righteousness. And your right hand shall teach you awesome things. Your arrows are sharp in the heart of the kings of the enemies. And the people fall under you. Here is a lovely description of the loveliness of the ruling power of Jesus Christ. He is our great ruler, our great king, and he's lovely. There's a picture of a mighty warrior going out to conquer, and his sword is on his thigh because he's prepared to strike. There's no hesitation in him. He's prepared for battle. For Solomon, this would have been a literal sword, another king of Israel. This would have been a literal sword, but we know that Christ is ruling his kingdom in stages and with spiritual weapons now. And physically later. And so we know that from comparing Scripture with Scripture, that there is the sword of the Spirit, which is his word. Jesus Christ through his spirit is going out and conquering hearts, alluring them to obedience to him He, like Hercules, has golden chains in his mouth, captivating the ears of the people. The only one that is truly able to do it. His arrows are sharp in us as the word pierces. Listen to this from Hebrews 4. 12. For the word of God is living and powerful. And sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the division of soul and spirit, and of joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. Jesus Christ is in our midst ruling in that way, conquering his enemies. Did you ever think that you would give yourself over to Jesus Christ? Didn't he have to conquer you? Wasn't his sword prepared for you? Of course. He's also protecting the church's faith in prosperity and affliction. If you have not given over to temptation to the point of complete unfaithfulness and apostasy, it is because Jesus Christ preserves you. The reform doctrine is not the perseverance of the saints, but the preservation of you, the saints. That's the focus on his sovereignty. Think of how Christ restored Peter after his denial. And he does the same with you. He does the same with you through his word and his spirit. You are tempted to despise him because of your suffering, but he sings to your soul a sweet song and he convinces you of his goodness. And you come back to him, never losing that muster seed of faith. You are tempted in America to see no need of him because of your American affluence and prosperity. But he reveals his surpassing excellence to you over and over and over again, pulling you out of the adultery, remaining faithful to you. And eventually when he returns in a second Advent He will be raising the dead to glory. He will return to raise the dead by the power of the Spirit. He will judge the living and the risen dead. And he will renew the earth in perfect justice. For eternity. He will ride prosperously because of truth, humility, and righteousness. Behold, not only the loveliness of the person of Jesus Christ in the incarnation, But behold the loveliness of Jesus Christ, the ruler, your king over his kingdom. And then lastly, the most intimate of all. is his love. You may be able to, up to this point, because of the abstract words that I'm using, it's up to you to find these things lovely with the spirit. You may be able to hold him at arm's length, but this next point, we're saying that his love is lovely to you. You. Now look at the intimacy of what's happening here. The Psalm is divided into two parts. It's a song of loves, plural. The first has to do with the loveliness of Jesus Christ. Christ. Then when you shift into verse 10, it's now going to start speaking about his bride, the church, and how much she loves his love. You see that? Isn't that lovely? Isn't that lovely? He is lovely in his love toward the church Toward you. That's what this is all about here. This is what the daughter needs to recognize. It's okay to leave your dad's house. Think of how lovely this husband Here we realize that this is a wedding song. Like a military wedding, the doors are opened, the bride steps forward to see the groom in all of his military splendor. You ever seen that? You ever seen a military wending? That's what we're dealing with here. And it's Jesus Christ, the King of all kings. All of him will love all of you, and the love is enduring forever, and it is so sweet. One commentator puts it this way: I couldn't write it any better than this, this was great. The poet captures the sense of loneliness and homesickness in the princess. Look at the verses. Listen, O daughter, consider and incline your ear. We got to talk you into something here. Listen to us. Forget your own people also and your father's house. Forget about 'em. So the king will greatly desire your beauty because He is your Lord. Worship him. Calling her out of one life that she's used to. She's secure in the father's home. And they're saying it's worth it. Come out, leave, and cleave. The poet captures the sense of loneliness and homesickness in the princess, overwhelmed by the setting and the occasion. and urges her in his poetry not to lament the loss of her paternal home, verse eleven, but to look forward to the new love she will find in her groom the king, verse 12. She is not only to be married, but she is coming into a new position. No longer a daughter in her father's house. She will be a queen in her own house. Whose favor is sought by men and women alike, verse 13. That is what is promised to you. You begin to sense the loveliness in the last point, don't you? The same sense is supposed to be in the first two points. It means more work needs to be done that we would find the loveliness of his person. Particularly in the incarnation at this time of the year, but the but the verses go on to expound in particular his kingship That you would find loveliness and how he rules and how he governs his people and how he governs this earth. And then lastly, that you would find the loveliness of his love. At one time, John Newton's chief aim was not to please God, but to escape damnation. After listening to these three points, we can begin to answer what was going on in that gentleman's heart. He was not at first seeking to please God, but just to escape damnation. Later in his life, between the palm trees and the sea, he knelt upon the shore and he found a new liberty to pray. What was the difference between his former and his later heart? Is the whole question. Formerly, he knew about God. Formerly, he did. He was raised religiously by his mother, as perhaps you were. But he did not truly know God through Jesus Christ as the psalmist knows God until he knelt between the palm trees. Now, have you knelt between the palm trees? I think that's what our life is supposed to be: a kneeling between the palm trees. What a lovely image. I love palm trees Do you know about God or do you know God? This psalm should surprise all American Christians because it is a psalm expressing a mature Christian relationship. The relationship, if you to best describe it, is a sacred romantic marriage. Do you blush at the intimacy that God intends to have with you? We have to kindle a sacred romance is what this psalm is teaching us. That's the application. Of seeing his loveliness. That's what he's seeking for you to do. He's lighting flames in your life. There were three flames today. He said, look at my person, look at my governance, look at my love. He's trying to generate intimacy with you. He's taking you out to dinner. We struggle and we can become with Jesus Christ like we have Like we see within our own marriages, we could become like a husband who doesn't consider his wife lovely anymore, but at least she still does the dishes. Or where he can become like a wife who doesn't consider her husband lovely anymore, but at least he takes out the trash. And sometimes you know puts on pants on Saturday. But if we listen to Christians who are advanced in their walking on their pilgrim's progress, listen to these words that come out of their mouth. Oh, the deep, deep love of Jesus, vast, unmeasured, boundless, free, rolling as a mighty ocean in its fullness over me. Underneath me, all around me is the current of thy love, leading onward, leading homeward to thy glorious rest above. He's in love, isn't he? Or consider this one. This is Samuel Rutherford, one of my favorite writers. Put the beauty of ten thousand thousand worlds of paradises, like the Garden of Eden in one. Put all trees all flowers, all smells, all colors, all tastes, all joys, all loveliness, all sweetness in one. Oh, what a fair and excellent thing that would be And yet it would be less to that fair and dearest well-beloved Christ than one drop of rain to the whole seas, rivers, lakes, and foundations of ten thousand earths Now he is in love. He's writing a song of love. And Thomas Goodwin, can you imagine saying this for me? your heart. Listen to this. Heaven would be hell to me without Jesus Christ. Here's something for you to consider. Let me read a scripture over you. And uh and then I have a final question for you, and then we'll sing our song together. I want you to hear your heavenly husband one last time, and I'll I'll get the reference right this time. Zephaniah 317 The Lord your God is in your midst, the mighty one will save. He will rejoice over you with gladness. Listen to the sweetness of this phrase. He will quiet you with his love. You'll fall asleep in his love. He will rejoice over you with singing. Now, whether you're a Christian or not sitting here, here's the final question. What would have to change? For your heart to overflow with a song of love to Jesus Christ, and for your tongue to be the pen of a ready writer. Let's pray. Father, just in these three considerations of the loveliness of Jesus Christ, we haven't even explored all the height Much less the depth and the width of the loveliness and love of Jesus Christ. Father, it shows us how far we our hearts have been removed from truth and reality. But we will say and we ask that in our uh struggle with faith, that in our unbelief you would give us belief We will say with our lips that you are lovely. We love you in your person. We love you in how you govern our lives. We love all the choices that you've made for us. And we love your love. You are our great pride. And we leave and we cleave to you, our husband. It's in your name that we pray. Amen.