It's a pleasure and an honor to open the Word of God with you this morning. Will you please turn with me in your Bibles to 1 Samuel chapter 18? I will begin reading with the last two verses of chapter 17 to give us a sense of context here. First Samuel 17, verse 57. Then as David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine Abner took him and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistine in his hand. And Saul said to him, Whose son are you, young man? So David answered, I am the son of your servant Jesse, the Bethlehemite. Now when he had finished speaking to Saul, The soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul. Saul took him that day and would not let him go home to his father's house anymore. Then Jonathan and David made a covenant because he loved him as his own soul And Jonathan took off the robe that was on him and gave it to David with his armor, even to his sword and his bow and his belt. Let's pray. Father in heaven, truly your word. Is a treasure to us. May we treasure it as we meditate on it this hour. Feed us, we pray, with bread from heaven. And may our lives be changed to reflect The Lord Jesus living in us with the Holy Spirit stirring joy. and thankfulness. May we have ears now to hear you speak to us in the scriptures. We ask in your name. Amen. Back in the uh nineteen eighties, the state of Pennsylvania changed the wording on their license plates. Before that it said Pennsylvania. Starting in 1980, it said, you've got a friend in Pennsylvania. Any of you remember that? It's only 40 years ago And it lasted a four four or five years. But that was a catchy phrase and it soon uh sh showed up on billboards, t-shirts, all sorts of places. And a rock group, a band called Newfound Glory, put out a hit by that title. And you can still find it on YouTube. You've got a friend in Pennsylvania. And then generic bumper stickers started showing up everywhere. You've got a friend in, and you get to fill in the next word. It's nice to be told you've got a friend. But on a license plate or bumper sticker, it's really rather personal So let me ask you personally, do you have a friend in Pennsylvania? Or for that matter Do you have a friend anywhere? Is there anyone that you can truly call your friend besides on Facebook? Today we'll be thinking about friendship, what it truly means to have a friend. Friendship is an amazing gift of God. Someone that you can love and trust and be yourself with and share your inmost feelings and thoughts with, that is a blessing indeed. And many people go through this life without ever knowing such a friend. Our text today introduces us to the friendship of David and Jonathan. The previous chapter begins by telling us about the mighty Philistine army drawn up in battle array against the armies of Israel, with their champion Goliath, defying the armies of Israel. But the chapter ends with a teenage boy reporting to King Saul with a giant's head in his hand. To this day, even non-Christians speak of David and Goliath whenever an underdog pulls off an unexpected upset. But not many people remember what happened next. After David brought the giant's head to the king. Our text tells us when David finished speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul of David. David's victory over Goliath brought about not just the deliverance of God's people from their enemies, but the formation of one of the closest friendships found in Scripture. God in his grace gave to David a very special friend. The soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul of David. And the verse goes on to say, Jonathan loved him as his own soul. Jonathan had a deep love for David. And that love was reciprocated by David in 2 Samuel 1, verse 25, after Jonathan was later killed in battle, David mourned for him with these words. How have the mighty fallen in the midst of the battle? Donathan is slain on your high places I am distressed for you, my brother Jonathan. You have been very pleasant to me. Your love to me was more wonderful than the love of women What a beautiful expression of Christian love of one man for another. Now David knew the joy of sharing love. with several women, yet he valued his friendship with Jonathan more highly than any of them. And remember, David's friendship with his wives was far more than physical Jonathan's sister, Michael, loved David deeply, was loyal to him, even risking her life to save him when her father, King Saul, was trying to kill David. And Abigail, the young widow who married David, loved David greatly, gave him wise counsel, for which David blessed her profusely. But David's love for Jonathan, he treasured even more. He called it wonderful. They shared a close spiritual kinship Jonathan's soul was knit to David's soul. And we'll think more about that in a minute. It's worth noting here that the Lord provided this friend for David in his teenage years. The time of life when everyone feels a a special need for a friend who really cares for them, who will share the best things in life with them It was just at this time that the Lord gave to David favor in the sight of Jonathan. If you are a teenager here, it's a safe bet. That you wish you could have a friend like Jonathan. Someone your soul could be knit to. And it's worth noting that David did not always have this blessing. In his early teenage years, David was out on the boonies caring for his father's sheep. Back home, his brothers misunderstood him and mistreated him. But when it came time for David to live in the king's court, the Lord knew he would be facing peculiar temptations. He knew that David would need a special friend, and he provided that friend for him in Jonathan. The Lord knows what his children need and graciously provides for them at the right time. David did not have this close friendship in his early teens, and by his mid-twenties, David was forced to part company with Jonathan. In God's providence, they were together for only a few years. And yet their love for each other continued, even after their fellowship was severed. It's important to see in our text how David came to have Jonathan for his friend. Or if you feel like you don't really have any close friends, you should take notice here how David came to have Jonathan for his friend. The way David won Jonathan's heart was by serving the Lord and the Lord's people. He laid his life on the line for the glory of God. and for the welfare of God's people. That's what stirred in Jonathan a love for David Think about this. Who are the people that you love most? Of all the people that you have ever met, who do you find yourself most attracted to? Is it not those who love the Lord and serve his people most wholeheartedly? It's not just having a happy disposition that makes a person loved. That does help. It's good to be cheerful. But it's those who serve the Lord with gladness and who in his name serve others who are most loved. By the people of God. If you love the Lord sincerely and serve his people eagerly, other people will be drawn to you. And that's not just my opinion. It's what Proverbs 3, verse 3 tells us. My son, do not let kindness and truth leave you. Bind them around your neck. Write them on the tablet of your heart. so you will find favor and good repute in the sight of God and man The two qualities that will give you favor in the sight of God and other people are showing kindness and holding fast to the truth. If you're daily building mercy into your life and truth, If you're kind in all your dealings and committed to what's right, you will never lack friends. By the time Jonathan died, David had come to love him deeply. But clearly it was Jonathan who initiated this friendship and who paid the greater price. And what moved Jonathan To initiate this friendship was seeing David's zeal for the Lord and his readiness to risk his life for God's people. He could see from David's actions that his chief aim in life was the same as his own, to bring glory to God and to serve God's people. He could see that they shared a common commitment to God's will, a common hope in God's promises. He could see that they lived by the same principles. And seeing that in David, Jonathan's soul was knit to his. What about you? What draws you to certain people that makes you want to be their friend? What a Christian should find most attractive in others is their zeal for the Lord and their eagerness to serve the Lord's people. Proverbs 1320 tells us, he who walks with wise men will be wise, but the companion of fools will suffer harm. The friends that you choose today will have great effect on the direction of your life tomorrow. When Jonathan saw David, he thought, I want my life to go where his life is going. I want the influence of his character on mine David's zeal for mercy and truth brought him favor not only in God's eyes, but also in Jonathan's. We also see in Jonathan an excellent example of how to be a friend to others. Probably our most natural response when we see this story is, I sure wish I had a friend like Jonathan. But a far better response would be, I wish I could be a friend to others the way Jonathan was. That should be our aim. How can I befriend that fellow, that girl that I work with, that I go to school with? And the first thing that stands out here about Jonathan's friendship Is the absence of any jealousy, any sense of competition. And that is especially amazing considering the context of Jonathan's soul being admitted to David. This was David's moment of glory, his triumph over Goliath. David was in the limelight. Yeah, Jonathan does not have a jealous bone in him Remember, up until now, Jonathan was the most admired man in the kingdom. Just a few months earlier, he had gone out single-handedly and routed the Philistine garrison, had put the enemy to flight, and had won the hearts of his countrymen. When the king foolishly planned to put Jonathan to death because he had broken the king's oath in ignorance by eating a little honey The whole nation rose up and said, Don't hurt Jonathan, he's our hero. Everybody was praising Jonathan. But now their praise was turned to David. Yet Jonathan felt no resentment. It didn't bother him that David had displaced him as the national hero. What about you? How do you feel when someone else takes your place of popularity? When someone replaces you as crew leader at work? when someone suddenly outshines you in the classroom or who takes your place as starter on the ball team so that now you're sitting on the bench and he's getting all the glory you once got. Can you love that person? With all your heart, with no resentment. Jonathan actually was heir apparent to the throne But David's sudden popularity threatened Jonathan's position in the kingdom. It had to be obvious to Jonathan and to everyone that David was a rival. Indeed, it soon did become clear to Jonathan that David would be the next king and that he would not. Yeah, listen to how Jonathan reacted to that realization in 1 Samuel 23, verse 16. Then Jonathan, Saul's son, arose and went to David Horish. And encouraged him in God and said, Do not be afraid, because the hand of Saul, my father, shall not find you, and you will be king over Israel, and I will be next to you. And Saul, my father, knows that also. Jonathan had nothing to gain and everything to lose by this friendship There wasn't anything that David could contribu could contribute to Jonathan. Their whole relationship in scripture is described in terms of what Jonathan did for David. Jonathan comforted David. Jonathan protected David. Jonathan served David. And verse 4 of our text really is a summary snapshot of their whole relationship. Jonathan took off the robe that was on him. And gave it to David, along with his armor, even his sword, and his bow and his belt. The king's son gave to David his royal garments and even his prized sword. Back in chapter 13, we're told that there were only two sharpened swords in all Israel And they belong to Saul and Jonathan. So this is no token gesture on Jonathan's part. He is virtually giving David the kingdom. And no doubt when David walked into the royal gallery wearing Jonathan's robe, Jonathan's sword, people realized what was going on. Jonathan gave to David all his treasures, his robe, his sword, his bow, his belt, all symbols of honor and friendship. Now, the Bible doesn't tell us whether David gave any gifts to Jonathan. If he did, the Holy Spirit did not consider it worth mentioning. At best, it would have been a token gift. After all, what could a shepherd boy give to the son of the king? Jonathan was in a position to do everything for David. David Was in no position to do anything for Jonathan. And that's the way it was, all through their friendship. Jonathan saves David's life. Jonathan risks his father's wrath Jonathan encourages David. Jonathan strengthens David. But you would be hard-pressed to find anything in Scripture that David does for Jonathan. Jonathan's love was selfless. It was a love that gave much and asked little. And one of the most striking aspects of his love is the absence of envy. Jonathan was willing for David to have the preeminence. He was willing to surrender all claims to the throne to David. Jonathan has a beautiful picture of what the New Testament means by brotherly love. Hebrews 13 says, let love of the brethren continue. 1 Peter 1:22 tells us fervently love one another from the heart. Romans 12:10 instructs us: be kindly, affectionate to one another with brotherly love. In honor, giving preference to one another, not lagging in diligence, fervent in spirit. What a blessing it is when brothers and sisters in Christ love one another. And yet we all struggle we all struggle to keep these commandments. Remembering the example of Jonathan will help us. Think of Jonathan as I read what Paul wrote in Philippians 2, 3 and following. Do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit, but with humility of mind, let each of you regard one another as more important than himself. Looking not only to your own personal interests, but also to the interests of others. Have this mind in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Jesus is the perfect example of brotherly love, and yet even a sinner like Jonathan was able to To show selfless love, giving preference to another. David Jonathan is an excell excellent example of what it means to be a friend. And then a second remarkable quality of Jonathan's love for David is his faithfulness. Jonathan was a true and loyal friend even in the face of great danger. His love for David made his father, King Saul, so angry that Saul threw his spear at Jonathan Trying to kill him. Jonathan barely escaped with his life. His love for David put family ties to the test Saul said to Jonathan, You have no business spending time with the son of Jesse. You need to make sure you get to sit on the throne and not him. And if you won't do it for your own sake, at least do it for my sake as your father. Yet Jonathan was able to be loyal both to his father and also to David. Who's not a fair weather friend? Proverbs 17, 17 says, A friend loves at all times. Jonathan loved David in every situation. He was faithful to David. Next, notice in our text what Jonathan did to win David's friendship. David won Jonathan's friendship by his zeal for the Lord and his serving God's people. But how did Jonathan We're in David's heart. Well, for one thing, Jonathan took the first step. Because he loved David as his own soul. He took the initiative by giving to David his best things He stripped himself of his rope, his sword, his bow, his belt, and gave them all to David. And he genuinely rejoiced in David's victory over Goliath. He considered what that victory meant for David, not just for himself. And he supported David's cause in the court of his father. And he served David's interests rather than his own. Later we see that David came to love Jonathan deeply. When David and Jonathan realized that they must part company because Saul was seeking to kill David When they were together for the last time, we read in 1 Samuel 20, verse 41, then David fell on his face to the ground. And bowed three times before Jonathan. And they kissed each other. And they wept together. But David more. It was more painful for David than it was for Jonathan, the face being apart. But how did it get to that point where David's affection for Jonathan was so stirred up? As we've seen already, Jonathan won David's friendship. By giving to David and by serving him. Well, I must not delay drawing the obvious comparison between this Old Testament friendship And our friendship with the Lord Jesus. But first, let me ask those of you who appreciate biblical theology Who in this Old Testament story do you think stands out as a type of Christ? Jonathan or David? Was it Jonathan or was it David, who is like the Lord Jesus? When you think about it, the answer is both Both Jonathan and David are pictures of our Savior. While our Lord Jesus was the Son of David, he was actually in the position of Jonathan, the son of the king. And only the Lord Jesus demonstrates how to be a friend on both sides of the relationship. The parallels between Jesus and David are obvious. Jesus willingly went out alone. To do battle with the great enemy of God's people, Satan, risking his own life to subdue the mighty adversary who had terrorized us and kept us in bondage. Our Savior's heart was so full of zeal for his Father's glory that he gladly went to the cross to defend the honor and safety of his people. Who more deserves your love than this one who willingly gave his life for you? Pondering that should knit your soul to his and make you love him as your very self. Jonathan's response to David should be your response and mine to the Lord Jesus. And so I would ask: Are you ready to honor Jesus by stripping yourself of all that you have? Just as Jonathan stripped himself of all his treasures in order to honor David. Are you willing to give up all claim to fame so that Jesus might be exalted? Are you willing to promote his kingship every day of your life because he is worthy? Can you gladly say what John the Baptist said of Jesus, he must increase, but I must decrease? Are you turning your back on all selfish ambition and devoting yourself? To your heavenly friend. Jonathan was not, is not the only biblical example of such love. In Philippians 2. 19, Paul says of Timothy, I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, for I have no one else of kindred spirit who will genuinely be concerned for your welfare. For they all seek after their own interests, not those of Christ Jesus. Do you have the heart of a Jonathan, the heart of a Timothy for the people of God? Are you genuinely concerned for their welfare? Proverbs 18 says, there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother. And we readily see Jesus as that friend, don't we? He sticks closer to us than a brother. But do we also see him as one who deserves our friendship? Do we love him? Does Jonathan love David and gladly served him? But on the other hand It's the Lord Jesus who is the real Jonathan for all sinners. He truly was and is a friend of sinners. He who had nothing to gain gave up everything in order to have sinners for his friends. He's the king's son. What do we have to offer him? He left his throne in heaven and took the form of a servant, even as Jonathan, the rightful heir to the throne, made himself servant of David. Jesus, the King's Son, acted as a servant, and in doing so gave up his reputation. He gave us his robe of righteousness. In order to befriend us and to put us on his throne. That's really what Jonathan was doing for David. Ultimately Jonathan was the means of David getting to the throne, just as the Lord Jesus sacrificed himself so that we might sit on his throne with him. Jonathan labored to deliver David from the wrath of his father, just as the Lord Jesus labored on the cross to deliver us from the wrath of his father. Jonathan risked his father's anger, even as Jesus risked his father's anger. Just as Saul threw his spear at his son to kill him, so God in anger threw his spear at his son at Calvary. But in that case, it actually struck him and killed him. Jesus endured the full brunt of his father's wrath So that we might escape that wrath and be made kings with him. Well, there's one more important truth that we must not miss. In verse 3, our text reads, then Jonathan and David made a covenant. That's not really the best way to translate that verse And most other translations read more accurately. Then Jonathan made a covenant with David because he loved him as himself. The Hebrew wording makes it clear that it was Jonathan who initiated this covenant And in this respect also, we see a picture of our relationship with the Lord Jesus. Because he loved us, he made a covenant with us. He took the initiative and committed himself to us in a permanent friendship. And he sealed his commitment to us with his blood. He called it my blood of the covenant The writer to the Hebrews calls it the blood of the everlasting covenant. Jesus' love for us is eternal. Nothing can shake it. In Psalm 89, verses 24 and following, we read what the covenant means to God. God the Father said of his own son, My faithfulness and my mercy will be with him. He shall cry to me, You are my Father, my God, and the rock of my salvation. I shall also make him my firstborn. the highest of the kings of the earth. My mercy I will keep for him forever, and my covenant shall stand firm with him. His seed also I will Make to endure forever and his throne as the days of heaven. If his sons forsake my law and do not walk in my judgments, if they violate my statutes and do not keep my commandments. Then I will punish their transgression with a rod and their iniquity iniquity with stripes. Nevertheless, my loving kindness I will not utterly take from him, nor allow my faithfulness to fail. My covenant I will not break. That's what covenant commitment means. Just as Jonathan confirmed his purpose to be true to David to the end, so our Lord Jesus confirmed his purpose to be true to us. To the end. And the day before his crucifixion at the Last Supper, Jesus John 13, verse 1 says of Jesus, having loved his own, he loved them to the end. He followed through on all his covenant promises, even as Jonathan did. What a beautiful picture of the gospel as scene and this friendship. Between David and Jonathan. Their close relationship is a picture of the friendship of Jesus and the believer. So even if you don't have a friend in Pennsylvania, even if you don't have a loyal friend like Jonathan on earth, still you can have the Lord Jesus as your friend. By calling upon his name and faith. Truly, he is worthy of your faithful friendship to him. Find the let me pull you now. That those of us who are in covenant union with Christ are by that very fact covenantally bound to one another. The Reformed Presbyterian testimony puts it this way, by the grace of God, through the merit of Christ, and the convicting work of the Holy Spirit. God's people are saved, sanctified, and given one mind and one heart to serve Him. Thus the covenant people are bound. to one another in their head, Jesus Christ. Our Westminster Confession of Faith puts it this way. All saints being united to Jesus Christ by their head, by his spirit, and by faith. Have fellowship with him in his graces, sufferings, death, resurrection, and glory And being united to one another in love. They have communion in each other's gifts and graces That's what this communion table represents, our common union with one another in Christ Jesus. So we can see that that loving bond between Jonathan and David is not just a picture of Jesus and the Christian. It's a picture of us, the church. Of our being knitted together and the body of Christ, we belong to one another. Our futures are bound up together. We are one and Jesus is our head. Members of one another. Many folks don't consider church membership to be important. But the Paul being a member of a church didn't just mean having your name on a roll. In Paul's eyes, those who are members of a church have their lives bound up with one another. We are members one of another, he wrote in Romans 12. And again in Ephesians 4, and again in 1 Corinthians 12. And in all three places, he reminds us over and over, we are one. One body in Christ. So there should be no division in the body, but the members should have the same care for one another with all humility and gentleness and patience. Showing more forbearance to one another in love, being diligent to preserve the unity of the spirit and the bond of peace. That was our Savior's prayer. In John 17 for his church, he prayed that they may all be one, even as you, Father, are in me. and I in you, that they also may be one in us, that the world may believe that you sent me. That they may be one just as we are one, I and them, and you and me, that they may be made perfect in one That the world may know that you have sent me and have loved them as you have loved me. We see then that what was rare in the Old Testament, covenantal love between Jonathan and David. The Lord intends to be the mark of the New Testament church. We are one. And as we live out our oneness before the world The world will see the gospel is true and will come to believe that God truly did send His Son, the Lord Jesus, to be Savior of the world. Let's pray.