The word preached tonight will be from James chapter one, and the I'll be preaching from two through four, but I'll read uh just that first part. So if you can turn with me, we'll be looking at the verses piece by piece. James, a bondservant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad. Greetings My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into various trials, knowing that the testing of your faith produces patience. But let patience have its perfect work, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking nothing. Please pray with me. Lord, we are so thankful that you give us wisdom and that it's not just an educational program, but you will seal these things to our hearts. Lord, the reason why we approach these scriptures this evening and particularly the book of James is for you To permit us to grow in the knowledge of Jesus Christ, to the manifestation of good works. For it is in Christ that we have been recreated for good works. So we ask that you begin that now. In your name. Amen. You notice in the front of the bulletin that the series that we're going through now is the book of James. And as we're in the habit of doing now, we're putting the main theme that we want to focus on because that's what the author is focusing on, and that's our faith at work. I'd encourage you to be reading through the book of James multiple times as we go through the series, and just notice how much faith is talked about, and how much faith is spoken of in terms of being manifested in good work. I'm sure you think of the premier passage within James when we go to Abraham to find out what did he discover about his faith and he said He says, faith without works is dead. A number of us have to puzzle through that to make sure it's consistent with our reform theology, which was never the intent of the author. The intent of the author was always for you to see that as an encouragement that if you have faith, it is living, it is vibrant, and it will manifest work. That's what we'll be learning through this. If you were to flip through your Bible now, you would see in each of the paragraphs as he moves from one topic, kind of like the book of Proverbs from one topic to the next, he has focused on different situations and what it should look like for you to be faithful. Tonight, we're looking at what does it mean for the Christian to have faith in the midst of suffering and affliction? Next week we'll look, or not next week, but the week after that, we'll be looking at what happens when we have trouble doing that. What can we how can we turn to him to gain wisdom in such circumstances? He'll go on to speak about how we should be using our money and how we should be thinking about our business and traveling And uh he'll go on and he'll he'll reveal to us many situations and he'll give us a case study or an example on what your faith should look like in a similar type of situation. So, if I were you, I would figure out some way to not leave these lessons behind. So, tonight is on affliction and suffering and how Christians should look at it. Don't go without figuring out a way to make sure that you suffer like the person in this passage. And next week, make sure, or the week after that, make sure that you're not the double-minded person in your prayer and that you're truly seeking wisdom. And make sure that you're not the person that says, Have a good night and be well fed, and you never help anybody. Make sure that you're seeking diligently to put these things into practice. I think the book of Hebrews has prepared you for this study. And it's prepared me. And now we're really going to hit the ground running. So we begin here with faith in the midst of a trial. And the main idea here is that Christians should rejoice in trials because God has designed trials to produce maturity. Christians should rejoice in trials because God has designed trials to produce maturity. You'll see in the bulletin the outline: a command enforced, an argument urged, and a maturity exhorted So let's go ahead and begin. First thing that we see here in chapter 1, starting in verse 2, is a command enforced. Notice the imperative: My brethren, count It all joy. He's not asking you to brainstorm with him. He's saying, this is a command. I'm speaking to you authoritatively, and this is a command that I'm seeking to enforce. James tells us that the situation of this command is one of falling into various trials. That's what's going on. That's what he wants these Christians to focus on, and for us. To fall is really not capturing the force of what's going on here. If you were to take a look and just do a quick Bible study and look at the uses of this word, I'd like you to consider Luke 10, 30, just for one example. Then Jesus answered and said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among thieves. Who stripped him of his clothing, wounded him, and departed, leaving him half a dead. Now, depending on how you hear the word fall, most of us don't hear that. Most of us think of jumped. in that situation or mugged. The idea is more about being thrust into or violently shoved into something. Something coming down and capturing in you a way that you may not have expected And it's and it's it's really not loosening its grip. And that's what he's talking about here that you would fall into, of course, are the various trials that you see within the verse uh before you, the same one in verse two. Now Paul lists In one of his letters, 2 Corinthians, a whole host of different kinds of trials. I'm sure you're familiar with these different kinds. Paul says, From the Jews, five times I received forty stripes minus one, three times I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned. Three times I was shipwrecked, a night and a day I have been in the deep, and journeys often in perils of water, and perils of robber, and perils of my own countrymen, in perils of the Gentiles, and perils in the city, and perils in the wilderness. In perils in the sea, in perils among false brethren. If Paul had a Google map, he could point to anywhere and he'd say, There I've had perils. whether it's land or whether it's sea. And he goes on as he's had perils among false brethren, in weariness and toil, and sleeplessness often, in hunger and thirst. And fastings often. I have been cold and I have been naked. Now that's true. He was stripped naked. There's a whole host of different things. Now, this is a main messenger and apostle of God. He has direct access to To Jesus Christ. Jesus is revealing himself to him and telling him the gospel to the Gentiles. He appeared to him on the Damascus road, and this is what Paul has to go through. And you can see all the different kinds of things. You could categorize them, and he might hit every category. And then, in addition, in verse 12, he used this the same word, but it's translated temptation. And they're closely related. When trials are present, temptations arise. Did you ever notice that? When you're at your weakest, Satan strikes. And that's starting to come through here in this situation of the trials and who we're dealing with. But there's something really surprising I think you would maybe acknowledge this academically, but when we get into sufferings, we find this surprising. And that is, in verse 2, he says, My brethren. He's saying, you, Christian, will see many trials. You will be mugged, so to speak. You will be thrust. in the trials. And now is that the way that you have prepared? We talked about this in the in the book of Hebrews, saying if he gives you an anchor, you better realize that he's meant for you to be in storm. And we're seeing the same thing reiterated here, that he speaks to his brethren, the beloved, the recipients, both male and female Christians. That's why it says brethren. And this is, of course, a term of affection from him. And if it's a if it's an affection from the apostle, and that affection is from the Holy Spirit, because he's what gives love to the communion of saints How much more does the Holy Spirit love us than the Apostle Paul or anyone around us? And yet there's still the promise of trials. Trials are for beloved Christians. If you are God's child, you can expect chastisements, but not punishments. If the congregation is dear to James, then he certainly they are certainly dear to God, and yet he still says here, you are the recipients. Of the afflictions that I'll send you in my providence. And now that's a real wake-up call in terms of our expectations Now, if that's the case, if we know that in fact we are going to receive trials, and they are going to be various of different kinds, how is it that we are supposed to respond to them? And that's where the content of this command comes in. There's an imperative count it all joy. What a strange thing to say. If the wrong person said that to you when you were suffering, what would happen to them? And maybe it would be because of their mannerism. But the truth is there. The command itself is given, which is for us to have joy. He's not asking to brainstorm. He's not giving you the option. He's saying you are commanded as a Christian To work out your faith in such a way where you would have joy in the midst of affliction. That's pretty heavy. He says I don't think he's saying that we're supposed to take joy in the trial itself. Things are painful, and we're not supposed to deny that. In fact, it would be a contradiction of other scriptures if we said we took joy in the trial itself From Hebrews twelve eleven, now no chastening seems to be joyful for the present, but painful. Nevertheless, afterward it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by By it. And we're going to see the same kind of thought here. So the picture here is not one of straight faced stoicism If you're going to count it, he's speaking about different perspectives. James is interpreting us to, or James is directing us to interpret or to assign a correct meaning to trials. I'm sure that you've had this experience. Two people can see the exact same thing and yet render two very judgments as to the meaning of the thing. Have you had that happen within your life? Sometimes you look at people and you say, well, how did you get that out of that How did you hear me say that? When it snows here, some people get thrilled because they're going to go sledding. When it snows here, some people become anxious because they might break a hip. Two different interpretations of the same snow. Here, James is commanding you to have the correct judgment. He's placing something and realizing by the power of the Spirit there's something for your will to chew upon. That is that you have to judge things correctly. Other people may judge trials one way, but you as a Christian expressing your faith, you must judge trials this way. You must see them as a joy. And he'll get into why you must do that in a little bit. Judge them to be a joy. Now, this speaks to the nature of Christianity, just as a digression, very quickly. This speaks to the nature of Christianity, and we really take this for granted. Christianity is exceptionally resourceful for being able to make it through life. Whether you are a Christian or not, whether a person that you're speaking to would become a Christian almost makes no difference in terms of this argument that I'm making for this digressive aspect. They should still realize that we have tremendous resources to be able to make it through the existential realities of the human predicament. Now, other cultures have other resources. So if you're a part of Hinduism, they're going to turn to reincarnation in order to have resources to get through death. It's going to placate their mind somehow. And I'm not saying that's correct, I'm just noticing it. But notice in America where we live within secularism, I want to know what does secularism offer you and your families And the people within our spheres of influence, what does it offer them to have any resources to deal with life whatsoever? If their child dies and they go to secularism to draw upon the resources of secularism, what will they find? I think they'll find thoughts of suicide. Because there are no resources within secularism. This is life is all it is. And really I would say most will just turn to drink or drugs That's mostly what would happen. So be thankful to God, in other words, for the resources that we do have. We have resources from Christ in order to be able to deal with our human pain and our pressures. And we can even see, there are so many resources that even in the midst of pain, you can find contentment. And you can find joy. I've seen you in pain and and I've seen you content. That's a m that's amazing. And that's only from Christ The apostle knows that this kind of thinking is not natural. He knows that, especially if you're growing up within a secular culture or a pagan culture, that these are not going to be the thoughts that are presented to you on what you should be doing with your suffering And so, what he's going to do now is he is going to be a good apostle, and he's going to urge us towards this godly perspective by an argument. And that moves us to our second point: an argument that is urged upon us. Now he begins here in verse 3 with the word knowing. This is the beginning of the argument. The word knowing is technically a participle. I hope that doesn't bore you. But it really does when I read it, it has the force of an imperative. But I'm not going to say that it's an imperative. I'm just saying it it just seems like that. If you were to read it If you were to read it that way, you would say, if you want to know how to be be obedient and have the right perspective on your trials and your afflictions, then know this. You hear the command there? Know this. U I want that kind of force, but it's a participle so I can't do it. Alright. Uh I'll look into that a little bit because it's possible that we could We could do that, but I think that's what's going on here. Know this. If you want to be able to get through this, if you want the resources, if you don't want to just take my word for it, but you want to see how your faith relates to this, then know this. You have got to know first the nature of trials. They are not happenstance. Things are not just happening to you. Now, this is quite contrary if you're in the ocean. We were just in Florida. If you're in the ocean, it becomes scary when you lose your footing. If you surface only to have seeking air. And to only have a wave break in your face and shove you back down, that's scary. And if you were to cry out, oh ocean, please don't do this to me. The ocean's not going to listen because it's an unintelligent body of water. And that's not What our trials are like. That's not what afflictions are like. We're not speaking into an unintelligent and irrational universe. Trials are not like that because trials are the testing of your face, it says in verse 3. You see that, knowing that he's going to tell us what we need to know. You need to know first that the testing of your faith, that your faith is a testing, is what he's saying. The testing of your faith. This implies, if you supply the actors who are behind the scenes here, this implies an intelligence behind the trial. Actually, there's two intelligences, aren't there? It's not just God that's present in trials. When we search through the scriptures, we see that God brings affliction to the Christian life, and it's a part of His design for you, and we know that He's always oriented towards your good. And bringing you to your destiny in Jesus Christ, to glory. He's one intelligence behind it. However, we also see within the book of Job and many other places That God permits Satan to tempt you, and of course, Satan does not intend his craft to work for your good. And so we can't see this as just happenstance. The nature of the trial is that there are intelligent beings behind the project being behind the providences, and he gives permission for another intelligent being to interact with those providences. That's the first thing that we need to know. The second thing that you need to know is the effect of your trial. Now this starts to become fascinating and actually quite advanced. The effect of this trial is the effect of a crucible, a testing. You know what a crucible is? A crucible is a ceramic or metal container in which metals or other substances may be melted or subjected to very high temperatures. The impurities in the metals rise and are skimmed from the surface, leaving only pure gold. And that's what he's saying he's doing here, is he seeking to refine you in the crucible of affliction. Your faith is tested. It is put under the intense pressure and heat of life by God in order to rid you of impurities and promote and cultivate holiness. He hears your prayer when he says, please make me a more patient mother. And he says, okay, I will. And here comes the afflictions, because that's the only way that it can take place within his divine decrees. That's the way that he has determined, so that we'd be like his son, who also learned obedience in a different way, but nevertheless learned obedience in that way. Most high performance athletes measure and work with their anabolic threshold. Anyone here ever mess with their anabolic threshold? Yeah, Jeremy, you're smiling. You've done have you worked it out? You did you did the numbers? Yeah? Well we'll have to compare notes, I'd like to see. uh what you found out. If you exercise here's here's why. Because if you're a high performance athlete, if you exercise for too long at too high a r high of a rate, then lactic acid will build up and your body will begin to fail And you won't be doing any performing, much less high performance. Athletes figure out ways to increase their threshold and stay in higher thresholds for longer. Cyclists will push through hill segments, sometimes rising to 180 or 190 beats per minute in their heart rate. They will then back down after that training. They'll use the hills to get to 190 so that when they get to 170, they feel relaxed. And if you become a person that feels relaxed at a hundred and seventy-rate heartbeat. You're ready for high performance athletics. That's what they're seeking to do. There's a great deal of effort that goes into it, a great deal of training, a great deal of planning, a great deal of testing and trying. And as you continue in your Christian pilgrimage, what he's saying here is that your spiritual anaerobic threshold is low, and God is seeking to get the heart rate up so that your relaxing point is at a much more mature point than you ever thought of. That's what he's seeking for. God wants peak performance and thus he tests us. And the product of this testing, again, look down at verse 3. Now this becomes even more fascinating. The product of the testing is not a high anabolic threshold or longer times in a higher threshold, but patients. Does that feel anticlimactic to you? Patience. Maybe I'll take away a little bit of the anticlimacticness By defining patience, and then we'll move on to our third point. Listen to this. We can talk about this if you'd like. This is a con this is a definition that's pulled from a lot of different places in scripture. Patience is a bearing of evils or afflictions with quietness of mind and heart. Without raging, without fretting, without anxiety, or seeking some immoral or wise way to be delivered from the affliction Let me say it one more time. Because this is why your faith is being tested, so that you'd have the product called patience, and this is what patience is. It is a bearing of evils, with quietness of mind and heart, no raging, no fretting No anxiety, and no seeking deliverance through an unlawful means or an unwise means. There are a lot of ways to get out of affliction, but they're unlawful. That's patience and that's the product. And that's not the end, though. The apostle shows a chain. Take a look at the passage. We're getting ready to move into the next Verse, notice how he says, knowing, this is what you need to know. You need to know if you want to count it all joy, if you want to express your faith in the midst of affliction. No, you need to know that that your faith, the nature of your faith is that it's a testing and that it produces the product of it is patience, and this is what patience is Patience is. And then he goes on, and there's another chaining. It doesn't stop. He says in verse four, but you need to let that patience keep going and have its perfect work. Now let's talk about that for a minute. This is not it. The apostle sows a chain. The testing of our faith is onto patience, but patience has another effect. And this is the third point: a maturity exhorted. Patience moves in degrees. Now, let patience have its perfect work, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking nothing. Now you do need to know that this is a curious phrase and it's somewhat ambiguous, and so it could have two different meanings, but the two meanings are not contradictory, so they could both stand together. And I really don't need to make a decision between the two because of that I actually think that both would apply here. Some take it to mean that you should keep your patience all the way to the end of the trial. So here's the affliction. We don't know how long it's going to be, but you're starting at point A and it's going to end at point B. Keep your patience until point B. Let it do its perfect work. Let it go all the way to the end. That's not one way that you can read this. Another way is you could say you could interpret this patient's as being, and I want you to write this down if you can, or log it away in the brain or remind each other over dinner, really important concept here that has been lost in the church. This is a perfecting grace. Patience is a perfecting grace of the suffering Christian. A perfecting grace is very, very special. We really need to get our heads around this When we reformed from Roman Catholicism, we threw the baby out with the bathwater. Which means you threw something out that shouldn't have been thrown out. It was really special. Babies are special, you don't throw them out with the bathwater, you know That. Okay, that they're human beings have value. And we've done that with perfecting grace. A perfecting grace is a grace that must be present for the acting of all other graces. In order for you, in other words, they call it this because in order for you to become perfect in holiness, and I know that that won't happen until glory, but in order for you to progress in the perfection of holiness, you must have patience. If it's gone, no other virtue will happen. And so it's called a perfecting grace. What a beautiful way to put that. Just here, get your head around it like this, you Marylanders. In Maryland, some say that the perfecting ingredient of seafood is O Bay. Wow. You actually got an amen on the now instead of the other parts. Really? Wow. If old bay is absent, then so too are all the virtues of crabs or shrimp or whatever Now, I want you to confirm this with your own experience: that patience is in fact the production of the testing of your faith and that it's a perfecting grace. Confirm this in your own experience. What happens when you lose your patience? What virtues can remain? Tell me that's not beautiful what God is doing here. Do you start to feel, do you see the power of why you could have joy as a Christian? You see what God is doing? This is really special, what James is revealing to us. If you are impatient with your children, is love expressed? If you lose patience, can you love? If you lose patience, can you give kindness? If you lose patience, can you thoughtfully listen to your wife or your husband? It's not it it's really not possible. Uh however if you keep patience, isn't the environment and the atmosphere suitable for the budding of love and trust and kindness? I've been trying to practice that. by God's grace, to just have patience. And my relationship with my children is really growing just by focusing on this perfecting grace. A full Christian maturity forms when patience is present. That's what he's saying here in the passage. Look at the passage again. If you But let patience have its perfect work that you may be perfect and complete, lacking nothing. This is the place that you have to keep in order to grow into everything. That is to say, lack nothing. And be perfect in holiness. This is the end. The end of our affliction is perfect maturity, preparing us For complete holiness and glory. Christians should rejoice in trials because God has designed trials to produce maturity. And you understand the dynamic that actually is going on there now because of our study in James. Now let me end with this. The application is straightforward here. I'm not going to take a long time on this. Stop misjudging your trials. As a Christian, they are for growth and patience, and with patience, all the virtues of Christian character. You have been begging to be this kind of person and he's saying you need afflictions to get there. Take joy. He's seeking to make you into the person you've always wanted to be, but it will be through pain. It'll be through all various trials and temptations. Let's end with Romans 5, 3 through 4. And not only that, but we also glory in tribulations, knowing that tribulation produces perseverance, fortitude, or patience, and perseverance, fortitude, or patience. Makes character. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for preparing us to be able to live as pilgrims in this world and to move towards glory hereafter. We ask, Lord, that you would sink these truths deep within us, that we would have faith in these reasons that you've given to us, that we'd have faith that you are testing. That you are doing it for particular reasons and that it ends with certain products. Give us faith in that and let our faith express itself in joy, even in the midst of trial. Help us to obey this command strictly Spirit. We ask in Christ's name, Amen