With me to the Gospel of Luke. Our reading this morning is from verse 39 to 56. Beginning in verse 39. Now Mary arose in those days and went into the hill country with haste to the city of Judah, a city of Judah, and entered the house of Zacharias and greeted Elizabeth. And it happened when Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary that the babe leaped in her womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit. Then she spoke out with a loud voice and said, Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb. But why is this granted to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me? For indeed, as soon as the voice of your greeting sounded in my ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy Blessed is she who believed, for there will be a fulfillment of those things which were told her from the Lord. And Mary said, My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior, for He has regarded the lowly estate of His maidservant. For behold, henceforth all generations will call me blessed. For he who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name, and his mercy is on those who fear him from generation to generation. He has shown strength as his arm. He has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. He has put down the mighty from their thrones and exalted the lowly. He has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent away empty. He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy, as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his seed forever. And Mary remained with her about three months and returned to her house. Let us pray. Lord God, we thank you for the inspiration of this song here, this early hymn of praise, the Magnificat. We pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that this would be our song. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Well, those of you who missed last week's sermon, you missed a profound message. The summary was, chill out. Take a deep breath. Relax. Be at peace. And the fuller message was that we can be at peace because the royal Davidic Son is our priest and king. And we can be at peace because the royal Davidic Son is our prophet. The only Redeemer is the Lord Jesus Christ, who being the eternal Son of God, became man. Well, we move from such teaching now into more teaching, from the annunciation of Jesus or the announcement of his birth to the magnificent of Mary. I want to begin with a few observations as normal, and then we'll move into a time of application, which is really just one this morning. One application. It's the same drum we've been beating on for about two years. So, observation number one from this section of the scriptures. In verse 46, Mary says, My soul magnifies the Lord. You can see, therefore, why this section is historically and traditionally called the Magnificat of Mary. It should be formatted in your Bibles. When you look down at your Bible, it should be formatted as poetry, is it? Yeah, it's it's formatted in poetry because this is more accurately a hymn of praise or a psalm or song. Simply put, before you is an enscripturated song preserved for all of the church to sing concerning the good news of Jesus the Christ. That's the first observation, is that we have a song in front of us. Observation number two. Please notice that this once again establishes our framework from 1 Samuel. If you want to read the beginning of Luke well. You have to read it in light of the beginning of First Samuel. It's moving along at the same pace with the same points After Samuel is born, for example, the scriptures record a song from Hannah with the same basic content that we see in Mary's song. Now we went through that. I I read that during the confession of sin, and you can see the alternating, I'm going to take the low and make them high, and I'm going to make the high low It's the same thing that's going on within Mary's song. It's what happens when the king arrives and there is judgment. He puts the world back in order. That's the main points of the songs, the main point of the songs, and therefore they're taking great joy in that ordered reality that they're getting ready to experience. Both women, in other words, are praising God for the sending of the Christ to set the world to rights. In the case of Hannah, it was the world of Israel that would be cleaned up and the rebels removed. In the past, we talked about this as there is a new sheriff in town. In the case of Mary, Jesus the Christ, beginning with the church, would bring order and will bring order to this entire creation. That's observation number two. Now, observation number three. In fact, as has already been revealed by the fact that this is a judgment strong The emphasis in Mary's song is on Jesus as king. Now I didn't get a chance to get to Jesus as king last week in the annunciation of his birth. But I could not not get to it this week because it is all over the place. Luke 1:51 through 53 is part of your reading this morning. Listen to this language. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts He has put down the mighty from their thrones and exalted the lowly. He has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent away empty. What you have before you is a good king. And this is another way of me saying, perhaps to the sadness of some of you who want to keep ignoring me, this song is especially political. Really, if you are honest, Mary's song is seditious or rebellious against the current group of leaders running Jerusalem And that will start to play out throughout Luke, where Christ Himself will be charged with sedition. It is no mistake, therefore, that Christians, especially in Latin America, under corrupt church and civil leaders have used this specific songs in the writing of their dissertations and in the chance of public squares to capture the heart of their concerns and the hopes for justice. As one author has said, Mary, a young girl remembered by the tradition as meek and mild, sings a song of uprising. We are apt to miss it because of the beautiful choral settings in which we are accustomed to hearing it, but Mary's song, known in the tradition as the Magnificat. anticipates the overthrow of the social structure and the overturning of systems of exploitation. Hallelujah That's observation number three. Observation number four. Now, I do have to say that in Latin America, Mary's song is often used to fund what is called liberation theology, and I'm not on board with all that. They use it, therefore, sometimes in an abuse. But just because somebody abuses something doesn't mean that there is a right usage. There is a right usage. And to see the right usage, we need to back out a little bit and see the bigger picture of what's going on within this song. The language in her song is language picked up, especially verse 51 from the Exodus. You can notice this in the ARM language. Exodus 6, 6 through 8 is just one example. You can also go to Exodus 15, which is the great warrior song, and you can see the same kind of language there. And then notice, of course, arm and hand relative to all that we learned in the Act series, which we'll get back to after Christmas. Here's Exodus 6, 6 through 8. Therefore say to the children of Israel, I am the Lord. I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians. I will rescue you from their bondage, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm. And with great judgments. I will take you as my people, and I will be your God. You see that New Testament promise. Then you shall know that I am the Lord your God, who brings you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians And I will bring you into the land which I swore to give Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and I will give it to you as a heritage. I am the Lord. You notice furthermore that Abraham language there at the end is also present in Mary's song. She connects this to the Abrahamic covenant and the promises given to him. You can see that Mary has incorporated all of this history in the understanding of herself, the understanding of the coming Christ. That's observation four, is we have got to turn back to the Exodus to make sure we use these things correctly. And when we do, though what I have given to you are many observations, lots of instruction this morning Well, you end up with a basic message that you have, in fact, heard before. Let me give you a little bit of a summary and then I'll try to boil it down into a sentence. This is a vision of what Christ is doing, in fact, now in his ascension and will complete upon his return. The whole world has been kept in bondage under the cruelty of Satan and his corrupt children on earth Christ begins to break that captivity with the sending of His Word and His Spirit to each nation. When Christ returns as King, he will finish the work of exodusing this entire creation from bondage and decay into liberation and incorruption. That is a basic gospel message focused on Christ as King. And we could summarize it just like this. Christ as the King subdues his church to himself. He rules and he defends us. And he restrains and he conquers all of his enemies and all of our enemies. Let me say it to you one more time. Those of you who have memorized a shorter catechism, you already got this one Because I'm just repeating the shorter catechism in a kind of paraphrase. Christ as the king subdues his church to himself, he rules and defends us, and he restrains and conquers all his and our enemies And Mary understood that, and the only way that she could express herself in light of such news is to sing a song of exaltation. And of joy and of rejoicing. That is the reality that is before you in this song this morning. Now I have one application point that I want to ham continue hammering home with us. And the title of this application point is Subdued for Joy. We're really focused on the church at this point and how the Christ comes and reforms his church first and foremost. That's been the lesson of the beginning of Luke. So we're going to stick with the church this morning. You'll notice in the doctrine, Christ as the king, subdues the church to himself. Well, we're just going to talk about that part of his kingship. And that we are subdued for joy. One way which Christ executes the office of a king Is by subduing his people to his will. Once we are subdued and resigned to his desires, even just a little, What Christ does in his prudence is he begins to gather people, the elect from the world, into his church, that they might be made more and more mature in him. And therefore, we may say that take that universal kind of statement and make it more particular to us here at Severn Run. Christ will gather as we are subdued and resigned to his desires at Severn Run Christ will gather people to us for discipleship and transformation throughout Antareno County. This, my friends, will bring great joy We will sing our own magnificants, watching the strong arm of the Lord in our area. Let me repeat the point. To have joy, we must first be subdued. We are subdued to joy. Judgment begins in the church. This is why. This is why we have to keep saying this. Because if judgment does not begin in the church and we are not subdued to his will, if Christ gathers people from the world into the church, they are just gathered. from one lie to another more socially acceptable lie. They must be gathered from one world into a different world. And the different world is formed by way of the subjugation of our wills and its resignation to God's will. May his will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Now, since I you know have the pulpit all to myself this morning, I'm going to take this opportunity to share with us once again the main way that Christ has been working on us. wherein our wills need to be subdued. And it is this. It's an oldie, but a goody. Personal peace and affluence Some of you like to talk about idolatry as a kind of model to understand your life? Guess what the modern church's main idol is? Personal peace and affluence. Let me define these terms for you. Personal peace means just to be let alone. Not to be troubled by the troubles of other people, whether across the world or across the city, to live one's life with minimal possibilities of being personally disturbed. Personal peace means wanting to have my personal life pattern undisturbed in my lifetime, regardless of what the result will be in the lifetimes of my children and grandchildren. These are all quotes from Francis Schaefer. Affluence means an overwhelming and increasing prosperity. A life made up of things, things, and more things, a success judged by an ever higher level of material abundance. Those are the two main problems. Listen, I'm just going to get right to the point. Those are your two main problems. Those are my two main problems that Christ is working on us with. And I know that after saying those definitions, you're thinking, I don't really fit that picture, which is so funny. So let me give you a couple practical examples so that we can begin to see that this is really happening among us, and it's one of the lessons that we're supposed to be learning from COVID. Let me share practically with you how this plays out. When I give you these examples, I don't have you in mind I I'm not thinking of anybody in particular. For example, when I mention uh counseling, a husband and a wife, it's not you. You're not the example A husband and a wife, let's just take this hypothetical example for me, because I think it gets at the reality. A husband and a wife will come to me as a pastor with marriage problems. And they want the problems fixed, right? No-brainer. We have a problem here. Fix it. Now let's say that out of God's goodness, He shines down on us. And we fixed the problem. I'm going to ask you: what's the result? What did we gain from the situation being fixed? I'll tell you what we gained. It was what they were after the whole time. They just wanted to be undisturbed by their marriage problems so they could move back into personal peace. A mother and father will come to me with their children. Let's say we fix the kid. Why did we fix them? What's the result? What's the goal? What's the aim? What's the target? We just want to be left undisturbed and returned to our personal peace. These are the goals that all of us set. But existing the way that we exist, we still sometimes can't even see the problem with what I have said. There is a problem with that way of looking at things. In both cases, the end goal for the husband and the wife, for the mother and the father, is personal peace. There is nothing beyond being undisturbed. When the end goal, in fact, according to Christ ought to be the good works that He has created for you to do in all of your various realms of life. Let me put it this way. If someone comes to you and they say, Help my marriage, we're sick. Help my children, they are sick. You should ask this question. Why would I want to do that? I see that you are sick, but what will you do when you become healthy? If Christ through me strengthens you, what will you do with the strength, Christian? They may not say it with their mouth, but functionally, nine times out of ten, modern Christians just want to move back to an undisturbed state of being. It is the ultimate goal and good of the Christian's life. Now that's an overgeneralization. And I know that Christ is working on all of us, but I'm trying to speak in clear terms so that we can see the problem. And not get into nuances. Now, when I end up saying something like that, and this is not a new message, I keep beating on this drum over and over again because it is the main problem. I will share with you that I am more concerned about your personal peace and affluence than I am about you becoming a communist. But when I say this, undoubtedly, this reminder this morning is met with defense in our hearts. The defense will at least be this. Well, I'll hear it this morning, and then I'm not going to think about it for the rest of the day. I won't actually do any kind of self-evaluation And then, if you get a chance to get some separation from the immediacy of these words that I'm preaching, you'll start to raise some questions like this. Well, isn't it good to have a healthy marriage? Isn't it good to have healthy children? And of course, the answer is yes. But this is where we have been catechized by the world around us. Marriage and family in the kingdom of Jesus Christ, where Christ is King, is not an end in itself. They are God-given institutions which are meant for the health of society. We can say the exact same thing. for other institutions that are given for the health of society, for example, widowhood and singleness. Both are societal situations or institutions. All of these are institutions under God's providence wherein people are to be served. God gives you those states of life for the sake of others, for the service of others. The way that we have talked about this in the past as the church is by way of the image of a pyramid And it's something that I offer to you for the sake of your continuing repentance, and my continuing repentance Through the Spirit, we are strengthened at the bottom level of the pyramid in ourselves. Strengthened, defined by Christ. And that strength is then to be joined in our strength into a family. And that family, by way of the Spirit, is to be strengthening the church. And the church, by way of the Spirit, is to strengthen by way of the gathering and the transformation of the elect in Anorano County. We are to strengthen Andronal County in that specific way. That is how Christ's kingdom is set up, in contrast to a kingdom that has set its ultimate good. On personal peace and affluence. It is a different vision of how the world runs. It is a different vision for the target and aims for all of your actions. If you were going to add, let me just add another one here. If you're going to add an addition to your house, why is that a good work under the reign of Christ? I'm telling you right now, it is not a good work under the reign of Christ if you're just creating another den for your personal peace and your affluence. These things must be added to our lives for higher goods. Here's a summary of the message There's two main things that we've been learning in COVID. The first one is this. Safety is not first. There are more important things than your safety. And here's a second. Personal peace and affluence is not first. There are things that are more important than your comfort. And that's a tough teaching because it is a teaching where we are struggling. I want you to have a a little Okay, smile for a second. Relax, people. Come on, this is good news. The Lord Christ is leading us into victory. Smile, for goodness sakes. I want you to imagine with me. I don't have a joke to make you smile, so you're just going to have to fake it here. Imagine that we have to start over again. We're going to have a clean slate, okay? All of you this morning have shown up for the uh and we have created a rule. Brad and I, we got together and some other elders, there was a quorum And we decided that everybody has to be reevaluated to enter into the Lord's Supper. In order to be admitted, you must in fact demonstrate that you understand and receive who God is and what he is doing with this world. Check. But you also have to do this. You must give what we call a practical Christian testimony. You must share with us the evidences that you are living a spirit-led life. What would you say to the elders to demonstrate that you took the pyramid seriously and are using all of your strength? to move it to the top, where we can be a witness and a light to the whole world. What would be the specific things that you would say? Can you give examples of how you use your God-given strength to do God's will in the family, for example? Could you demonstrate how you use your strength in the family that the family then might be stronger for the larger family of Christ's church? Could you give evidence of how your life equips the church to be a light to the world? Whatever the answer, and I know that we all have different answers, and sometimes I I know because Christ is working in your life. Christian, that the answer is yeah, I have some evidences to share with you, and praise be to God for the strong arm of the Lord and that He is creating good works in your life. But there is still some work to be done. And as we do the work, we will be subdued to joy. We must take our teaching this morning seriously. Christ as the King Subdues his church to himself, he rules and defends us, and he restrains and conquers all his and our enemies. One way which Christ executes the office of a king is by subduing his people to his will. Once we are subdued and resigned to his desires, even just a little. Even just a little, Christ will gather people to us for discipleship and transformation throughout Anne Reno County. And it is already beginning. This will bring great joy, and we will sing our own magnificats, watching the strong arm of the Lord in our area. Let us pray. Father, what we're discovering again is the disorder that we can slide back into where we have our goods wrongly ordered Lord, for many, many years you have communicated this to your saints with the language of inordinate desires and goods. It is a life, a moral ecosystem which doesn't have first things first. Lord, we ask that you would continue to order our lives from the chaos. I pray that you would protect us from the evil one and how he persuades and convinces us that our lives should be ordered as the world says it should be ordered. But Lord, that's wrong. Our end goal cannot be our personal peace and our affluence, and to remain in an undisturbed state of being, and to live off of the adrenaline we receive When someone notices our status based upon our material possessions. Lord, there must be more for human beings. There must be more to the good life. I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would honor the efforts of the people in this room. There are many parents and teachers. who put so much time into their children and their students or their grandchildren. And Lord, sometimes it is just recycled into a consumeristic, personal, affluent, and peace system. We pray instead something so much more for our children. We pray that you would raise them up, that they would be strong, to offer sacrificial service in your name, that they would be like you. That they would enter into their humility and in humility of service be exalted. And may they exalt your name. We ask these things in your name. Amen.