Good morning, everyone. It's great to see you all. If you can please try to scoot towards the center so the folks coming in, we still have an RTX full. We're here to celebrate our God and the great work he's doing through his son, especially in his creation. among us. And one way in which we are able to celebrate that on the Lord's Day is by remembering the great visitation that we have received, which is God becoming man. It is with him that he brings us hope and he brings us peace, as we have seen in the past two Sundays. And this Sunday, our focus is the joy that God the Father brings through his Son and His Spirit. Oh God. And please rise for our introductory prayer or invocation and call to worship. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you have called us to yourself. A great light has appeared, and it is your Son Himself. God become man. Oh, we thank you, Christ, for gathering us as your children, forming your great city, as the beginnings of your kingdom. Begin here on earth, just as they have been decreed in heaven, and we see it spreading from nation to nation. O Lord Christ, lead us in your worship this morning. Give us songs to sing that are prayers to you for your second coming. your great day of justice and reconciliation. Give us prayers of praises, or we can praise your mighty acts in anticipation. of your mighty acts in the future and even in our lives today. Oh Lord God, do not let us leave with a dwindled faith, but a robust faith. Don't let us leave without joice, but may we be rejoicing in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Your call to worship this morning is from Psalm 34. I bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul shall make its boast in the Lord. The humble shall hear of it and be glad. Oh, magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together. I sought the Lord, and he heard me and delivered me from all my fears. They looked to him and were radiant, and their faces were not ashamed This poor man cried out, and the Lord heard him and saved him out of all his troubles. The angel of the Lord encamps all around those who fear him. And delivers them. Amen. Let us sing together how great our joy. Well I see we want to have night, but that's why he's drawn the angel right, I'll bring our joy Praise the joy, joy, joy, joy, joy, joy, joy, praise be the morning beath on the blind Where shall we born so easy? In Bethlehem, I told you today of great enjoy, great enjoy. Joy, joy, joy, joy, joy, joy. Praise be the Lord in dead on my. Praise be the Lord in dead on eye. There's no, there's no great joy, great joy. Joy, joy, joy, joy, joy, joy, praise me the Lord in men on eye, praise me the joy in men on eye. Is it but I will dare it well, and ever joy your heart shall break our joy, great joy. Joy, joy, joy, joy, joy, joy, praise be the Lord in every Amen. Let's continue by beholding our Christ. And Gary, I do have uh seats over here on the right if you need them. And Hannah prayed and said, My heart rejoices in the Lord. My horn is exalted in the Lord. I smile at my enemies, because I rejoice in your salvation. No one is holy like the Lord, for there is none beside you, nor is there any rock like our God. Talk no more so very proudly. Let no arrogance come from your mouth, for the Lord is the God of knowledge, and by him actions are weighed. The bows of the mighty men are broken, and those who stumble are girded with strength. Those who were full have hired themselves out for bread, and the hungry have ceased to hunger Even the baron has borne seven, and she who has many children has become feeble. The Lord kills and makes alive. He brings down to the grave and brings up. The Lord makes poor and makes rich. He brings low and lifts up. He raises the poor from the dust and lifts the beggar from the ash heap. to set them among princes and make them inherit the throne of glory. For the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and he has set the world upon them. He will guard the feet of his saints But the wicked shall be silent in darkness. For by strength no man shall prevail. The adversaries of the Lord shall be broken in pieces. From heaven he will thunder against them. The Lord will judge the ends of the earth. He will give strength to his king and exalt the horn of his anointed. Then Elfkanah went to his house as Ramah, but the child ministered to the Lord before Eli, the priest. Behold, truly your Christ. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Christ, we see here in this song, but a foretaste of your kingship, your priesthood, your prophetic office. O Lord, you prophesy to us through your word. O Lord, you work with us in your providence. You have taught us in your word that it is a good thing to come before you in the midst of the saints. After the call of worship to acknowledge our sins before you, Lord, we pray that you would use our elder this morning. as your instrument to bring us to a real acknowledgement of our sin. O Lord, as a good judge Take those things that are hidden in the darkness that kill, bring them out into the light and kill them that we might have life. We ask these things in the name of Christ. Amen. May be seated. Good morning, brothers and sisters. As we continue with our focus on that great visitation, the Lord taking on human flesh and dwelling among us. For our time of confession, I'd like for us to think about God's power expressed in the incarnation. I think one thing that characterizes our cultural moment in the West is a suspicion of power. Almost every category and norm is treated with suspicion as an expression of raw, arbitrary power. That's why we even to attempt a definition of something as basic as male and female is viewed as an attempt to oppress or harm someone else And sadly, this suspicion has crept uh even into the church. I'm sure you're familiar with many stories of uh of those who have been raised in the church, who have left. and are now uh deconstructing uh their own upbringing. And this should cause us great uh alarm. What should we do uh in response to this suspicion? It's not enough to critique it. We have to ask ourselves, how have we abused the power that God has given us? Certainly, there is plenty of evidence in history of the abuse of power, not just in the world, but in the church and among its leaders and members. I think a good way to think about and examine our ourselves and the power that we have is to look at our Lord in the incarnation. Let's look at Philippians chapter 2, where we see an example of Christ's mind revealed in the incarnation. I'm going to read from verses 3 through 8. Philippians two verses three through eight. Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit. But in humility, count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped But emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death. Even death on a cross. The incarnation gives us a clearer picture of the heart of God. The one who is transcendent and all-powerful humbles himself and uses his power in meekness. We are not called to give up the powers that God has given to us. Not even Christ laid down his powers. If you remember his rebuke to the disciples in Matthew chapter 26, he said, Do you not think that I can appeal to my Father, and he will at once send me more than twelve legions of angels? But how then should the scriptures be fulfilled that it must be so? Christ's weakness was not a sign of being powerless. Rather, he used his divine power in humility for us and for our salvation. So the challenge to us is what not that we should give up the power we have, but how are we using the power that God has given to us? Are we using our power for self-advancement to pursue our own interests at the expense of others, striving to outdo others? Or are we using our strength to serve God and to serve his people? As we pray, I will first pray a corporate prayer of confession and leave you a time of silence for individual prayer. Please pray with me. Almighty God, out of your deep love for your creation And for mankind, you humbled yourself in the person of Jesus Christ. You took on human flesh in the womb of the Virgin Mary. It is not unfitting to attribute this humble birth to the very Son of God, equal to the Father It is most fitting because it reveals your great self-humbling love. You Did not lay aside your divine power, but rather you emptied yourself for us. You took the form of a servant. You were born in the likeness of men. You humbled yourself, becoming obedient to the point of death, even death, on a cross. And if our Lord, the Lord of glory, humbled himself, What can we do but have the same humble love and use our own power, not for self, but for your kingdom and your people? But Lord, we confess, we confess this morning that we continue to struggle with the love of self. We struggle with using our power to lord over others, treating others as tools and instruments for our own gain. We so often abuse uh the power that we have as fathers, as mothers As sons and daughters, as brothers and sisters, Lord, to each of these you have given a measure of strength and power. But Lord, we so often uh fail to use it in an appropriate way. Lord, forgive us. Forgive us not for any good in us. Forgive us for the sake of your Son, Jesus Christ. His perfect righteousness. Lord, by the power of your Holy Spirit, help us to put to death. The sin that resides in us, work in us, Lord, that same mind that was in Jesus Christ, the mind of humility. Grant us, Lord, to walk together in meekness and love and service to one another. Father, we thank you that we can come before your throne with confidence. We see your heart displayed in the beauty. Of your own humiliation in the person of Jesus Christ. And it's in His name that we pray. Amen. Please hear this assurance of pardon taken from Psalm 34. Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivers him out of them all. He guards all his bones, not one of them is broken. Evil shall slay the wicked, and those who hate the righteous shall be condemned. The Lord redeems the soul of his servants, and none of those who trust in him shall be condemned. Please stand and let's sing a hymn of response to this assurance, Angels we have heard on high. Hymn number two And nothing walking with something not it's time to make things out of the through. Israel be alive, sweet is singing for the place, and the mountains in the fight Echo back the voice. Shabbat while this you're joy and strains for long. Stay what they Which is by your hand is not so Come to that, whose birthday name was sing of war on death Christ love you. Let us sing the doxology as the usher comes forward with the tithes and offerings. Raising all the host Father, one of the strengths, uh the powers that you give uh to your people is um economic power uh through the money that you provide. Lord we humbly uh sacrifice some of this back to you and ask Lord that you would bless it uh for the good of others. May it further your kingdom. May we see more and more of our community and county, bow the knee and Confess the Lord Jesus Christ. Glory me to the father and to the son and to no longer. And what is not even shall be. We now have a lovely time where we are able to witness uh the instituted sign and seal, one of them, that Christ has given his church to mark the members of the visible church. And so I call upon the Hudson family to come on up with Eowyn Marset Hudson and anybody you want to bring. I I might want to limit it. I know you could But I'm not gonna yeah, that's not mandatory. Whatever you want to do. Jimmy and Alyssa, it's good to see your growing family. It's a blessing from the Lord. I think uh Nick wants to yeah, push him. Yeah, there you go. Great. So that everybody can see. I just have a few words and then some uh vowels uh for both of you. This is a good opportunity to just make sure we all understand what Christ is doing in his kingdom when we when we go to baptism like this. Baptism is instituted by the Lord Jesus Christ. This isn't something we just came up with because we thought it was cool. Jesus Christ institutes this by his authority. It is in fact a seal of the covenant of grace. And it is a sign. Both of these, the sign and the seal are meant to communicate things to us. You're going to see all kinds of symbolic uh actions going on. And you want to look for the meaning to which it points. It points to our engrafting into Jesus Christ. If you search the scriptures, you see that baptism points to our union with Jesus Christ, the remission of our sins. Our regeneration, our adoption, life eternal. In fact, the water in baptism represents and signifies both the blood of Jesus Christ, which takes away all the guilt of sin, original and actual, and the sanctifying virtue of the Spirit of Christ against the dominion of sin, which is why we love sprinkling here to show that sign of the spirit coming down and bringing new life. What is surprising to some is that this is being applied to Eowyn this morning. But we do so because we believe the scriptures teach that the promise is not only made to Jimmy and Alyssa, but to their children. And that there is a great benefit to this child in being born into this family. She enters into a membership with us and will have great privileges in growing up in this family. city in the city of God. And may the men and the women protect her. We also believe that when we give this sign and this seal, that we stand here in hope. Just because I apply the water to this baby does not mean that Aowin is a believer. There will come a time at the age of discretion based upon the foundation of the discipleship of this family and of you, where our hope is that Eowyn would make a profession of faith And all that we see symbolized here today will be actually applied to her in the name of Jesus Christ. That is the true scriptural position of baptism, which is why Eowyn is here today. And it's beautiful. What a privilege she has. As her believing parents, I have um just want to read the covenant promises to you again. So important. So hear the promise and then also uh pose a a few qual uh questions to you and then to the congregation. We doing okay? Am I taking too long? No, okay, great. You boys are doing great. For to you is the promise, and to your children, to all that are far off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call on to him. And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your seed after you throughout their generation, for an everlasting covenant, to be a God unto you and to your seed after you. Believe on the Lord Jesus. And you will be saved, you and your house. Acts 2. 39, Genesis 17. 7, and Acts 16. 31. Now, Jimmy and Alyssa, do you acknowledge your child's need of the cleansing blood of Jesus Christ and the renewing grace of the Holy Spirit? Amen. Do you claim God's covenant promises in her behalf? And do you look in faith to the Lord Jesus Christ for her salvation as you do for your own? Amen. Do you now unreservedly dedicate your child to God and promise, in humble reliance upon divine grace, that you will endeavor to set before her a godly example That you will pray with and for her, and that you will teach her the doctrines of our holy religion, and that you will strive by all the means of God's appointment to bring her up in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. Amen. And ask the members of Severn Run to please stand for your vow. Our declaration here is this is a covenant child, which means you have responsibility. And so I ask you the following question and you may respond, by God's grace we do. Do you as a congregation undertake the responsibility of assisting these parents in the Christian nurture of this child? By God's grace be to you. Amen. You may be seeing I'm gonna pray. Lord, these are dumb signs and seals unless you give us faith. We pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would help us to see not just that sign, but which that which it signifies. And we pray and our hope is in you, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would bring the reality of these signs Unto Eowyn Marsette Hudson, that she would in fact be a woman after your heart, a woman of God. In the name of Christ, amen. Amen. All right. Perfect. Whoa whoa. Hello. Oh well What do you think? Every time I just have to say, Holly No evening service. Just kidding. Sorry. Hello beautiful. Uh what name have you given this child? Amen. Oh, you're smiling at me. Eowyn Marset Hudson, I baptize you in the name of the Father. And of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. Oh, Amen. Your turn. You wanna come over and press? Is the shepherding on it? You are? Come on over and pray. Yeah. One of you both pray. Our Lord and our God, we are um in awe of what it is that uh that you are doing in our lives. Here right now we we recognize um your awesome grace and mercy Upon your creation. We recognize Aaron as a member of this covenant community. And we thank you for these promises and pray, Lord, that you would give us eyes to see how it is that you continue to work out your salvation in those who love you and fear you. We pray, Father, that you would bless both Jimmy and Alyssa as they seek to guide this family that you have given them, this responsibility, this duty. in amazing ways, guard them, Lord, against any manner of evil that um that may seek to crouch in. And Lord, just guard this beautiful child's heart Lord, as we see her blossom into the woman that you would have her be. Our Father in heaven, we acknowledge your greatness. Your sovereignty. We know that it is at the behest of many prayers that you have answered. That Jimmy and Alyssa are here today, for you have brought them through various trials and difficulties of their own life to bring you. Into their life. And God, we pray the very same thing for all of these children, and especially for Aylam, that we would never cease from praying for their salvation. That we will never be weary of begging you to intervene in their life. And we pray, God, that you will make this little one as her namesake. May she stand up to wickedness and to evil. May she shine forth as a light in this world. May she be joyful in her service to you. Even as of Lee Bay. We pray God for your great blessings on the Hudson and ask that you will continue to give us eyes to see how you are working. In all of our lives. We praise you. We worship you. We glorify you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. All right. Do you hold her little lamb? How many more times do you do that? No, he does not. You want to hold her lamb? No, you do not. Let's go ahead and uh we can dismiss those who are three and under and and uh we'll also stand for the reading of God's Word. Oh we do. I'm sorry. Let's stand and I think a perfect idea right now I'm gonna call an audible. We're gonna just sing a song. Let's stand and sing our baptism song. Our Father is heaven, we sing for your grace, pouring your great wisdom through your merciless grace. You made for this family one precious to you, and in your great love man made us for them too. In birthday, we bless you, our power and more, and now we all agree. Thus I love your people and may thou be sold, direct by your spirit, always your nose Give this blessed daughter what she truly needs, to love you in favor deadly. May she hope in Jesus, your holy true son. May you be gloried by through her prediction. Amen. Let's open our scriptures together to Luke chapter one. And our reading this morning is thirty-nine through fifty-six. Beginning in verse thirty-nine. Now Mary arose in those days and went into the hill country with haste to a city of Judah. And entered the house of Zacharias and greeted Elizabeth. And it happened, when Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary, that the babe leaped in her womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit. Then she spoke out with a loud voice and said, Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb But why is this granted to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me? For indeed, as soon as the voice of your greeting sounded in my ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy. Blessed is she who believed, for there will be a fulfillment of those things which were told her from the Lord. And Mary said, My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit has rejoiced in God, my Savior, for He has regarded the lowly estate of his maidservants. For behold, henceforth all generations will call me blessed. For he who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name, and his mercy is on those who fear him from generation to generation. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. He has put down the mighty from their thrones and exalted the lowly. He has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent away empty. He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy. As he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his seed forever. And Mary remained with her about three months and returned to her house. Let us pray. O Christ, we pray by the ministry of your Spirit that you would teach us this morning. We pray, Lord, that even in the midst of difficult things you would give us joy, and that that joy would be expressed in rejoicing. Especially on the Lord's Day. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Last week we learned, well, not just last week, but we acknowledged as a part of our scriptural text and application that the whole world is filled with anxiety. Yet God has come in the flesh as Jesus the King to bring the world peace. Have you entered his peace? The Spirit shows us how. You must take the Lord at His word, and you must resign your will to His will. We must say with Mary, behold the servant of the Lord. Let it be to me according to your word. That is the great profession of the Christian. Well, this morning I have a few observations for you as we move along in our Advent series. And so I'd like you to first notice the first part of our passage. Which is really the meeting. Here we get a kind of bird's eye view of the meeting between Elizabeth and Mary. And the first observation I want to make with this so that we're not just thinking we're supposed to just read history or something without significance. Is that the theological significance of this passage comes out by seeing that at the very least, Luke has written the greeting of Mary and Elizabeth with reference to 2 Samuel chapter 6? That is something you're going to want to keep looking into, to keep keep looking at all of the similarities and how it helps us to see the salient parts. of this passage. Now, what is 2 Samuel 6? 2 Samuel 6 recounts David's recapturing of the Ark of the Covenant, securing God's presence with Israel. If you remember, the Ark of the Covenant was in the Holy of Holies in terms of the tabernacle. It housed at least the Ten Commandments. And this was staged, so to speak, in order to represent that Holy of Holies. If you were to think of the tabernacle, there is a center called the Holy of Holies, and it radiates out into outer courts. Take that picture of seeing it radiating out like the layers of an onion, but pull the center of the onion towards the sky. And not only is it radiating out, but there's a verticality to it, which would be like the top of a mountain going down the mountain. And that is what is meant to be signified here, to represent the mountain of God wherein Moses met with God They have at the center the Ark of the Covenant with the words from God placed within that ark. And it was meant to communicate mostly The reality that God is with them. God's presence. That's why it was so serious for David to recapture it from the Philistines. Now, when you get a chance, take a look through those comparisons in 2 Samuel 6 and what we have here. I'll just go through a few with you. In the days of David, the ark traveled from the north into a town outside of Jerusalem. That is what Mary does. Mary travels from the north to a town outside of Jerusalem. When I looked at the map of the biblical atlas, it looks like she is moving from the same towns, actually. When Mary arrives, she stays with Elizabeth for three months. You can see that in our final verse, verse 56. And in 2 Samuel 6 verse 11, the ark stayed in Obed-Edam for three months. John the Baptist leaps in the presence of the Christ in Mary's womb, verse 41. David leapt in dancing before the ark, 2 Samuel 6, 14. Elizabeth says, but why is this granted to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me? Verse 43 of our passage. David says in 2 Samuel 6. 9, How can the ark of the Lord come to me? And there are more similarities than that. Feel free to go ahead and continue to make the comparison, but I'm saying at the very least we are to read Elizabeth and Mary meeting. With reference to 2 Samuel 6. Now, why would Luke want to do that? Luke makes the connection to 2 Samuel 6 not to make a big deal about Mary. In fact, look at Mary's song for a moment, and Mary herself does not make a big deal about herself. She is singing about God. It is to show instead, and primarily, that the one conceived in her womb by the power of the Holy Spirit is not only man, but God. The virgin is with child and completes the prophecy from Isaiah 7, verse 14. This is what it says in Isaiah. Therefore the Lord Himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son. And shall call his name Emmanuel. Now, does anyone here know what Emmanuel means? God is with us, which is the same point about the Ark of the Covenant. And that's Luke's intent, is for you to see. God is with us. And that brings us to the third thing I want you to notice. And that is I want you to raise the question, as we've been doing through each of the Advent sermons, how is a person supposed to respond to such a reality? God is with us in the person of Christ? Well, undoubtedly, the Spirit shows us through his disciples many ways to respond. We can look at the Gospel of John and respond in wonder and amazement and mystery. But here we are with Luke. How is it that Luke shows us how to respond? Well, he chooses Mary and Elizabeth as authoritative vantage points or readers. We look to them for how to respond. And this shows us how to take these divine realities. Elizabeth, at the very least, shows us that we should respond in joy at the news. of Christ. And Mary funnels her joy into rejoicing by song in verses 46 through 56. And boy, do we have a lot of lessons from that song that we can't go over today. But here are just a few. Number one, in terms of how she responds and how we too should respond, she is a woman of the word And she is evoking dozens of Old Testament passages in this song. I kind of got tired of following all the references. There were so many. She draws upon many psalms, she draws upon many stories, and the interesting thing is as if she's she's calling them all forward. into her presence and she's going to collect them for her song. But the interesting thing about it is that if you listen closely All of the stories, all of the psalms, and her song are speaking one tune or one message. And you can catch that in verses forty f uh fifty-four and fifty-five. He has helped us. Now here's the second part. This is really important for her song and every song. He has helped us just as he spoke to our fathers. You see that? You see, the basic message there is that God is faithful. That God keeps his word. That's the message of every song. This is how the Spirit wants us to see the incarnation of God in Jesus Christ. He wants us to see it as Mary and Elizabeth saw it. It is another witness to a single fact. And that fact is our doctrine this morning. Christians are called to great joy because God is faithful to his promises. If you want to make it as short as possible, God keeps his word. God keeps his word. That's our teaching this morning. And for the sake of just following along, especially the children with your sermon notes, I have a couple points of application I'm going to bring out this morning. The first is the controlling question. The second is the first answer to that question, and the third is the second answer to that question. And that's it. So a question and two answers. We should be able to remember that. A question and two answers. So let's start with the controlling question as we look at this passage and its significance. I want you to think through the first way in which Luke's gospel was meant to benefit the Church. As Luke wrote in his first paragraph, you could flip back a couple pages, or maybe just a single page, and you could see that he is writing to Theophilus. Theophilus, if you read that first introductory paragraph, has already received basic instruction. He went through his catechism class. But Luke writes that Theophilus would not just have basic instruction, but that Theophilus would grow, you look there in that first paragraph, in his certainty. of the basic instruction. Now, there's a you've got to add a little bit of the flavors here to this word certainty. This is not just an intellectual rigor or certainty. If you were to look, for example, at Acts chapter 5, 23 and 1 Thessalonians 5. 3, you'd see the same word used again, but the translation is security and safety. Now that starts to get Theophilos as a full-orbed person. Luke writes to him that he would have security in the gospel, safety in the gospel, conviction about the gospel. Luke, therefore, is not just addressing Theophilus' intellect, but his heart and his will, so that Theophilus would be able to do what we all hope to do, which is to make it to the end. As a loyal follower of Jesus Christ. Now let me ask you then, this is the controlling question. How is Luke meeting that purpose in our passage this morning? How would our passage this morning aid Theophilus and even ourselves to grow in our security, in our courage, and our joy as Christians? Well the first answer is located in the truth of the song. That moves us to our second point. The first answer, answer one. Is the truth of the song is going to be the first answer to that question? How is this supposed to bring us security, certainty, courage, joy? Answer one, the truth of the song. If you looked up every other reference which Mary's song evokes, as I mentioned, you would have a list of at least dozens of other scriptures that she's drawing upon. You would especially see the song of Miriam from Exodus, and Miriam is building her song off of the song of Moses, the horse and his rider have fallen. You would see the song of Hannah, which we read this morning for that very purpose. You'd see many others, and they would all, as I have said, point to one thing: God is faithful. O Saints through the ages, God keeps his word. And Of course, Mary's point here, Luke's point here, the Holy Spirit's point here in showing us the truth. To how this is supposed to bring us security is that the arrival of Jesus is the ultimate example of God keeping his promises. Now, how can I say that? That is quite the claim. Imagine defending that as a thesis statement. Well, the thesis would be over in about 30 seconds, because you just quote 2 Corinthians 1. 20. For all the promises of God in Christ are yes, and in him, amen. To the glory of God through us. 2 Corinthians 1:20. Now you can hear the lesson of Luke now. You could hear him if you listen closely speaking to Theophilus and Christians throughout the ages, which includes yourself. Luke would say something like, Mary's song, Theophilus and Christians through the ages, Mary's song is made up of many of the other songs from the history of God's people. When collected, all the saints are singing the same truth. God keeps his word. I know times are difficult, Theophilus. I know it seems like the gloom and the darkness of evil will never let the sun shine again, but you must keep up your joy. Because God is faithful. Can you not see the reality of Emmanuel? That God is in fact with us. Now, how would our passage this morning aid Theophilus or even ourselves to grow in our security and courage and joy as Christians? It reminds us of the truth of all the songs throughout the scripture that God is faithful and he is with us, especially in Christ Jesus. That is the first answer. Answer number two is the practice of the song. It's not just the truth of the song, it's the practice of the song. We are to look to Mary as an exemplar of how we should be. And now this is Brad's going to love this point because I'm getting ready to tell you all to join the choir. No. The choir of Christ's congregation. How does our passage this morning aid us to grow in our security and courage and joy as Christians? It commends singing. as the basic way in which Christians keep their hearts strong and uplifted. Now you want to ask how. And the answer that we get when we look at the song here that Luke has recorded is that Christians keep their hearts strong from singing by forcing us to look out at our world. in faith. We look out at our world in faith when we sing. You see, when you look at the world in faith, one must sing. It commends singing as the basic way. Notice how Mary's song, let's take a look at this together. Notice how Mary's song looks out at the world not by sight but by faith. Take verse 51, for example. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. Luke 1:51. You could be standing there with Mary as a literalist, and you could say, Where, Mary? At that moment, where has he scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts? When she spoke those words, all the corrupt leaders who still occupied their power. You read the other gospels, they're getting ready to chase Joseph and Mary away. That same thing can be said for the second verse here, 52. Look at 52, it's the same thing. He has put down the mighty from their thrones and exalted the lowly. Oh, really? Just looking around. At that moment, they occupied their thrones. What Mary is doing is she is taking the old songs of God's faithfulness, and she believes so certainly in her heart those songs. that she looks around at the world and she sees the world not by sight but by faith in God's faithfulness She is taking the old songs of God's faithfulness and she is putting them in her song, looking at her present circumstances not by sight but by faith. And that's the second answer. We must not just have the truth of the song. We must sing. We must sing, and we must sing by faith and not by sight. That is one of the differences, I believe, between Christian and secular music. Now, let me ask you. Christian, do you believe that God keeps his word? Well, of course you do, hypothetically. But what about in the rough times? What about the times when it's dark? Then we start to get real. Well, do you believe that God is with us in Jesus Christ, though it be difficult? No matter what your answer is to that, and and all of us should be saying, most of the time, sometimes, Lord, I believe, but please help my unbelief. That's the profession. And with that profession, there is another question, and that is, will you receive the invitation to sing with Mary this morning? When we're in those places of darkness, if I lent you my hand and said, Would you come sing with me? Would you come sing? Would you come to Lord's Day service with me? That's the call on us here. You you s you ask the question, oh, what should I do with the incarnation? Get a philosophy degree? Well, Mary and Luke and the Holy Spirit say, you know what you should start doing? You should sing. You should sing in faith because this is a demonstration, the ultimate demonstration of God's faithfulness. And it lets us know that we can look at the world through the lens of his promises. By sight, I will pronounce to you this morning, by sight, death is prevailing. Have you seen it? Have you seen the shadow of death in your community or your family? Every moment seems to reveal a new way in which God's order and love is rejected. I was severely distracted this morning. I was so burdened by some of the news I've been hearing. One recent example that just has me twisted in knots. Uh because not just because of the single example, but because of the it's another example would be another example. What's that? Yeah, yeah. The canonization of the church. W those of you who are visiting, we have a lot of audience participation. Thank you, Doug. Right, yeah. But there is an accumulation uh that is burdensome. And one recent example, and I'm sure you've heard this already, and I just use it as an example that's representational of a whole movement But one recent example of God's order and love being rejected is the American Grill Dial Company. The American Grill Dial Company has published a book entitled Body Image. And uh one section I actually saw this section in less it was photoshopped in. I saw the book and um it's quote here it it shame it it it um it burdens me to have to quote this Here it is to a ten and under. You can appreciate your body for everything it allows you to experience and still want to change certain things about it. If you haven't gone through puberty yet, the doctor might offer medicine to delay your body's changes, giving you more time to think about your gender identity. Now this one is different for me because These kinds of statements have accumulated enough and I've seen the signs enough in my own life to where as soon as I read that strangely a quote from the Patriot with Mel Gibson came to my mind. I know that's weird. But it did, and this is the quote. Mark my words. This war will be fought not on the frontier or on some distant battlefield, but it will be fought amongst us. It will be fought among our homes. Our children will learn of it with their own eyes. That is what is difficult. The further I get away from seminary, the less hypothetical everything is. And the question ends up being posed before you this morning, Christian, is what are you gonna do? No matter what you do, if it is a positive act of righteousness I tell you the truth right now. I just want to remove the naivety from your mind. If you choose To live up to the prescription given to you in the Shema of God, that you will love God with your heart and you will love your neighbor as yourself, then you will stand up against these things. And I promise you that when you do, you will be punished. You will be persecuted. You are going to suffer. And if you suffer, what will you do? How will you keep the Christian spirit? I would encourage you at this point to look also at Paul, who sang hymns while in prison. What was he doing when he sang those songs? Was he not taking what he sees by sight and putting in lun in front of them the trustworthy lens of God's faithfulness? That he would see everything by faith, even those prison bars. And honestly, I'm telling you that those prison bars are child's play relative to what you might be facing. It is one thing to be thrown into a prison by strangers, it will be another to be rejected by your families, and re you will not be able to see your grandchildren. How will you keep the Christian spirit? That's the argument this morning. How will you continue to believe that God is with us? It may sound trivial to you, but I am telling you. That one of the means that the Holy Spirit is telling you this morning is you must gather on the Lord's day and sing in faith of the world to come. And he will work in convincing you of that very faith of which you say. Did you not notice that in singing this morning the baptism song, that it was a united prayer for Eowyn? We didn't put Eowyn in the song because the song needs to be used for all the children, but she was right there. And it was the same for the other children that came before her. We were united in the proclamation of our prayer and what we want to see the world become, particularly in her, and what she should do in the name of Christ. with her family especially. That's what we're doing here. That's what we're doing here when we're singing. We're not going through the motions. This isn't just a pleasant place to be. I'm not meeting here your urge to be a part of a society and to feel a part of a club. We are proclaiming together the reality that is by faith, that we might march on and not give up. It will be this is the one primary way, or a major primary way in which we even in the face of advancing evil, we'll keep up our faith and even our joy, even in the middle of our songs of lament, which need to happen also. And that makes sense because as our doctrine teaches, Christians are called to great joy. How could you live in joy in a day like today? How is it that I can be here after reading that American Girl doll excerpt and rejoice today? Why is my day not ruined? There was a moment in this worship service when I stopped being distracted. It happened later than I wanted it to. But it was in the second song. And it was started to to cement in me in the doxology and the glory of Patri I started to look even at that situation with the American Girl doll by way of faith. And I believed that Jesus Christ will put an end to these things, that he will protect the little children. Christians are called to great joy because God is faithful to his promises and God keeps his word. Oh boy, do we need to hear that. But brothers and sisters, you need to hear this too. Blessed are you when they revile and persecute you and say all kinds of evil against you falsely for the sake of Jesus Christ. I tell you to rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you Amen. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, we call upon you to continue to sanctify us. This has been going on at least since 2019. You are preparing your church for the work that she must do, the battle that she must face. And, oh Lord, we will not be able to do it if we do not gather on the Lord's Day for song. For the praises of prayer and thanksgiving. We ask, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would more and more make us a singing people. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. Let's stand and we're going to prepare for the supper by singing O come, Ocam, Emmanuel. And I hope that you can think of some of the things we face today through the lens of this song. Do you Oh love, oh loving that you were something that gives me a little bit. And warning on me until the Shelcante Oh god, you can't be able to do that. Oh dear is my own. Jesus me cla so nice. And that's what shall go to life. Shall come to the city. Oh God, yes, we breathe. My old translators of the evil state. Shall come to the city. And open by our hell late home. They take away that. Let's go so to me. We do Come on to be always trying to do it. Oh, come. All people did one with our side from seat. We do Shall come to the Let us give thanks for this table. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for sending your only begotten Son to bring us life. Oh Lord Christ, we thank you that you have instituted this sacrament, that you would be glorified in our communion with you. That we would be more secured in our communion with you. We ask, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would by your Spirit Show us the benefits of your covenant. Lord, take us beyond the bread and the wine, that we might see what they signify. And not only what they signify, but what they mean in reality for us. We ask these things in your name. Amen. This is the table of the Lord Jesus Christ. The word that was just preached stands with the table. that you might understand the meaning of the bread and the wine. Jesus Christ has given this table, let's put it in terms of Luke with Theophilus to secure, to create a greater certainty of the reality of our union with Him, and all that the covenant means. You could summarize it in a word, and it is to strengthen us. You can may summarize it in another word, and that is to glorify him. We are strengthened unto glory. But it is a Christian table. If you are not a Christian here this morning, let this table serve this purpose for you. You are in desperate need of salvation. There could be some here who are not Christian, who heard me read that little section from the American Girl doll book, and as a non-Christian, you may be in touch. with reality to some extent, and you may be disgusted by what you hear. But I tell you the truth, if you do not have Jesus Christ, you will end up in the same place as those who promote that book. Let me ask you, non-Christian, do you hate pedophiles? If you do not repent and turn to Christ in faith, you will be in the same place with those pedophiles. Now is the time. Please speak with me afterward that you might know Christ and his salvation. Speak to these brothers here or a Christian that you respect One that you respect because they're Christian. They follow God at His Word and obey His will. I'm sorry that I have to make that distinction today. In practice, as you see the wine and the bread, please let it pass as a non-Christian. For those of you who have read the scriptures, you know that this um this thought that I'm giving flows out of the warning from 1 Corinthians 11. I'm not just making these things up. 1 Corinthians 11, verse 27 gives a warning that we would eat only in a worthy manner, and you must be discerning to eat in that way. It says this, therefore whoever eats this bread or drinks this cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. For this reason many are weak and sick among you, and many die. For those of you who have been given the gift of faith and make the profession, the good profession of Christ. And this table is for you, and it is the strength in you. And I would recommend that as you look at the broken, as you look at the bread and the wine, That it would first strengthen you in humility. If it were not for Jesus Christ, you would be with the pedophiles too. There is nothing that recommended you to God to where you should be in a different city that has clean streets It is the work of Jesus Christ applied to you. Did you see that baptismal water this morning? Oh Christian, you receive the Spirit just like that. You receive the atoning blood of Christ cleansing you, that you could sit at his table. What a privilege. The second thing I would encourage you toward is to work out your salvation, that you would have the courage. to be broken for God's will as Christ was broken. We are not going to be able to sit by And watch our grandchildren or children be corrupted, you're gonna have to say something. Do not be grouped with the cowards. May Jesus Christ and his sacrament show us that he will give us the courage to be like his prophets who were killed. And may we rejoice in that. Because our reward is in heaven. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, coming to this table is serious business. Entering into a covenant with you is no joke. O Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you have united us to yourself, that we are even communing with you now by way of the Spirit as a sign of that. And I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would seal these things to our hearts. In the name of Christ, amen. Amen. We're going to begin by distributing the bread. I want to point something out to you. I did not just speak hypothetically about God's covenant. That's not how the sacrament flows. You will now receive the bread, which means the covenant goes to you. This is your covenant with God. What we see are all the benefits of the covenant when you receive the bread and you eat of it, it is saying you are a member of this covenant. You are receiving these benefits. Let us be mindful of such things as the brothers hand these things out. The smaller cup is gluten-free bread, and we'll take together as a family after the words of institution have been read. Oh, yeah. Oh yeah, Friends. From very fruits. From the floor. Oh no, she was Oh no, Isn't it glorious that Jesus Christ has distributed the bread to you? For I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you. That the Lord Jesus, on the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread, and when he had given thanks he broke it. And he said, Take, eat, this is my body which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me. O beloved of God, let us take and eat. Oh Lord Jesus Christ, as we see you in Mary's song Oh, it would have been nice as we more and more understood that song that see you out there fighting other things To finally give us a good life. But Lord, those other things had to include our own hearts Lord, we acknowledge that we were guilty before you, dead in transgression and sin. And we thank you, Lord Jesus Christ, that you have done what is necessary to release us from the captivity of the devil. And you have sent us your spirit that we would begin even now to reap the fruits of eternal glory. You have given us eyes to see you in your reality. Lord, as we eat the bread, as we taste the sweetness of it, and acknowledge that it is a life-giving substance for every nation on the earth. We acknowledge that you have given us life in all good ways. Not just when you open your hand with grain that we might have bread. But then when you open your hand and you send your spirit and you illuminate our eyes, that we might have faith and be justified by faith. And how you are now working out in us day after day the good life. We thank you, Lord Jesus Christ. We see your sacrifice and we are thankful. Amen. Well now distribute the cup. And we'll take this together as a family. Please also pay attention to the distribution here. Christ is sending the cup to you that you would have security that you are his child. In this sacrament, therefore, what was declared Is not just true in general. It is true for you. Is your conscience burdened by your sin, O Christian? Without giving up on the fight against sin, let your conscience be soothed by this cup today. For the sin and the guilt. And the wrath of God that is deserving of sin and guilt has been placed upon Jesus Christ. He has given you liberty in forgiveness. There is no condemnation. Conscience, be quiet. Hear Jesus Christ In the same manner he also took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. This do as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death till he comes. Let us take and drink Oh Lord, how appropriate that the wine is both spicy and sweet. For it is a depiction of your wrath, but the sweetness we find in Christ who has taken the wrath. We thank you, Lord, that your sign signifies these realities and you pass the cup to us We are at the table. O Lord Jesus Christ, may we begin to see even our sin by the eyes of faith. We ask these things in the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. Let's stand and we're going to sing our final song in faith. Let's sing it in faith. Joy to the world of joy, and be forgiving. Joy to the earth in the race that What happened, but it'll be the salting dawn freaking freaking but smell He goes to make his birthday so that the curse to He rules the world with truth and grace and makes the nation's fruit. The glory stop, as one of the wonder. All God's people say Amen. Amen. And now receive the Lord's benediction. Now may the God of peace who brought up our Lord Jesus Christ from the dead, that great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant, may he make you complete in every good work to do his will. Working in you what is well pleasing in his sight through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen.