Now, after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east, and have come to worship him. When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. So they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet. But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are not the least among the rulers of Judah, for out of you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. Then Herod, when he had secretly called the wise men, determined from them what time the star appeared, and he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search carefully for the young child. And when you have found him, bring back word to me that I may come and worship him also. When they heard the king, they departed, and behold, the star which they had seen in the east went before them, till it came and stood over where the young child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy. And when they had come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary, his mother. And fell down and worshipped him. And when they had opened their treasures, they presented gifts to him gold, frankincense, and myrrh. Let us pray. O Christ, I pray for your congregation this morning. I pray that you would give them the ability, in both their minds and their hearts, to attend unto you. I pray that they would Find you lovable. I pray that they would find you the one to be worshipped, the center. That which they should orbit around. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. I had the privilege this past week to have a conversation with the rhetoric students here at the academy at the church. um our Academy. And and um I sent out the homework uh by way of the teacher a few days before And they were very surprised about what I wanted to talk to them about because they're officially in high school. I had sent them a handout of a copy of the little golden book by Walt Disney on Pinocchio. Uh and so when I showed up I was curious to think, well, what did they think when they received the homework? Uh one of them said, finally something easy to do. And I proved them wrong on that. Uh and and then I asked uh I ended up opening up with the question of why do you think this story is still around? I don't know if you know, but Pinocchio didn't start with Disney. It was an old Italian story that was circulated uh for a long time. It's been around for quite some time. So I'm it's interesting, you know, if things last. People keep reading them from generation to generation, it's a good idea to figure out why. So I raised the question and uh one student said basically I'm um uh um reading his body language and his tone of voice and what he actually says he basically says we know there's uh some rules in there for us and I'm thinking he he let me translate there's rules in there for us But he was saying it with the body language was like dumb rules. Dumb more dumb rules. And uh We well it didn't surprise me that he had said that and that he was thinking about it that way. So we talked about the story and the same student after we had the discussion on the story I said, so why do you think that this story has lasted in society for so long now? And the same student said Basically, as body language said, my first answer was one of the dumbest answers ever given in a class. The reason why this story is around is because it answers the major questions. that every human being has got to figure out the answers to in Pinocchio. That the that the story is profound and significant and relevant to what I myself am asking about myself and what our culture right now is struggling with. That's some of the response. But I'll tell you this: the truth that they ended up receiving from the story of Pinocchio were the exact same truths that you would get from the story of Adam and Eve and the story of Noah. And that's basically what Pinocchio Pinocchio is picking up is those stories anyway. But through Pinocchio, and by looking at the symbolism of that story, I watch those students receive those insights afresh. In a way that I would not have seen them receive it if I literally went in and read the story of Adam and Eve to them or the story of Noah to them. Because there's something that happens to us both physiologically and psychologically, and it's caught in this phrase, familiarity breeds in attention. What would you what did you think I was gonna say? Familiarity breeds inattention or contempt. Well that sounds mean, but I'll say I'll say contempt. I don't want to speak about our students that way. Familiarity breeds inattention. I'm changing the saying today. Familiarity breeds an attention, but through this story we were able to capture their imaginations again and get back to truths that God gives to us that are exceptionally relevant. For what we are going through as human beings. Now here's the big question for you. What are the most familiar stories that come out of the scriptures for us but the Christmas stories? So we're already on a kind of ground where familiarity with the Christmas story breeds inattention And we have this story before us today, and it would be legitimate for you to ask yourself the question, is my imagination captured by the story of Herod, the wise men, and the scribes and the Pharisees. Is my imagination still captured by what is written here in verses 2, 1 through 12? Does this hold any relevance for me? And maybe you want to give the answer that that kid gave when we started the class. Well maybe there's a couple dumb rules in there. But I assure you that if you attend to this story in the way that you're supposed to, you you will find that it has the answers that you've been asking in being able to make it through human life. Now to get at that, we don't have to drop into some difficult and abstract philosophical discourse this morning. What is given to us in the story are three main characters, and we are supposed to look at the pattern of those characters So that we can begin to see what are the answers that they give to us by the way that they act in the world. Because that's what you're trying to figure out. You're trying to figure out as a human being, how am I supposed to act in the world? Who am I even to act in the world? And so what the Holy Spirit wants you to consider this morning is he wants you to consider, do you want to be like Herod? And and what's wrong with that Do you have a little bit of Herod in you? Do you want to be or should you be is the answer to human life the scribes and the Pharisees? Or is there something here that the wise men have to teach you about your place on this earth? And that will be the argument: is that the wise men have the pattern. They have the way forward for us to be able to find our place and our meaning. They show us what is relevant today for our lives. So let's just take a look at each one of them. That's really what this whole sermon is going to be. We're going to look at Herod. We're then going to look at the scribes and the Pharisees, and then we're going to go ahead and look at the wise men. So let's just begin with Herod. Herod here, the story of Herod is obviously a cautionary tale. I'll continue to use that language so that you can make the connection with other stories in your life. This story of Herod is a cautionary tale. Well, it's a cautionary tale about what? This is a cautionary tale warning you against being in opposition to Christ and his kingdom. The story of Herod, whether it's this Herod, Herod the Great, or his grandson, I'll talk about him a little bit later. This story of Herod is a cautionary tale warning us against opposition to Christ and to his kingdom. Did you see that the way that this story is written, that the opposition shows up immediately? Did you did um you don't even have to go to chapter 2 verse 13 to begin to see the opposition. Do you see it in the literature itself, beginning in the first couple verses Just start off in chapter 2, verse 1. Read along with me. It says, now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king. And then the sentences are going to go on, and Herod is going to be described as a king again. And you offici And now who else is described as a king in the scriptures? The same thing here is that the the king of the Jews has been born, and that's why the wise men are there, and Herod grows concerned, because you have two kings. That means there's two thrones, there's two crowns, and it cannot, a kingdom can't have two kings. Which is why he has concerns to begin with. And we see that his response is not going to be like others that we'll see within the story. But his response is going to fit his character. Herod's response is going to fit his character, and he's going to oppose Christ and his kingdom. If you were to even look outside of the scriptures on writings about Herod the Great, he is described, and this is the paraphrase from Josephus. He is described as a genius for architectural projects. He did actually quite a few projects during his day. And there is nothing that matched his ambition. No one that matched his ambition or his brutality more, even against his own family. That's how he's described in extra-biblical literature. But then when we start to look at the the uh scriptures themselves you can see in verses three and four When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled. And so he calls together the chief priests and the scribes, and we'll talk about them in a minute. And they answer his question. It then goes on down to verse number seven. So then he calls the wise men to him secretly. And he wants to have more information, and then notice the final line there in verse number 8, that I may come and worship him also. So at first it doesn't look like Herod's story is a story of opposition, but I want you to go ahead all the way down to verse number 13. We'll talk about this next week Now when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise, take the child and his mother, flee to Egypt, and stay there until I bring you word, for Herod will seek the young child to destroy him. So there's a deceitful plot that he has where he's literally seeking to kill Jesus. That's what he wants to do. That's the truth of the matter. It's the ultimate general opposition to the kingdom is to make sure that the king could never take the throne But there's also a particular opposition that Herod has here, and it's brought out from verse number six in your passage. In verse number six, this should be indented and set up as like a set of stanzas. or poetry, because it is from the book of Micah, chapter 5. It's a prophecy from the like it mentions here, written by the prophet, verse number 5. Then verse number 6 is what the prophet wrote. And if you look at the context of what Micah is talking about there, what you're going to find are wicked shepherds that are devouring the people of God. And leading them astray. And they're basically using their power in order to create a kingdom within Israel itself that is in opposition to the God of Israel Now you get phrases like this from Micah chapter 3, verse 3, speaking of these rulers. They eat the flesh of the people. They flay their skin. They break their bones. They chop them in pieces like meat for the pot, like flesh in the cauldron. He has become the kings of that time, the leaders of that time have become cannibalistic symbolically. They don't bring health to the people, they devour them. It's like a shepherd having a flock before them that they're meant to take care of, but all they do is hurt the sheep. They slay them. Now you say, well what is that that that's symbolic, what does it stand for? What's the reality? How does that show up in the specific society Well, that's in Micah chapter 3, verse 9, and other places, and it he gets down to the specifics and he says, now hear this, you heads of the house of Jacob and rulers of the house of Israel, you abhor justice. And you pervert all equity. Now equity is just another word for justice. So you have there in the middle of our passage In verse number 6, a quote from Micah showing that the shepherd, there's going to be a good shepherd that comes and rescues the people from the bad shepherds. So you can begin to, you know who the bad shepherd is. Herod is literally seeking to kill the real king. And you have a picture then of the specific, the specific way in which Herod himself will be in opposition to Christ and to his kingdom. Christ seeks to bring Goodness and truth, and beauty, and justice, and order, and love, and peace, and patience And kindness, and self-control. That's Christ's kingdom. But we have here a character who does all the opposites of those things. That's how he ends up using his power. Now do you know how Herod is portrayed elsewhere within the scriptures? It was a few years ago that I decided to preach through several passages of the book of Revelation during Christmas time, and uh one child here made me a picture, I forget who it was. of the picture of Herod, as we find in Revelation chapter 12. And it reads this Now a great sign appeared in heaven, a woman clothed with the sun with the moon under her feet, and on her head a garland of twelve stars. Then being with child she cried out in labor and in pain to give birth And another sign appeared in heaven. Behold, a great fiery red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns and seven diadems on his heads. His tail drew a third of the stars of heaven and threw them to the earth, and the dragon stood before the woman who was ready to give birth to devour her child as soon as it was born Is your imagination captured yet? There's the picture, not only of Herod, but anyone who's going to be a part of his dynasty or act according to that pattern. is set up and the picture of them is that they are a dragon in opposition to the kingdom of Christ. And you'll have to ask yourself, what will become of human beings that become fiery red dragons? What becomes of human beings, then to end up receiving power and using it in these specific ways to devour human beings. What has happened to human beings who decide to set up totalitarian states? It's the same story That goes through every generation of humanity, whether it's Pharaoh from Egypt, or Herod at the birth of Christ, or Hitler or Stalin. Or whoever it's going to be in the future, they take up the same pattern. And our imaginations are meant for the sake of really bare survival. God has given us the gift of being able to recognize that pattern to know this is dangerous, we should stay away from it, and they should probably be killed immediately. And the question before you is, is that what you want to become? Is that what you want to become? Is that how you want to use the power that has been granted to you in your life There's a narrative right now within our culture that all power is bad. And that's wrong. Power is good when used in service to Christ and his kingdom. Power certainly can be bad. And you have a picture and a pattern here of the wrongful use of pattern, or the wrongful use of power. If we were to go back to the Pinocchio story, Pinocchio's first temptation is fame. He's promised to be an actor. His second temptation is pleasure island. He indulges every hedonistic desire and he ends up turning into an animal or a donkey. And there's other words for that. And it's the same thing here, except we weren't he Herod is not pictured as a donkey. He's pictured as a dragon. And you know, that's really just another picture for a snake. And you need to make your mind up when you read this story. Do I want to be a part of the line of the snake and of the dragon? Or do I want to do something different? That's the question that the passage is raising for you. Do you want to do something different? Well, I'd encourage you to do something different. And that something different in the way that we're posing it here is do not be in opposition to Christ and his kingdom. Don't be in opposition to Christ and his kingdom. Now this is Herod's grandson, but it says in Acts 12, 21 through 23, so on a set day Herod, arrayed in all his royal apparel, sat on his throne. And gave an oration to them, and the people kept shouting, the voice of a God and not of a man. And then immediately an angel of the Lord struck him. Because he did not give glory to God, and Herod was eaten by worms, and he died. And that will be your future if you decide to take up that pattern. You're probably already in ways being eaten up beginning now. What happens to the dragon or the snake according to the promises of the last passage with Joseph and Mary and Adam and Eve? King Jesus and his kingdom will crush your head. Stay away from the pattern. The second pattern, besides Herod, is the scribes or the chief priests and the scribes, as we see there. You see that the wise man came to Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, and that uh once Herod starts to inquire as to what's going on here, he turns and he gathers Verse number four, all of the chief priests and the scribes of the people together. The story of the scribes and the chief priests is another cautionary tale. It is a warning. It is a warning against not opposition to Christ in his kingdom, though they're a part of that. They've essentially become the magicians with Pharaoh, if you were to look at the Exodus story. But there's another lesson here besides the opposition. It's a cautionary tale with the scribes and the chief priests to take warning against indifference to Christ and his kingdom. It's it's wild looking at the the scribes and the chief priests in the verse that I just read to you because in verse number five they know the scriptures. They know where to turn to find out the prophecy from the prophet as to where the Messiah was born But we see no indication within this story that they have gotten up off of their tails to go pay homage to the king. They're only roused from their slumber because Gentiles from the east have come asking, where is the king so that we can worship him? They have not been moved by Jesus Christ at all. There is an indifference in the passage that is deadly It looks to me like they are quite indifferent. And here is what we have to say about indifference. If you are indifferent to Jesus the King, Then there is something that is wrong with you. A lot of the times we put that the other way around. We beg and we plead with people to find Christ the King interesting and relevant. As if there's something wrong with the scriptures. Something wrong with the message. I'm telling you, there's nothing wrong with the scriptures. If you do not find Christ captivating, there's something wrong with you. And that's what we see here with with these chief priests of these scribes. And it's not just Christ. There's an analogy we could use. I think we recognize the truth that if you are not moved by certain things, you're sick. If you're not moved, if you're indifferent towards certain things, you're not a healthy person. If there were a baby, let's just put it in uh momhood terms for a moment. I'm going to make some distinctions because moms know there's like seven different cries of a baby and they have them all different categorized and they know that they can keep making spaghetti with these three cries. But then there's like cry number five where I better get over to the pack and play. Because something bad has happened. But if you're a mother who hears cry number five, meaning that your child there's something wrong with your child, and you're indifferent to the cry, and you just keep on making your tomato sauce, there's something wrong with you. And we probably need to to take a trip to a hospital together. Because things have gotten really, really bad. Those are the kind of moms that end up in jail who are indifferent to the cry of their children when it's cry number five. There are certain things you should not be indifferent to in life. I think we recognize that truth. One of the uh stories that uh that catches me that I can't be indifferent to, although I feel like a fool when this happens to me. is there's a movie called Hachi. Everybody know that movie? Hachi was a dog. He was b uh born in the nineteen hundreds. Has anybody seen this movie besides me? H A C H I, I think. It's from the that's short from uh Keith, you're gonna have to help me out because it's Japanese. Hachiko? I don't know. Did I get that right? Okay, cool. Yes. Sweet. All right. So Hachi is a dog. He's born in nineteen twenty-three. And he was owned by a professor who worked at Tokyo Imperial University. Every day, Hachi the dog would accompany the professor to the train station. The professor would get on the train and then the dog would stay and wait for his owner all day long. And then the owner would come home And then they would go back home together. And this the story unfolds. There's a bunch of I'm going to ruin the story if you have never seen the movie. I'm sorry. But in 1925, the professor dies suddenly at work and he never returns back to the train station for the dog. So then the story goes on that to show that despite that Hachi the dog continues to wait at the station daily for over nine years until he dies in 1935. Now, if you were to go to that train station, that move that that act of loyalty and devotion within that dog It's so captivating that it has the whole culture pays attention to the story and they're inspired by it. And they have decided to put a memorial up at the train station after the dog died so the dog could still be there showing the entire culture what it actually means to be loyal to somebody. And there's something different going on there. I could tell you the story, I tell you the story about the dog, and you don't just say to yourself, that is a true story about Hachi. You're not a robot. You feel the story. And that is a sign that you're not indifferent to it. There is something about devotion and loyalty in human life that catches our attention, and we know that that is very important to us. So important that we will put up statues and memorials when we get a glimpse of devotion and loyalty and purity. It's just the same argument that I'm making for you is that there are some things that we should not be indifferent to, and if we are indifferent to them, then there is something wrong with us. And the argument leads to this. We have Christ, we have the King, we have God who has taken upon Himself human nature, we have the Father has established His King on His holy mountain. And if you are indifferent to that, like the chief priests and the scribes, then there is something that is wrong with you. It would be like watching Hachi and not crying. And I cried like a little baby. And it was right for me to do so. I think we all have that experience. Now boy do I see this as a major problem if you have grown up in the church Because you growing up in the church, there's a kind of familiarity that can breed in uh inattention. You can become indifferent To even this. You can become like those, you can become, you can start to take on a pattern. There's a great temptation having been raised up in the church. You can take on the pattern of the chief priests and the scribes, and you could be indifferent to the fact that God has announced who the king of the cosmos is, and his name is Jesus, and he's from Nazareth. And it is worse than a mother ignoring the cry, the fifth cry of the child. That is a serious problem. Only unhealthy people are indifferent to King Jesus. And then we have our final pattern, which is the wise men. The story of the wise men in verses one and three, we catch them. You see that they've come from the east. They're then going to meet with Herod a little bit later starting in verse number seven. And then in verse number nine, they're going to visit him. And then we see the consummation of this pattern with the wise men in verse number eleven. They saw the young child. Doesn't necessarily have to be a babe in a manger because it's somewhere between two years old and younger. according to the next passage. That's why Herod has two years old and younger killed. So it could been Jesus walking around the house like a little child or maybe he's crawling But they get there, and we have a different pattern than Herod, and we have a different pattern than the indifference. They're not in opposition. They're not apathetic When they come to the house, they see the young child and marry his mother and they fall down and they worship him. We officially have a picture of what it looks like to be a healthy human being You would fall down and you would worship him, and then they opened up their treasures and they presented gifts to him, gold, frankincense, and mark. Now I don't know a whole lot about the wise men. I can't find a ton in the scriptures about him about them. Uh I've heard some folks talk about them, but largely what they end up saying to me is from like hallmark greeting cards from Giant. Like they're wearing crowns and they're on their camels and I just, you know Maybe so. We could go ahead and we could um derive a few things just from the general study of the scriptures. We know that the Babylonian exile brought many Jews, including Daniel. to Babylon in the 6th century B. C. Maybe these wise men are from that part of the East. There's a few reasons to believe so. Even after the return to Judah, a significant population remained in Babylon, preserving both the scriptures and the traditions, presumably. Furthermore, not just that Daniel lived in Babylon, but Daniel had held a high position among the Babylonian and Persian courts Which you could see just by reading Daniel chapter 2, Daniel chapter 6, and it's quite possible that he had a great influence among the wise men of Babylon. And introduced to them the knowledge of the Jewish messianic prophecies, introduced them into intellectual and religious circles. But I think that they would know about Daniel. Most prominently because of Daniel's specific work that he had done with Nebuchadnezzar. Do you remember Nebuchadnezzar? So here's another pattern for you. We're starting to get layers of patterns. And the wise men know these patterns, and they're filling out a pattern that we hear at the end of the story of Nebuchadnezzar, and then the Holy Spirit is saying, and this is the pattern for you in your human life. For you to know your place. In Daniel chapter 4, Nebuchadnezzar is seeking for Daniel to interpret his dreams. In Daniel chapter 4, 28 through 33, it says, And this came upon King Nebuchadnezzar. At the end of the twelve months, he was walking about the royal palace of Babylon. His dreams are going to start to come true. And that Nebuchadnezzar was going to become so prideful in the achievements that he had done that God is now going to discipline him. And Daniel interprets the dreams so that Nebuchadnezzar would see what is going to happen. So the king spoke, saying, Is not this great Babylon that I have built for a royal dwelling by my mighty power and for the honor of my majesty? While the word was still in the king's mouth, a voice fell from heaven. King Nebuchadnezzar, to you it is spoken. The kingdom has departed from you And they shall drive you from men, and your dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field. They shall make you eat grass like oxen And seven times shall pass over you until you know that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men and gives it to whomever he chooses. That very hour the word was fulfilled concerning Nebuchadnezzar, he was driven from men, and he ate grass like an ox. His body was wet with the dew of heaven, till his hair had grown like eagle's feathers, and his nails like bird claws. He would have been out in the middle of our backfield grazing like a cow And we would have all known that he had gone mad. That God had driven him into madness. He essentially, like the story of Pinocchio, has become a kind of donkey. Then when we get to Daniel chapter 4, the wise men, of course, knowing the story of Daniel and Nebuchadnezzar, hear these same wise men. In Daniel 4, 34 through 37, it says this, and at the end of the time I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted my eyes to heaven, and my understanding returned to me. And I blessed the Most High, and I praised and I honored him who lives forever. For his dominion is an everlasting dominion, and his kingdom is from generation to generation All the inhabitants of the earth are refuted as nothing. He does according to his will in the army of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth. No one can restrain his hand or say to him, What have you done? At the same time, my reason returned to me, and for the glory of my kingdom, my honor and my splendor returned to me. My counselors and nobles restored to me. I was restored to my kingdom, and excellent majesty was added to me. Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor the King of heaven. all of whose works are truth and his ways are justice. And those who walk in pride, he is able to put down. The wise men knew that pattern. And by the grace of God, rather than having to go the route of madness. and grazed in the field like a cow, they jumped right to the conclusion and they knew exactly who they they knew exactly their place on the earth with reference to this one who has been born king of the Jews. Their job and their rightful place was to worship him because he is God in the flesh. The same God who humbled Nebuchadnezzar In Matthew chapter 2, verse 2, knowing the lessons and the pattern of Nebuchadnezzar, the wise men show up and they ask this question, Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? And they give this conclusion as to the motive of their actions, for we have seen his star in the east, and we have come to worship him. They really were wise men. The story of Herod, the story of the chief priests and the scribes. And the story of the wise men, they challenge us to consider how we or where we stand in response to the birth of Jesus the King. It challenges challenges us to consider what pattern are we becoming? Are we a dragon? Are we the sloth who's indifferent? Or are we taking up the pattern of all those who see the truth for all of humanity, like Nebuchadnezzar eventually did? Herod shows us the danger of opposition to Christ. Herod shows us the danger of having a pattern that clings to power for selfish reasons. The scribes and the chief priests reveal the sickness of indifference to God's glory, that there's something desperately wrong with you if you're not moved by Christ. But the wise men, they do something different. They demonstrate what it means to find our true place and our purpose. And that is, in line with today's theme, to worship Jesus Christ the King with joy. To say, you are my joy, King Christ, or King Jesus. And so The path, if we were to go back to Pinocchio, the path to becoming real. A real boy. A real girl. That path is found in knowing the path of joy. And joy comes when we stop being dragons consumed by pride or indifference. And instead find our place in worshiping the King who gives life, meaning, and everlasting joy. And so my prayer for you during this Christmas season, congregation, is that you would seek Him with the same eager hearts as the wise men, and that you would bow before him with joy, for Christ, the King of the Jews, has been made Savior of the world. Amen. Let us pray