God's holy word for God's holy people. And in that day you will say, O Lord, I will praise you. Though you were angry with me, your anger is turned away, and you comfort me. Behold, God is my salvation. I will trust and not be afraid. For Yah the Lord is my strength and song. He also has become my salvation. Therefore, with joy you will draw water from the wells of salvation. And in that day you will say, Praise the Lord Call upon his name, declare his deeds among the peoples, make mention that his name is exalted. Sing to the Lord, for he has done excellent things This is known in all the earth. Cry out and shout, O inhabitant of Zion, for great is the Holy One of Israel in your midst. Please pray with me. Oh Lord, you are here with us. You are in our midst. We pray, God, that you would allow us to see you clearly. Allow us to see joy Help us, Lord. Help us by your word. And I pray, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. Well, in preparation for this morning, I spent a lot of time pondering joy. And I have to admit to you, I came to a startling realization. I had to admit it to myself, and then I had to confess it to God. Joy is an aspect of faith. That I think I've just taken for granted. I could not answer the fundamental question: what is joy? And so I turned to the dictionary. According to Merriam-Webster, joy is the emotion evoked by well-being, success, or good fortune, or by the prospect of possessing what one desires. This did not help. To me, that just reduces joy to a feeling. And it's a feeling caused by a bunch of circumstantial stuff. It's as though joy is only possible if everything in life is going perfectly. So no one has joy? The Bible tells us joy is one of the fruits of the Spirit in Galatians 5, so it's something that the saints of God have. In fact, in Isaiah 35 Verse 10 and 51, verse 11, God says, So the ransomed of the Lord shall return and come to Zion with singing, with everlasting joy on their heads. They shall obtain joy and gladness. Sorrow and sighing shall flee away. Everlasting joy This is what the Lord wanted Isaiah to deliver to his people, the knowledge that joy will be theirs. Well that got me worked up even more. And if you're familiar with Isaiah, you probably understand why. Isaiah has what I'll call a very challenging message to God's people. In the eleven chapters preceding our passage this morning, he has laid out God's case against Israel. They've turned away from God and provoked him to anger by worshiping idols and false gods. They have corrupted The worship he handed down to them, which they swore to keep when he brought them out of the bondage of Egypt. The Israelites had looked everywhere for salvation, everywhere, except in Jehovah, except in their covenant Lord. And as a result of their sin, God would not defend them from the nation of Assyria when their armies come to invade and conquer them. The Assyrians will drive the Israelites from the promised land into a new bondage, into a new captivity. And yet Isaiah says, God's people will have joy. If you were told that a bloodthirsty army is going to come and destroy your home and your family. Because of all the terrible sins you have committed, wouldn't it be difficult for you to accept it if they immediately told you, oh yeah, and then after all this is done, you'll have joy. Thank God that he had Isaiah include this chapter. For it teaches us that joy is not an emotion, joy is not a feeling determined by our situation. Rather, I hope we will see that joy is the experience of overwhelming gratitude to God because of the gospel. I believe we will see in this passage this morning that joy is the experience of overwhelming gratitude to God. Because of the gospel, because of the good news. We're going to look at this in two main divisions. We'll first look at verses 1 through 3. We'll examine the source of joy, which is the gospel. And then we'll look at verses 4 through 6, and we'll see together the experience of joy, which I believe we'll see is overwhelming gratitude. And so there's one thing we've got to get out of the way. He says it twice, and in that day you will say. And so we have to understand what is God saying? What is that day? Well, that day is the day in which the love and grace and mercy and compassion of God is manifested to his elect. If you have your Bibles open, just flip over and look at the beginning of chapter eleven. We'll have a whole lot more on this. This will be uh the passage for next Sunday. But if you see right there, in Isaiah eleven, verse one, it says, There shall come forth a rod from the stem of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of his roots. God is talking about the Messiah. Isaiah is telling us that the Messiah will be sent. He will be delivered to the people and that day Refers to that day when the Messiah would come. But it's also used in Isaiah in a different way, and so we don't want to get confused. There's a day of imminent salvation, salvation that's Right around the corner, and this is something that Isaiah talks about, though the people of Israel will be taken into bondage, God will bring them back. That's the imminent salvation that will happen after the prophecy of the judgment. And if you wonder whether or not this really happened, I encourage you to look at Ezra and Nehemiah to tell you all about it. But also in view is this day of ultimate salvation, when the Messiah has come, the Savior has come. It is that day when the elect of God who are in captivity to sin will be able to turn directly to Christ for salvation. The Messiah, this is the child born, the Son given from last Sunday. This is the servant who will suffer from Isaiah 53. This is the anointed one of God, the Christ, who will be wounded for our transgressions and bruised for our iniquities. In that day of God's grace and mercy, the people of God will know and proclaim what is the source of their joy, the good news, the gospel. They will know and proclaim first their peace with God. Take a look at the rest of verse 1 with me. It says, O Lord, I will praise you. Though you were angry with me, your anger is turned away, and you comfort me. Sat has earned God's wrath. His anger is deserved. Yet what God has done shows that he has turned his anger away. The eternal Son of God has taken on flesh. That's what we confessed from the Westminster Confession. He's added to Himself the human nature. Why does he do that? It's so that the wrath of God could be poured out on him. It's so that he could take your sins upon himself And satisfy divine justice and divine wrath. He came to sacrifice himself so that we would be reconciled with God, so that we would have peace with him. And so the people of God will know and proclaim their peace, and they will also know and proclaim their hope in the salvation of God. Look at verses 2 and 3. Behold, God is my salvation. I will trust and not be afraid. For Yah the Lord is my strength and song. He has become my salvation. Therefore, with joy you will draw water from the wells of salvation. Trusting God to save us is the essence of hope And hope removes the power of fear. If God is for us, who can be against us? Romans 8. 31. He has become our salvation. He doesn't just save us. He doesn't just pluck us out of danger and then leave us alone to carry on as best we can. God is making continual intercession for us on our behalf. The Lord Christ is our great high priest. He has sent his spirit to live within us, and day by day, that spirit is sanctifying us more and more, making us more and more like Christ. Isaiah uses this particular language to cause our minds to think back to a particular occasion He wants us to think about the salvation of Israel and the song of Moses from Exodus chapter 15. Exodus 15, verse 2 says, The Lord is my strength and song, and he has become my salvation. He is my God and I will praise him, my father's God, and I will exalt him. God saved the Israelites, his people out of Egypt, but he did not leave them. He went with them, you remember? He went as a pillar of fire, or as a pillar, a cloud of smoke Do you remember what happened when they were dying of thirst in the wilderness? Can you imagine the joy that they drew water from the wells of that salvation? Could you imagine the gratitude and joy that they experienced as They gathered salvation in buckets and bowls and gave it to their children. The source of joy for the Israelites and for us. Is the gospel. It is the good news that God is our salvation. God has a plan to save his people and is enacting that plan. God Himself saves us. We don't save ourselves. Nothing we do can save us. It is God, the person, God, who saves us. This is why the name of the Savior is Yeshua. His very name means salvation. But All that's good. The source of our joy is the gospel. It's salvation itself. But what is joy? If the source of joy is the gospel, then I must, I have to disagree with the dictionary when it just calls joy an emotion. I see in this passage that in that day, the day when God shows his mercy and forgiveness to his people, when the gospel of Jesus Christ cuts the bonds of slavery. God's people discover that joy is the experience of overwhelming gratitude. And so we're going to look together at verses 4 through 6, and we'll see the experience of joy. I say overwhelming because it cannot be contained. It overflows, it fills up every part of our life and it spills over everywhere. As that happens, that is, I believe, the experience of joy. In the day of salvation, the redeemed will be unable to contain themselves. They will say in that day, Praise the Lord. Call upon his name. Joy is first experienced as an overflow of thanks. Now the word here for praise the Lord, it is a command. And I know I've talked about it in the past, but it's not the word hallelujah, though you might think it. That's the most common word that's translated, praise the Lord, in the Old Testament. But it is a different verb, it's a different word. It's in a particular form, and so it can be understood as cause the praise of thanksgiving, or give thanks, as it's put in some of the translations. Together with the command to call upon his name, we see that those who are at peace with God, founded on hope in his trustworthiness, and recognizing that he is their salvation, Those people are to cause the praises of thanksgiving to go unto the Lord. And they do this by calling on his name. The redeemed experience joy in calling on the name of God alone. In other words, they experience joy by keeping the first commandment. He is our God, and by his mercy we have been made his people. And the praises of thanksgiving, they overflow from the life of one who has been saved. And what follows from that is an overflow of witness. Look at the rest of verse 4. Declare his deeds among the peoples Make mention that his name is exalted, both of these verbs, also imperatives, commands, in that same form, meaning cause. So cause God's deeds to be known, cause it to be remembered. That his name is exalted. Gratitude builds up within us, and as it spills over in joy, it just can't be contained And when people are around joy that's spilling over, sometimes they just can't help but be caught up in it. I think you've probably experienced something like this. Have you ever mentioned a television show around somebody who's a big fan of that show? Or maybe maybe you've had this experience. Have you ever dropped an office quote? Around somebody who loves the office. You will surely get carried away in their joy. You may even end up wanting to watch the show. Joy in the Lord will overflow in a similar but a far more significant way. I've seen it time and time again when Christians have to endure the trial of a long hospital stay. I've seen staff and other patients get carried away or caught up in the joy that's spilling over from the life of one who loves the Lord Jesus Christ. And despite their weakness and their infirmity, the joy is present. The joy is palpable Some people will wonder how how someone in so much pain and and suffering through so much could still pray for others and think about others. I've had the great privilege of visiting some people in the hospital over the last few weeks, and I have actually heard a nurse say that taking care of a particular patient made her miss going to church and being around Christians. I think an overflow of joy caused her to remember that God's name is exalted, that God is awesome. Lastly, we see an overflow of worship. Look at verses 5 and 6. Sing to the Lord! For he has done excellent things. This is known in all the earth. Cry out and shout, O inhabitant of Zion, for great is the Holy One of Israel in your midst. God has done excellent things. The Messiah, the Christ, has come. The Son has taken on flesh for our redemption. Christ was born to save. Did you hear us sing that at the start of the service? He was born for this. That's why he came. And when you ponder the wonderful things that He has done in your life, does it make your heart fill up with gratitude? So much gratitude that it just feels like it's about to burst? I thought I heard some joy in those glorious. In its shelter, glory to God in the highest And there is joy present when we are lifting up our voices as one body to our God in praise. There's nothing quite like it in all the world. It's not even you you can go to a Messiah sing along, but it's not the same as gathering with God's people on his day and singing his praises from hearts that have been saved by his grace and mercy. Isaiah says, Cry out, shout for joy. If God is for us, who can be against us? The greatness of the Holy One of Israel, the Lord Jesus Christ, he's in our midst. He dwells among us. And what an overflow of joy there was from those shepherds that we sang about. They received the message. They witnessed the praise of the angels. Tell me. If you were one of those shepherds and you were there on that night, and you saw the angels, and you heard the message, and you heard their singing, could you have been present there? And not been carried away in some kind of joy? Could you have been present there and not joined in with that worship? Now, I'm not saying you would have known the exact song that the angels were singing, or that you'd have even known the words. But wouldn't something inside of you had to just get out in worship? Wouldn't you have maybe cried out or shouted I realize that could be misunderstood. I'm not suggesting that if you can't if you're not really comfortable with singing songs that you should just cry out or shout. I hope you understand what I mean by that. That would be uh I think that'd be permissible for Naomi or Weston and some of the other infants, but I think if all of us should endeavor to sing as best we can. Joy obviously overflowed from those shepherds. You know how we know it? Because if we were to turn to Luke and we were to look at the account and see, these shepherds, after everything happened, Well, did they just you know did they go home, pop out the recliner, have a nice beverage, and watch the BBC? No. They couldn't be stopped. Everyone they encountered, they told of these marvelous things, and were told that the people who heard it, they couldn't help but marvel at what they were hearing. Joy, brothers and sisters, is an experience, not an emotion. It's an experience of overwhelming gratitude to God because of his gospel, because of the good news that he saves. This is why celebrating the advent, celebrating the entry of the Messiah into this world is so joyful and so appropriate. Jesus is the good news of God. He is our salvation. And so as you celebrate the birth of your Savior in just a week, a little over it. I want you to consider some things. Elder Ball helped us. He helped point us towards realizing that We need to have the right source of our joy, if that joy is to be genuine. And boy, if it isn't true that at this time of year there's a lot of things competing to be the source of our joy. If you don't believe me, ask anyone here who's a student, right? You're on a break from school. Joy. I understand. But have you considered the reason you're on a break from school? Why is there such a thing as a Christmas break? Isn't it amazing that the birth of Jesus is so important, it is so wonderful and marvelous that thousands of years later you get off school because everyone recognizes this. Even heathen governments have the national holiday. We won't recognize the birth of the president, the first president of our country. But we'll still have a time, a holiday. It's interesting to me also because Christmas, right? Christmas, let's separate Christmas, the holiday, from Advent, celebrating the entry of the Messiah. Let's just think about that in our minds. Christmas the Holiday is full of a lot of really fun stuff, but it can't be the source of joy. Because the fun stuff in Christmas the Holiday fades Right? You get some joy when you open a Christmas present, don't you? How long does that joy last? I guess best case scenario, that joy lasts a whole year until the next Christmas, and you've got more presents that are new and you get to look forward to them. But if you were a kid like me, there were times Where that joy lasted only a couple minutes until your big brother opened one of his presents. Presence the joy from presence doesn't last. It fades. The joy from eating cookies and junk food, that doesn't last, though the effects will last maybe longer. The joy doesn't last. It can't be the source of your joy. The decorations are beautiful and they lift our spirits. And if you're one of those people who just love to decorate at Christmas, please do not let curmudgeons like me bring you down. Though we are not as excited about it, we would miss it if they weren't there. I promise. Yet at some point you'll take those decorations down. Right? Because if it could be the source of true joy, we'd just leave them up all year long, if that's it. And now we're getting into some sins that the church has experienced in the past. Let's just have that picture up there. It will give us joy. Let's just keep these things here. What we have to recognize is that the only source for true and lasting and real joy It's the Lord Jesus Christ. It is the good news of the salvation that He is. Remember, there are some who might make you or ask you to think that Jesus is And salvation is kind of like a gift, right? You open it and there's joy at the opening of the gift. But I'm here to tell you. Jesus is not like a Christmas gift. It's not something you open that loses its luster or is replaced a year later by another new gift. The gift of salvation and the gift of Jesus is a person. He is your salvation. It's a lifelong friend. More than that. It's an everlasting, lifelong friend. He is made into your brother. You are made an inheritor of his estate because of his mercy and because of what he has done. Thankfulness, gratitude comes from pondering what Jesus has done, pondering what God is doing. And that gratitude will overwhelm you for the rest of your life. So, kids, yes, be excited that you're on break. Be excited for Christmas. But remember that you should be more excited about Jesus and about salvation. And now I want to encourage those of you who struggle with experiencing joy. I realize that some of us don't feel emotions very strongly. It's been a work of God in my life and a work of sanctification that I would become a person who in most situations doesn't feel things extreme. I've had to work on that to become more even keeled. And so sometimes now Oh yay and oh no are really close together on my emotional meter And so I want to encourage you: if you're like that, that doesn't mean that you don't have any joy. Because remember, joy is not an emotion. Joy is not based on a feeling. And in the same way, those of you who struggle with having joy, who struggle with experiencing joy, I want to be careful that you don't misunderstand me. I in no way. No way mean to imply that your lack of a of a sense of joy means that you lack gratitude to God I know I'm saying that joy is the experience of overwhelming gratitude and that if you're not feeling that joy that you don't have gratitude. I do not mean that My desire is to encourage you to remember that joy is not a feeling. It's not an emotion. It's an experience. It's not a single one-time thing that'll happen once. It's something that will happen your whole life long. Does it ever seem to you like your joy is hidden? For some Christians, joy is there. It's like a lamppost on a foggy morning. Or a foggy night. You can see the light. The light is there. It shines. It shines brightly. You can see other things because of the light. It is there. It's just it doesn't have the luster. It doesn't have the brilliance that would be there on a crisp, cold winter night. Perhaps that fog that's clouding your joy is struggling with sin. Maybe you're struggling currently with a a present sin. Or maybe you struggle with your past sins. That's the case for a lot. Some people can struggle with their past and start wondering. I think God made a mistake. Why would He save me? There's no way that I should have joy Well, I would encourage all of you to remember Exodus 15. Remember the song of Moses, because that's what Isaiah did for us. That's where he took us. At no point in Moses' song, if you would read Exodus fifteen, one through nineteen, at no point in his song Does he refer to his feelings? Or the feelings of the Israelites? I guess in a way you might think he refers to the feelings of the Egyptians a little bit. Because he says they're feeling really wet. They're feeling mighty soggy. He says, the horse and its rider he has thrown into the sea. And Pharaoh's chariots and his army he has cast into the sea. His chosen captains also are drowned in the Red Sea. Do you see what Moses does? He focuses on God. He focuses on God, who he is, and what he has done. He says, You blew with your wind, the sea covered them, they sank like lead in the mighty waters. Moses joy Is expressed and overflows in that song. And it is all because of Jehovah. It's all because of God Almighty The one true God. And it's because he broke the bonds of their slavery to Egypt. Remember, Pharaoh had changed his mind. Pharaoh lost his firstborn son. Pharaoh was convinced that he needed to let them go. And then he changed his mind, and he sent chariots and armies after them to bring them back, to enslave them again. But instead, they sank, they drowned. Their bondage over Israel was broken. And this is what the Lord has done for you, Christian. When I read the Song of Moses, I can't help but think of Micah 7. Verse 19. You may recognize it. We use it as an assurance of pardon frequently. He says, He will again have compassion on us and will subdue our iniquities. You will cast all our sins. into the depths of the sea. Sin was your captor. And sin was your master. Sin did not want to let you go, so you could worship your God. With joy. But for you, Christian, God has broken your bondage to sin. He has done exactly as he did for Israel And your sins are drowned, cast into the sea, hidden under the waves, gone forever. God has become your salvation. The Holy One of Israel is in your midst God Himself has chosen to make his dwelling in you. As you celebrate this Christmas, I pray that our gracious Lord will fill your heart with joy. Joy that is the experience of overwhelming gratitude because of what God has done. He has saved you. Please pray with me