Now, after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod, the king. Behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east, and have come to worship him When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And when he gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. So they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet. But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are not the least among the rulers of Judah, for out of you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. Then Herod, when he had secretly called the wise men, determined from them what time the star appeared, and he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search carefully for the young child. And when you have found him, bring back word to me that I may come and worship him also. When they heard the king, they departed And behold, the star which they had seen in the east went before them till it came and stood over where the young child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy. And when they had come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary, his mother, and fell down and worshipped him And when they had opened their treasures, they presented gifts to him, gold, frankincense, and myrrh. Then, being divinely warned in a dream that they should not return to Herod They departed from their own country another way. Let us pray. Heavenly Father We thank you that you have preserved these scriptures for us, your people, that we may know you. That we may know you especially through your son, that we may know who you are and what you require of us, what you are doing in this world to bring salvation. We thank you that you have not left us in a state of sin and misery, but you have provided for us a Redeemer, Jesus, who is the Christ. I pray that you would be with these words preached here today, that you would make them effective, that it would lead to your glory. and our love for each other and being salt and light to the world. I ask these things in your name. Amen. I'll begin by just asking for you to review the last week or so. And the question, especially given the the day that we're, where we're looking at joy as a part of the Lord's Day and a part of this season of Advent, I would just ask, do people know you as a person of joy? You could ask it more generally, you could say, do people know you as a Christian? But I'm being a little bit more specific, and I think I'm alluding or at least implying that there should be something Uh in the way that Christians conduct themselves to where they are known as a people of great joy. Surely we lament, but even when there is the discussions of lament given to us in the scriptures, it always says we grieve, but we don't grieve without hope. Which means that there's always joy in the morning. I think, for example, just in thinking about the kind of joy that that we enjoy of Isaiah thirty-five verse ten. It says, And the ran and the ransom of the Lord shall return and come to Zion with singing. With everlasting joy on their heads. They shall obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away. That's the story of the Christian. And do people know you for your joy? I'll bring that up again at the end of the sermon for us to consider a little bit more. This morning I want us to basically work our way through this passage, and I want us to do so through three main points. And it's really three W's which make it easier for you to be remembering these things. We're first going to look at the wise men. That'll be in the first two verses. We'll then look at the worried, and that'll be in verses 3 through 8. And then we'll look at our final point, which will be the third W of worship, which will take us through to the end there in verses 9 through 12. So we'll look at three W's, wise men. worried and worship. You can see here, if you take a look at your scriptures in Matthew 2, 1 through 2, that there is an account given to us. All of a sudden what ends up showing up are wise men. It says this, it says, Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king, behold, You see that word behold there really drawing our attention to one specific thing. And the words after that, behold, are wise men from the east came to Jerusalem saying Where is he who has been born King of the Jews, wherefore we have seen his star in the East, and have come to worship him I can't help but to notice, and I'll point to you, I'll point this to you, point out this to you also in our passage. This, of course, is more than just ancient history, but it's not less than history. If you were to approach just these first two verses with The typical questions that a journalist who was trying to do investigative reporting would have on their mind, you would find that the answers are being answered here. The jer journalistic questions of when or where or who or why, that's they're all being recorded for us by the Holy Spirit. If you just consider the historical detail of when When you go back through those passage the passage there, the when is that after Jesus was born, if we were to continue reading a paragraph ahead of what we read this morning, we'd see After Jesus was born was probably around when he was two years old at that time at this time because of the decree that Herod had sent out to kill two-year-olds. So that's a pretty good guesstimate as to what his age would have been. But there's also a historical marker still within that first verse of that it's in the days of Herod the king. That would have been recorded, different kings coming into reign, and how long did the era of their reign last? These are historical facts. You could turn not just to when, but to where It's not it's in Bethlehem of Judea. And we see them answering another journalistic question, which is the who. Now we have different characters that are a part of this. The wise men are being foregrounded and emphasized, but so too is Jesus. The passage begins with, now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea. These wise men that are brought up here, there's been a lot of speculation about them. A lot of the times we could think of different translations where you'd think that these are wizards in the sense of like Harry Potter or magic or something, and maybe there was something to that with them, but you could also think of them more generally as ancient Eastern philosophers. And astronomy would have been one of the parts of their study. They, for example, it seems reasonable to conclude, though it's not mentioned here. It's reasonable to conclude that they would have been familiar, for example, with Daniel's prophecies, and that's why they'd know about the Messiah that is to be born in Bethlehem of Judea. star in the east that would be rising up from Israel's scriptures and the prophecies that were given about a star that rises at that time. And here, those are the kinds of philosophers or astronomers or wise men that have come here. And then finally, another journalistic question is why? Why have they come? Well it says right in the scriptures, right there in that second verse, right at the end, it says that they've seen his star in the east, and they have come to worship him. Now, they've come to worship him. That's a pretty odd statement to make about wise men from the East. It would not have been surprising for any of us if, for example, his own people from Jerusalem or the larger Jewish population would have come to worship their Messiah, but people from the East? Well, this is really just the beginning of people from other nations all flocking to Jesus Christ. If you were to take your time in going through what the church has said about this passage, undoubtedly you'd find that they point out that these wise men showing up are just the foreshadowing. They're just the beginning of the first fruits of all of the nations that will be coming to Jesus Christ as the King of kings. Don't forget that this is the Gospel of Matthew. And Matthew ends, with all authority in heaven and earth has been given to me, therefore go to the nations, and the nations are flooding to him. You know, I can't help of um thinking about people flocking to Jesus as the Messiah, even those from foreign nations. I can't help but to think of experiences that I had when I was growing up. on the Eastern Shore and experiences that I still have today when I visit my family in Easton. Every year it's like clockwork. When the season changes out of the summer and we move into the fall and then into the winter, you'll begin to start to see in the sky large flocks of geese. You'll see them in their formations. I'm sure you can picture it now. You're looking up, you can see the Vs that they form with the the gray sky behind them that help you to see them even better. And we know, at least it's pretty regular and common knowledge that the geese are flying south in order to avoid harsh cold and a lack of food and where they were residing for the summer. And you really you could look at the nations that way. That by the way, by way of the work of the Holy Spirit that Jesus Christ has sent Christ in showing them their sin and granting them the gift of faith is able to show them that they no longer need to be prodigal without food They no longer need to be subjected to the the harsh realities of life without him, but instead they may fly to him. They may fly to him for warmth and for the food of his own life, his own ministry, and of the spirit that he gives to all of us. Not just foreign nations that we could read about in the book, but the people like us. He made us realize that we need him, that without him it's just a harsh winter of life. And so, by his grace, we have flown to him, just like the geese. Well, that's the first W. The first W is the wise men, and as we continue on in the passage in verses 3 through 8 now, we not only have wise men, but we have worry. When Herod the King heard this, when he heard this about the star, when he heard this about worshiping the Messiah It says in verse number three, Herod was troubled or worried, and so too all Jerusalem with him. And so he went and he gathered the chief priests and the scribes. And we've read this part of the passage, and you'll know that they gathered together a prophecy. as to when the Messiah was to be born and where. This is quite the contrast that we have with the first W of a wise men. We have wise men from another nation who are coming with even at the end of the passage exceeding joy. And then you have the people of Christ's own nation, his own people, who their first response is worry and trouble. Now, if you were to read the rest of the story, and if you've heard the story before, you know that this worry is pretty specific. The first thing that's going on here with the worry is that Harriet is worried about losing his power. You know this especially in that the next paragraph and our next passage is that he's going to send people out to find out where the Messiah was born that was told to him. And then there will be what is called the slaughter of the innocents. He's not just curious here. He's not looking to worship the Messiah. He's looking to kill him, and that troubles him. And that makes me wonder if that's why Jerusalem was so worried. It says not just that Herod was worried, but so too was all of Jerusalem. And if you knew that about your about Herod, if you knew he was that kind of person, that that's how he would respond. And you were a part of his city, then I bet you would be worried. And you would have been right to be worried also, because by the time he got his hands on the children within that city, he would murder them. The mothers were right to worry during that time. Well goes on to in his worry and the in the worry of Jerusalem As we have read already, the Herod asks the chief priests and the scribes, and he inquires of them. He pulls together a council, he inquires of them as to where the Christ was to be born. And they replied to him from ancient prophecy. In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet, but you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judea Are not the least among the rulers of Judah, for out of you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people, Israel. This is a beautiful prophecy, at least it's meant to be. And that's how the wise men view it. But Herod is really just holding an interrogation in order to find out where his enemy will arise so that he can destroy him. But nevertheless, I think there's something else to point out here too, besides just the trouble and the worry of Herod. There's something else that we could in application worry about even in our own selves. And that is that here we have a group of people that have the prophecies of Scripture. They're the people of the Scriptures. From what we can tell just from these passages is that no one is arising to go find the Messiah and worship him, though they have the scriptures. The scriptures among those people who are meant to be the people of those scriptures, those scriptures sit there, known, but unused. They sit there as hearers, but not doers of the word. What a contrast between them and the wise men. I think, for example, of what James warns us about in James chapter 5, verse 3. He recounts a situation where there's a social disruption in different villages, where there are people that are working really hard for those who are landowners. And those landowners aren't paying their laborers. Instead, they're keeping the profits. And those profits are easily seen in the kind of furniture that those rich people would have. the kind of food reserves that those rich people would have, the kind of clothing that those rich people would have. And not just clothing on their backs, not new shoes on their feet, but things that were stored away because they had so much They couldn't use it all, so it would just sit there. Now with that in mind, listen to this from James 5. 3. The Holy Spirit says, your gold and silver are corroded. For their corrosion will be a witness against you. That's what happens when you don't use what you've been given. Things just sit around and they collect rust. And that connects quite well with what was going on with God's word among Herod, among the chief priests and the scribes. And all of those who had the leaders that were meant to be shepherding the church, all of those gathered together in council, though they had the scriptures, they had let them lie around, developing a kind of corrosion. Instead of using them to bring glory to God, to even know when the Messiah would come, so that they could worship him. They should have been the first there But instead, they're reminded by the wise men, and according to this passage, they don't even go to worship their Messiah. Herod ends up sending the wise men and the council and the chief priests stay back. The only time they begin to move is when they can kill God's son themselves. What a shame and what a warning for us that since we are the church and we are the treasury of the scriptures, let not these treasures that Christ has given to us in his word sit around Let us not just be hearers of the word, but let us be doers. Well, we have not only the wise men seen here within our Matthew passage. We have not only the worry, that is a great contrast with the wise men among Herod and among Jerusalem, but we come to the end of our passage with our last W of worship. And this is in verses 9 through 12. This is a true consummate place within the story. There are many different elements that are coming together. It says here that when they heard the king, they departed from that council that we just talked about. And behold, the star which they had seen in the east went before them. Till it came and it stood over where the young child was. So I just want you to picture that. You could is this a natural star? Is this an a kind of creation that God has made himself in order for the wise men to be guided and to to announce, though born in poverty, to announce that he's much more than that? Jesus is much more than that. Is this a comet in the tail of a comet? All of these have been suggested. Whatever it is, the wise men are able to see this star. And they it says here within the passage that it came and it stood over where the young child was. Well then the passage goes on, and it's important to pay attention to how these things are arranged. It says, When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy And then there's the next step. And when they had come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary, his mother, and they fell down and they worshipped him. And when they had opened their treasures, they presented gifts to him, gold, frankincense, and myrrh. You know, if you were an artist and this was painted, you would notice that there is a kind of anchoring effect within the composition of what is painted here within the passage for us. An anchoring effect is sort of the opposite of like a mountain effect. It's about where you're drawing the attention of those who will view the art that you're creating. You can make it to where all eyes start to lift and they see. For example, you could see the top of a Christmas tree with a star. That's sort of how this starts, right? We have a star over a house But then you'll notice within the narrative, there's an anchoring effect, not a mountain effect, in that the eyes are drawn down and are anchored on Jesus, who is the Christ. And you can think of your own Christmas trees that way even. There is a star on many, on the tops of many Christmas trees. It's a pretty traditional thing to do. But you're not meant to, as the festivities begin, we don't all stand there just looking at the star. It is brought down underneath the branches of the tree where there is a gift. And that's the same anchoring effect and the same kind of composition that we have within the passage here, is that our eyes go down from the star, they enter into the house. that we see through the eyes of the wise men, we see Mary his mother, and then the focus is on this child. And it's even so much so that they lay prostrate before him in worship, and they offer these treasures and these gifts, the finest things from their land. And the Holy Spirit makes sure that there's no doubt as to what we should be paying attention to within our lives. This isn't just about what we should pay attention to at that time in the life of the world. It is showing us what we should be giving our attention to every moment of our lives. And the kind of attention that we should be given. Our eyes are drawn off to many different things. The world makes sure that there's plenty of shiny objects. The world makes sure to boast and to build up their skyscrapers or whatever it is, creating a kind of reverence within us for what man is able to accomplish But the Holy Spirit is saying that that's nothing. If you really want to bring your gaze to that which is worthy of worship, you'll follow the star, you'll go into the home the house, and you'll find there Jesus, who is the Christ. It is he who deserves your gifts. You know, there's some talk about are the are the these gifts that are given to him, are they symbolic? When you look at what the gifts are, there's some discussion about the myrrh and the frankincense. And are these standing for the different things that Jesus is? The gold because he is king, the frankincense because he is priest. And the myrrh, because it's an anticipation of the kind of shepherding he'll do, will even be the giving up of his own life for his sheep, the myrrh being a kind of a burial anointing oil. Well, whether that's the case or not, we know that these gifts are given as the finest gifts from the land where these gentlemen came from. And it teaches us the kind of thing and the kind of way that we should be living our life. Whatever is a part of our life. Whatever are the finest things that are a part of our life. All of our resources, all of our thoughts, all of our words, all of our dreams, our aspirations, they should all be directed as living for Jesus Christ. As a gift to him. Certainly you remember Romans chapter 12 that our lives are meant to be living sacrifices. For his glory and for his honor. He was born of a virgin, one writer mentions here. Speaking of the incarnation, the greatest gift given to us, and deserving of our gifts, one author writes, he was born of a virgin that we might be born of God He took our flesh that he might give us his spirit. He lay in the manger that we might lie in paradise. He came down from heaven that he might bring us to heaven. And what was all this but love? If our hearts be not rocks, this love of Christ should affect us. Behold love that surpasses knowledge. And I'll add, though this is not a part of the quote, under the superintendence of the Holy Spirit moves us. to give to Christ for his love. Well, as we look through this passage here this morning in three main sections, we've seen the wise men that have come as Geese move and migrate to that which is warm and where they can have food. Foreshadow of the Gentiles being brought into the kingdom of God. We have seen the worry, and we've taken the warning from that, that we shouldn't allow the Lord to just sit around laying waste and corroding among us. It is meant to be used for God's glory and for the good of each other. And finally, we returned again in following the wise men to see Where should the attention of humanity be given? It should be given to God who has taken upon himself our nature. And his name is Jesus, who is the Christ, and he deserves the living sacrifice of our lives. I began the sermon by asking you the question: Do you have joy in your life? If we were to fast forward a little bit in the Gospel of Matthew to where we were before the Advent season and start to think again about the salt and the light. We really could put the question of, do you have the salt and the light of joy? Joy being a kind of salt and a light within this world. I'm sure that we all have different answers to that, depending on what's going on in our life. The church, throughout time, has always needed to stir each other up with joy. And one of the ways that they have done so is they have reminded us, and the scriptures remind us, that Jesus Christ, who brings us joy, is our husband. And we are his bride. And putting it that way, let me just ask another question, which is, what words are often on your heart with regard to your husband, Jesus? Do you find yourself too often saying to yourself and maybe even others with your attitude, my husband, he never really gives me what I need? My husband, he makes me feel guilty. I wonder what other things can cross our minds and our hearts and how we feel I'm not talking about our earthly husbands, I'm talking about our heavenly husband. If you were to look out your window today, and you were to look at the way And what the what God has made this morning by way of the snow. It gives us a truer reflection, a true reflection of who He is and His glory. And that he doesn't deserve thoughts like, he never gives to me. He doesn't deserve thoughts like he just makes me feel guilty. Those are lies from the evil one. There is a pastor who was a part of the Reformation and picking up the same thing Joy, Christ as our husband, and we as his bride. He says this. He says, Let me tell you, it is a sin not to rejoice. You disparage your husband Christ when a wife is always sighing and weeping. What will others say when you're like that, with no joy? Others may say, this woman has a bad husband. Is this the fruit of Christ's love to you, to reflect dishonor upon him? A melancholy spouse saddens Christ's heart. I do not deny that Christians should grieve for sins of daily occurrence, but to be always weeping as if they mourned without hope is dishonorable to the marriage relationship. Rejoice in the Lord always, it says in Philippians 4. 4. 4. Rejoicing brings credit to your husband. Christ loves a cheerful bride, and indeed the very purpose of God making us sad is always, in the end, to make us rejoice. We sow in tears so that we may reap in joy. The excess of sadness and contrition of the godly will make others afraid to embrace Christ our husband They will begin to question whether there is that satisfactory joy in religion which is claimed. And he finally says here, O you saints of God, do not forget consolation. Let others see that you do not repent of your choice to marry Christ. It is joy that puts liveliness and activity into a Christian The joy of the Lord is your strength, remember. Nehemiah 8. 10. The soul is swiftest in duty when it is carried on the wings of joy. Now you can receive a part of a sermon, which is what that was. From someone who knew what they were talking about. But nevertheless, you could still struggle with joy. And that's why we know not only these words, we need each other. Especially during seasons like this, we need to compensate for each other. And so I challenge you, those of you who are feeling joy these days, I encourage you to spread that joy to those who may not be feeling much joy right now. Stir them up to the good work of joy. And may our joy be assault, and may it be a light to all of the nations, that they would follow our light in the same way that the wise men followed the star. That they would follow our light to Jesus Christ Himself. May our lives, like an artistic composition, have an anchoring effect. May they see that we are anchored in Jesus and He is our joy. Let us pray.