Me to Lamentations chapter two, and I'll be reading eleven through nineteen. My eyes fail with tears. My heart is troubled My bile is poured on the ground because of the destruction of the daughter of my people, because the children and the infants faint in the streets of the city. They say to their mothers, Where is grain and wine? As they swoon like the wounded in the streets of the city, as their life is poured out in their mother's bosom. How shall I console you? To what shall I liken you, O daughter of Jerusalem? What shall I compare with you that I may comfort you, O virgin, daughter of Zion? For your ruin is spread wide as the sea. Who can heal you? Your prophets have seen for you false and deceptive visions. They have not uncovered your iniquity to bring back your captives, but have envisioned for you false prophecies and delusions. All who pass by clap their hands at you, they hiss and shake their heads at the daughter of Jerusalem. Is this the city that is called the perfection of beauty, the joy of the whole earth? All your enemies have opened their mouth against you. They hiss and gnash their teeth. They say, We have swallowed her up. Surely this is the day we have waited for. We found it. We've seen it The Lord has done what he purposed. He has fulfilled his word which he commanded in days of old. He has thrown down and has not pitied And he has caused the enemy to rejoice over you. He has exalted the horn of your adversaries. Their heart cried out to the Lord O wall of the daughter of Zion, let tears run down like a river day and night. Give yourself no relief, give your eyes no rest. Arise, cry out in the night, at the beginning of the watches, pour out your heart like water before the face of the Lord. Lift your hands toward him for the life of your young children. Who faint from hunger at the head of every street. Let's pray. O Christ is our great shepherd. I pray that you would give us instruction today. Show us your glory and ours. And return the joy of the world. In Christ's name, Amen. You may be seated. This year at Advent, we are discovering the great reality of our incarnate Lord. The overarching lessons from him have been about God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit And when we join our knowledge of God to us by Christ, especially Christ having been crucified, then we find deep realities at work within life. especially life that bears a cross. We have found, for example, hope. We have found, furthermore, peace and patience while we wait in hope for our salvation. And this week we look to Christ for joy. It is wise for us to ask the question: what is the biblical reality of joy? A couple weeks ago, or whenever it was, I can't even remember. We talked about peace last week. We talked about how different peace as a biblical reality is from a cultural reality. And perhaps the same thing is true of joy. What is joy as a biblical reality? Well, I turn your attention to Psalm 48 as a representative example, and you'll find that if you use this as a representative example, And then you can see it in many other instances that something like this will emerge as what joy is, at least in part. Joy is a kind of exuberant overflow. We usually call it rejoicing. It is a exuberant overflow of the heart at the consideration of something glorious. Psalm forty-eight one through three. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised in the city of our God is his holy mountain Beautiful in elevation. And here, next, these are the next words of the psalm, but notice that they're also present in lamentation, which is why I'm bringing these two together. Here's a continuation of the psalm: beautiful in elevation, the joy of the whole earth. Is Mount Zion on the sides of the north, the city of the great king? God is in her palaces. He is known as her refuge. What we have here as we consider what is the biblical reality of joy that was even mentioned within our Lamentation passage, So we have a reality of a city that is elevated, it says. And if you were to pass by this city, you would see the glory of the buildings, you would see the glory of the government, you'd see the glory of the king and the soldiers. And it would cause you, as you looked at this glorious city and what all of the buildings stood for You would just have to smile and have a kind of joy. And because these things are symbols, all the benefits that Jerusalem would bring to the earth All of the wisdom. All of the wisdom and the benefits that the king represented and the buildings represented and the temple represented as a link between heaven and earth. And the home of Yahweh, so to speak. All of that would come rushing in, and in the face of such glory, people would have joy. And that's why we see here, being captured in the Psalm, that it is beautiful in its elevation, is the joy of the whole earth. And now, when we look at it that way, when we look at the biblical reality of joy, you have this reality in various places in your life. You recognize this kind of joy as spawned on by way of being in the presence of glory. For example, let me give you some more trivial examples. We smile, or at least I do, at the glorious athleticism of sprinters like Hussein Bolt. Does anyone know who that is? You can do this in the backfield. It's a little over um a football field of length. You pace out 125 yards. I think that's pretty close to a hundred meter run. Don't quote me on that. And you Usain Bolt runs that in 9. 58 seconds. And I would love to time you. But when you see his body working all of the parts together to accomplish that, it just makes you smile. Because he's kind of like the glory of runners. At least sprinters. And we do the same thing with musicians. I've seen myself smile at someone really going to town on a guitar, for example For you, perhaps it's another kind of musician. Or for example, we rejoice at nations. I've heard from many of you. That you rejoiced in your youth in the glory of America, and part of your grief right now is seeing her glory dim. But when you do see her glory, you rejoice. Having the privilege to officiate weddings, I've seen young grooms rejoice at the glory of their brides. I used this example, Jeremy, in the morning service, so I've got to use you again. But Jeremy was so excited about the glory of his bride that I literally had to put my hand on his shoulder and tell him to breathe And it was right. She's still glorious. You're a lucky man. It feels good to think about these things. It feels good to stand in the face of these kinds of glory and to see what happens, kind of rejoicing in joy. And it makes sense to us because when God, who is most glorious, comes before his people in these kinds of glory, what do we do? But rejoice in him and worship him. It is the most appropriate response. And yet there's a question that we're faced with when we look at the same quote from the Psalm 48 in the words of lamentation and in the new context. And this is the question: what do you do when your joy is removed? What do you do when there is no joy? And I asked this, of course, and I'll just put a finger on it on verse 15. Take a look again All who pass by clap their hands at you, they hiss and shake their heads at the daughter of Jerusalem. Is this city, is this the city that is called the perfection of beauty, the joy of the whole earth? It is the same wording of Psalm 48, but it is turned on its head to be words of shame. You can hear it in the voice of those who pass by. And the picture becomes that the daughter of Jerusalem has lost her glory, and therefore, because these two things are connected in the way that we were saying. There is no longer joy for the whole earth. Now, chapter two, and really all of one Is a continual devolution or deconstruction of Jerusalem and her heights and glory Down into the dirt of her shame and the removal of joy therefore from the face of the earth. The first parts of chapter two, in other words, are a record of her demise. I wonder if you caught that in the reading. I only started at verse 11 and then 1 to 19, but I I wonder if you you could see everything breaking down into nothing. Getting lower and lower. If you were to study the whole chapter two and you start at verse one and then you look at the final verse 22, You'll notice that the whole chapter is included or enveloped in this major theme that's called the day of the Lord. Notice that it mentions the day of the Lord's anger. And this anger is characterized as like a kind of consuming fire. I want you to think of the California fires at their worst. And how they consumed and destroyed those things which were standing went low. And the same thing is happening throughout all of chapter 2. In his wrath, because Jerusalem of Jerusalem's sin, God demolishes the temple in verse 1. He continues to consume the rural countryside and the population in verse 2. He tears down the fortresses of the city He crushes the kingdom and its officials in 2-2. He ruins the army in the sense of ruination in verse 3. He becomes like a deadly archer, pulling back his bow and letting it spring. With catastrophic arrows striking the city. The picture is God taking the towering and the glorious city and its people down to the ground. And I know that you notice that the lowest point of the teardown is in verses 11 and 12. It is the most heart-wrenching of the lowest of lows. You heard the cries. You saw what was behind the prayers. The author of Lamentations, actually, it says that his vial is removed from him. I think that he's vomiting at this point. The author of Lamentations vomits at the sight and the thought, because this is what's going on. The children are starving, and as they naturally should, they look to their mothers for food. But there is no food for anybody. And so the moms have not been able to eat, so there has been no production of breast milk. And so we see That the children consequently stumble in malnutrition and swoon like the wounded, and they fall in the city streets. And it is what those who pass by notice. They see the children lying in the streets. Is this the city that is called the perfection of beauty? Is this the joy of the whole earth She had lost her glory, and therefore she had lost her joy. No one was taking joy in her. Now, this was a long time ago. But I still think that it is important for us to ask, in light of the question that we're looking at, and what happens if you lose your joy? And what happens if you lose your joy connected to glory? And the way that these things work out in these biblical realities, it's still important to ask that question. Because throughout each era and time, the church is under the same kinds of situations. Do you think that it is still important to ask how we might regain our joy if joy is connected to the glory of the church? I think that the answer depends on the the question depends on the answer. And it depends on a another it depends on a question. I'm sorry, another question. Has the church, the city of God today, lost her glory? And insofar as she has, has there been a loss of joy? Now, to help with this, I want to make it more visual as we seek to answer that question. What do we do when we lose our joy? Which is really the result of losing a glory. And the other question we're asking is, has the church lost its glory? Well, I want to put it visually so it's not too theoretical and abstract, because the vision of this is pretty big already as it is. Notice in the bulletin that earlier we I read to you Ezekiel from Ezekiel 16. I'd encourage you to read that whole book, and I'd encourage you to read that chapter and see what's going on there. But we can all agree that God has made his church glorious. God clothed her in the finest shoes and the finest clothes, the finest jewelry with the finest and most royal life. You notice he mentioned badger skins. That's apparently the most glorious shoe. She was glorious and consequently her sight brought great joy Just as the saw the sight of any glorious woman brings joy. And when we have that image in mind, we get to evaluate ourselves. We get to ask: has the bride of God today lost her jewelry? Has it become dull? Has she lost her fine clothing? Is it soiled Etc. And so we can ask questions like this as we're considering: has the church lost her glory and therefore lost the joy? Have we lost the fine silk of our wisdom, for example? Are the people around us turning to the Bride of Christ for wisdom? Have we lost the jewels of our hospitality and our sacrificial love? Christ says that by your love they will know you're my disciples Is the church known for its love? Is that its glory? Are the royal delicacies of our family life still present Or have our families degenerated into being barely recognized as family? Have the golden rings of our marriage become dim Or are our marriages the joy of the earth? And if these things have become dim, I don't think they've been eradicated, if you were to ask me I think they're all still present. They're up and they're running. But there's a phrase within Lamentations in later chapters where it says, Oh, how the gold has become dim. I think the glory has dimmed. The wisdom has dimmed. Marriages have dimmed. Families have dimmed. The question before us then, if you have the same estimation that I do, is how shall we grow in glory? and therefore have the joy of the whole world restored. You can see where this is going. Well Whatever the answer is, because we're in lamentation, you know the answer is not going to be easy. Now, this is true of all biblical scripture, and maybe it's just because I'm in Lamentations right now, but this book is beautiful in so many ways, and one way is that it shows that God takes real life real seriously. He doesn't cut corners. He acknowledges your suffering. And so whatever the answer is going to be here is going to be a real answer. I want you to notice verse 13. How shall we grow in glory and therefore joy? Well, the answer is tough. Notice in verse thirteen that the Prophet of Lamentations is searching for some way to strengthen and restore her. How shall I console you? I wonder how you hear this. Are these words of genuine inquisitiveness or are they words of desperation and despair? How shall I console you to what shall I liken you, O daughter of Jerusalem? What shall I compare with you that I may comfort you, O virgin daughter of Zion? For your ruin is spread as wide as the sea. And then you have the final words. Who can heal you? There's a basis here that all comfort and strength will come from someone who is able to connect with you in your circumstances. because they have some other experience that is like your circumstances. And he looks at this group of people and what has happened, especially to the mothers and the children, and he says, There's no one for me to liken you to, therefore I do not know how to comfort you. How can you be healed? And of course he's going to say that because his estimation was based on the severity of his case But in ways that are analogous, we may ask the same question about many areas within our life. Who is going to heal the church today? Who will heal the divisions of the church today, for example? I mean, aren't we receiving over the last few years Inestimable reports of abuse happening within the church? Is that her glory? The abuse of women and children? Who could heal such a thing? Who can bring the church back to her glory and make her the joy of the earth again? You know what everyone is looking for right now? They're looking for a direction through the pandemic and the political situation. What if the church had the wisdom to give it to the whole world? Would she not be glorious? Does she not have that wisdom, but is it not buried beneath a basket? Perhaps it's been lost for several hundred years. Well, whatever the answer is, it's taken seriously because he doesn't think that just anybody could heal the church. The answer begins in verse 19 that he gives, though. And the prophet tells the church implicitly that only God can redeem, and therefore the church should pray. And that's what this whole verse is about. Arise, cry in the night. At the beginning of the watches, pour out your heart like water before the face of the Lord. Lift your hands toward him for the life of your young children. They faint at the head of every street corner. Do you know how full the prayer meetings would be for the children in their situation? And we've talked about the importance of steadfast and devoted prayer, but that's not the emphasis here. That I want to bring out. I'm not going to encourage you to come out to our prayer meetings. I want to point out to you that the church has been crying out in the night watches for years that God would do something about the glory of the church. These people here cried out in the night watches for the glory of the church. And what is God's answer? How will he heal the church in her glory? The prayers of the saints are always going up. And we have before us the question: what is the main way that God has begun to answer all of these prayers? And the answer is right before us on Advent because the answer is the incarnation. The answer is Jesus, who is the Christ. Think of all that we've covered in this theme. Think of Ezekiel 16 about the husband and him taking care of the wife. Think of that in relationship to what's happening to glory and joy. And then consider, perhaps for the first time, Ephesians chapter 5. Husbands, love your wives. Just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for her. Listen to the glory language getting ready to hit us. That he might sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of water by the word, that he might present her to himself a glorious church. Not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she should be holy and without blemish. So husbands ought to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. And now we can understand why Paul goes back to this final verse in this section and says, This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ in the church. Because that's the major push. Do you see that this is God's answer to the prayers of the church from the beginning? God has taken on flesh to restore the glory of his bride and the flesh. The ascended Christ Himself is the one who shall strengthen Zion. There are cries that go out: who will heal us? And the answer has come back from all of the angels: Jesus Christ the Lord. Together the groom and his bride shall become the joy of the earth. That's the story Sorry for the spoiler. Together the groom and his bride shall become the joy of the earth As Christ says in Matthew 5, to put what we've been saying throughout the whole sermon into different words, the church is meant to be a great light in the world. And that light is glorious. We are meant from that light, as those who have been in darkness and look to a light, we're meant to be the joy of the world. What happens, however, when the light becomes darkness or the gold becomes dim? How will joy return? The answer is the incarnation. God, who took on flesh, sacrificed his flesh to restore the glory of his bride, and consequently will bring joy to the world again. That's the vision. We've seen it in Ezekiel 16 when we were able to say, behold your Christ. And his bride. We see it as we ask and answer the question, who could heal you? And we finally see a realistic answer The God man of glory is it's a good idea. To see that God the Son was willing to take on the responsibility of restoring the church. I believe that it is the kind of glory that you stand before and you think about what your responsibilities are. If God was willing to take on the responsibility of restoring the church, the question naturally arises as his bride, are you? Are you committed to the glory of Christ's bride yourself? Paul says no one neglects their own body but takes care of it Young or old, I ask that you would consider this question. In God's plan, what responsibility does the church shoulder in this world? We don't often in our modern era think much about our responsibility. We're encouraged to be victims in everything. I'm asking you to think about responsibility. What is your responsibility in this world? Is it not to be a glorious witness in all that you do to the glory of God? Are you willing to take up the responsibility and to be the church? Will you bring joy to the earth again? And may we learn from the end of that reading in Ezekiel 16 that captures it so well, and that I put into a kind of benediction. But let this be our prayer. May the fame of the church go out among the nations because of her beauty. And may all know that our beauty is but God's splendor bestowed on us. Let us pray.