Scriptures to Jude. And tonight, since we made such uh great progress last week, we're actually going to get to verse 8. We're a little ahead of schedule. But uh we're only gonna do really up to the um yeah, we'll do verse eight. I'm going to reread all the way up to eight, just so you can have the fuller context in mind. Jude, a bondservant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, to those who are called. Sanctified by God the Father and preserved in Jesus Christ. Mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you Beloved, while I was very diligent to write to you concerning our common salvation, I found it necessary to write to you exhorting you to contend earnestly for the faith which was once for all delivered to the saints. For certain men have crept in unnoticed, who long ago were marked out for this condemnation Ungodly men who turn the grace of our God into lewdness and deny the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. But I want to remind you, though you once knew this, that the Lord, having saved the people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those who did not believe And the angels, who did not keep their proper domain, but left their own abode, he has reserved in everlasting chains under darkness for the judgment of the great day. As Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them in a similar manner to these, having given themselves over to sexual immorality and gone after strange flesh, are set forth as an example suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. Likewise also these dreamers, speaking of those ungodly men from earlier in the chapter there. Likewise, also, these dreamers defile the flesh, they reject authority, and they speak evil of dignitaries. Let us pray. Lord Christ, we we see the foundation that your servant is laying here were his exhortations, which will start to happen. In verse 12, we pray that you would help us to be patient with foundations being laid That you would give us souls to wait for calls to action. Pray that you would give your congregation diligent attention to the truths of your kingdom. That they would gather these things up that are given to them tonight as pearls, pearls not thrown to swine, but to those who appreciate pearls. Ask these things in your name Amen. May be seated. Well, over the last few weeks, we have listened closely to Jude. And as I mentioned in my prayer, he is laying foundation work here. It's very important for you to get all of this foundation. He's eventually going to, in verse 12, start giving calls to action. And so make sure you have the foundation down. He's laying a foundation that we may stand on. That we may have strong ground, that we may be able to continue to serve Christ all the days which God has given to us. The more I study the letter to Jude, the more ways I see to not stay on the path. And it reminded me of Pilgrim's Progress. I'd have to look at the The the writing there, and I just wonder, was pilgrim on the path or off the path more often? It's an interesting question if you were to clock put put them on a clock We know that he stayed on the path by Christ's grace, but there are so many ways to stray. And so here, there's a grace from Christ given to us. In these foundations that Jude lays. What we've been doing is dealing with a series of images that I'm hoping are helpful to you that the church has had for over 2,000 years now. The first foundational image that I gave you was in order to explain verses 3 through 4 and what Jude is doing there. And that image was of a beautiful mosaic. God has left us with what Jude calls a pattern of sound words. You can see that in verse 3. Where he calls it the faith once for all delivered to the saints. And what he means there is that Christ gifted the apostles With the authoritative understanding and writing of the scriptures, which are the Old Testament The Old Testament scriptures, in other words, to use the imagery, are like precious stones ordered in a mosaic that forms the picture of God's salvation through Christ and the Spirit. But as I said to you the first week we opened this letter, the problem is that people try to rearrange the precious stones into another picture. And so, throughout the ages, the church formed creeds to keep the mosaic in the right order. There are other things that Christ gives to the church, but that's one of them. Well, that's the first image. The first image is of the mosaic. And that is when I say the when I'm talking about these images, I want you to think of foundations that we're laying that you need to know, that you need to embrace as a community. And now here's a second foundational image, and it was from last week, which is for verses 5 through 7, and I gave you the image of Dalton Abbey. We use Doubt Navy as an illustration of an estate which is ordered in all of its affairs God has ordered the estate of his creation, and it is not our place to transgress those boundaries If you want, we can add to the illustration and just do like a little imagining for a moment. Imagine someone coming into your home and rearranging all of your furniture and all of your kitchen cabinets. It would be quite inappropriate. Both angels and humans, however, are doing something similar to that. They defy and go beyond their domains. And they seek to rearrange the furniture and kitchen cabinets of God's reality. We've heard a couple ways in which Jude is focused on. One of those is in the realm of sexuality. We have plenty of experience with that. A disorder of sexuality. Well, those are the two main images for our foundation that has been laid so far. And this evening, Jude shows us how people justify moving around God's furniture. And it's very, very helpful to have as a foundation here, as Jude builds, for us to be able to notice these things in verse 8. Jude shows some vital similarities between the example of the angels and Sodom and Gomorrah, and he mentions in verse 8 that they do two main things. They defile the flesh and they reject authority. Now hopefully we'll have time To unpack that a little bit. But based on our observations last week, defiling the flesh can refer to any sexual or sensual perversion outside of God's plan. When we turn to understand the words rejecting authority in the same verse, I don't want to sit here and quote Greek to you. Okay? I don't like doing that. So, if you have questions about why I think what I'm getting ready to say, then just ask me after the service. Rejecting authority is meant to connect back to verse 4. Wherein those ungodly people deny the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. And the denial The denial of authority, the rejecting of authority is extremely practical. It is denying how Jesus Christ wants us to conduct our lives. And now here is the main question, which helps us to fill out the rest of verse 8, except for talk about dignitaries, which I'll do next week. The main question is: how is it that those who infiltrate, how is it that those intruders justify those things? How do they justify their reordering of God's order? How do they become plausible and gain followers? How do they, in a sense, allow their conscience to rest, knowing what God says? And the answer is found in the beginning of verse 8 when they are called dreamers. This is very important. We could talk about this for a long time. But dreamers is a word that has a long biblical history and refers to those who say they receive dreams from God. Those dreams then, make sure you catch this, those dreams then become the basis or the authority for the instruction or the direction they give themselves and they give other people. It ends up being the kind of core to their persuasive ability within this particular culture. Maybe you wouldn't find that very persuasive, but I bet you there's other things that people appeal to where you do. And so we have to be very careful about what authorities we are accepting in our lives. And that's really the thing that Jude wants us to take away, and that we have to realize is that whether it is a dream or not. People use all kinds of things to give themselves authority to deny who God actually is and what God actually expects from us. So you have got to pay attention. to the foundation upon which the house is built. Now I'm going to give you a couple concrete examples And I'm hoping that will help you to understand what Jude's saying. Again, we're really just laying foundations here still. That's all a bit abstract, but I'm hoping it'll become more clear here. Let me give you an example of those who rely on the authority of visions or dreams. The very first example is just these are a couple that you probably know some folks who have given themselves over to this. You're familiar with these things, so I just thought I would mention them to you. You can also now start applying all the foundational work from Jude to these. It'll help you to understand. The very first one who has authority given to them by visions or dreams is are the doctrines of Mormonism. Mormonism begins with a farm boy named Joseph Smith. I'm not going to give you a whole history here, but the key to this is that Smith said he received a vision in the spring of 1820. And then he goes from there. If you drive around the beltway down there by DC and you look up at the the Mormon temple, you'll see at the very top there's an angel, and it's because that is where he would receive his He was receiving his vision from angels. And from that revelation that he has received, he ends up building a whole set of things. That would give you direction in how you could should conduct yourself and how you should think about God. And then there is the lovely history of the branch Davidians. Is anyone here, was anyone around to watch David Koresh in action? Yeah, I'm seeing a couple hands come up. So that's another one. If you do a little bit of uh reading on the branch Davidians May have the same problem that Judas specifically referring to here with dreams by taking the name of David Koresh. David Koresh was professing himself to be the spiritual descendant of King David and that he was the Messiah. And here's the kicker. In 1983, Koresh began claiming the gift of prophecy. So he's receiving visions or dreams, and then he's prophesying as to what the will of the Lord is. And I could list many others that need to fall under the evaluation that Jude gives us here. Some are more serious than others. For example, the charismatic movement within Christianity deserves some examination with reference to Jude. Same thing with Pentecostal communities. This may surprise you, but it is the same thing with Roman Catholicism. They have an extremely dangerous view of salvation in Jesus Christ. And then Jehovah's Witness is a whole nother bag. And there's a bunch of other ones too throughout history. These are all dealing with the same kind of thing and could use some examination by way of Jude. But here's the thing for you at Severn Run that you need to deal with. One of the reasons why I wanted to do the letter of Jude is because you have moved into an age as a church that is known as an evil age. Maybe it is not the most evil age that has ever been on the face of the earth, but you will face, in my opinion, just in my reading of our situation, you will face more and more People that go beyond what Jude is comfortable with in terms of the pattern of sound words. And so we need to rise in our discernment. And here is a beginning point for you in rising in your discernment. I have a question for all of you. All of those groups that I just named, and more, they appeal to visions, they appeal to dreams, and they appeal to ongoing prophecy. But all of them also use the Bible as their main form of understanding. And I have a question for you. What gives you the authority to say that your understanding and your practices are the right ones and theirs are not? Now that is the question of our age. Who is really Orthodox? That's the question. And Jude is starting to give you a foundation and a framework. by which you can begin to answer that. It's not all going to be within Jude. It's actually by way of Christ's providence, he provides shepherds who are gifted to be able to detect. And to protect sheep. There's all kinds of things that Christ gives to us in order to protect us from being drug off. But you can at least start to consider this question tonight. What gives you the authority? to say that your understanding and your practices are the right ones. Let's um we'll just close in prayer now. No, I'm just I'm just I'm just kidding. Oh man. No, Jude has some stuff for us. This would be a great way for me to lose my job. No, he there is a fuller answer that can't be handled just in this one sermon. There are so many things that go into this that all fall under the category of wisdom in these matters. But I want to mention a few things here that Jude does give to us so that we can start seeing how useful this foundation is that he's laid for us. Jude's answer, I've already given to you. Jude answers that question by saying that we know we have the right understanding and practice when we have our authorities correct. And this is my second question for you, therefore, when we look at a passage like this. To what did Jude give ultimate authority as a rule? To know who God is and what he requires of us. And we have already answered that. It says it in verse 3. You can begin to see how important this foundation is for us. The faith once for all delivered to the saints. Do you know what that is? When you read that and it says, the faith once for all delivered to the saints, what does he mean? We went over that in the first sermon, but let's just hit on this again. It is the apostolic interpretation of two main things. This is why the apostles are so important. They are the authority on the meaning that God intends for the scriptures. This is why we say that the church is built upon the cornerstone and the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. It is the apostolic interpretation of two main things. First, it is the apostolic understanding of the Old Testament. If you want to know how to read the Old Testament, then you should read it by way of the apostles. And guess what that's called? That's called the New Testament. And then, second, the apostolic understanding not only of the Old Testament, but also of Jesus of Nazareth. Many people have different understandings of who Jesus from Nazareth is. Who's got the right understanding? Our claim as Christians is that the apostles do. And so they show you over and over and over again The significance of his life, the significance of his death, the significance of his resurrection and of his ascension and of his return. Do you know how many people died? Under Roman law, in the way that Jesus died? Many, many, many, many, many. But do they all have the same significance as Jesus from Nazareth? The apostles say no. He is set aside, and the meaning of his death is so different than every other. So those are the first two things that we have to answer And that is what is the faith once for all delivered to the saints? First, it's the apostolic understanding of the Old Testament, and second, it's the apostolic understanding of Jesus of Nazareth, even by way of the Old Testament Because when they show us who Jesus is, they always say according to the scriptures. Now, this can end up being really surprising to you today. And if you find this complicated, let's just, I feel the freedom to give you a little bit more complication, especially on Taco Night, because we can talk about it afterwards. This can be surprising to us today as Christians who do not see much of a place for the Old Testament. And what I would like to do at this point is to try and to help you to see the Old Testament as Jude and the Apostles would see it. When we hear in our culture the word old, it is not usually a compliment. We think most often of something that has been superseded and left behind by something new. So, for example, there is an old model of the iPhone. And then there is the new one that has face recognition and 5G. And we tend to look at all of life like this. That the old iPhone was worse because I actually had to like move my body to do something. And now the new one's better because I just stand there and it recognizes me. And takes all of my data and sells it to other nations. But when Jude and Paul think of the Old Testament, They think of old as in tried and true, tested and not found wanting, the best that you can get. When I went to Florida last April, a family friend surprised us with a horseback riding trip. Some of you saw the absurdity of me on a horse. I don't want to talk about it. I was a bit nervous and the owner picked up on that. And the owner reassured me by saying, while tapping the horse, don't worry, this is a good old horse. Not OLD, but OL. Good old horse. And what he meant was that this horse had lots of experience. And all the experiences that they've had with this horse, he's always shown himself to be trustworthy. And this particular horse, actually, they used for training children. Children that were concern were could be very hurt by large animals like that. But they had learned over over a decade. of regular training and regular practice that this was a good old horse. Lots of experience with the horse and he's trustworthy And this is similar to how Jude and all of those in Christ's community of that time saw the Old Testament. But I'll tell you, one of the reasons why we're able to have this conversation right now is because this is what we're facing is not the first time that the church has faced this. Even on the pages of Scripture, you can see the emphasis upon apostolic interpretation and understanding. Even during their day, Some people arose with a different message from the Old Testament than what the apostles preached. This morning in the book of Acts, when Paul and Barnabas went into that town and the Jews withstood them and blasphemed. Do you know what they were doing? They were saying to Paul and Barnabas, you are not reading the scriptures correctly. You have misunderstood. And so Paul would have to engage with them. It was a question during their time also as to who had the right interpretation. And so do you know what the Apostle Paul did? Acts chapter 17, verse 2. Then Paul, as his custom was, went into them and reasoned with them from the scriptures. What scriptures, from what scriptures did Paul reason with people? Because the New Testament was not written What scriptures? It has to be the Old Testament scriptures and his understanding of Jesus Christ by way of the Old Testament scriptures. He had to show them how to read it. He could have maybe even said to them, I know that it had been said to you before. That such and such was the case, but I tell you the truth. This is the way you should be reading these scriptures. I know that you've always understood Habakkuk in this way, but let me tell you, this is the way you should be reading these scriptures. And you see Jesus himself doing that on the road to Emmaus with the disciples when they he opens up all of the law and the prophets and shows them that they were all about him. Paul does the same thing, and we are learning from Paul. When things went wrong in churches, To what did Paul turn for wisdom and instruction? Think of 1 Corinthians, for example. He turned to the Old Testament and its wisdom, because it's tried and true. It is similar to that statement, it's a good old horse. He turned to the Old Testament and he turned to the revelation of God in Christ, but still understood by way of the Old Testament. And that is the same call that we have. With Jude's congregation, people were using dreams to give weight and authority to their teaching and practices. What do people use today to give weight and authority to their teaching and their practices? Sometimes dreams, but there are many other things. But I tell you the truth. The problem, the problem though, is that dreams or visions or prophecies or any other thing Does not have more authority than the faith delivered once for all to the saints That faith is the authoritative apostolic understanding of the Old Testament scriptures and of Jesus from Nazareth. You know, as we're heading into this age, I'm trying to lead us in the right direction. By God's grace. And as one of your leaders, one of your shepherds that Christ has given to you, I have got to ask you this question: What is your relationship to the Old Testament? What is your relationship to that which has been the wisdom for God's people for thousands of years? That they would be able to be preserved in times like this. Is your relationship to the Old Testament like an old iPhone model to trade in for something better? Or is it that which is reliable and trustworthy and shown to be approved? The way that you interact with your scriptures tells me the answer. Your familiarity with what even the books are tells me the answer Your time in those books tells me the answer. This isn't an opportunity for me to make you feel guilty about how much Bible reading time you have. I'm trying to tell you that there are infiltrators out there who will deceive you and lead you astray if you do not know who God is and what he requires of you. By way of the scriptures. And so this is something we must be dedicated to. Do you understand and practice the Old Testament as the apostles understand it? Here's one of my favorite questions, also as you're one of your shepherds What rule has God given to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy Him? Well, I'll tell you it's not your dreams. And I'll tell you another thing, it's not your visions. And I'll tell you another thing, it's not your prophecies. I could give a crap about your prophecies And you know what else I don't care much about within this particular conversation is your feelings. It is the Word of God which is contained in the scriptures of the Old and the New Testaments. That is the only rule to direct us how we may glorify God and enjoy Him. Prove me wrong. I dare you. It won't happen. Let us pray