Judge not that you be not judged. For with the judgment you judge, you will be judged, and with the measure you use, it will be measured back to you And why do you look at the speck in your brother's eye, but do not consider the plank in your own eye? Or how can you say to your brother, Let me remove the speck from your eye and look at the plank as in your own eye? Hypocrite First, remove the plank from your own eye, and then you'll see clearly to remove the speck from your brother's eye. Do not give what is holy to the dogs. Nor cast your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their feet, and turn and tear you in pieces. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I pray that you would bless the reading and the preaching and the hearing of your word And pray that you would bless it in such a way to where we would grow as a congregation as salt and light in this world, that the world would know that a new creation has sprung. Like the flowers we see outside. I pray, Lord, that the scent would attract them and that you would adopt them as your own. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. This morning we're coming back to the series that we left for a moment as we went through our Holy Week. And on Easter morning. And that series is the Sermon on the Mount. We chose this series specifically because we have an interest in making disciples of all nations. When we left the book of Jonah, and as we think about our commission from Jesus Christ Himself from the Matthew chapter 28 series We know that we are supposed to, under the Lordship of Jesus Christ, make disciples of all nations. Well, I raise the question, well, what would it look like to make disciples? It says in Matthew 28 that we're to teach them all things, to obey Christ in all things. Well, what does that look like? And so what we have done is we've turned to the Sermon on the Mount because it is well known as a teaching on what it means to be the disciple of Jesus Christ. So we've been looking at it closely together and we're actually almost to the end. So we'll be moving on here before you know it. But we're continuing in that series now for those particular purposes. Now I wonder if there was a little bit of a surprise on what you think or on how you see how I've focused really the whole series. I hope it's starting to emerge Rather than only seeing all of the details that Jesus has given here on his Sermon on the Mount, do this, don't do that. I've also tried to broaden out to see there's a reason why Jesus is calling us to particular actions. There's a reason why he calls us to assess our own actions as we seek to disciple the nations. And that main reason is throughout the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus is very concerned that you would know who God actually is Who is his father really? And that you would relate to his father and your father as he is meant to be related to. That really came out in spades when we were going through the prayer I use the first petition of the prayer, our Father who art in heaven, to color the whole thing, and I really think it colors all of the Sermon on the Mount We are meant to be a group of people who relate to God the Father through Jesus Christ and by the Spirit well. And when God calls others into our midst to join us in the family of God, so too must they learn how to relate to God. It is the hardest thing you will do in your whole life. There's a thousand ways to get it wrong. I I remember seeing um some kind of YouTube videos or a movie, there are a thousand ways to die There's a thousand ways to get it wrong. And here Jesus is going to great lengths and giving us all of his scripture to make sure that we we get it right. You know, so when you start to look at it that way, it really starts to make sense of each of the parts. We're being contrasted to, and there's a foil, which are the scribes and the Pharisees. The scribes and the Pharisees were basically a pressure group during that time. They didn't have an official capacity. They weren't Levites in the temple. They weren't the great high priests or anything like that. They're kind of like a sort of political pressure group that was present, and they were giving a poor example of how to relate to God. So Jesus continually uses them as a foil that he would set off for his disciples exactly what it's supposed to look like to relate to God. Let me just ask you a question. This would be a question that would come out of the Sermon on the Mount Is your is in relating to God like relating to the building and permits division of Anorono County or any bureaucracy? Have you ever seen uh there we have some contractors here. I know we at least have one. Talk to them about what it's rel what it's like to relate to the building and permits division of Anna Runnell County. What kind of song and dance do you need to do in order to get them to hear your prayers? Well, Jesus brings things up like that in the Sermon on the Mount that our Father is not like dealing with a bureaucracy. He knows the things that you need, and he is able and willing to help you. And that's how we need to learn to relate to him. Or there are other examples too. There are different movements within history that tell these stories in this way But you could raise the question like this. Let me ask you it this way. Is it most important to serve God just with our outward actions? Well, all of us here are more inclined to tell the story of saying, no, we know we're supposed to serve him from the heart. Well, let me put the question to you this way, is the heart that all that matters? What you end up seeing in Jesus is he addresses these different kinds of movements that run through the thread of human life, and he says, you know, actions are important. In fact, if your brother sins against you, go and find him before he drags you off the court. That was a whole section on actions or how we're supposed to pray or how we're supposed to give. That's all action-oriented But he doesn't leave out the heart either. He's bringing all of these different things together on how we are to relate to God and how God relates to us and how we're supposed to relate to each other. Jesus is bringing all of those things out here because he's showing you what it means to be his disciple. And there's a lot at stake. And you being a good disciple of Jesus Christ. Earlier in the Sermon on the Mount, he says that we're supposed to be the salt and the light of the world. That's a big deal. So if you're like the scribes and the Pharisees and you start to misrepresent who God is by the way that you conduct yourself, do you see what's at stake? Do you see how dark the darkness actually is? If that which was supposed to bring light, namely, show people who God is and what he's doing with this new creation, if they become darkened, you know how serious that is If the salt is no longer salty, if the light has a bushel basket placed over top of it. So Jesus is showing us what it means to be his disciple here, and he's been doing that all along. It is important to know what God is like because we represent God as his congregation and as his people, as his sons. and as his daughters. Now that same concern, that's the story here. That's the story that uh explains the Sermon on the Mount. That's what Jesus is seeking to accomplish. And we want to bring that understanding, that larger picture of what Jesus is trying to accomplish. We want to bring that into our main observations today with a passage that has caused people a great deal of confusion. A great deal of confusion. So I'm just going to step this step us through this little by little, and then when it's time to end, we're going to end. Okay, so let's go ahead. I just want to make a couple observations with you by way of stepping through our passage. And here's the very first one. So if you're taking notes, you can just say observation one. All right, it's that simple. And guess what? We're gonna move on to observation two, and then there'll be an observation three, and then I'll say it's time to go So observation number one is that the people of God should judge. But you should not do so harshly The people of God should judge, but you should not not do so harshly. And you could put that more exactly with with exactly what I was saying Jesus' purposes are here. The disciples of God or the disciples of Jesus Christ, they do in fact judge. But they don't do so harshly. There's a lot of ways in which we don't judge. We don't judge wrongly in a lot of different ways, but I'm just going to focus on the harsh one because of the passage. Now you can see that this is exactly what we're dealing with within our passage. The very first sentence here is, judge not that you be not judged. And then it goes on to talk about the kind of measures that you would use with this kind of judgment. Now I want to say a couple words about this because I just said the people of God or the disciples of Christ do judge, and then it says here, judge not Okay, so we do have a little bit of explaining to do. Number one, for this explanation, because he goes on to talk about the kind of measure that you're using, I think he's specifically concerned here with uh the word judgment in the way that we mean when we say sentencing. So if you heard of a court date or something like that, let's just say that some person was finally arrested who was a part of uh some kind of drug cartel. All of this evidence was listed for them, and then at the end of the trial, you didn't hear what the judge had said, and so you say, well, what was their final judgment? And in that you could mean were they guilty or not, but most likely you mean, well, what was the sentencing that hung was handed out? What was the judgment that the judge that the judge gave to them? How many life sentences did they receive? And that, I think, is what Jesus is focused on here because he's talking about measure for measure. What is the measure that you are using in the way that you are judging people? And I think It goes on here and it says, for with what judgment you judge, you will be judged, and with the measure you use, it will be measured to you, and then it goes on to talk about a speck in somebody else's eye that you're going to focus on. but you missed the plank in your own eye. These have to do with you being extreme as opposed to having a moderation within your judgment. That's what he's getting across here. And Bill did us a favor by bringing up a prime example of this within Matthew itself When we get to this to the servant who was forgiven in Matthew chapter 18, if you'd like to turn there with me In Matthew chapter 18, we have a story which I won't recall all of it for you, but Peter starts this whole thing off in saying Or a at that time the disciples came to Jesus saying, Who then is greatest in the kingdom of heaven? He goes through the section having to deal with children, and then he's going to move on to teach them about forgiveness. Later on, uh Peter asked the question in verse number twenty-one, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him up to seven times? And then a story is told about someone who forgives someone else a great debt. But then that person goes away and does not forgive. He uses a very different measure than was measured with him And when he goes back to that person who originally gave him forgiveness, he uses the measure that he used with the people in his life. And I think it's the perfect example for what Jesus is talking about here. Jesus is encouraging his disciples, particularly with each other, to have a merciful and not a harsh judgment with each other. In the same way we see here in Matthew chapter 8, verses 21 and following. Now, I think that the judgment really is meant to be colored by the passage that we see here within our bulletin, which is from 1 Corinthians 13, 2 through 6. This is a part of what Jesus is seeking to teach his disciples. Now I don't need to read that for you, but whatever judgment you're going to make, however particular you are going to be and what you point out about other people in your life. It should be done in love. And you'll notice in the passage in 1 Corinthians 13, it says that if you do any of these important things, but you don't have love, it's nothing. And that would go along with your judgment as a Christian. You may be the greatest mortal policeman in all of the world, but if it is not done in love, it is nothing. It goes on, and he says within that passage that even if he were to give his body to be burned, if he didn't have love, it would profit him nothing. And it's the same thing with our judgment. He goes on to describe what should color all of our judgments of each other as disciples of Christ. Love suffers long, and it is kind. Even if you just got that one in your judgments of each other, you would already be fulfilling what Jesus has said here. Love does not envy Love does not parade itself, it is not puffed up, it does not behave rudely, it does not seek its own, it is not provoked, it thinks no evil, it does not rejoice in iniquity, but it rejoices in the truth. All of those things are meant to be marks of us as the disciples of Jesus Christ as we relate to each other even in our judgments. And if we do relate to each other in that way, then our judgments will not be harsh. That would be that's just one aspect of this teaching, the harshness. Now, I do want to address the elephant in the room, in that that is what I think Jesus is really teaching here. But the very first sentence says, don't judge. Now I think he means specifically what I told you. I don't think he's cutting out all judgment. And the way that I'll just hand you that is to just say look at the rest of the scripture and if he really is saying we're not supposed to judge each other at all in anything then he contradicts himself within the same paragraph And he will contradict himself for all of the rest of the scriptures. And we know one thing for certain, and that is that Jesus doesn't contradict himself. So for example, if you just want a couple examples, look at our paragraph where it gets down to a passage that we'll cover where it mentions the pigs and the dogs Well, if you're not judging, how do you judge that a person is a pig or how that how do you judge that a person is a dog? We'll talk about what that means. But how would you even do that? Or if you go on to chapter 7, verse 15, look at verse number 15 It says, beware of false prophets. If you're not supposed to judge at all in any way, how do you judge if someone is a false prophet or not? Shouldn't you just be kind and say, hey, you know, we're all equal at the foot of the cross? No, he tells us here that there is a kind of judgment that needs to be exercised, and that you would need to be able to judge whether a person is a false prophet or a real prophet. And there are ways of doing so. And you would use the judgment that he would give you by way of his spirit. Or in Matthew chapter 18, 15, going back to that section that we were in earlier, he says For the church in 1815 and following, and if they refuse to hear even the church Then there does need to be a judgment that they would be like a heathen and a tax collector. There's judgment going all along that way. There was a judgment saying that you sinned against me There was a judgment in saying, I have witnesses and I'm going to bring them along so that I can seek to go on this rescue mission to rescue you out of your sin. And since you're still not listening, I'm going to take you to the elders of the church so that perhaps they God will work through them to rescue you. And they're making the same judgment that we've all made. You really need to see that you're sitting here. All of that is judgment. And then if they still don't listen, then there's a judgment made that this person does not understand the things of God. They are like the Gentile and a tax collector. They're not submitting to Christ And all of these are different ways in which Jesus Christ calls us to judge. And how many other thousands of ways within the Old and the New Testament are we called to judge? But Jesus isn't focused on judging absolutely. He's not condemning or forbidding judging absolutely. He's just saying, don't judge poorly. Now what are some examples of poor judgment? I gave you one example, and that is an unmerciful and harsh judgment. That's one example. We could talk about another poor judgment would be judging people not by the law of God. We should judge by the law that God has given to us. Another kind of poor judgment could be you're judging rashly. You haven't heard the whole story on both sides. That's a poor judgment too. And you wouldn't want to use that measure with anybody. You're supposed to hear both sides, hear the thing out. So Jesus is calling us as his disciples to have excellent judgment. And part of excellent judgment that I'm focusing on here is that you would judge each other in love. Because if you do not, then it's nothing. You could be the greatest judge in the world. You could have your PhD in judging people from Princeton. Or wherever you'd get a great degree on judging people But if it's not done in love, it's nothing. That's the very first observation on what does it mean to be his disciple. We should be relating to each other even when we judge one another we should be relating to each other in love, in kindness, in gentleness. Now, the second observation Which I told you was going to come along here. The second observation, I want to ra I want to before I give you the observation, I just want to ask the question, how is it that you As a disciple who's been given the Holy Spirit, how is it that you could grow to where when you are offering judgments or you're making those kinds of evaluations in your relationships How is it that you could stay more and more in a place where you're actually doing so in love? And I think that that's the question that's behind this second observation is okay, well how do I become that kind of a person? What's the Holy Spirit working on within me to where I could be that kind of a disciple? And it comes up in the next part of the passage and is this. As God's congregation, in order to become those kinds of disciples, number one, we need to avoid hypocrisy. And embrace humility in our judgments. We need to embrace humility and avoid hypocrisy in our judgments. That's the section that comes up now in verse number five. It says in verse number five Hypocrite, first remove the plank from your own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother's eye. Now that is the conclusion of the sentences that came before it But I read that one first because I want you to see hypocrisy is at dead center once again in the teaching of Jesus. If you don't get anything from the Sermon on the Mount but one thing, get this The disciples of Jesus Christ must constantly be on guard against hypocrisy. That is not how God wants you to relate to him. And I've gone over this before. No human being even wants you to relate to them that way. Imagine being a wife who relates to her husband But only does so with outward actions in public, but inside she hates them to death. Do you really think that's how the husband wants to be loved? Or if you're a child and your mother is relating to you but really hates you, but in public she puts on a show So that no one would ever see that in her. Do you think as a child that's how you want your mother to love you? I mean it goes across the board in every single relationship, and God is pointing it out here that He doesn't want you as His children to relate to him in hypocrisy either. And that includes here how you would relate to each other. So hypocrisy is again a part of the Sermon on the Mount and it has been for a long time. And you see that in verse number five. Now there are the sentences before that are Jesus' focus on how the hypocrisy can happen. He says here, and why do you look at the speck in your brother's eye, but you don't consider the plank in your own eye? Or how can you say to your brother, let me remove the speck from your eye and look, a plank is in your own eye. Do you see the hypocrisy that is present there? What you are doing when it comes to the sins of other people is you're caring that you act you act you're sh you're pretending that you actually care that people would live that way as a light in the world. But you only care when it comes to other people's faults. If we were to look at your own life, you don't care at all because you don't live that way yourself. And that is hypocrisy. And Jesus wants us to avoid that at all costs by the power of the Holy Spirit. The other part of this though is that He does want us to embrace humility. And I think that's what would happen if you did what he actually said. If you actually stopped for a moment and you looked at the log that was in your own eye. I really do think that it would give you the sight that you would need in order to deal with the people in your life in love. Now, whenever I'm doing a mediation or that's quite formal, but even in my informal relationships with people, almost all the time, my number one question is What is the log in your eye? How have you, let's start with you, because Jesus said so. How have you contributed to this particular situation? Now when I ask that question of a person, they do not want to look at it. It is the only thing they haven't looked at. They've looked at everything else that is wrong with that person and they're ready to murder them. But if the Holy Spirit works within that person and they even start to a little bit look at the log within their own eye. It is often the case that we don't really ever get to a mediation, and if we do, it opens with confession. It does not open with accusation. Because the person under the supervision of the Holy Spirit has been humbled by their own sin within their life and the grace of God that has been given to them because of it. And when you have been loved much by God, you love others. That's what Jesus says. Now of course that's all by way of the Holy Spirit, but that's the humility that enters in. That's the knowledge, that's the sight that Jesus is referring to here is that When we it's he refers to this in the a petition in his prayer also in the Lord's Prayer, he refers to this same dynamic that's going on. is that when we first have to go to God for mercy and we receive the grace of mercy from God, it is by the power of the Holy Spirit that He then prepares us to be able to judge with mercy for other people. That's his teaching here. So there's a lot that's going on there. It's not you can't just read a book and do this. This is This is the experience that you have in walking with the Lord, in him changing you by way of the Holy Spirit, but he helps you to see your own sin. He helps you to see the mercy that he gives you for the sin. And then when you see sin in others, though you still do need to exercise judgment, you can do so knowing this. Except by the grace of God, go I. You want to hear something interesting? Of course you do. Whenever the session has to enter into a time of formal judgment on a disciplinary case A passage from Galatians is to be read before we proceed. Would you like to know what that passage is? It is in Galati, if I remember correctly, y'all are so good we hardly have any discipline around here. But the Galatians chapter 6, I believe For some reason it's hiding from me. But in Galatians chapter six it says this Brethren, if a man is overtaken in any trespass, you who are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness. Why? And how? Considering yourself lest you also be tempted. Do you see that what that would do to an entire session of people who are getting ready to enter into judgment? It would immediately move them into the mindset of you'd have to say a couple different things, and these are different things that I've had to say to myself over the years. I remember when that was first read, when I first entered into a disciplinary case, it was very surprising to me. It shocked my system And one of the first things that came to my mind was, you are not better than this person. In a manner of speaking. You hadn't didn't do those exact same things at that same same time. Thank God. But don't you get up on your high horse thinking that you couldn't. Now I happen to know from my past I could do just about anything evil But here there are these scriptures like this where we are to confront the log in our eye first before moving into the judgment, and Jesus is therefore answering for you. How would I become that kind of disciple? And the answer is this, that you yourself know the mercy of God. Now if you would really like to do a deep dive in this, if you're a reader, I'd encourage you to study um somebody help me out here. Who was the guy who was a slave trader and then he wrote a hymn? That was John Newton. Yeah, I'd encourage you to read his letters Study his life before and after Jesus Christ? Jesus Christ put in John Newton's face what he did. What he did to human beings. And it was it was Horrible. And then Jesus Christ forgave John Newton. And so he wrote a song called Amazing Grace. You could see why. I'm pretty sure he's that's the one who wrote that And his writings and his songs, his letters are saturated with the mercy of God. I wonder if you've seen one of his writings. It tends to, whenever there's a political debate or something going on with Christians, which nowadays is like a hundred percent of the time. He uh somebody inevitably surfaces uh John Newton on controversy. Has anybody had the opportunity to read that? I'd encourage you to read that, for example. John Newton on controversy talks about how to debate. And he talks about it from a place of mercy. From a place of mercy. So that's the second observation that as God's congregation we must avoid hypocrisy and embrace humility in our judgments. And then the third observation rounds all of this off And that has to do with the dog and the pig. After we have said everything about the kinds of judgments that we should offer and that we should offer in mercy. One mistake that we can make is we can hear what I'm saying and you could reduce it and you could say, well, what Jesse's teaching today is really just an ethic of kindness. When people do something, I just need to forget about it. I just need to let go and I need to let God. Uh who am I, now that I've evaluated myself? And I've seen the mercy that has been given to me. Who am I to say anything about anybody? And eventually that will lead you to say something like, Well, God be with you, you be you. Something along those lines. This last section doesn't allow you to develop that kind of an ethic. Jesus says here that Basically, though we are going to judge in this right way, don't make the mistake, we're not going to judge in naivete. We're not going to become my disciples are not going to be naive. There's wolves out there, there's dogs out there, there's pigs out there And my disciples need to know how to exercise judgment and how to relate to those kinds of people also. So far it's really been how do I relate to the people that are a part of my community who have the Holy Spirit Well, we're going to judge each other in these particular ways. This is how we relate to each other in love. Well, what do we do when show someone shows up and they just take advantage of your love? That's the only thing they're doing. They're not being sanctified. They're just taking advantage of your love. Well, Jesus addresses that here, and he uh basically says in a paraphrase, out of c he's not saying out of kindness just ignore all wrongs, injustice, and the people of rotten character. That would be naive. Jesus instead calls us to act with discernment, especially with the treasures that he has given to us. You'll notice we'll start there because I think we can all agree that he does say that we have treasures. He says that here in verse number 6, do not give what is holy, that's a treasure, to the dogs, nor cast your pearls, that's a treasure, quite explicitly, before swine. If you do, here are the kinds of repercussions that can happen if you act naively. They can trample those holy and precious things under their feet, and then they can turn and they can tear you into pieces. So there does need to be a kind of discernment among the people of God as we exercise our judgment and as we relate to each other and to the world. He's given you treasures and you are meant to keep them treasured. You don't just hand those things over to whoever. Is there anybody here that collects like baseball cards or anything like that that is that can be valuable if somebody actually buys it? I don't know, Pokemon cards, baseball cards, whatever it is. Now if you have, let's say you have your prized possession, uh I really at this moment in the sermon I wish I knew some of those Pokemon names. I knew I should have studied. Man, I don't know. It's like isn't there like a chargar or something? I don't know. Or whatever it is. I'm moving on You keep it in that case for a particular reason. You keep it locked up for a particular reason so that it can be graded and kept at a particular score. Imagine Exercising the kind of judgment where any kid in the neighborhood who wants to see your whatever it's called, a chargar or whatever. Any they well w they they show up. Every time they show up, you just take it out of the case. And you let them run around with it on the street. You would never do that with something that you treasure. You would keep it under a kind of special guard. You wouldn't just hand it over to anybody You would make sure that it's always handled in the way that it's meant to be handled, that it's administrated in the way that it's meant to be administrated. And Jesus is talking about that kind of thing here. Sometimes we forget the scriptures that are given to us In these kinds of judgments that have been made by Christians throughout the centuries, even on the pages of Scripture. Now, here's some examples of exercising judgment on people, determining that they are in Fact dogs that will bite you or pigs that will they're not gonna do anything good with God's kingdom. They're just gonna trample it And they're going to turn, they're going to seek to tear you to pieces. We see different examples of this within the scriptures. And one example I'll give you is just in Matthew 18, 17, because we already covered that. There are some where you really should be looking at them as heathens and tax collectors. That goes along very well with the dog and pig categories to begin with. Think of Jesus' stories and the teachings of Jesus as he walked the streets when he referred to some as dogs and some as pigs, or those who were allowed to keep pigs. This is a just an original context reference in the way that sometimes Judeans would refer to Gentiles But then if you expand that out, you can see here in Matthew 18, 17 that anyone that wants to take up a life where they are going to trample and trash the things of God. They need to be acknowledged that they have become that kind of a person or they are that kind of a person, and therefore the entire community in 1817 are to let them be to you as a heathen, as a tax and a tax collector, and exercise your judgment accordingly. And that will require a moral judgment. Here's another one that we sometimes miss, and this is because we don't often read 2 John. But in 2 John verses 9 through 11, we have this example. coming from an apostle on how a community should judge that a person is a dog or a pig and the kind of actions that they have to take. It says this. Whoever transgression transgresses and does not abide in the doctrine of Christ does not have God. Now, what he's specifically talking about here is that they are denying That Jesus is in the flesh. They're denying the incarnation. So, and he talks about that in 1 John. He says: Whoever transgresses and does not abide in the doctrine of Christ does not have God. He who abides in the doctrine of Christ has both the Father and the Son. Now listen to this instruction. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this doctrine If someone shows up who's denying the incarnation, and the situation here is they're spreading it through the community like a gangrene. If they show up and they do not bring the doctrine that we have handed down to you with apostolic authority, this essentially would be the implication Here's the instruction. Do not receive him into your house, nor greet him. That's pretty serious. You're not going to just continually hand over the pearls of the kingdom to this person because over and over and over again we have seen the only intent that they have is to trample them. And when they're done trampling them, now they're attacking you like savage wolves seeking to steal your faith in who Jesus is as the Christ, the Son of God, God in the flesh. That's an attack. That's what wolves would do in the specific way in which they would attack the sheep. It says here, do not receive him into your house, nor greet him, for he who greets him shares. in his evil deeds. You are helping the cancer to spread. You see that? So there is a judgment that's going on here that if I'm wondering when this judgment would take place, I wonder if one of the very first things that would cross your mind if somebody did have to take these kind of actions is if you would say, well, that's not very kind Haven't you heard Jesse's sermon where he read 1 Corinthians 13 to us on love? That's not gentle. And that's why I'm saying we do need to receive all of these different teachings that Jesus is giving us here, because he's calling you really as his disciples to wisdom. to wisdom to exercise your judgment at the right in the right way at the right time depending on the situation and the circumstances that are currently before you And if you were to judge those who are denying the incarnation and spreading that teaching through the church, if when we would shun them, if you judge that as us not being loving, that's a poor judgment. Even according to the apostles. So his disciples need to exercise good judgment in all kinds of ways. We need to be able to exercise judgment that exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees. And what that means specifically here within this passage is that we need to know how to relate to each other in love. not judging each other too harshly or by the wrong standard. And nevertheless, we need to realize that doesn't mean that we don't make any judgments at all. In fact, there may be situations in our life where we have to judge people to be dangerous. Where they're just going to trample anything that you give them. And then turn and devour you and your faith. And it would be better, as the apostles had to do sometimes, is at least for that period of time, to shake the dust from their feet. So Jesus teaches us a great deal here about judgment. Now why is he teaching you all of this? Because he is training you to be his disciple. When someone enters into the kingdom of God is reborn for the first time. You know how much of this they get wrong? They'll need to be discipled. on what it actually looks like to judge and to judge well. And we'll need to continue to work with them. And I'm telling you, there's a lot at stake. Sometimes we forget the geography of the passage a little bit, but you know Jerusalem was on a hill. It would be at a uh heightened elevation. So with Jesus' words saying, you are the light of the world It really takes on great significance, doesn't it? That all are to see. And that they're not to see darkness, they're to see light. And we know that God is light. That we are representing who God is by the way that we relate to each other and the way that we relate to the world. That's what Jesus is calling us to here Is that we would be the light and we would be the salt of the world even in the way that we relate to each other in our judgments That we relate to each other, you can summarize the whole thing like this, and this sermon could all be summarized this way. We are to relate to each other in love without giving up our holiness. We are to relate to each other in love without giving up our holiness. Let us pray.