I'll be reading this evening, Jude 5 through 7. We were entering into some serious theology this morning, and it is not going to stop this evening. But I want to remind you, though you once knew this, that the Lord, having saved the people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those who did not believe. And the angels who did not keep their proper domain, but left their own abode, he has reserved an everlasting chains under darkness for the judgment of the great day. As Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them in a similar manner to these, having given themselves over to sexual immorality and gone after strange flesh are set forth as an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. Let us pray. Lord, I pray that we would hear your word or right, that we would receive it from you as our authority, our God. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Last week we observed that some people creep into the life of the church. And those same people disorder what we are to believe concerning God and what God requires of us. God has handed down through the apostles and the prophets something like a mosaic which portrays his everlasting will. The problem is that those who infiltrate use the same precious stones, the scriptures, but they rearrange them into something God never intended. So, throughout the ages, the church, as one means to safeguard us from the wrong mosaic, has kept creeds and confessions. We use the Westminster Confession of Faith, the larger catechism, and the shorter catechism, that we may keep the true Mosaic before us. Now, I have a few new observations to make this week, heading into verses 5 and following, building on that mosaic imagery that we talked about last week, or two weeks ago. Here is the first observation. I really need you to pay attention because this is going to be very unfamiliar to most of you. So really try to focus and talk with me afterwards if you can. I want you to notice that, first of all, in verse number 7, he uses the word example. are set forth as an example, suffering the vengeance of fire. That's a really important word. You may want to write that down or underline it. The historical examples of the Exodus, the angels, and Sodom and Gomorrah are not mere history. He doesn't say, here are some histories He uses the word examples, and this word examples is a technical term, and the word we would use in our culture is a paradigm. The Greek word actually is right there that has that as a part of it. They are paradigms of who the eternal Sun is and who what the eternal sun requires of us. The same eternal Son brought judgment on the Exodus generation. The angels, and he brought judgment on Sodom and Gomorrah. And it is the same eternal Son who took on flesh. He has the name Jesus, who is the Christ, and he still reigns over us today. That's why it ends up being a timeless and transcultural paradigm and not just an ancient history that has nothing to do with us because it's the same God. This is why they are paradigms. God is the sun, God the Son is the same yesterday, today, and forever. And here is something that's really important to hear. He decisively upholds the same boundaries and limitations of righteousness and of judging evil that he has always done. He has not changed in that regard. He's still decisive exactly what his boundaries are and what his limits are and what he requires of you That's the first observation is to note the word example, that it is a kind of technical term, and it means a paradigm that each generation of the church until the return of Christ is to take note of and to learn from Now here's observation number two. The examples that you have there are three examples. It's the first set of three. And the first one is of the Exodus generation, which is out of chronological order with the other two examples. And I think the reason why that is, is because it expresses the main point that That Jude wants to get across, the main warning across time and across cultures, and that's this. No matter what you walk away with, you've got to take this. You need to take the judgment of the sun seriously. Having saved the people out of Egypt, he destroyed those who did not believe. That has a direct parallel to those who are Christians. He does the same thing among every generation of the church. And we are not to be like that generation. That's the point. Don't test him. He's the same. Do not be like that generation. Take these warnings seriously. In fact, there can be an argument that is made, which I won't make tonight, but I'll just point out to you that perhaps the center of Jude are these words: woe to them. And that's something you want to consider. We'll get to that at another another night. But I'm just there's a very serious message that he's giving to us, these paradigms. This is the real deal. Now, observation number three. We have paradigms. We are to take the sun seriously in his judgments from the past because he still does the same thing today. And then observation number three. The second and the third example is unfamiliar to us, though sometimes we think we know what it's saying. But I'm going to try to explain this The second and the third example of the angels and Sodom and Gomorrah end up illustrating the same thing. Take his judgment seriously. But what it starts to do is it starts to answer for us what the son judges. What does he consider judge-worthy or destruction-worthy? And the answer is this: those who defy God's order through the sun are destroyed in eternal fire. The point about the angels is developed from Genesis 6, where in the angels, or as it's mentioned in Genesis 6, the sons of God. They knew women, new women. You get the point if you're old enough. And it's the same point about Sodom and Gomorrah. The reverse happened, if you remember As the messengers or angels went down into the city, what is it that the Sodomites and those from Sodom and Gomorrah wanted to do? To know the angels. When the angels entered Sodom and Gomorrah, the Sodomites tried to know the angels. And what you end up seeing in verse 7 here is that what's what Jude means when he's talking about strange flesh. We're talking about two different orders of being wanting to be with each other, angels and men, as in human beings. It is not, first and foremost, a reference to homosexuality. It is not less than that, because that is defying God's order, but it is far more than that It is about any order that he has set up. And here we see there is an order that was supposed to be obeyed and lived within amongst angels There is an order that is supposed to be obeyed and lived within amongst men, and they broke those by coming together and knowing each other. That's what Judah is referring to. It is a reference to angels and humans joining with each other. And the problem is actually summarized in two words. Can you bring the volume down, please? The problem is actually summarized in two words in this passage. And it's this right here. You can look with me in verse number six. And the angels who did not keep their proper domain, but left their own abode. Those are technical terms, his domain and abode. That's the main problem. Both words are technical. When you look at abode, the way that we would view that within our culture is we think of just a place. But that's not what's going on here It is speaking about defying a given order which was created and was meant to be maintained by God and his creatures. Just as we heard about this morning, maintaining order under his kingship. It's not just referring to leaving a place. They gave up their proper domain or RK, which is their rule and how they are to rule, and they left their own abode, which I'll get to the meaning of that word in just a moment, but it has to do with they left the order that God had given to them So those are the three observations, and we're gonna we're gonna develop those, but let me try to summarize what I've just said for you, because uh like I said, that's probably a little unfamiliar. You're not used to talking about the reformed angular that we have The point Jude leaves us with, though, is profound and more than informative for every aspect of your life. Do not be that person or join with those communities who defy God's order for his creation. Or if you wanted to put it positively, which I really like doing, I'm just in a positive mood this year. Work with the grain of God, not against it. Those who work to disorder his order will end up like the angels and Sodom and Gomorrah in eternal fire. That's the message. Really ends up being the whole message of the letter, but he's going to draw out different aspects that we can learn from. So that's really the summary of what Jude is saying here. Let me let me just say two of those points again so that we have it. Work with the grain of God, not against it. And those who work to disorder his order will end up like the angels and Sodom and Gomorrah in eternal fire. Now, what I want to do for the application portion is I just want to develop one word that I consider very, very important for all of us from Jude, and it's that word abode. Now this is going to strike you funny, but that word abode is how we end up getting our word economy. If you were to look in the Greek, you'd see it's kind of obvious the way that it unfolds there. It is one of the most important key and technical words which Jude uses in the Greek. And it's best translated economy in a very ancient sense of what that means. In other words, what Jude is saying, and the reason why the angels and Sodom and Gomorrah received judgment was because they left God's economy. It's a great word for us to have. In our culture, that word has been reduced, however, to finances and just financial management. But in the ancient world, economy referred not just to financial management, but the management of all things. It was regularly applied to the organization and ordering of a person's whole life. When used in the scripture, it is used for how God created an order and maintains that same order of things. Fish in the sea, birds in the air, that kind of thing. We see it from the beginning with God. Now, where is it that we are familiar with an entire economy of order? There was one example that I thought of, and it is the show Dalton Abbey. Dalton Abbey is an entire estate or an economy of order, at least in the beginning. The whole thing gets corrupted by the end. But in the beginning, there is a kind of economy or order. I want you to imagine the whole world as a large estate that is like the kind of estate that you picture in Dalton Abbey. Did you notice that everything has its place and its purpose? Everything, every moment of every day, everyone and everything is put in a meticulous order. And to violate the order would be improper or inappropriate. Everyone and everything has a place and knows how to relate to everyone else. There is a time for every action, every bell means something different. No one is in doubt as to which cup belongs out for breakfast. There are breakfast cups. There are lunch cups. There are dinner cups. Everyone knows what a cocktail dress looks like versus a dining gown. And actually, if you studied that time period, you would notice within the philosophers' writings that they ordered the estate like that to be a microcosm Or a micro version of what they believed God was doing with the world and everybody's place within it. God had an economy of the whole cosmos And each of our estates were meant to imitate his. The whole estate of Dalton Abbey is an example of an economy. And now you can begin to see what Judah's criticizing about Sodom and Gomorrah and angels. Can you see what Judah's saying here when you have this example before you? God gave the angels an ordered economy, like Downton Abbey. God gave mankind an ordered economy, but we disordered his order. We turned, just as the angels have done, Doughton Abbey into downtown Baltimore. That's what an economy is. There's a picture for you. A good and a bad one. I think it's important for us to ask a question in light of what Judah is doing here, and that is this: How do humans and angels destroy God's economy? Well, there's probably 10,000 ways, right? 10,000 ways to destroy an economy. But I think when we look throughout the scriptures and Judah's playing on this, the short answer is idolatry. And this gives us an opportunity to really get into the depth of what God means when He uses this word. It's when we start to look at these things in light of economy that we can begin to understand the biblical picture of what God has always meant to communicate. We can end up getting confused on what idolatry really is. Every idol, for example, in Canaan, it's very important for you to recognize the names that were given to those idols were representative of authorities. That they said ruled over those nation-states. So, for example, you would have an authority named Moab, and you'd be a Moabite You'd have an authority, and I'm sure you're familiar with this name, would be Baal, for example. And here's the thing. This is why idolatry is true throughout all of the ages, ever since the fall and until Christ returns Those authorities or idols were the representation of different orders or economies. If you wanted to picture it, you could picture each one of those authorities had their own Doughton Abbey, and they arranged it how they thought best. And that was God's problem with the whole project, is that all of those estates that they would arrange would not be his arrangement And those who entered into those estates would join them in their disorder, and that is what he called idolatry. In fact As they went into the land of Canaan, they met those different nations, the problem that they would run into is that Christians would be catechized or taught a different way of being ordered in the world. Those authorities, though not the real God, sought to order things in a counterfeit way just as God orders. They did have a place for women. They were objects of pornographic lust instead of visions of life and powerful elegance. That's how they would choose to order them. That's very clear on how the Canaanites ordered women in their order. They had a place for children. They were labor slaves, and they would sacrifice them to the gods. They had a place for power, they had a place for reputation, and they had a place for status, but it was for selfish ambition and gain. They had a place for sexuality, which was disordered to be man and man, and woman and woman, and even man and animal. It was the order or the economy of the Sodomites and the Canaanites That is what idolatry was: an alternative order that was really a disorder. Idolatry is always an alternative, it is always a disorder from God's order And it always falls under different authorities. We have the same problem today, though we don't have the little statues to show it. So that's how we destroy God's economy, it's primarily through idolatry. Let me ask one last question. Will God do anything about this disorder? Well, I could say refer to this morning's sermon, let's go home. But it's one of the main points that we see here, even in this passage. Just as Sodom One day, just as with Sodom, one day God will intrude and he will bring back his order. It is what you see in the Israelites entering into Canaan and ordering the whole land. It is what you see when God intruded with the flood. It is what you see when God intrudes across history. He brings back the order. And the promise is that one day he will intrude and order will be restored forever. That's really what we see here, and that Jude is appealing to. If you are a part of a community, however, who is contributing to the disorder. Then you, verse 7, suffer the vengeance of eternal fire. And you can see why. Because if you're not for him, then you're against him If you're not for him, you are for chaos, and he is for order, and so you must be removed. You know, when Jude would say this to this group of people, Whether it was folklore or not. One of the things that was common I read amongst this culture to whom he was speaking was that they believed that Sodom and Gomorrah and the angels were buried in their eternal fire next to Sodom. And that that is why the Dead Sea and the Sulfur Springs are still there, to show you their fruitlessness and their future. Now, whether we accept that as where their angels are buried Don't ask me. I'm just saying you can see the kind of picture that they would have in their mind and the kind of message that Jude is giving. He's saying, go ahead, look at the Dead Sea. Look at the sulfur springs, which are located right next to Sodom. And that will happen to you if you don't join God and His order through Christ and His Spirit. So the point Jude leaves with us ends up being profound. It ends up being truth that can enter and shine light into every aspect of our lives, no matter where we are. Because we all have our own doubt and navvies. But Jude says: do not be that person or join with those persons who defy God's doubt and navy. Or, as we said earlier and put positively, work with the grain of God, not against it. Those who work to disorder his order will end up like the angels and Sodom and Gomorrah in eternal fire. I don't think that Jude would reject the idea of you right now imagining your life as an estate like Downton Abbey, but way less grand. Less grass, less rooms, no servants, because that's not your life. But you can use it as a picture because God has given you an estate that is meant to be ordered. And there are a series of questions that come flying at you from this scripture. Are you ordering your life as God intends? Which community does the order of your life look like? What about your children? All of us have to stand before the words of Jude and do some self-examination to avoid that judgment, to not fall in the wilderness. Do we raise them with the order of Sodom or with the order of Christ? What about your femininity as a woman Do you go with or against the grain on what God intends for women? Are you ordering your life like a man of God or like a man of Canaan? No matter where we are or who we are as Christians, let us pray that we would take Jude's paradigm seriously. and that we would endeavor to be nothing less than God's economists. Let us pray