And this evening we'll be looking closely at verses eight through ten, but again I'll start from the beginning. Jude, a bondservant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, to those who are called sanctified by God the Father and preserved in Jesus Christ Mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you. Beloved, while I was very diligent to write to you concerning our common salvation, I found it necessary to write to you exhorting you to contend earnestly for the faith which was once for all delivered to the saints For certain men have crept in unnoticed, who long ago were m marked out for this condemnation, ungodly men, who turn the grace of our God into lewdness and deny the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. But I want to remind you, though you once knew this, that the Lord, having saved the people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those who did not believe. And the angels who did not keep their proper domain but left their own abode, he has reserved in everlasting chains under darkness for the judgment of the great day. As Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them in a similar manner to these, having given themselves over to sexual immorality and gone after strange flesh, are set forth as an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. Likewise also, these dreamers defile the flesh, reject authority, and speak evil of dignitaries. Yet Michael the Archangel, in contending with the devil, when he disputed about the body of Moses, dared not bring against him a reviling accusation, but said, The Lord rebuke you But these speak evil of whatever they do not know. And whatever they know naturally, like brute beasts, in these things they corrupt themselves. Let us pray Father, you have given us Jude as a means of preservation, that we might know your law and your order. And these things, of course, Lord, you use to keep us on the path. We ask, Lord, that you would therefore give us the wisdom of your order here through this word. In Christ's name, amen. You may be seated. Jude is giving us much wisdom in order to avoid abandoning the faith We have on the front of the bulletin to fight for the faith. We see in the first lines of the letter that Christ would preserve us. You can see what's going on. Jude is giving us wisdom as a means to these ends. In the first two sermons, we captured his wisdom with two main images, a Mosaic and Downton Abbey. Last week we received Jude's wisdom on authority. Whether dreams or whatever, nothing is more authoritative concerning God and what he requires of us than the faith once for all delivered to the saints. This is captured well in our shorter catechism. What rule has God given to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy Him? Answer The word of God, which is contained in the scriptures of the Old and New Testaments, is the only rule to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy Him. Jude is saying the same. Now, wisdom from Jude this week continues. And I want you to notice a few details with me. I have to spend a rather long time in just the observation period with you because there's a number of things that need to be clarified in this in this section. And then we're going to get into an application of what Jude is saying in the in the realm of parenting. Just to give you a heads up, we're going there. So here's observation number one. As I said last week, the intruders who want to take away your faith Reject the authority of the Lord. You can see this in verse 8. They reject the authority. It's linking back to the Lord. It's the same kind of catchwords. But I want you to notice this week that in verse 8, this is demonstrated in evil speaking. We know them by their fruit, and in this case, by way of what they say. It says in the NKJV, just bear with me here, that they speak evil of dignitaries. If you're sitting there with an ESV Bible, it says they blaspheme the glorious ones. If you're sitting there with an NASB Bible, and I know all of you have these different Bibles, then it says what I think is the most appropriate translation, they revile angelic majesties. I'm with the NASB on this translation because what's really going on here is that they are speaking evil of angels. That's what makes the most sense given the total context. When you end up keeping this fact in the context of the role of angels with the law, then you can begin to form a picture. We read earlier in Jude that angels were meant to maintain a certain order, an economy. But they transgressed. Based on other passages, it seems that angels were also assigned to help order us For example, in Galatians chapter 3, verse 19, you're welcome to write these things down if you want to develop a biblical angelology. I don't know if you're into that. But Galatians 3. 19 says this in reference to angels and the law is the connection I want you to start seeing. What purpose then does the law serve? It was added because of transgressions, till the seed should come to whom the promise was made, and it was appointed through angels by the hand of a mediator. I could also quote Acts chapter 7, verse 53, if you want to write that down, because it talks about the same thing. Or Hebrews 2:2, which says the same thing. Or Isaiah 63, 9 as angels being the ordering presence of the Lord. All of these show that God used angels to establish his law order on earth as in heaven. And if you want to look at it by way of this framework, you could even see the angels that are spoken of in the Gospels as establishing law order amongst children. And you could see angels in Acts when they, for example, come and strike judgment on Herod as still establishing Christ's law order. Lots of examples of Christ using them as a means to his ends. This is entirely consistent, this Speaking poorly or evil, speaking evil of angels is therefore entirely consistent with what we know about the intruders. They reject the Lord's order and authority, and so of course they speak evil of those who would deliver that law order. They hate the messengers. Anyone that would try to make them have to live according to Christ's order, even if it's angels, they speak evil of them. That's the whole point there, I think. Observation number two. And you can see why I'm so set on this being angels, because now we have an example of Michael the Archangel. The example of Michael the Archangel is from two sources. You need to know this. The dispute over the body of Moses is from an uninspired book called First Enoch. It was an uninspired writing, but it was still well known amongst the audience to whom Judas writing. Really, the way that you should be thinking about this is he's just trying to make a point with which they're familiar. Jude quotes first Enoch in the same way that Paul quoted Greek poetry in the Areopagus. Paul is not trying to say Greek poetry is inspired. He's just trying to say something familiar that people knew. He's trying to make a point. And that's what Judah's doing here. I think that's the easiest way to explain that in the best way. That's the first source. But the second source is from Zechariah chapter 3. And this is what it says. Then he showed me Joshua, the high priest, standing before the angel of the Lord. And Satan standing at his right hand to oppose him. And the Lord said to Satan, the angel said to Satan The Lord rebuke you, Satan. The Lord who has chosen Jerusalem, rebuke you. Is this not a brand pluck from the fire? Now Zechariah is a part of our canon, in case you didn't know. And the point here is to illustrate the same message that we just heard about upholding Christ's Lordship and order. Michael the Archangel did not rebuke Satan based on his own authority or on his own order. But only, he's just saying to Satan, Yahweh has already decided something different than what you are saying, Satan, therefore the Lord rebuke you because you're not following his judgments. That's essentially what's going on. The ultimate authority, though, that's the point, is that it is God the Father and the Son whom He has anointed, Jesus the Christ. That's what we have to see within those examples. You can see the whole thing is just one example after another showing that this group of people are wrong. Dead wrong for denying Christ's law order. And he's giving different examples even amongst the angels in order to bring this out for his original audience. Now here's observation number three. This one's really interesting, and I wish I had more time to talk about this, but I don't. The example of brute beasts, a little bit later in the passage. Is the same point as the example of Michael the Archangel. The intruders, the point here is that the intruders are lawless. They don't submit or understand God's order. They actually mock it. One of the first things that came to my mind is people that mock our worship, for example. telling us that we are the frozen chosen and they obviously have never met Judah and w and how he sounds in the doxology. Proud of you. Or in any hymn. Definitely not frozen. They mock it. And this is a a a great image that Jude picks up on that has so much potential. And I'm it's so sad that I can't develop it tonight. But they operate according to their impulses in instead of operating according to the order that Christ gives and living by the law that He gives in that kind of order He says that they operate instead by impulses and instincts like animals or brute beasts. You can see how this could very easily go over and into the sensuality that they're promoting. And the way animals act with each other. I don't need to be graphic. Instead of according to Christ's law and order. These great images, these great examples that Jude gives us, so that we can begin to have a framework to have wisdom that we too might be preserved under the order of Christ as we wait for him. Let me try to summarize this for you. Intruders are those who deny the authority of Christ's law and order Especially in the way they talk. They choose instead to live like animals Let me say that again. Intruders are those who deny the authority of Christ's law and order, especially in the way they talk. They choose instead to live by animal impulses. Now that's quite the truth. That is given to us here. And essentially, if you wanted to summarize what he's talking about, I wonder if you have ever heard the word antinomianism. Some of you Yeah, great. Everybody's nodding. Excellent. Even little babies. Well, if you don't know, anti-Novianism just means that you're against law. And that's really what's going on here It's not saying that they're against just a specific law or there are a few laws that they think are no good. They're denying a whole order of reality. The order of reality that is upheld by Christ Himself. That's what's going on. And instead, they've chosen to live like animals according to their sexual instincts. Now, I want to start drawing some lessons out of this instead of just giving you foundational work. Jude's not really going to start getting into calls for action and application until later in the letter. But we can already start to glean from the wisdom that He's given to us. We hear the general message and framework which Jude has laid before us, Imposters seek to deceive the church away from Christ's law and order. They do this especially through their teaching. It will be a good start to start seeing how this can show up in various ways. Jude's main concern are those who have apostasized from the faith, but I'm going to go into really any way in which we deny Christ's order, not necessarily apostates only. And the one I want to focus on tonight is parenting. So today's your lucky day, parents. I've heard all the kids, the whole service. I'm just teasing Parenting is a tough job that Christ gives to us. And as soon as we start talking about parenting, sometimes we can go immediately to just being uncomfortable and feeling guilty. Parenting is tough. And that is not the purpose of this lesson. The purpose of this lesson is for you to receive wisdom from Jude. to receive wisdom from the Spirit that you might have a more clear view on just exactly what you're doing as a parent. Let's start with those who deny the order of the way that Christ would have us raise our children and our children honor their mothers and their fathers. Some today mock Christian teaching on the responsibilities of parents to raise their children in the law and the order of Christ. Our society is now against spanking, for example, and ridicules anyone as a child abuser who does it in their most extreme cases. And that's an overgeneralization Even Christian teachers have told us sometimes that we must focus on the heart of our children and not their actions. And they, of course, have a good point that we need to take away from that. But if you misunderstand the teaching and too f take it too far then parents end up letting the behavior go on and on and on with no correction. And they do this because parents tend to interpret the word heart, whatever that is supposed to mean to as intellect, and therefore they just try to reason everything out with words. And that doesn't go well with the two-year-old. Meanwhile, we end up seeing the results. We end up seeing, even in our own myths, not speaking of you, I'm just speaking of the church in general. That children end up looking like little animals fulfilling their little animal instincts. Now they're gonna Pretty much be like that for a while anyway, no matter how hard you're working. But the point is, is we don't want to stay there as the world would encourage us to do so. They would encourage us to do so and fund their project by saying we are to do all in the name of kindness, we are to do all in the name of grace, and their favorite one, they're just so cute. The question that you have to ask is, is that Christ's law and order as a parent Christ graciously gave us his spirit to set us free. And another way to put the same thing is to ask this question: what does liberty look like? Does liberty look like an impulsive animal? Because some people would say so, and they would romanticize it We see that in many of our movies. The romanticizing of this way of lawlessness. So, what I would like is for you to turn your attention to Christ's law, wisdom, and Proverbs, for example. These are the kind of things that Jude would expect parents to know as they sought to find Christ's order. to discover the order already made. And this is Proverbs chapter 22, verses 14 through 15. I wish I had more time, but we're going to have to hit this pretty quickly. It says this: the mouth of an immoral woman is a deep pit. He who is abhorred by the Lord will fall there Foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child. The rod of correction will drive it far from him. Now I want to say two things about this, and then that's basically chaos and then order. But what I just read to you, you are not supposed to just Pour yourself over the words as if this were a pancake recipe. And if you just follow steps 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, out pops the perfect little pancake kid. This is providing you with a model that you would understand God's reality and work as a parent within it, within the reality of who children are. And the first thing that you've got to recognize is that there is chaos. You can see that the proverb gives us a startling image of an immoral woman. There are other translations for that. She is the seductress who calls for humans to follow her into death. As I was reading this and seeking to understand this, I was driving along the road and I noticed on the left hand side a perfectly youthful spotted fawn that had been killed by a car. And it made me think of this. It made me think about how youthfulness will have a person in their youth Stepping out into danger and being destroyed. This is the same kind of picture that we have here: that what's at stake is that our children would walk into a life of death. That they would walk into her pit. The reason why I say that is because that's the whole point of the immoral woman being mentioned, is the next verse. Within each of our children is a folly that wants to listen to her. That's why those two things are juxtaposed. And that's why I give you the image of the fawn. On the surface, she looks like she's going to give the child everything they've ever wanted. But in the end, her house is full of death. That's the point that is to be made here. Within each of our children is a folly that wants to listen to her, not to you, and not to the law order of Christ. This is fundamental. Correcting a young child in their sin is not so easy as if they too wanted to not sin. I remember correcting a young child and their sin. We were talking about the importance of not giving ourselves over to excesses in certain areas of life. And they said something to me that revealed the foolishness of the heart. They said, Dad, If doing these things to excess is sin, then why do they feel so good? And they were dead serious. And of course, the answer is that because you are a sinner and you are born with foolishness in your heart. Where you love the sweet words of that immoral woman who promises excess. That's just one example But you can see that that's a basic and fundamental truth that we have to understand as we approach the situation in order to bring Christ's law order by his grace. And then there's order that is given to us in the same proverb. The way away from the pit, the way away from the woman, the way away from chaos is given in the next line. The rod of correction will drive it far from him. The call here is to a lawful discipline. The kind of discipline that Christ would call you to, not the devil himself, in harshness. Through lawful discipline, the parents and educators must drive the innate folly from the youth. Now there are, it is my thought that the word rod here is a general term that could refer to many, many means that God gives you in order to drive the folly away I could give you examples where a rod does not work, and parents have to become creative. And what this ends up telling us, lawfully creative, what this ends up telling us is that the most important thing seems to be this That you would have consistency in the establishment of Christ's law order. As a parent or educator, You are called to maintain Christ's order, especially the head of the household. And the and the wake and you are called to maintain what Christ says reality should be. This should be your fundamental disposition in life. It should be a matter of fact for you that this is the way that it is. There is no other way. And here's the problem, and the reason why I put it that way when we're starting to deal unfolding Jude's wisdom for us in parenting that we might have a framework. The problem is that your children are saying the exact same thing to you. No mom, no dad. No, grandma, no, granddad. Reality is this way. Go ahead and try me. And there's some that will try and try and try. And this is really where it ends up boiling down to. Here's the main question. Who really believes what they say? You or them? Do you really believe that Christ's reality should be lived in the way that Christ has said? And the question is, do you believe it more than the way that child thinks that reality should be lived, based upon the foolishness of their heart? And as a child, as a parent, it will be either you or them in their perversity who will show to have the utmost faith in that reality. Now God is very gracious that even when we stumble we do not fall. And over time, with much prayer and tears and pain Our hope is that our children will say with us that their actions and their words are meant to be in submission to Christ and his order. We long to hear that the world really is just like Christ instructed. The immoral woman is wrong. My perverse impulses are wrong. I don't want to be an animal and operate according to animal instincts. And that is the basic framework that we can start to work out as Christians as we see a kind of 30,000-foot view of what Christ gives us for parenting. Intruders are those who deny the authority of Christ's law and order, especially in the way that they talk. They choose instead to live by animal impulses. And this lawlessness can work its way through even the church And therefore, tonight we have seen two main truths to help with parenting that we might not be lawless parents. That is not walking worthy of the call if we're lawless. A child's heart is by nature foolish. They love the sweet words of the immoral woman as soon as they come out of the womb, probably before they come out of the womb. God gives those children wise parents as a grace to drive them away from the pit of death so they don't end up metaphorically speaking like that fawn I saw. And we do this primarily in 10,000 or 10 million ways, right? But all in all of those ways, we do this by standing firm in Christ's order. Mom and Dad really believe reality is this way. I give up. One reason that the gospel is good news is that Christ is righting the wrongs of the world. And he's already begun now He's begun at least in each of our households. And Jude gives us the wisdom to where we may join him in parenting by putting into place his law and his order under our roofs. Let us pray