Announcement uh before we a as we wrap up today, uh we do need to uh to move the tables and and set up the sanctuary again. So please, you know, if you're able, stick around to help with that. Let me start us off with prayer. Father, we thank you for a time, for gathering together to uh discuss with one another important things um to be encouraged by uh conversation with Others who share our faith, who share the same values that we have, and to be encouraged and strengthened in those things Lord, we pray for uh this time uh together. I pray, Lord, that you would uh give me things to say that uh w will have a practical import um and not simply be uh academic. Lord help us to um think deeply about the nature of uh who we are, what you've made us for. And Lord help us to, wherever truth is found, even if it's found in an unlikely place, Lord help us to affirm that truth, not because of the person who said it, but because it's true. Lord, we pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, so we're we're continuing with the topic of virtue, retrieving virtue. And so uh picking up on last uh the last time we were together. So at the last month's breakfast, I I really limited myself to um a historical matter, a a historical question, a historical claim that you do find that many, many make, Catholic as well as Protestants, and that claim was that um the Reformation, one of the effects of the Reformation was a radical break from The previous forms of ethics, particularly virtue ethics, found in the medieval church, in the early church, and going back even to pagan philosophers like Plato and Aristotle. So we we focused on that claim, so we we can call that the uh a radical discontinuity claim. That the Reformation uh inaugurated uh a break with the past in terms of ethics We considered that claim, and what we found, thanks to scholarship that's being done by, I mentioned David Seitzma, you can find some of his essays online uh and others. Uh when we look at the sources, again, back to the sources, that's what we should be doing when we do history. When we look back to the sources, what we find is that that claim utterly fails. It fails In this way, it overlooks at least 200 years. I mean, that's a big failure to overlook, 200 years of reformed commentary on uh Aristotle, for example, Aristotle's ethics. He's one of the prime authorities for uh virtue ethics. So 200 years of reformed commentaries on Aristotle's ethics, as well as many thousands actually, of academic disputations. That address topics that originate from that tradition, going back to Aristotle. Topics like the chief good, the supreme good, happiness, moral virtue, friendship, and so on. So the this claim that many are making that there is a radical break brought about by the Reformation is completely false. Another thing we noticed though is why would scholars make this claim? If they're not making it on the basis of a close examination of the historical documents, Why would they make this claim? And what we find is commonly there's a theological claim that's also being made, that there's something about reform theology. Or Protestant theology more generally, something about that theology that makes it incompatible with talking about virtue or the development of virtues. One of those claims that we saw is this idea that in Reformed theology, ethics focuses on the law. But this the claim is even stronger than that. Again, Alastair McIntyre, a cat a Catholic philosopher uh his book After Virtue, he's a he's a big proponent of virtue ethics. He he says this about Reformed or or Protestant theology more generally. He says this. He says for uh the Reformed tradition The only true moral rules are the divine commandments, and the divine commandments This is the key claim here. This is very strongly put. The divine commandments have no further rationale or justification than that they are the injunctions of God. So if we take a moral law and we ask why why is that uh command morally right? or let's say the act that's prohibited, why is that morally wrong? He's saying the reformed view is the only reason it's morally right or morally wrong is simply that God commanded it. And there's no other reason to be given. So it's a very strong claim. Now, why would that matter in relation to virtue ethics? It matters because virtue ethics does seek to give a rationale. It does seek to give a reason for ethics other than simply it was commanded by God. So that's the divide here All right, so to to kind of unpack this claim, and I do want to challenge McIntyre's claim, but before I do that, I I do want to Maybe get a better grasp of what virtue ethics is trying to do. I think the best way to do that is to look at Aristotle Um not because he, you know, he's certainly not any infallible source on ethics, but he is an important authority in that tradition. of thought. And why I want to look at him is I want to see, I want us to understand how it is that virtue ethicists, people in that tradition, have tried to give a rationale for moral rules. Grounded in human nature. Okay, so that's what m that's what people who embrace virtue ethics, that's something that's of great concern to them. How do we give an account? For the moral rules that we seek to follow, beyond just saying God commanded it Alright, so we're just gonna give a uh a brief look at uh the first book of Aristotle's Ethics. This is gonna be just brief summary. And what you find, if you've never read Aristotle's Ethics, when you look at the first book, you would be surprised, I think, to find out where he begins his discussion Right? Because we think when we think ethics, we think of rules. We think commands. But that's not where Aristotle starts. He starts with a whole book discussing happiness. Human happiness. Which, for Aristotle, for his contemporaries, happiness is, to use the language of the catechism, it's the chief good of man. Right? Aristotle uses that language. He's starting out his discussion of ethics with that question, what is the chief good of man? And he says virtually everyone agrees it is happiness. We all desire happiness. Happiness isn't the only goal, right, that humans have. Aristotle recognizes that. We're engaged in all sorts of activities. We make all kinds of decisions about a lot of different things. Right? And each of those activities have their own goals, as it were, their own ends. For example, this past year, my son James started playing the cello. He's about a year into it. Now, why did he decide to start playing the cello? He had a goal. He had an end in view, right? Which for him was to play the cello well. But he quickly learned that that wasn't going to happen w within that first year. Actually I don't think he even played the cello for the first few months. of cello lessons. It was how to step properly, how to hold the bow the right way, and it was very frustrating for him. But he what what he was learning is that in order to reach this goal, playing the cello well, he's got to acquire a whole list of skills. Certain character traits even to become that, to do that well. And so he had lessons on how to sit properly. Right? How to hold the bow. And that's the goal of the lesson. Hold the bow the right way, wave it, you know, the proper way. I don't know how to do it myself, but Right, and and you you're trying to do those things why? For some further end that you're trying to get to. Right, to play the cello well. And these ends, so there are multiple ends that we're seeking. And they're they're kind of in a hierarchy, as it were, one subordinated to another. But we could ask James, why do you want to play the cello well? Right? And he would have some reason. Right. Maybe it's pl uh uh it it will be pleasurable to play the cello well. Maybe y who knows what that reason is. But the r he has further ends that he's seeking. Right? And Aristotle's point is we could keep asking that question. Why are why do we do what we do? Why do we organize and arrange our lives the way that we do? There has to be an ultimate reason. Some final end that we're seeking. And that end for Aristotle, he says, is happiness. Now, happiness is not the best word to use today for what Aristotle's talking about. The Greek word is eudaimonia, often translated happiness, and this is why virtue ethics is often called eudaimonistic ethics. It's an ethics based on happiness, the pursuit of happiness. Uh it's not helpful for us because when we think of happiness we think of some subjective thing. uh uh a feeling right um what makes you happy might not make me happy right but you do whatever makes you happy you know that's that's the way we think about it that is not what Aristotle's talking about He's talking about some all encompassing idea of human well being. Of flourishing as a human being. That is what he means by happiness. It's something objective. It's something that is not up to us to decide what that is. It's determined by who we are, what we are. And we've got to figure that out. But we all have it. We all have, according to Aristotle, this natural desire to flourish. To obtain well-being or happiness. But there's a problem, and Aristotle recognizes the ethical problem, right? We want to be happy. But we don't know what will make us happy. Right? We're confused. We're pursuing all sorts of things. Some people are pursuing pleasure. They think if I get more pleasure, physical pleasure, that's going to bring me satisfaction. I'm going to be truly happy. Others find it in money. Others in status, honor, right? We're all seeking happiness, but we're seeking it in different ways. None of these, Aristotle thinks, when he goes through this list of kind of the big options for what will bring happiness, none of these he thinks will truly um bring human beings, as human beings, well being So if our problem is that we don't know what will bring us true happiness, then the most important thing a human that we can do is learn what that is. To learn what happiness is. And then, once we know what happiness is, to try to develop the wisdom, the prudence, that's a virtue. The insight to know how to rightly order our lives in such a way that we are moving closer to And closer to that end. Right? And not away from it. To move closer to that end, that is to live well To move away from it, that is to live in a foolish manner, in a way that really results in your own misery. So we can already see that Aristotle and this kind of approach to thinking about ethics is not interested in arbitrary rules. Arbitrary rules to follow. He's interested, and this tradition is interested in why. Why do we do what we do Why do we follow the moral rules that we follow? Why should we? Is not simply to follow rules. The goal is to find what is truly good for us as humans and to move towards that end. And you can see the importance then of virtue, right? If the ultimate reason, the chief good, is to find this true happiness f for human beings, then we need to become the type of person that can move closer to that end. Right? The type of person who b behaves in certain characteristic ways. Someone who is prudent, we've mentioned that as a virtue. That is, you know what is truly good for yourself and for others And you know the best way in different circumstances to move towards that end. Moderation Moderation to keep you from becoming uh uh enslaved, as it were, to lesser goods. We mentioned the pursuit of pleasure. That is not the ultimate good of human life. So we need moderation to keep us on that path towards our true end. The courageous person. Right? Fear is a problem. It often diverts us from doing what we know to be good and right. So we need courage to stand firm. And will what is truly good. And then justice. Of course, these are the cardinal virtues. There are other virtues, but they're called cardinal because Upon the these are the hinge upon which all the virtues hang, as it were, and turn Okay, so I wanted to give this is just a brief look at just book one, because uh the remainder of Aristotle's ethics looks at virtues in in particular, whole books uh treating particular virtues. Obviously we can't do that in the time we have here, but I I'm wanting you to see um Get a sense of how it is that virtue ethics approaches the question of how ought we to live. And it approaches it from this point of view of what who are we What is our true end and what's the best way to obtain that end So I want to pause for just a moment before I move on and ask, are there questions about what I've said so far? It seems clear in my head, but it's probably not clear in how I've how I've stated it. Any questions so far? Yes, Adrian. What is an Yeah, that's a c uh so a a command basically. Yeah. Yeah we heard that as a as a legal term all the time. A declaration. But it's like an immediate sense, it's like an immediate action, an immediate order by a judge. Yeah, that's something commanded. The judge commands it. Yeah, right. Yeah. But it's like stop something from going on. Or start something. Or start something. Yeah. Usually because it'll be damaging. Yeah, so make uh yeah, McIntyre you he uses that term, and I think he's just meaning that uh the only reason for Obeying these rules is simply that God commanded it. Okay. Yeah. At least that that's what he thinks the reformed Christians are are saying. Yeah. So um to summarize kind of what you said, Aristotle's view of ethics is how to live uh uh uh live well and then the virtues are the tools for living well. Right. They're the they're the means. I mean they're good they're he also thinks the virtues are part of human happiness So they're not just means, but they are necessary for us in in order to get to our true end, which is Which is the happiness. Happiness. Yeah. Which sounds a lot like modern living and why this makes sense still because that's what people basically do. But the d differences Aristotle believed there was a single objective good or happiness. Whereas now in the the relativistic world everyone has different there are different virtues for different Yeah. Um I didn't include this uh in my notes here, but uh uh C. S. Lewis has a great um Dis uh comparison that he makes of ancient pagans versus modern pagans, where um Where the ancient pagan, like Aristotle, believes there is an order to reality that's objective. He believes there is a human nature that we all share, a universal human nature, upon which there is one true Conception of human happiness. Right? And the problem for an ancient person, Lewis says, is how do I reorient myself, my own Soul to align with what's true out there, to align with what's true about me, right? What my true end is as a human being. Whereas he says the modern approach is how can I change the world to align with my personal feelings? Um which yeah once you once you see that you realize th that's exactly what's happening today. I mean even to the level of um something as objective as biology, we want to push back against the order of reality and and how can I change reality to fit what what I wish, what I desire. Okay, any any other questions? Okay, so getting back to McIntyre's claim So McIntyre is saying that on the reformed view if I can find the the quote again on the reformed view Divine commandments or moral rules have no further rationale or justification than that they are the injunctions of God, the commands of God. Now I want to uh take a moment and just kind of unpack what he's actually saying here. Um because I don't think it has to do with the fact that Reformed people do talk about the law of God a lot. You go to the catechism And you want to learn about ethics, you're going to look to an exposition of the Ten Commandments, and rightly so, right? Divine commands are essential to biblical ethics. Right? We have the moral law that's comprehended in ten commands given to us by God. So we can't have a biblical ethics without divine commands. Right? And we are also committed to saying the best way to find out what what the moral law is, is to look to the divine commands. Right? That's not really what McIntyre is is getting at, the question he's getting at, because he uses the language of of no other rationale or justification. Right, he's not faulting reformed Christians for looking to the divine commands to know what we ought how we ought to live. That's not really a problem. Rather, he's getting at the why. Why is it that that's moral? Or that's the right thing to do? Why is the act of murder morally impermissible? Why is stealing morally impermissible It's not about how we know that it's morally impermissible, it's why is it morally impermissible And he's faulting Reformed Christians for what he thinks their view is, which is the only reason That murder is morally impermissible or stealing is morally impermissible is that God commanded it. There is no other reason Right. Which would conflict with what we saw in Aristotle, because Aristotle is concerned about how do how do these things relate to who we are and what's good for us. So there's a term for this view that McIntyre is ascri is attributing to the Reformed tradition. It's called divine command theory. Right? Divine command theory is a view of how the moral laws are grounded. They're grounded simply in the fact that God commanded it and in nothing else. So on this view, if we just keep pushing it, I think McIntyre if we push this view that McIntyre is attributing to us, um, God is so free, right, that he could Have commanded, let's say, that we hate our parents. And by the simple fact that he commands it, that would be morally right I mean that's a kind of a radical way to push it, right? If there's no other reason For an act be have uh being morally right or morally wrong, other than the fact that God said to do it Then he could have said the opposite. And on this view, that also would then be what is morally obligatory to do. I saw a hand. Yeah, Adrian. Okay, I I it it is everything we said last month kind of just blew back. So I'm trying I'm testing up that. Yeah. Now you you say who's this guy? McIntyre or someone is accusing reform Christians Saying obey God's commandments just because God said so. Right. Is that that that's Yeah. Yeah, yeah. He's a Catholic, he's saying this is what they think. This is what they reform people. Yeah. And now your objective here is is what we're going to attack this accusation or Yeah, I think McIntyre is completely off the rails. I I find this I find the claim on honestly quite excuse me for being a much ridiculous. So what is the objective for us or just or Well I hope I hope that we would be persuaded that there is a rationale for the commands that God has given us. And it is that it is the means by which we will flourish. that we will that following the commands will lead to what is truly good for us Okay. God cares about our, I mean if I'm going to use Aristotle, our happiness in the truest sense, in the deepest sense. And if we follow his commands, we follow not just because he commanded them, but also because they will lead to What is good for us. That's where I'm wanting to go. Sure. I've learned in my experience Now, being an atheist for a while and learning there was a God through the witnessing of miracles, you know, I believe wholeheartedly the wage of sin. And death. And the commandments were given to protect us. As you command your children, don't play with fire. Or you know, don't go swimming. without a lifeguard, you know, somebody, because you're not through experience and I and I see God's wisdom as for my protection when you know, as as as being out there you think God doesn't want me to enjoy life. Yeah, I can offer offer a defense for the commandments other than just because he said so. Right. As a as a father does to his children, God the Father Yeah, exactly. Yeah, I have a rule at my house, don't stay in the yard. Don't play out in the road. You know, and if they asked why, you know, I could say, well, because I said so. And that r you know That would be enough reason for them to obey me, right? To trust at least that I have reasons for this. But I d I do have a reason for why I'm telling them not to leave the yard. I don't want them to get hurt. You know, I don't want them to be run over in the in the street. So I'm ki my commands to them have in view something good for them. And they don't have the experience. or the instincts to understand all of the dangers. Right. You know, it's dangerous for me to play in the room. Yep. Yeah. I have a family member who was a very famous Christian comedian in the eighties, so I d I'm curious. I have a I have a family member who was a famous Christian comedian in the eighties, so I'm curious who we're talking about. to worry about adults because you know we're uh we're always told you know oh you know the Bible is so dogmatic It tells you all these things you're not supposed to do. And you know, his his view was right. If scripture not only it it's not just the things not to do, there is I I'd go as far as to say more in scripture that is instructive, telling you what to do. And if we really work towards man's genius, Glorifying God and enduring them forever. If we work toward that and do the do's, then we don't have to worry about the don'ts. But the don'ts aren't They are just so because God said so. Correct. Because God said so for a reason, just like you tell your children not to go up the road. Right. Every don't has a reason. even if we can't see it. Sometimes it's not as as plain or easy to see, the why not? You know. Why why why not make your your you know fibers look Have your hair cut a certain way, whole different topic. Um but there you know there are reasons. You know the dietary loss I look back at Leviticus and I love Leviticus. Uh it was actually As I was becoming reformed, as God was taking me from Arminianism into Reformed faith, I fell in love with Leviticus. It's so odd, right? I don't even like Because I learned that some of those things that we don't understand, they're there for a purpose. And it's not just to be linked Legalistic can be s you know dogmatic, but you know, having wisdom in in how much of whatever you eat or you know what you do There's there's purpose to all of those which seem so archaic. Well there's really wisdom. So anyhow I don't want to steal you have a topic. What's the definition of dogmatic? Uh well It has a negative connotation today. But yeah, it's to be dogma is a teaching. So we uh you could use it in that sense that a dogma is it's like doctrine. Um but y often we use it to mean someone who maybe somebody can help me. out here. You're can you throw it? Yeah, go for it. I think dogma is a conclusion just based on some somebody's authority figure. have proof or evidence behind it. It's it's you know just no no it is it it's basically the claim That McIntyre makes is that God is dogmatic and that we must we must obey God simply because God commanded it, which is true. But there's I think what you're saying is that's not all that's true. Commanded what is best for us. It's not just that he's commanded it. So dogmatic means that um like whenever I tell my sons, uh because I said so, I'm being dogmatic. If they have to do something because I said they have to do it, then they have to do it based only on the authority as their file. of those two, right? The authority and the doctrine or the sort of world view that's being enforced by the fact that there's an authority in doing the enforcing of this particular worldview and the actions that are required if that's the world view that's pre predominant. I was just gonna say the connotation is probably a mindless adherence without knowing why. Yeah, you're not not open to other to being challenged by another perspective or nuance or what you have to be called. I think historically it meant teaching. It was good thought. And then I was mostly aware of the eighties and nineties as being kind of on its head of more of a popular definition of because I said so. Yeah, this is you know, making fun of the church that um moves Yeah, that's right. I forgot about that movie. Alright, so um Yeah, th the the clay so I do just uh we don't have uh a whole lot of time here, but I want to briefly challenge it's really not that hard to challenge this cla I really it's a c it's quite ridiculous of a claim to make about our tradition. Um I think a a safe way to to figure out, okay, what do Reformed Christians believe on a topic? Don't go to this or that theologian. J just look at their church confessions. Look at their catechisms. This is something they have agreed upon as this uh represents the teaching of Scripture, this represents our understanding of the faith. That's that's where I would look. I'm surprised McIntyre it he must have not read pro Protestant confessions and catechisms to make the kind of claim that that he's making. Um so j just thinking of The shorter and larger catechism. And looking at the exposition of the Ten Commandments. That's the first place I wanted to go when I read this claim. What do we find in the shorter and larger catechism in its treatment of the Ten Commandments? Are they simply saying the only reason to obey these commands is simply that God said to do it or are other reasons given? There's actually there are questions that say, what other reasons? Right? Is given uh to further uh uh obligate us to obey this this law. We have these questions, so it's quite uh silly Um so you know a couple of these. Question 120. So this is in the larger larger catechism. Um If you have a copy, great. But question 120 is discussing the fourth commandment. And it it this is how it words it. What are the reasons? annexed or attached to the fourth commandment, the more to enforce it. And here's the the answer. The reasons so this is ha has to do with the Sabbath The reasons annexed to the fourth commandment, the more to enforce it, are taken. Notice it's not going to say taken from the fact that God said so. No, taken from the equity of it. Right? That's an idea of justice It's taken from the equity of it, from the fact that God has take uh has a special propriety in that day. He um owns that day in a special way. God's example. And then notice the last reason. From the blessing which God put upon that day. Not only in sanctifying it to be a day for his service, but in ordaining it to be a means of blessing to us. In our sanctifying it. Right? So again here, I mean this is very just obvious. I don't really even have to expound this. Reformed Christians are committed to a view that the divine commandments, the reason for obeying them, are not simply that God has obeyed them, but that blessing. comes through obedience to the commands. God cares about us and what is truly good for us, even if we don't recognize it. Right? And this should motivate us. This is a ground for why we should obey that command, because it's good for us to do so. Question 133, again, the Ten Commandments, but another question worded very similarly, what is the reason? Annexed to the fifth commandment. So this is obey or honor your father and your mother. The reason annexed to the fifth commandment, the more to enforce it. The reason, quoting the catechism, the reason annexed to the fifth commandment, in these words that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee, Is an express promise of long life and prosperity, as far as it shall serve for God's glory, and notice again, and their own good. To all such as keep this commandment. So God's intention in giving the commands is not simply to exercise raw power. And authority, it's to bring blessing to us. It's to give us, uh, to lead us towards something that is truly good for us, given how He has created us. So, you know, the the this claim that's being made about our tradition is is very far from the truth. Uh and the the the the last uh question in the catechism that I want to to mention, uh because it's such an obvious place to uh um to to look to is uh sure it is true that reformed Christians in thinking about ethics focus on the law and rightly so But notice how the Ten Commandments are framed. They're framed by the very first question. Of the catechism. The whole teaching of the catechism is framed by the first question of the catechism. And you I know you know the question and answer one. Shorter and larger. It has to do with what is the chief end, the chief good of man. The larger catechism, what is the chief and highest end of man? Man's chief and highest end is to glorify God. And notice again, it's not just about God and fully to enjoy Him forever. It's a fascinating way to start off the catechism because it starts in the very same place that Aristotle Aristotle started his ethics. By thinking about who are we and what is our chief end. And even in the answer, I think there's a reference to happiness. Part of our chief end is to be happy, namely in God. Aristotle got the end of man wrong. Right? He failed to see that it's in enjoying God. But he was not wrong to recognize that man does have a chief end. And it does uh it is his happiness, but it's happiness in got in the God who created us. So so when you put the law uh the the moral rules in the context of the catechism as a whole. It's very clear all of the catechism is It's unpacking the means by which we can move closer and closer to our highest good. And once you have that framework, I don't think we're very far from talking about the importance of the virtues. The virtues may look somewhat different for us, given that our chief end is God So we're gonna talk about faith, we're gonna talk about hope and love, love of God. Aristotle didn't talk about those, right? Because he did not correctly identify the chief end. Right? But we know what that cheese end is, and so the virtues are going to look somewhat differently, but we have the framework here. Right? In which it makes sense to talk about the importance of those virtues that will help us, that will help us to obey the law. And will help us to move closer to that final good for which we are made, which is happiness in God. Alright, so that's where I'm going to stop today. If there's any we can finish out with questions or or discussion. Yes? I was curious, I don't know if we know. But um is there a Greek word for virtue like that that Aristotle used that would be found in like the New Testament, do you think? Hmm. Yeah, I don't the the second part of the question I'm not so sure, but arete would be the Greek word that Aristotle uses, which means excellence. So uh uh um and you can use this not just in a moral sense but of really anything that exhibits an excellent quality Insofar as it helps it to achieve its purpose. So a knife uh you know it has it has a purpose, which is to cut well Uh a very sharp knife is a virtuous knife. It has an excellent quality uh and the temper of the uh of the metal uh may also be a virtue. It helps it hold uh hold its edge. Maybe if if anything is excellent, think about such things or something. Okay, yeah, maybe that the the word virtue shows up in in um first or second Peter. I'm I'm but I'm not sure what the Greek word is is. Is it Rate? Okay. Same in Philippines four. Okay. Cool. Yeah. So I hope This isn't just semantics, um, but it's interesting the idea of the reasons in its addition to God saying so for obeying moral commands being that God gave them because they are good for us. Um I think you mentioned Aristotle, this idea of like grounding them in human flourishing. Um which I think is consistent with the truth, but um I wonder if like you could have departure points from there where One route is to get toward a good idea of what our goal is as people and how creative order works, and the other is maybe a little bit twisted where you've said, well then a created order exists for our good and happiness. Or that that like everything we're doing is to lead to our own good and happiness. And that's God really exists to serve us in that way. Um so uh the the sort of like why is murder morally wrong in an objective sense and like why are all of these um essentially why are the things in God's law right hand wrong. Um I wondered if it makes sense to to turn that back uprooted because it's consistent with his character. So like all of created order and reality has to come back to who God is and is completely founded on Him and His being and is dependent on his character or its sort of foundation and substance. So we have like the the actual objective morality that we have exists Because it's founded in God's character. God created us such that we are built for acting in accordance with his character and in the in accordance with the moral reality that pre-exists us. And therefore obeying those moral commands is Is like by nature what will be best for us because he's created us to flourish when we act consistently with his character. So there's like a to me that kind of like brings it full circle, I guess, just that the ultimate purpose doesn't become for the state of our flourishing, but because our flourishing is consistent with how he's created everything. And the the end to which he's created it. I don't know if that's a lot of words, but uh those are those are things gone through my head we were talking about. Yeah, I'm hearing a a couple points in what you said. One is this need to um go behind, as it were, human nature. And still say the ultimate ground for why um the moral law is what it is, is is good. I is not simply because God can mean it, but because he himself is good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I think that's a a very yeah, I'm completely uh on board with saying that that's an important point to maintain. I think that's something that is certainly not uh present in Aristotle. Right. He has n no sense of some transcendent um he believes there's a god but he he doesn't really ground ethics in that um whereas we have to be committed to the fact that Even if we acknowledge that human nature as God created it fits with the moral order with what is truly good for us. And and in that respect, human nature is a ground for why the moral order is the way it is. But behind that is that we are created in this way by God. You know, human nature as created by God um is fit fits with the the moral order that we find in the commands. So I think we have to say there's like multiple grounds, as it were. It's a ground uh in the fact that God commands it. There's a ground in the fact that He is good. And there's also a ground in in the fact that he created us in such a way that acting in this way or doing these things will be to our good. And then the other point I I'm hearing is if if we're not careful, we will separate what God has Tied together, which is service of him, giving glory to him is linked with our good and and we should be aware of of separating that. turning it into this pursuit of self well that's what our culture has has fallen into self-actualization. But no the in the catechism is always connecting the two, glorifying God and enjoying Him. Yeah. was saying, I think McIntyre we could get behind what he was saying if you replaced the commandment and divine commandment theory with logos. And instead of because God says It's because God is and who he is, and then everything else kind of falls into place. Otherwise you're falling into a a presupposition Right. Yeah, so that's like another reason to make sure we go back to God as the ultimate foundation here. You know, this is good because it produces human flourishing, okay, but why is human flourishing good? Ultimately it's good because God said it's good. God is who he is. Right. Yeah. I'm thinking of the creation account where God, as it were, looks at what he's created and says, it's very good. So there is a goodness. Yeah. It's good only in so far as it comes from him. Yeah. It uh this is making me think that if we're only uh are on the God commanded it side of things, then it'll seem really it it makes sense to why some people think a God is very mean when He doesn't stop people from doing wrong. But this whole conversation Draws me back to Romans 1 that says that God gives them over to their ungodliness and their uncleanness because they're rejecting what the positive good that He's commanded. And He just as a judgment lets them do what they want to do, which is against what he has commanded them to do, which is what would be better for human beings. And so it's like that that he doesn't really need to intervene or no, I should say it makes it much more marvelous when he does intervene for those Because he loves through discipline to keep and chasing someone from being on that path of just running a away from what he wants. Yeah, this is missing I I I saw a comment from a Christian artist who has gone off the rails. Um A day or two ago. Um he was an atheist for a while, but now he's something. I don't know what he is at this point, but um some kind of very liberal Christian. But uh he was saying, you know, for all of those who um uh condemn those who are living an LGBTQ lifestyle. You know, I I ask you this, why do you care so much about something someone does that does no harm to you? And what struck me about that is how that completely misses the fact that we should care about people doing harm to themselves. We should care about that. And if someone is engaged in something that brings them harm, it doesn't matter if it's not harming me. Real love cares about their good. And says, here's why you you you you shouldn't be engaged in that. Here's how it will not really lead to happiness. Yeah. But that seems yeah, it's um missing, I think, in in modern discussions that love actually would care about um people um living in such a way that it it actually leads to their own good. Yeah, Patrick. But that's not true that something may engage and doesn't Right. It's very destructive society and the culture. It's like letting someone Yeah, I mean I'm in complete agreement. So I mean I was just kind of like running with his assumption but the even the assumption is not true. It doesn't it does. These premises are just false. the falsity of it all. So so you know un uncleanness uh left unchecked is both contagious and it and it spreads. You can't let somebody pollute the air. Because we all gotta breathe the same air or drink the same water. So and it's the same way with with uh and and I forget because because the Lord said uh he said Sodomites he fighting the land. I have to remove them from the land before you go there because that land will not be livable. Now I've learned that I don't have to have a description explain everything to me down to the last detail. Because so many things that I thought couldn't be as I became older and was given more wisdom and so, okay, oh, that's why God said not to do that. So I don't have to question everything because we are mere men. And none of us is gonna know every last detail of why God said do or don't. A do is a do. That means you don't do it, you're wrong. is a prohibition if you do do it your own. So Yeah, I only I only br m mention that not to agree with the assumption, but just to say that what was missing is a lot of that in society today. Yeah. Not just in that particular theme. Yeah. But there are a lot of things that that that people are doing now that the client And and and that's that's not objective, that's subjective. Yeah. Well, I mean this is a whole other discussion, which is our our modern discussion has totally lost sight of what the ultimate good is. Right. To to to think that, you know, from from my point of view, engaging in that behavior will take you further and further away from that chief good of man, which is to enjoy God fully forever. That's why. There's a what they call a slippery slope. There's a logical slope that we've gone down. Before they even claim legitimacy. What was made legitimate was uh there was a time when divorce was seen as a horrible thing. And as they got it legitimized within you know in Maryland you used to have to really work for a court to grant you a grant you a divorce now Maryland has Right. Kings of nations had to have Ask the Pope for a divorce. Now, any guy get a divorce. Once they got that, they went the next logical step was, well, fornication is good. These things were not cool this one time and you can see a logical step as one thing fell, as Marriott fell, as foreign Yeah, I mean this ki ties back into the to the topic here. It's a it's a deterioration of the character of of a people. And I read these scriptures, it gave a reason for not putting women in charge of men. And it said Because the men lose their characters. The men become weak. The men become dishonest. When women are in charge over them, it it deteriorates Even in uh it wasn't you, just saying Romans 1. Romans 1 talks about the evils in the last of 14 Versus. Now they hear the reason why you don't let that group Run freely. It says the last verse, Romans 1, verse 32, it says, even though they who do these things know that what they do is worthy of death. This is what Romans 1 says. They know what they do is worthy of death. They enjoy even more bringing others into it. They will not, they are not satisfied just keeping to themselves They want you, they want, they want you to and they go after the most vulnerable. They go after children. And they enjoy Bringing others into their fold. They are not, they are the ones not satisfied living. I agree. I agree with you. Okay. But yeah, we have to looking at the time here, I c if there's any final question we can take that or I can close this in prayer because we only have a few minutes. All right, let me close this in prayer. Father, we thank you for um the freedom to to gather together here to think about um weighty matters. Um on an early Saturday morning. I thank you for uh the willingness of these brothers to uh to engage in this, uh to engage in conversation uh and to build each other up. I pray that Lord something uh of what has been said would be encouraging. Uh maybe a uh um a light has uh gone on in terms of how, Lord, you have set up your your world, the order of reality, and g have given us greater insight into that. Lord, help us to become uh the the type of uh people who wisely uh think about who we are and what what you have made us for and how to um arrange our lives in light of that reality. We pray that Lord in Christ's name. Amen. Amen