Now when Jesus had entered Capernaum, a centurion came to him, pleading with him, saying, Lord, my servant is lying at home, paralyzed, dreadfully tormented And Jesus said to him, I will come and heal him. The centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that you should come under my roof, but only speak a word, and my servant will be healed, for I also am a man under authority, having soldiers under me. And I say to this one, go and he goes, and to another come and he comes. To my servant, do this, and he does it. When Jesus heard it, he marvelled, and he said to those Those who followed, assuredly I say to you, I have not found such great faith, not even in Israel. And I say to you that many will come from east and west and sit down with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. But the sons of the kingdom will be cast out into outer darkness. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And then Jesus said to the centurion, Go your way, and as you have believed, so let it be done for you. And his servant was healed that same hour. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Matthew is really hammering away at us here in these chapters, verses are chapters 8 and 9. In another context I brought up, I was thinking about something the other day about the way a person writes, and Matthew writes like this also. He hits us like a like a boxer who is coming in close in a boxing match, and he is just hitting short punches right to the chest of his opponent so that the the opponent can't breathe It's one of those things that in a boxing match is one of the tactics that they use. Don't allow him to breathe, the trainer told Rocky. And so that's the way that this is. Matthew is hitting away at us, punching us, and making sure that we understand that Jesus here is laying claim to his title of Messiah And he is doing so by demonstrating his authority as only Messiah would have authority to do so. No other passage in the scripture that I know of makes that point so clearly as the one before us today. Now none of the Gospels tell us everything Jesus did. Matthew included, but it is clear that Matthew is grouping the events here to hammer away at our hearts. To show us that nothing is beyond the authority of our Lord Jesus Christ, nothing like leprosy And here nothing in the Roman Empire. And brothers and sisters, if that is true And there's nothing in our lives that is beyond Jesus' authority either Let's start out by comparing this with the passage that we looked at last week because that's the whole point of this grouping of stories together. We're to see that the the healing of the leper and this act action with the centurion have something in common. Both of them are intended to astonish us, actually. Think about that leper we talked about last Sunday. Think of the crowd's reaction when they saw him coming through the crowd and also with what happened. This leper was unclean. He was supposed to stay away from people. He was not supposed to walk through a crowd to see Jesus. Everything he touched, everything he Everyone who touched him became unclean as a result of his mere presence. He was horrible to look at. He was horrible to smell. Mothers would pull their curious children away from him and say, Don't, don't, don't go close to him. He's a leper. And yet here was that leper pushing his way through that large crowd. And then even more astonishing in that story was how Jesus reacted to this leopard. Jesus didn't turn away or tell him to, hey, you just stay over there now, you're a leopard. Don't come close to me. I am clean and you're unclean. And if we got to do anything, I could heal you from a distance. We know he could, because this passage with the centurion says that distance was not the issue. But he didn't tell that leper to stay away He let him come up close. And amazingly, he reached out and touched him. And Jesus healed him with a word. That was extraordinary. It was extraordinary for those people to see that. And they said, what is going on? And now, in the light of that passage about the leper, see the centurion coming to Jesus. Matthew is grouping these together. Because the centurion coming to Jesus is just as astonishing as that leper coming to him. Just in a different way. This centurion represents a hated, hated enemy government. He was a Roman soldier, he was an important Roman officer. He may have been the commanding officer of a local garrison because Capernaum was an important little town. There may have been a trading center there for the uh the ways that people were uh uh uh shipping their goods to and fro, and as a result of that there would have been a Roman tax collection agency and there would have been soldiers there to make sure it was done right So he may or may not have been the commander of that particular garrison. Another thing we have to realize is he was definitely a gentile, but he may or may not have been a Roman citizen. But this we can say. He was a professional soldier of significant rank. And he was part of an occupying force that ruled that country. Now to say that the Jews and the Romans didn't get along with each other very well is to drastically understate the obvious. The Jews resented the soldiers. They resented the Roman rule these soldiers enforced. And the average Roman soldier held the Jew in contempt. just as is the usual case with every occupying military force in a beleaguered country. They stay separate from each other, they don't like each other, and they look down upon each other. So the average Roman soldier held the Jews in contempt, and especially the Roman officers. So each side lives in constant tension. The Jews were resentful and sullen. And the Roman soldiers were arrogant and often brutal. Now, here the crowd is absolutely amazed to see not just a Roman soldier But to see a centurion coming to Jesus. But it's even more astonishing when you look at how he comes to Jesus. And Luke tells the story differently. He brings a little different point to it. He highlights different things. But Matthew here is hammering away at one particular thing he wants us to understand. There are parallels between this man, the centurion coming to Jesus, and that leper. Because Matthew shows us here, this centurion coming to Jesus and calling him Lord. Now wrap your mind around that. That's why it's here. The Roman centurion and the Jewish leper both come to Jesus and the first words out of their mouth is, Lord. The leper came and knelt before him, probably down on both knees. The centurion does not do that, but as we will see, he displays amazing humility in the way he says it also. Now imagine the crowd gasping when they hear the centurion say that. Would they have Ever thought they'd hear the day when a a Roman centurion would call a Galilean carpenter Lord Caesar was the man who had authority over this man's life, his work, his whole existence. For those of you who are in the military, and particularly those of you who are officers, you know that you swore an oath to uphold the Constitution of the United States of America and to defend it against all of its enemies, both foreign and domestic. Roman soldiers didn't make that kind of vow. They vowed to uphold to support Caesar. It was a personal vow. Their life was given over under oath to the command of a person, Caesar, not an institution, the Roman Empire. The man they called Lord dwelt in Rome and was Caesar. Now imagine what is going on when this centurion calls Jesus Lord. One day the Christians will be persecuted because they refuse to call Caesar Lord. One of the reasons why the Jews are under the wrath of God to this day is because when Jesus stood before Pontius Pilate They said, we have no Lord, we have no king, but Caesar. And here we have a Roman soldier saying just the opposite. It is not Caesar he is calling Lord, but Jesus, a backwoods Galilean carpenter. Do you see how incredible that is But there's well there's more here. Look at the humility this this centurion is showing. Lord, I'm not worthy, I am not worthy that you should come into my house First he calls Jesus Lord, and then he says, as a Roman soldier and officer, that it is he's not worthy for this guy to come into his house This is almost beyond belief when you realize and get into what's going on. Certainly he knew that the Jews considered contact with the Gentiles to be such that it made them ceremonial unclean. Yeah, he knew that. He was a Roman officer. The general Roman officer attitude towards this is who cares what the Jews think Roman culture emphasized personal dignity. It's a word that we've heard of. It's actually the Latin word gravitas. And it is the means by which you project your status. It was very important to them. It was worth more than life itself, to have your dignity, and to maintain that dignity, particularly in the face of your inferiors. Now these Jews were the vassals of the Roman Empire, they were their servants. How dare these vassal servants of Rome think that their contact with me would make them unclean. Can you imagine how a Roman officer would think like that? Can you imagine Pontius Pilate? Thinking that being in the same room with uh with a Jew would make that Jew unclean, and you think he would give he would give that any countenance? But this Roman soldier comes and says that. Now this is amazing. Just like the leper who came to Jesus and says, Lord, if you are willing, you can make me claim. He came to Jesus as a leper, knowing that it was up to Jesus. It's up to his decision as to whether or not he be helped. He comes in humility seeking grace for this leprosy that is on his body And here we see exactly the same kind of humility in the centurions. Lord, I'm not worthy of this honor. I'm not worthy of it. But you just say the word, if you're willing, and my servant will be healed Lord, I'm not asking you for magical incantations. Lord knows I've had enough of those. I'm not asking for you to come into my house and do some kind of religious mumbo jumbo over a my suffering servant because that's what a pagan priest would do And I've tried all of those guys. And there's nothing there except incense and mumbo jumbo. They come and they smear this oil on him, this kind of oil on him, or they shake some rattling bones over him, or they sacrifice a chicken and they they do all of this kind of stuff that pagan priests do And quite frankly, I've had enough of that. But Lord, you're different. You're not a medical quack You're not like those guys. You don't have to come into my house and do some incantation to bring some power outside of yourself, some power that r is about us, the the idea of magic. Such that this power that you invoke there will heal my servant. All you have to do Is say the word of command. You give an order. And just like these soldiers that I have That when I tell them to do something, it's done. So the minute you give an authority, authoritative command, the powers of healing will do exactly what you tell them to do. The key to this passage is the centurion's humble recognition as an officer. That he is in the presence of a superior officer who is Lord and who has the authority resident in him to command, and whatever he commands will be fulfilled. And that's an amazing thing for a Roman soldier to admit. But let's look at what this means. Let's look at what it means that this centurion is making this statement. We looked last week at the leper at what he represented in doing so. As the leper represented the vile unholiness of sin which is infecting all of us and causes all of us to be lepers before God because of our sin, so the centurion represents the earthly power of human government and human aspirations. Here we see the Lord Jesus Christ as the authority, the Lord, over all human endeavors and human powers. He is Lord of creation. He is Lord of my life. He is Lord of the land and the sea He's Lord of the heavens before there was time, and Lord of all lords he will be. How many times have we sung that in this very congregation? And it was just a song. Here we see the reality and the truth of that confession. It's all here in this very provocative and deep passage Brothers and sisters, I declare to you that all men, whatever their rank, whatever their privilege, and all nations and tribes of this earth are hereby given the command and to acknowledge the d their duty to acknowledge Jesus Christ as their Lord Every king and every nation who does not do this is committing treason. Every individual, every group of people, every human entity, every human endeavor in the earth must reflect The conscious awareness that Jesus is their sovereign ruler. Caesar is not Lord. Kings and queens are not the ultimate sovereignty in the world. Congress and the president do not have an authority that is greater than this Jewish carpenter. And they must recognize, they must acknowledge that if they refuse to do this, then the same Lord who can command the forces of healing to come down and cure a centurion servant at some distance away from him is the same Lord who can command the forces of nature to rain down death and destruction upon them and upon the city and the nations they inhabit. It happened to the whole earth at one time. And it happened to the cities of S of Sodom and Gomorrah in their turn. And Jesus will say that it was better for those who lived in those cities, Sodom and Gomorrah, then it will be for those who have heard of the Lord Jesus Christ and yet refuse to acknowledge his authority over them in their life. The centurion came and recognized the authority of Jesus, the power of Christ, and he humbly submitted to his will. It is my duty to proclaim to you today that no matter how high and mighty any person is in this world, no matter how successful he is or powerful he is in earthly terms, yet that person must see That it is only by the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, this same Galilean carpenter, that that person has anything that they have at all. As Jesus can command to heal, he has authority in all things. And it is our duty, yours and mine together, and the whole world with us, to confess with our mouths that He is Lord, to believe in our hearts that He is raised from the dead. And that that confession alone is what guarantees us our right to be in covenant with Him. Look at what Jesus says here. Look at his response. With a leper, Jesus just said, I'm willing to be healed. And he was healed. But here Jesus takes this opportunity with the centurion and he turns it into a teaching moment. He turns away from the crowd. Doc turns away from the centurion and he and he and he looks at the crowd. I want you to see this crowd, fairly large crowd standing there, and I want you to see the disciples right in front of the rest of the congregation, and so Jesus is looking at all of them, disciples included. And he says, I have not found such great faith, not in all of Israel. Now these disciples have left everything they possessed to go and follow Jesus. Out there in the crowd are religious professionals, Pharisees, Sadducees, Scribes, perhaps even members of the high priesthood. And Jesus is indicting them, all of them. It says, your faith is nothing like disguise. See this Gentile? See this officer in the hated Roman army See this man as representing all the great unwashed Gentiles that you Jews have been taught to despise? This man understands. He gets it. And he's not even a Jew. Do you understand what this means? It means Israel. That being a Jew means nothing more or less than not being a Jew It means that a new kingdom has arrived in this world with a new king, and this Gentile has recognized it, and he has embraced it, and he has acknowledged its power both for building up and for tearing down. This Gentile understands. And one of these days, this kingdom that he sees, but that you, Israel, don't see, will become visible. And this kingdom will be like a family dinner. It'll be like a family dinner with all of the kids gathered at the table. And these kids will come from all the four corners of the earth, and they will come into my family home, they will come into my house, they will sit down at my table with me. And all of the great saints in the past that you honor will be there, Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, along with the others, Moses and David and Elijah, they'll be there too. But you folks who don't believe? Those of you who don't see what this Gentile sees Well they will be cast into the outer darkness. There will be wailing and gnashing of teeth. Do you see that? Here is our Lord Jesus Christ pronouncing what he will do by the word of his authority. The authority that this man recognized as being the authority to cast out sickness by a mere word is also the same exact authority to command. To heal or to cast into outer darkness. The doorway of faith is this: that we confess Jesus as Lord And we ask him to show mercy. That's what all of us have to do. Whether we've been a Christian for 50 years and we're seeking his grace for healing or for wisdom or whatever it is that in his providence he has led us to need of him, or whether we're coming to him for the first time because finally we see him as he We're asking him to have mercy on our souls. We're asking him to forgive our sins and to create a right spirit within us. The doorway of faith, brothers and sisters, is to follow the example of the soldier who represents all of mankind. It is to come to him recognizing that he is Lord and we are his to command. We are his to dispose of as he wills, because he is Lord of all things. Jesus turns to the people standing around there and he says, This man understands, and many of you don't. And therefore this man will sit at my table one day, and many of you won't. Because I have not found such great faith in all of Israel. The last thing I want us to notice here is that as with the leper, this man comes to Jesus in humility and faith, recognizing his authority. And that any who can who come to him in a similar fashion can expect to receive mercy in accordance with his faith Jesus speaks to the centurion much in the same tone that he spoke to the leper, and he says, go your way, as you have believed, so let it be done to you. And brothers and sisters, there can be no greater good news than this. The person who comes to Jesus in faith, as this centurion did, can expect to receive mercy and grace from him. Because he and his sovereign authority commands it. Is there a sin so great that he cannot give a word of command? And that sin be washed away? As if it never happened. Is there a soul so lost in sin that Jesus cannot simply command that his eyes be opened and his heart restored and the grip of death in him be removed? Is there a mountain in our lives that we are struggling with that Jesus by a simple word cannot command and it be tossed into the sea? That's what it means that he has all authority in heaven and earth. It is an authority that in the life of believers is his, is disposed to bless. His intention is to bless. It is an authority that takes no delight in the death of the wicked, but which causes joy to fill all the angels in heaven when a single soul repents Satan and all of his demons must do what this Lord commands. And the good angels stand poised in heaven's doorway. To descend to earth and do his bidding. This is Jesus. This is your Lord. In him we see authority, truth, and love all brought together. And so why should any man, why should we hesitate to come of him, come to him and ask of him, as the centurion does? If we come with the humility that this centurion displays, we can expect, as the psalmist tells us, that he will give us the desires of our heart. So come to Jesus. Wherever you are today. Recognize that He and He alone has the authority to do that for which you hunger. Seek him, you will find him. Ask of him, and you will receive. Knock on his door of mercy and grace, and it will be opened to you. And the seat he promises in this passage will be your future, or you will sit down with him and all the other saints for eternity. Let's pray.