For hearing our prayers, we know that you do, for you tell us that you do. You never lie. And so, Lord and God, we look forward confidently to how you will answer them. We have prayed these in the name of our blessed Savior. Amen. Please turn, if you will, to Matthew 19. We are progressing through the study of Matthew And we are arriving now at Matthew 19, picking up a very important teaching that Jesus has in there for us, a teaching on marriage. And as a result of that, we will be uh exploring on that topic in a very brief fashion this morning. There's way more in this passage and its surrounding context than it can be covered in a single sermon, but we're down to the point now where One sermon is all we can do on these things. So, Matthew nineteen, we will be looking at verses one through fifteen. Please turn to that passage and follow along with me if you will. Now it came to pass when Jesus had finished these sayings that he departed from Galilee and came to the region of Judea beyond the Jordan. And great multitudes followed him, and he healed them there. The Pharisees also came to him, testing him, and saying to him, Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for just any reason? And he answered and said to them, Have you not read that he who made them at the beginning made them male and female? And said, For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh So then they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore, what God has joined together, let not man separate. They said to him, Well, why then did Moses command to give a certificate of divorce and to put her away? He said to them, Moses, because of the hardness of your heart, permitted you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so And I say to you, whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another, commits adultery. And whoever marries her who is divorced commits adultery His disciples said to him, If such be is the case of the man with his wife, it is better not to marry. But he said to them, All cannot accept this saying, but only those to whom it has been given. For there are eunuchs who were born thus from their mother's womb. And there are eunuchs who made them who made who were made eunuchs by men. And there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's sake. He who is able to accept it, let him Accepted. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Well, most of the hullabaloo is pretty much over Americans are getting used to a new normal, and that new normal looks like that it is going to be pretty stable. What am I talking about? Well I'm talking about mostly this whole gay marriage. Our Christian community was up in arms here a few years back, maybe just more recently than that. The current administration had changed its position and started supporting marriage status for And then the Defense of Marriage Act was uh overruled by the Supreme Court. And therefore, the increasing tempo of civil ceremonies uh uniting uh homosexual couples is such that it's not even news anymore. When it happens, it's not even showing up on the news thing. In other words, life is going on, people are getting used to it. It is the new normal There's a remnant. We're still fighting like it is with the abortion conflict. Some evangelicals will continue Preaching against it as they should. They will say that God will never allow a nation like ours to prosper while it endorses such things. And some churches will protest and offer alternatives to the homosexual lifestyle Certainly we do and support those who do so. There will be programs available, but the pressure from society is d is obviously going to And it will be harder and harder to convince people that the programs that we in the evangelical community offer to help people uh remove themselves From that lifestyle are even moral, or even that which should be encouraged. Just published on Facebook this week. There's a devastating article Written in the New York Times in which a reporter was criticizing um such things as the Buy Crofton Crisis Pregnancy Center and calling it a deliberate evil for them to offer this supposed help to people who are uh having concerns about whether they should continue a pregnancy. And that's the kind of thing where the good guys are being called evil and those who are evil are being called good. And you expect the same kind of process to go on in this particular battle. Now you stop and think about that, uh you know, it's it sounds just a bit discouraging, right? Bit downer, bit bad. Yeah, this is nasty. It does sound bad. Brothers and sisters, I'd like you to consider What if God, in His wisdom and providence, had brought about this s resurgence of gay unions, if you you wish to call it, and is doing so as a sign of judgment. What if gay marriages are just a symptom of a disease that is already in a very advanced state. We just talked about stage four cancer over here a few minutes ago. One of the bad things about some types of cancer is that there are no external symptoms. They progress undiagnosed until suddenly they reach that advanced stage What if that's what's going on here? What if we're seeing is the symptom of an advanced state of cancer Cancer that has been eating away at our society, a disease that is almost fatal, certainly fatal, if it is not dealt with. As we look at this passage before us today, I want us to think about that. Could it possibly be that the rise of homosexual marriages in our country might be being used by God to shame us. To shame us about a much deeper sin that we have embraced with little or no easier on the cities of Sodom and Demorah than it would be on some of the cities in uh Judea and uh Galilee The Jews in those cities were rejecting the teachings of Christ when the proof of those teachings, the miracles and all of that business was right before their very eyes. Now think about what that means that Sodom and Gomorrah are going to stand up in judgment on those cities. It means that the the The cities that were known for their sins of human sexual depravity, of which homosexuality is one, paedophilia is another, all kinds of the most perverse things that people can do, bestiality And all of this, centered in these cities where they celebrated that kind of stuff. That is roundly condemned throughout Scripture, but he is saying that there are worse sins than that And that those who are committing those sins will have Sodom and Gomorrah stand up in judgment against them. He is saying here that the people of Judea and Galilee were daily committing those sins. Brothers and sisters, what if this. In this passage, Jesus is telling us that he has allowed this travity of human sexual uh this travesty of human sexuality to develop. And for it to reach this stage of widespread acceptance in order to show us how truly far we have fallen from God in our view of marriage at all What if the rise in homosexual unions is God rebuking not only the wider culture? but rebuking us. We Christians, we evangelicals, we are supposed to be the nation's con We are the ones who are supposed to be showing the world what a godly marriage is and what blessings a godly marriage brings. What if God is exposing our hypocrisy in that When we get all worked up about homosexual sins, it is a scary thought to think that perhaps Jesus' words about Sodom and Gomorrah could apply to us Also. Now, what I want us to do is consider that possibility as we look at this text. Is it possible that the way American Christians view divorce In our communities is a greater sin than the existence of legal homosexuality. unions. Is it possible that the way American Christians view divorce within our own communities is a greater sin Than the way homosexualities are achieving legal status. Jesus' words in this passage might lead us to think that. Let's consider that possibility. Notice how powerfully and emphatically Jesus teaches on the subject of the sanctity of marriage in this passage. The Pharisees are trying to trip him up. No big deal there. It's been constant all the way through. They're doing what Pharisees do. But they ask a very specific and very nuanced and and difficult question, one that Jesus takes head on. They say, is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife and essentially say for it for any kind of reason, for just any kind of reason A man wakes up in the morning, smells of coffee downstairs, but on his way to getting himself dressed, And all he's pondering the status of his marriage and the difficulties he's having within it, his unhappiness and all that. And he says, you know, I've just had it, I'm done. This woman is not making me happy. She's a pain to live with. She just isn't cutting it. Not for the kind of companion I want to spend whatever many years I have left. I'm done. I'm going to find someone else. And as a matter of fact, I've got somebody in mind that I can go for. He walks into the kitchen. His wife is there, hasn't got a clue what's coming, sits down at the table and says, By the way, I'm out of here. I pack my bag. I'm leaving you. We'll work out the details as we go. Now brothers and sisters, I'm aware of the situation exactly like that. That kind of stuff happens. And it happens in professedly Christian families. The case that I'm particularly thinking of was a woman. But that was Makes no difference. It's the same basic idea. The Pharisees are essentially asking, is that okay? If a mind if a man finds something kind of fault with his wife, one that he just simply doesn't think he can live with, can he effectively just divorce her for those reasons? This is what is commonly called today irreconcilable divorce Now, in our congregation and mostly throughout the PCA, such behavior will be disciplined. Strong churches will recognize that this is intolerable. But across the board, brothers and sisters, in this country, many of the churches that are here don't blink an eye at that country. kind of thing. They basically take a hands-off attitude towards marriage and they say there's civil courts out there You work it out in the courts and whatever the courts say, we will do that after all, haven't we been taught that we are to obey the magistrate? And so they will just simply separate themselves from anything To do with such a situation. We are not that way, but that doesn't mean that the disease is not present within our denominator. And within evangelical Christianity as a whole. But we're not like that, so we can just pat ourselves on the back, right? Yeah, we're we're okay. That's all those other guys guys out there that that aren't willing to stand up for things. Well, before we get too smug about this, let's look at further at what Jesus says here. Jesus' answer goes beyond what I just said. It goes beyond what the Pharisees asked. Jesus actually comes very close to saying that it is an ungodly action for a man to divorce his wife for any reason whatsoever. Close to saying that. You see, Jesus now immediately goes back and he he roots this whole idea of marriage in the creation order. Marriage as an institution goes back to Adam and Eve. Man would exercise dominion over the earth, over the birds of the air, the fish of the sea, and every living thing that crawls upon it In that one-flesh relationship, man was to prosper and to fill the earth with godly offspring, as we read in Malachi. It was the family rooted in the covenantal faithfulness of one man and one woman. That was to be the primary unit. Catch me carefully here. I'm not saying that singles have no place. But it is to be the primary unit, the core foundation on which godly society is to be built. And in this fundamental core, this foundational unit, if that is weakened or loses its strength brothers and sisters, the entire building, the entire social order will fall apart. Now that's true for secular as well as Christian society. When you start attacking the family and you start attacking the core principles that govern a family, you're not just bringing about a local isolated uh problem Here or there, you are tearing down the very foundation, the very structures of society itself. For it cannot exist apart from that core foundation of solid family relationships. In a land where the family and marriage at its core is treated with contempt, why should we be surprised if there's a rise in homosexuality? homosexuality or abortion. Why should we scratch our head when our schools fall apart because the children are undisciplined and without a moral foundation that is has been imparted to them by their parents. Do you think it might have something to do that the burden of single parenting, which I am not diminishing one bit. But the burden of single parenting is such that now it is massive numbers of children who simply cannot have the primary ground that will enable them to get through those awful teenage years without really messing up. Or worse. Parents losing, even if they're staying married, losing and abdicating their role as parents and pursuing their own desires. desires in benevolent neglect, if you will, of their children, so that the children are not structured in their thinking, capable of doing disciplined work, nor having a moral foundation in which to make proper judgments. Why should we be surprised? that our young people in this country are putting off marriage for longer and longer periods of time. Some not to marry ever at all Why is that? Could it possibly be? Because the witnesses of marriage about them are not such that there's anything there they want. Freedom from responsibility in their mind is more desirable than a lifelong commitment to another person. They recognize that a relationship, that's the big word now. I'm in relationship with somebody. That's what you say on Facebook, so therefore that's what it must be, right? A relationship with someone allows you to come and go as you want. This other person you're in relationship with them, but it's not like they run your life, you know. It's not like you're obligated to be responsible to them. And this whole idea of sex well it's pretty easily available. Quite frankly, and it doesn't come with all that attendant baggage of having to live with a person for the rest of your life. Brothers and sisters, what if the essential problem facing marriage in this country is not the threat of homosexual unions, that that is only a symptom. What if it really is the way that we As a society and as Christians also have abandoned the sanctity of marriage itself. Jesus says here What God has joined together, let no man separate. Now you can argue with those words all day long, but they stay in the Bible. You can't pass over them. They're there. If you're married, brothers and sisters, you're married. That's it. The obligation that Jesus puts on us in this passage is for This is how God sees your marriage. You're married. That's what I've decreed. I brought you together. You're married. And that's how we must see it too. There is one exception, sexual sin. It is, in fact, what is translated adultery here, but the word there is pornea. It has a wider ramp. Qualifications for that. It is wider in one sense, but it is still very narrowly defined, much more narrowly defined in its application than what is commonly taken today to fit that bill. Jesus certainly didn't mean to give that exception clause the kind of inclusive latitude that many give it today. Some of which are churches in our own denomination. Now you may think that I'm overplaying this and that I'm reading way too much in what Jesus says here after all he's answering the Pharisees But I want you to look at how the disciples saw what Jesus said. The disciples say, if what you're saying is true, it's better for a man not to marry at all. What they're saying Is there ain't any way out? And what if it winds up that it's not a good marriage? What if mom and dad over there in that town Over here, say it's time for my son to get married. They enter into negotiations with this family over here. Mama dad's got a daughter, and they say, hmm, you know, it's It'd be good for our two families to be joined together. Uh we can mix the money together. These kids will grow up and we can have our families, you know, form a uh a nice bond there. And this will be good for us, it'll be good for the kids. So, one day, young man looks out the window, and here comes this young lady. They're introduced, and the marriage is set for a week later. And that's it. They have a week long getting to know each other, and then they're married. It's perfectly legal, perfectly often, perfectly uh normal in the old test. So the disciples are thinking, hmm, you know, what if you find yourself married? And sh not all that fun to live with. What if she's the kind of woman I'm talking about men are now here because these are disciples. What if these she's the kind of woman that makes a man miserable just trying to live with her? Let's go back to Proverbs 21:9. 2119. I'm going to paraphrase it a bit. It's better to go have a tent in the wilderness and live with the wild animals than to live with a contentious woman. That's what Proverbs says. A contemptuous a contentious and angry woman, sorry. Now I'm not I'm not picking all women here, I'm just quoting scripture. The same thing is true for husbands. What if the wife there suddenly Realizes that this guy is just a jerk. There are those married situations where one or both parties fill that description. It's cynical, brothers and sisters, but it happens And it happens sometimes with so-called Christians. The disciples are saying here to themselves that in a situation like this, what Jesus is saying is that they can't divorce. They are condemned to live in misery for our throughout their whole human life or own life on earth. Jesus said the only exception is that of Pornilla, of commonly interpreted or translated And he also said, You're exactly right. That's exactly what I mean. young what the disciples are showing are saying because if you get married you you're married. Even if a spouse And what Jesus is saying here is that, brothers and sisters, Christian marriages are supposed to be different than those in the world. It is to us that the world should be looking and seeing marriages that are not easily broken. Where men and women Women take a vow to remain together for better or worse, and to take that vow seriously. Sometimes there's difficulties Sometimes it's not easy. Sometimes there are differences that may even lead to a lack of love being perceived. But Christians see or should see that in such a situation they have a higher obligation that they under attack. And therefore, in order for marriage to be a joy, it has to be consciously attended to. The husband and wife have to have a common vision that their marriage is to a higher goal than Just their own individual comfort. Their marriage has to be directed towards the Lord Jesus Christ with the intention of modeling His love, His grace, and His character within that marriage. And only that kind of marriage is truly Christian. If American Christians took that to heart, and they see that our Lord Jesus Christ for us to be married and stay married, then I think the current divorce rate in the Christian community would be cut in half because right now it is every If we American Christians step back from our focus on ourselves and on our own little feeling, And desires to to feed our own petty lusts and prideful desires, then we would find that living with the spouse that God has given us and living in covenant faithfulness with the wife of our youth, to quote Malachi, is at the very front rank of the Christian witness that is found in marriage. How can we stand for the sanctity of marriage when it comes to gay people if we do not stand for the sanctity of marriage sanctity of marriage in our own lives when it comes to divorce. Perhaps God is showing us that gays treat this idea of marriage more seriously than his own people do. In conclusion, what I want us to think about is this. God's plan for marriage is that it has a it has has much higher goals than just our temporary passing comfort or pleasure. And that is why he insists that it be honored above all other purely human institutions. God's plan for marriage is that it is to be a showcase and a model It is to be a showcase and a model by which men learn and illustrate what it means to live in covenant faithfulness to God Himself. If we cannot keep covenant faithfulness with our human spouses, who we can see and touch, how in the world can we expect to keep covenant faithfulness? With God, whom we can neither see nor touch. God has given us a marriage, has given us the institution of marriage to build our human society on and to point to the fact that our covenant faithfulness in and our marriages is if you will are the building block upon which godly institutions can Be erected to show to the world that He has created a society, a holy nation, where people have been made kings and priests to God And they show that kingship and priesthood first and foremost within the family. That's their experimental proving ground. That is the first line of their witness. Brothers and sisters, we are to regard marriage as a holy covenant. It is not a contract. A contract is something with loopholes and ways we can wiggle out of it. Marriage is not a contract between two people, it is a covenant Between two people. There is in marriage a higher principle than just passing human happiness. There is marriage a teaching tool. That enables us to learn how, in godly fashion, we can overcome obstacles. How, at the closest and most intimate level, we can learn to forgive each other. How we can learn from each other in those very areas where each of us are weak. Marriage is the joining of two defective humans human souls so that as one flesh they can offset each other, filling in the gaps for the other, so that the one flesh union is stronger than the two individuals alone. But for that to work, the marriage has to be seen as something higher than the individual It has to be seen as God through Paul has shown us that it is to make known to the world the relationship between Jesus and Jesus Christ and His Church. And that marriage of men, godly men and women, is to bear witness to that above all else. If all we seek from marriage is the comfort and pleasure which is available in it, it will not last. Even those that Passing pleasures will diminish, and we can be tempted away, just like with anything else, for something that might be even better. And wife relationship will sour, and the witness will be lost. Brothers and sisters, if we see marriage as something beyond that, where the instant The institution of marriage itself, like the institution of the church, is a witness to a higher power that is present and at work in the world around us. Then we get at what Jesus is getting at here. That what God has joined together, let not man separate. These words of Jesus call all of us to step back and to see marriage as Jesus sees. And to discover that it is in the wisdom of God something far more than perhaps we thought, and that perhaps as Christians We ought to take it more seriously than we do. Let's pray. Well God grant us that this institution that you have given us would be honored by your people.