Please follow along. My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart keep my commands. For length of days and long life and peace they will add to you Let not mercy and truth forsake you, bind them around your neck, write them on the tablet of your heart, and so find favor and high esteem in the sight of God and man. Let's pray. Lord, this is foundational, and we pray that you would bring these words home Not just to our minds, but to our hearts. We pray, Lord, that you would bind these words and all that they mean, at least that which you intend for them to mean today. We ask, Lord, that they would be tied to us, that we would take them out the door. We ask, Lord, that our lives would be formed and shaped more and more by your word. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. In our last sermon on Proverbs, we noticed the similarities between Proverbs chapter two and the fifth commandment. Since that time, I heard a scholar suggest that the entire collection of Proverbs is a commentary on the Fifth Commandment. It's an interesting thought, and I haven't explored it But at least Proverbs 2 was the case. There was a case like that with Proverbs 2. It led us into a reading of seeing that honor your father and mother is far more than just honoring your father and mother that you lived with or still live with. We maintain the moral order and path of the holy people of old. This week we received strength from God in his instruction from Proverbs chapter 3. 1 through 4. The first thing I want you to notice is in verse 1. The Father pleads with the Son to not forget his law or Torah. That's the word that's used there. And as I mentioned at the men's breakfast on Saturday, Torah is not just the Ten Commandments. It includes the Ten Commandments, but it includes really all of the scriptures. I would say, even especially, the stories And this is for two reasons. The narratives are the main way that God has chosen to catechize his people, which is also a little bit legitimate translation of Torah or teaching. This is a main way, these narratives of God teaching his people who he is and what he requires of them. And then the second reason, I'm sure there's many more, is that the narratives are giving catechization or catechism in the context of life, which is really the whole point. That's the first observation is that the father pleads with the son to not forget his Torah. The second thing that I want you to notice is that it also says, let your heart keep my commands. And that this should evoke Deuteronomy 6 and the Shema. And these words which I command you today shall be in your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children. and shall talk of them when you sit in your home, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, and when you rise up. You shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. I think that it's easy to see what's going on here with the Shema, and it's easy to see what's not going on here This Torah or Catechism and True Education is less like an American classroom and more like an apprenticeship. The next thing I'd like you to notice is that verse three takes us even further in the direction of our lives, not just our minds. But our lives taking on a certain shape. It says this let not mercy and truth, excuse me. Let not mercy and truth forsake you. This refers to the attributes of God Himself, mercy and truth, steadfast faithfulness. We see it all the time throughout the scriptures. But it also refers to how we are to be like God and to live righteously in community. Now when you read, Let not mercy and truth forsake you, I wonder how you understand that terminology. If you look through the book of Proverbs especially, the truthful person is not so much the person who gets their facts right, that's fine, and tells things as they are, that's also fine. As much as it is the man and woman who is honest, trustworthy, and dependable in both word and deed. And the word mercy, it refers specifically to a situation where a needy partner depends on another for deliverance. And the deliverer does so freely out of all their finer spiritual sensitive instincts kindness, mercy, love, loyalty, all of the parts that in ways that God shapes us that we are fruitful and a blessing to community. As we go to the final observation, you can see that all of this nice and neatly really glues together. It's not just about your mind and about what you memorize, it's about the shape of your life and who you become. Growing in the image of God, especially in truth and mercy, particularly as it relates to how you bring blessing to community You can see that in fact this is the case in the reward pronounced in verse 4. You are to bind mercy and truth around your neck, write them on the tablet of your heart, and what? What is the reward? And so find favor and high esteem in the sight of God and man. The son or the daughter will have societal favor and high esteem. The notion here is really the idea of being able to see God's face. And when you would look at his face, he would be smiling. He would look on you and your contribution to the society and be pleased. And the same thing would happen with your neighbor. You'll hear later in Proverbs where there are those who are not raised in honor and do not choose the path of honor, but they shame themselves and they shame their family. That all has to do with community. And your role in the community, in the path you go down. That's all part of this. Now, I don't want to focus on everything, but I do think the main thrust here can be captured in this single doctrine. As covenant children come of age, God calls them to carry forward the Christian kingdom And you can see what will be required of them to be able to do so. It's not just carrying forward their memory or showing you their old tests from Bible class. They must have a life that is shaped and they are the embodiment itself, affecting community, bringing forward the kingdom of God, exerting an influence for righteousness. From the grace of the Son. As covenant children come of age, God calls them to not forget, but to carry forward the Christian kingdom So I want to do a thought experiment with you, and then I uh will do some application and some questions. For whatever reason, I didn't realize that this was happening to me today, but I have another farm example. I'm just farm happy today. I don't know what it is. It might be the weather making me think of getting my garden started. But I want you to think of that doctrine as covenant children come of age, God calls them to carry forward the Christian kingdom. Think of it in terms of as an as inheriting a family farm. I really feel like I'm working against the tide here because when we talk about receiving instruction and education, we're so ingrained to think of education in a particular way it's hard to get our heads around what's happening here with the moral instruction in Proverbs. So let's drop out of that context of the classroom and let's think about inheriting a family farm. And that you need to have all of the skills in order to keep the farm going. Let's say that long ago your great-grandfather bought the land. Maybe it was your great-great-grandfather. Generation after generation has died, but they did the spade work of the cultivation in order to make a good foundation on the farm for you. To have produce. And now the farm is in fact productive. Maybe it's a flower farm. Whatever kind of farm you want it to be, go ahead and choose that in your imagination On the high hills, I've chosen an apple orchard, but on the high hills, the sweet winds blow through the apple orchards The livestock receives good pasture and care. The employees love you, and they receive fair treatment You look after not only them and what is your duty, but after their families, making sure they're taken care of. The whole community, in fact. The whole district knows the farm from its order and beautiful sights, but also the farming practices and the human practices. The prices are right. If the farm collapsed, do you know what the community would do? They would mourn. They would feel like they've lost something vital to the neighborhood. Well, the day comes when you are of age. Your parents grow older, and it is time for you to prepare to take the farm. And here is a vital lesson for you. You have got to listen to me. You will not be able to take over the farm. just because you watched a couple YouTube videos on farming. I know that that is hard for you to hear It is so true. And I know you don't even really believe me right now, but it will prove true. YouTube is not going to help us. Maybe in little ways, but we need far more. There's going to be a main question that arises for you. Will you put the work in to make sure that you can continue production? Will you become greedy and cheat the employees Will you look at owning a business and a farm as an opportunity for you to boast of your status and to not really work anymore? Will the community remember fondly the days of your parents, but grieve that you are now in charge? Proverbs chapter twenty-four uh res uh uh speaks of a situation that is like this. It says this with regard to a vineyard that was planted by great-grandfathers and fathers, and then a son and a daughter that inherited it I went by the field of the lazy man, and the vineyard of the man devoid of understanding. And there it was, all overgrown with thorns. Its surface was covered with nettles. Its stone wall was broken down. When I saw it, I considered it well. I looked on it and received instruction. A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest, so shall your poverty come like a prowler, and your need like an armed man. It's not a pretty picture But it's the same picture that we're talking about now. Will it be like that? Or Will you not only remember the ways of your fathers and mothers, but take the ways of your fathers and mothers to new heights for the glory of God? I have an acquaint an acquaintance, maybe a little more than an acquaintance, actually. We've hung out a few times, and he inherited an apple orchard. How cool is that! And what he did was he not only carried forward the farming practices of his family, he knew all of them. He had been working with his father since he was younger, and his uncle, who took care of Of the farm. He not only carried forward the farming practices of his family, but he has worked with local university extensions to increase the health and the produce. of the apple trees. There's a new method that they're using. I think it's pronounced Espalier. Now, that's just a thought project. It's a way for us to get into the context that the Proverbs are in. It's not a classroom. It's you inheriting a kind of farm and a way of life, skills that will be necessary, or it will be like the lazy man and the farm. Those of you heading to high school or high school to college or college to grad work and work, these proverbs, especially in the beginning, are especially to you. You have come of age. The Book of Church Order says it is the age of discretion. When the proverbist exhorts you to not forget the Torah of your mother and your father. And to let your heart keep the commands. They are not encouraging you to only memorize or study the scriptures like you are in a classroom. They are exhorting you to take what has been given to you and to get more and to start to work it out in the way you form and shape the life before you for the glory of God. You shall, for example, inherit the same vocations that your parents have. You will be parents You will have marriages. You will have small businesses and co-workers. And you need to have a life that is shaped and formed to where you may continue to bring forth Christ's kingdom in all of those areas. So I have a couple of questions for you. To be exact, fifty-five. Just kidding. I have seven. It just ended up that way. What a biblical what a biblical number. Those of you who are coming of age, I encourage you to stop thinking this thought. What will make my life happy? There is a deeper way to think about that, but I don't think that's what you mean when you ask the question, what will make my life happy? Instead, I would encourage you to think more along these lines: what will make my life meaningful? And the answer is for you to carry forward the kingdom of Christ into the next age. And so I have seven questions for you. Are you making your parents' faith your own? When you come of age, that's what's taking place. Are you making your parents' faith your own? Do you feel a bit confused and uncertain? Are you having trouble seeing how sitting in a classroom for hours is carrying the torch forward? Have you reached out to your parents and to mentors to help you see how you should take the Christian vision forward? These are all questions, by the way, that I've heard over the years since I've been here from folks at that age. If you are not reaching out to your parents or mentors to help you see how you should take the Christian vision forward, why not? What is going on inside of you? What are your hopes for this world? What are your hopes for the human beings around you and in society in general? What are your hopes, and this will be meaningful to some of you, for animals Are your hopes Christian hopes? If so, what are you doing to realize those hopes and those aspirations? This is a very important question that needs to be asked more often. What are some ways that you don't understand Christianity? In what ways does Christianity seem implausible and uncompelling? In what ways does Christianity only seem like something that can be done in a classroom and never really feels like life itself? And then the seventh is really for parents and teachers and mentors. And this is just a suggestion, so I only had six questions. I suggest that you come up with some other questions. You can work it work in batches of seven. I would encourage you to find out what the youth are thinking about all kinds of stuff. How do they think about the world? And in order for you to do that, I do not mean to be rude, but I do encourage you to keep your mouth shut for a little while Keep your lips sealed. I'll say it nicer. Let's just be quiet. And just listen to them. Keep asking. Let the conversation go deeper. Let it build And then pray and see how you can help them to embrace their inheritance as the upcoming generation of saints. I think that will help you to do so in a far more relevant manner, instead of stapling stuff onto them where they don't really understand. Our conclusion, our doctrine, from which all of these things flow, all of our questions, all the suggestions, all the observations. Is that as covenant children come of age, God calls them to carry forward the Christian kingdom? Let us pray.