Whoever keeps the fig tree will eat its fruit, so he who waits on his master will be honored Let us pray. Christ, you are most gracious to give us wisdom by your word and your spirit. Even the word of your Proverbs. We pray, Lord, that you would instruct us this evening through the preached word. And we ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. The last time we were in Proverbs together, we took a look at verse number 17. You may want to reacquaint yourself with that just by glancing down. And we went from the realm or one domain of sharpening knives or swords, or we saw a passage where they even sharpened gardening tools. In verse 17, as iron sharpens iron is one domain into another domain, so a man sharpens the countenance of his friend. And a key observation there for you was to see that countenance is the countenance. Hebrew word for faith. That uh within a good friendship there is a a friend who's hard enough Who is courageous enough, who loves the Lord enough to where you would be able to be sharpened by them. It's a mark of a good friendship. And that face part is that they're able to read your face, your countenance, and to see the kind of word that you need. Sometimes we need to be comforted because boy does life get difficult. And it's not as if we're running around trying to make it difficult or live a sinful life, but we're dealing with many afflictions, and you could see that as a good friend on their face, and you would know that now is a season where I need to lift them up. Or maybe you would look on their countenance and their face and you would see that they just lied about something. And they are suppressing the truth and unrighteousness, and they're justifying themselves. And as a good friend, you're going to pull them aside, and you're going to have a private conference, and you're not going to let The devil get a foothold. Those are some of the examples that we considered, or examples like that as we considered that as iron sharpens iron, so a man sharpens the face. Or the countenance of his friend. And it's a mark of a good friendship. A good friend is someone that would be willing to rebuke you, comfort you, exhort you, admonish you, all the rest, because he actually loves the Lord. more than he loves you. Tonight we continue with another observ with another proverb, which is uh uh uh in verse eighteen of our I've already read, and I just want to make a couple observations with you. And then we'll we'll meditate on that verse together here this evening through the preached word. First thing I just want to remind you is the nature of Proverbs themselves. This is going to start showing up more and more in these latter chapters of the Proverbs. Proverbs often do that. They'll take observations from the natural world, from the from other parts of creation, and they'll relate them to God's people so that they would better understand the wisdom that they need in order to live in holy society. Here we have in 18 we have uh a fig tree, but if you were to look in other places, you'd see other things. And you can even do this yourself. Uh just the other day I was asking, I started to ask the question How is it that other creatures are successful in their endeavors? Now that's a kind of a proverb question. How are other creatures successful in their endeavors? And so I looked around and I saw, for example, that the chickadee at this time of year, at least two weeks ago, was successful in in her endeavor to raise up Uh those fledgling chicks, if that's what they're called, I know there seems to be a name for each different kind of chick and bird, but if that's right You'll you will you will have seen that part of her success is dependent upon her mobbing hawks and other birds that bother her nest. Have you ever seen a little bird darting around at a larger bird in the sky? That's one way that she keeps her Her little chick's alive. That's how she's successful. And perhaps human beings might have something to learn from that in terms of how we would mob somebody. If you were to turn to the uh crows here at the church, you would notice that they like to, you worked here like I do. They like to come up to the glass door, look at themselves, their reflection in the glass door, and peck at it while I'm trying to focus and read. And I have brought a high-powered BB gun to try to take care of them. But they always fought me first. And you ask the question, how are crows successful? How is it that they can go up there and peck on my door and never get caught? And it's because they always have a lookout. If you catch it, you'll see there's another crow looking out, and then he squawks and says, he's coming to the door, you should run away, and none of them ever get caught. I can never get within 50 yards of one. If you wanted to turn to the Proverbs, you could turn to Proverbs chapter 30, verse 26, and it would be, well, how are the rock badgers who have a soft body and they're feeble folk, how is it that they are able to be successful? If you have a soft body and hard surroundings and environment and ferocious enemies, how do you live in a world like that? Well, they make their home in a hard home. They hide in the rocks. That's what Solomon says. So we can do this kind of thing, just like Solomon does these kind of things. Of course, the difference between us as them is that the Spirit has inspired him, so there's a authority that he has that we don't have But I'm just trying to acquaint you with the nature of a proverb. That's the first thing. And so we go into verse 18, knowing that, and we see here that there is a reflection by the wise man Inspired by the Holy Spirit on a fig tree. I want you to picture with me, oftentimes Proverbs are better placed, like a jewel placed inside the ring of a story. And so I'd like you to just think about this for a moment. This is the story is fictional, but the proverb is not. I want you to picture a wise man who every day Takes a nice walk, just collecting his thoughts down a dirt road, and on his left, every day he takes a road, he takes a he every time he takes a walk, he walks down this road, and on his left-hand side is a fig tree farm. And every day that he takes that walk, he sees the farmer out there tending to his figs. Well, some days the farmer prunes the figs. Make sure there's not too much fruit based on the size of the tree so that the fruit will be the right size and it will have the ultimate sweetness, which will also be a preservative. It will last a long time because of the sugar content On another day, we'll say it's a Wednesday, that same wise man walks down, sees the farmer, not just pruning trees this day, but he's guarding the trees. He's chasing birds from the branches, figuring out a way to get the insects off of it. One day the wise man takes his usual walk and he notices something different on the farm. It's not just the farmer tending to the tree. There's also a young man who is a farmhand. The farmer's sitting down. It's midday, he's hot. You can see his neck's red. His face is red. He's tired. He takes off his hat. He grabs his handkerchief and he wipes the back of his neck. And he wipes his forehead just to get some sweat off. And you see that he looks over, and there's the farmhand. And the farmhand had walked down the main path from the farmhouse to this man who owns the farm. He's the farmer. And this young man is carrying a bucket of water, and he's dishing out water in cups to the farmer. Farmer takes the first cup and pours it over the back of his neck. And you can see him get some relief. Takes the second cup, takes a nice drink, takes a third cup, swishes it in his mouth, spits it out Then the farmer refreshed, he gets up and he takes one of those trees, those uh figs that are ripe that he's been working on, tending, getting the bugs off of, making sure that they were pruned. He pops one of those figs off. And he gives it to the farmhand. The farmhand is able to enjoy the sweetness of it. The farmhand heads back towards the farmhouse. With his bucket, and he is met by the farmer's wife. She's waiting, she smiles, and she sees what the farmhand has done for the farmer, who is her husband. And so she honors him by giving him a slice of bake pie and a glass of milk. That's a little bit of what's going on here, perhaps. You can see these narrative connections, what's going on with this proverb and the wise man watching it. The wise man sees a connection The farmer serves the fig tree. Take a look at the proverb. In verse 18: whoever keeps or serves or tends the fig tree is going to eat its fruit. The farmer serves the fig tree and will receive a sweet succulent fruit, and he'll actually receive money too when he sells these figs. And it's going to be able to for him to be able to keep paying the mortgage on his house and have ingredients for her his wife to bake a pie. And the farmhand who waited on his master was honored. The farmhand was honored with success not only of the farmer, being able to eat the fruit of the farmer also. But among his wife and his family. And that's that second part of the proverb. Whoever keeps the fig tree will eat it eat its fruit. That's in the domain of farmers and fig trees. You can see that when a farmer works on a fig tree, one of the benefits is that they get to eat of the fruit of their farm. But the second layer here with the far hand is the second verse, or the B verse. It is, so he who waits on his master will be honored. Just as the farmer waits on the fig tree and can benefit from the fruit, so those who serve their masters, waiting and tending on them, guarding them, protecting them, making sure that they are healthy, they will be honored and gain the fruit of their master. Just like the farmhand and the farmer. So I hope the story is helpful to you in being able to see that. Whoever keeps the fig tree will eat its fruit, so he who waits on his master will be honored. Now, this is an insight into human relationships, particularly within the kingdom that Christ has constructed. That whoever keeps the fig tree will eat its fruit, and so he who waits on his master will be honored. One of the difficulties we have with a proverb like this is that our lives don't unfold in this manner. Our lives are cursed. We from the sweat of our brow, and our relationships do not unfold like this. We often revolt against Christ and his kingdom. The kingdom is expressed, so he who waits on his master will be honored. We live our lives and we subvert social hierarchy. We want the mas we want to be master in everything. We are envious. In the in the uh the farms that we tend to now within our society, it looks less like what the proverb gives as an ideal. What a wise society would look like, and instead it looks more like the relationship between Absalom and his father David. Does everybody here remember the story of David and Absalom? It's quite the contrast to the proverb. In the proverb, it could be the m the um he who waits on his master will be honored. That person who waits on his master could be any kind of relationship between superior and inferior, including father and son. And we see great a great contrast in the story of Absalom. Listen to 2 Samuel 15, 1 through 6 for a moment This is Absalom and his inroads into subverting his father as king. He says, After this it happened that Absalom provided with chariots and horses and fifty men to run before him. Now Absalom would rise early and stand beside the way to the gate. So it was when anyone who had a lawsuit came to the king for a decision. Absalom's not the king. It's going to the king for a decision. So Absalom intercepts them. And that Absalom would call them and he would say, What city are you from? He intercepts them. And then he would say, Your servant is from from such and such a tribe. Then Absalom would say, Look, your case is good and right, and there's no deputy of the king to hear you Moreover, Absalom would say, O that I were made judge in the land, and everyone who has any suit or case would come to me, and I would give them justice. And so it was when anyone came near to bow down to him that he would put out his hand and take him and kiss him. In this manner Absalom acted toward all Israel who came to the king for judgment. And listen to this final phrase, so Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel. This is more of what our societies look like When we are not filled with the Spirit and following Christ, David would be the fig tree, and Absalom is saying, I'm going to subvert you. David would be the farmer, and Absalom would be the farmhand, and instead of bringing out water, he'd bring a sword and he'd cut down his father and then take all the fruit from the tree. Of course, we know that Absalom meets a terrible end. 2 Samuel 18 9. Absalom met the servants of David. Absalom rode on a mule. The mule went under the thick boughs of a great terebinth tree, and his head caught in the terebinth, so he was left hanging between heaven and earth. Can you picture it? And the mule which was under him just kept going on. And cursed is everyone who is hung in a tree. God's judgment on him. So Joab finds out that he's hung in the tree, and he takes three spears in his hand and he thrusts them through Absalom's heart. while he was still alive in the midst of the cherebinth tree. It's a cautionary tale. And it's a tragic tale. That is in contrast to the proverb that is in front of us. Instead of a son supporting a father so that the father could be fruitful as king, the son seeks to subvert Now, with that as an example, I just wonder if some of you could think of some of your relationships that you're a part of. People that are over you, people that you're meant to be serving. And I wonder if you've been acting more like Absalom. Instead of what is we are called to as Christians by Christ Himself in the Proverb. Children, for example, did you know that your parents are fig trees? That you are to tend them, that you are to serve them, that you are to guard them, that you are to protect them. He could say the same thing about your grandparents' children You could say the same thing about the members of your church, those who are older than you, even your older brother, your your older sister. You would serve them that they might be fruitful, and then you could benefit from the fruit that they make and receive honor. If I were to walk into any of your homes, who would I find serving who? It's something to think through for us as we look at a contrast to the proverb. But there's also in the scriptures not just the contrast, but a continuation of the same teaching in a bunch of different passages. For example, if you wanted to see a great example of someone who keeps the frig tree and then eats its fruits, someone who waits on his master and who is honored, then you could look through many of the New Testament letters and what Paul encourages the people to do. Jesus Christ in his ascension has sent out his Holy Spirit to his church. We have been renewed in mind and in will And Paul, knowing that, instructs us and seeks to show us how we are to relate to each other in the way that this proverb dictates. according to fig trees. If you were to turn, for example, to Ephesians chapter 5, I'd encourage you to do that. Just turn to Ephesians 5. This is a a great example to always be able to turn to Of the proper relationship as we see in relationships, as we see within the proverb. In five twenty-two, we see that wives are to submit to their husbands as to the Lord. That wives in this relationship are to seek to make their husbands fruitful and not undermine them That their husbands are their fig tree, and that when they do that kind of service, they should receive honor, as it says in Proverbs 31. As an example of one relationship where one is serving another, that the other would be fruitful. You could say the same thing about the husband in just the follow-up in verse 29. For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes it and cherishes it, just as the Lord does the church, the the husband tending to the wife as his fig tree, that she might be fruitful in her endeavors, and that he would be honored as a man. Who knows how to serve his wife that she might be able to be fruitful in the government of her family, for example, under him. Or you can look at 6. 1. Children, I've already mentioned this to you, but it says, Children obey your parents in the Lord. Here, you're the farmhand. Again, serving the farmer, or you're the farmer serving the fig tree, however you want to take the analogy, to where you have an obligation to honor your father and your mother, to seek that they would be fruitful in the endeavors that the Lord Jesus Christ has given to them. That you would be a help. Or you can look at 6. 4. Fathers, don't provoke your children. That there's a way in which fathers are meant to be serving their children in this specific way. To where those children could be fruitful. And then fathers are honored as those who have built up their children that those children might accomplish great things for the Lord. There's another relationship between the servant or and the fig tree. Or the servant and his master. Or you could go to 6-5, and this is more exactly the case, because we're now dealing with a bondservant literally. Bondservant is to be obedient to those who are your masters. They are to seek to make those masters fruitful in the endeavors that they have for the Lord. You could go to other passages too. That's just Ephesians 5:22, 29, 6. 1, 6. 4, 6. 5. These relationships are a part of what it means to be relating well in the new creation. That in each of our different roles, in each of our different stations and vocations and placements, according to the Lord Jesus Christ, that if we find ourselves serving someone else, then we are to tend, guard, protect nurture and add and give admonition that they might be a fruitful tree. And then we would receive honor from our work This comes out most fully in Proverbs 31-31, in terms of the work of the wife there, for her family, for her community, for her husband, that he might rule in the gates. It says, give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her own works praise her in the gates. You could turn to Proverbs chapter ten, verse one, and see the same thing said where a wise son makes a glad father. This is how we're to relate to each other under Christ. The same kind of connection shows up in 1 Corinthians 9, 8 through 11, as Paul, as an apostle and as their pastor, seeks to relate to the congregation. And he pours himself into them that they would be fruitful. He sows that they might grow spiritually and become strong. And he puts it this way, he says Do I say these things as a mere man, or does not the law say the same also? For it is written in the law of Moses, you shall not muzzle an ox while it treads out the grain Is that oxen God is concerned about, or does he say it altogether for our sakes? For our sakes, no doubt, this is written, that he who plows should plough in hope And he who threshes in hope should be partaker of his hope. If we have sown spiritual things for you, is it a great thing if we reap your material things? He has been building up this congregation as if it were a fruit tree. And it is expected that he'd be able to gain some of the fruit. that he'd be gaining some of the honor. He served them as a servant, humbling himself before these congregations, not acting on his rights. And he says The right thing would that they be able he'd be able to reap the things that he has sown. Now each of you have been given as Christians the Holy Spirit and called as citizens of his kingdom. How may you begin to relate in this way to those whom God has called you to serve? It is a different way of thinking about human life. The first example is a contrast. It's the Absalom way, where we subvert each other, we envy each other, we're jealous of each other. It's the way of Cain and Abel. We murder each other in our hearts. But here Christ lays out a different way that when you are called to serve an individual, you are to call to serve them as we see In this proverb, we are to wait on our masters, and we will be honored I wonder where this is applicable to you as a wife, or as a husband, or as children, or as an employee. I wonder if you were to hold yourself up against the mirror of the word, if you find that you are a person who has been endeavoring to make them fruitful, or if you have not. How may you be sure to give honor and the fruit of your hands to those who help? These are some of the lessons from the proverb here in how we are to relate to each other in our holy society. Whoever keeps the fig will eat its fruit. And so he who waits on his master will be honored. You could replace those names. Whoever keeps the fig tree will eat its fruit, so he who waits on his mother, so he who waits on his grandmother. So he who waits on his father or his grandfather, so he who waits on the widow, so he who waits on the pastor or the boss will receive honor. Just as the farmer and the fig tree. Amen. Please pray with me