Go back and read chapter 25, but we will be picking up in chapter 26 today. Let's begin in verse 1. Please follow along. Then Agrippa said to Paul, You are permitted to speak for yourself. So Paul stretched out his hand and answered for himself. I think myself happy, King Agrippa, because today I shall answer for myself before you concerning all the things of which I am accused by the Jews. Especially because you are expert in all customs and questions which have to do with the Jews. Therefore, I beg you to hear me patiently. My manner of life from my youth, which was spent from the beginning among my own nation at Jerusalem, all the Jews know. They knew me from the first If they were willing to testify that according to the strictest sects of our religion I live the Pharisee. And now I stand and am judged for the hope of the promise made by God to our fathers. To this promise our twelve tribes, earnestly serving God, night and day, hope to attain. For this hope's sake, King Agrippa, I am accused by the Jews. Why should it be thought incredible by you that God raises the dead? Indeed, I myself thought I must do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth. This I also did in Jerusalem, and many of the saints I shut up in prison, having received authority from the chief priests. And when they were put to death, I cast my vote against them And I punished them often in every synagogue and compelled them to blaspheme. And being exceedingly enraged against them, I persecuted them even to foreign cities. While thus occupied, as I journeyed to Damascus with authority and commission from the chief priests, at midday, O king, along the road I saw a light from heaven brighter than the sun, shining around me and those who journeyed with me. And when he had we all had fallen to the ground, I heard a voice speaking to me, and saying in the Hebrew language, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It is hard for you to kick against the goats. So I said, Who are you, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus whom you are persecuting. But rise and stand on your feet, for I have appeared to you for this purpose. To make you a minister and a witness both of the things which you have seen and of the things which I will yet reveal to you. I will deliver you from the Jewish people as well as from the Gentiles to whom I now send you To open their eyes in order to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and an inheritance among those who are sanctified by faith in me. Therefore, King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision, but declared first to those in Damascus and in Jerusalem, and throughout all the region of Judea, and then to the Gentiles, that they should repent. Turn to God and do works befitting repentance. For these reasons the Jews seized me in the temple and tried to kill me. Therefore, having obtained help from God To this day I stand, witnessing both to small and great, saying no other things than those which the prophets and Moses said would come. That the Christ would suffer, that he would be the first to rise from the dead, and would proclaim light to the Jewish people and to the Gentiles. Now, as he thus made his defense Festus said with a loud voice, Paul, you are beside yourself. Much learning is driving you mad. But he said, I am not mad, most noble Festus. But speak the words of truth and reason. For the king, before whom I also speak freely, knows these things. For I am convinced that none of these things escapes his attention, since this thing was not done in a corner. King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I know that you do believe. Then Agrippa said to Paul, You almost persuade me to become a Christian. And Paul said, I would to God that not only you, but also all who hear me today, might become both almost and altogether such as I am, except for these chains. When he had said these things the king stood up, as well as the governor and Bernice, and those who sat with them. And when they had gone aside they talked among themselves, saying, This man is doing nothing deserving of death or chains. Then Agrippa said to Festus, This man might have been set free if he had not appealed to Caesar. Let us pray. Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for the courage and the faithfulness that you give to your servants to stand at a moment like this. And we asked for the same kind of courage, that we would be lights, like you were a light to Paul on that day, and like light Paul was a light to these, it's quite uh This audience of celebrities. And we pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that the people to whom we are alike, that they would respond, that they would turn to you for the forgiveness of their sins. That they would turn to you from under the dominion of Satan to God. We ask these things in your name, Amen. Please be seated. The gospel message The gospel message is fundamentally about God the Father giving all authority in heaven and earth to Jesus Christ the Son. The church is meant to witness to that reality. Our witness must be more than words. This will not happen if we keep putting Jesus off for a convenient time. The key, really, like we said last week is to begin to see Jesus' way as the good way and as good news, not as a hassle. Well, this week we continue, and more is unfolded to us about the fundamental gospel message. So I want to Look at this a bit more closely, this speech before King Agrippa and four observations, and then let's spend some time expanding that. Here's the first thing that I'd like you to notice as you look at the scriptures with me. If you were to go back, which I encourage you to do and read chapter 25. You will see that some of the Jewish leadership sought for Festus to send Paul back to Jerusalem. But keeping in concert with what we said in the beginning of these trials, Jesus Christ is watching over Paul. He stands by him just like he stands by you. The plan for those Jewish leaders was that they would lie in wait and they would kill Paul in his travels. You can see that in chapter 25, verse 3. They say it. Festus wants to help the Jews, but as you can see in verse 27 of that same chapter, Festus is really not even sure what the charges should be against Paul, which is a struggle And therefore, what Festus does in chapter twenty-five, verse thirteen, is he brings Paul's case to King Agrippa. And that's what chapter 26 is all about. He's finally standing before the king, King Agrippa, and will now give his defense And you see by the end of the defense King Agrippa is not going to judge the matter because he has appealed to Caesar. So he'll be w we're going to go on a a sailing trip here in a minute, uh next week, with Paul that involves snakes and all kinds of stuff. That will be exciting. But that's the first observation. Just note that summary of chapter 25 that we didn't read this morning. Please go back and read it yourselves at another time. So here we are in chapter 26, and like I said, it consists of Paul's defense before the king. Now I hope that you notice that Paul is pleased about this. Pleased. Paul is pleased that King Agrippa sits in judgment. If you look at verse 3 in chapter 26, King Agrippa is an expert in all of the customs and the questions which have to do with the Jews. And you can see why that would make a difference as you start to go through Paul's defense. This is important because Paul's argument is essentially That he is not preaching anything different than what you can read in the Old Testament scriptures to which the Jews subscribe. He's not raising up a new religion. That's not what's happening. All of his arguments come from the Old Testament scriptures, and King Agrippa is competent enough to recognize that. And since he's in a judgment seat, that's a big deal I want you to look, for example, at chapter 26, verse 22. There are many other, there's two other ones just within chapter 26 that I could quote to you. You can look for them on your own. I'll just put it here. It's quite plain in verse 22. Look at how true it is that Paul is arguing from the Old Testament scriptures as Christian scripture. Therefore, having obtained help from God, to this day I stand witnessing both to small and great. saying no other things than those which the prophets and Moses said would come. So that is his basic text or standard, if you will. It is in fact Christian scripture of the Old Testament Because Paul is a Christian, as King Agrippa announced. Paul is not arguing, therefore, for a new religion. He is preaching what all of the scriptures have said from the beginning. That the Christ would suffer, that he would be the first to rise from the dead, and would proclaim light to the Jewish people and to the Gentiles. That's the second observation. And now we come to a short one, which is the third observation. I want you to just notice very quickly, and then I'll develop this on another point. Notice the repetition of the word light. Did you see that scattered throughout chapter 26, the word light? It's also in Acts chapter 9 because that's the Damascene road experience. But if you look in verse thirteen of our chapter this week, at midday Paul saw a light from heaven brighter than the sun. Jesus tells Paul that he commissions him to turn the Jewish people and Gentiles from darkness to light. And then this is repeated again in verse 23 of our chapter. Paul proclaims light. So this is supposed to this repetition is supposed to center our thoughts. And if and if you would, imagine being in a dark room and then a light coming on. You would look at it like that. And that's what he wants you to do here in this chapter 26. He wants you to look at the light to be able to make sense of what Luke is saying. And that brings us to observation 4 in our final observation. Paul's Damascus Road experience and his commission are related to each other. The story tells a story. Just as Jesus confronted Paul with the light, so too will Paul act as Jesus' messenger of light to others as he meets them on their various roads. This means that Felix, Festus, King Agrippa, Jewish leaders running the synagogue in that nation, which is quite the audience, I you know, it's quite the audience. They are at this moment having their own Damascus Road experience. That is how this whole thing is framed. The Damascus Road experience frames this whole chapter. Paul's audience, each in their own way, therefore. Because they are not accepting Jesus' message through Paul, they are kicking against the goads. I wonder if you're familiar with that expression. Anyone? In the ancient trans I got two hands that raise. Three. Okay. Uh in some of the older translation it it's it says kick against the pricks, which is supposed to be the image of a thorn. So you kind of get the idea, but It's an expression that is really taken from the world of farming, warfare, animal training, that kind of thing. If an ox will not pull the plow, then the farmer goes or prods with, say, a sharp stick the ox to keep moving forward. Kicking against the goads is hard. That's what Christ says in that light brighter than the sun. Because the more you kick, the worse it gets for the animal. The thorn just goes deeper. It doesn't go away. And the whole point really is stop being such a fool and submit to the right thing. And that's how you'll find it used within the book of Proverbs, for example. The wise listen to the words of the wise, but a prod or a rod is for the back of fools. That's what it says. Really, what we end up seeing here is a picture because of who is in attendance in the audience between Gentile and Jew, they are representational of the whole world. The whole world is before the light of Christ in the preaching of Paul's gospel, and they are acting like wild animals. Unwilling to submit to the Christ that God the Father has installed above heaven and earth. Psalm 2 is once again coming true before your very eyes in this chapter 26. But this is the reality that we see though, which is why Paul is not shaking in his boots. It is hard for them to kick against the goats. Fighting, throwing a fit, conspiring against the Lord and His anointed, it does not have a future. As one popular show would put it, resistance is futile. He who is in heaven laughs. And our little grasshopper attempts to overturn him and his kingdom. All of that is going on here in chapter 26. It's representational of that whole thing. And the lesson that will end up flying out is that the more that they kick, the deeper the goat goes. Christ is relentless with his will. He is relentless and will always see the will of the Father through. The question that I want to ask coming out of these observations is this. What, in fact, is God doing through Christ, which is futile to resist? That would be good for you to know. And it would be good to let your friends know. What is God doing through Christ, which is futile to resist? And I really just want to paraphrase, but it's almost an exact quotation from verse 18. That's our doctrine today. Chapter 26, verse 18. This is what God the Father is doing and has given authority to Jesus Christ to do, which is futile to resist. Jesus Christ is turning the world from darkness to light, from the power of Satan to God, that we may receive forgiveness of sins. and an inheritance among those who are sanctified by faith in Jesus. There it is. That's the message. It's a good summary, really. Jesus Christ is turning the world from darkness to light, from the power of Satan to God. that we may receive forgiveness of sins, and an inheritance among those who are sanctified by faith in Jesus. Now what I would like to do is to just unpack that a bit in an application, and I'm going to have two points here. The under story or the story that's under every other story. And then our story. So understory and our story. And let's go ahead and begin. What we see here with this kind of imagery, And the knowledge that Paul has the Old Testament in mind are some very deep pictures of reality that perhaps the Christian church has forgotten. You can see that the story underneath all stories and of all that is happening today is characterized by Jesus Christ moving the world from darkness to light. And from the power of Satan to God. Now, I am not sure that our modern world knows what to do with somebody who says, my mission is to move. Folks, from the power of Satan to God, because people do not even believe in Satan. I'm not sure how they explain evil They probably reduce it to just psychological causes and how your mother and your father treated you. But there's something deeper going on. So we've got to understand what is the thick understanding of this. If we follow Paul's lead, then you know where we should find the answers to all of our questions would be in the Old Testament Christian scriptures. And that is exactly where we do find it. That's where we find words such as light and darkness, and clean and unclean But it ends up being in a stone, under a stone that is largely not overturned by the church today. And guess what book that is? Leviticus. It's that book that you just go, do I really is this really included in my Bible reading plan? I just want to jump on over to Judges. And then Matthew. It's in Leviticus. Leviticus is literarily meaning how it's written. If you were to just study the words and how they're structured. Leviticus is divided into concentric rings. Do you know what I mean by that? Imagine just taking a pebble and dropping the pebble into water and then watching those rings radiate out. It's literarily set up like that. Actually, the Pentateuch is set up just like that, with five books, and the center book is Leviticus, and then Leviticus has its own center. And I guess that if we were to look in the center of Leviticus, perhaps we would find the center of our lives. And what God is doing with the world. And maybe we would even find the same gospel message that we found in chapter 26, and that is, in fact, what we find. When we go to the center of Leviticus, it is the Day of Atonement. It is the holy of holies, and it moves outward until you reach unclean realms outside the camp in barren wildernesses, as if they were in a state of decreation. Never touched by the blessing of the Father. But this is not just true about the literary features of the book, but also about the architecture of the tabernacle or the temple, which it describes. I do not want you to blow me off right now because I'm talking about these things and they're a bit theoretical. I'm trying to give you pictures so that you can understand how to orient your entire life. One way is to see the very literary structure of Leviticus. Another way is to see the geography of the temple or the tabernacle. Look at the spaces and how they are organized. The tabernacle is a picture of all that God is doing in the world. The Jewish people actually believe that the temple was the center of the world. The center is holy to the Lord, and it descends, like the center where you come to an apex at the top of a mountain, which is closest to heaven, and then it descends into realms of chaos from there. And at that top is the temple. And at that top, in fact, was the Garden of Eden. All of this is communicated to us just within the books of Moses. And Paul has these visuals in mind to understand the work which Christ is doing Due to their sin, the whole world has been removed from the realm of light, from the apex of the mountain and the garden of Eden to the outer realms of darkness, and we are unclean. That's the main problem. And Christ, especially through his death, is cleansing folks from every nation, gaining them re-entrance to the realms of life. You may then again ascend the mountain of the Lord and enter through his gates because of the cleansing work of the Christ. Or if you want to use the language of Satan, which is clearly in chapter 26, then think of the snake in relationship to those literary features and the architecture of garden, temple, and tabernacle. The snake was an unclean animal from an outer realm of chaos. And he entered the central garden and defiled the inhabitants They, Adam and Eve, representing humanity, were removed from the clean realm of light to the realm of darkness, now under the power of Satan himself, and what they do naturally is they murder and they lie. Those are the first things we see out of their children. Murder and lying. And they just descend Further and further down the mountain of sin and iniquity until God rises and says, I must destroy everyone. I must bring a flood. And now we're into the time of Noah That is meant to be instructive to us on who God is, what He's doing, and who He we are, and what He requires of us. These are historical stories, but they are much more. And it is what is funding and fueling Paul in his gospel message to the celebrity audience. This is how he's making sense of it when he states that doctrine like we did in the beginning. And the good news that Paul is declaring right before them. On their own road to Damascus is this. Christ is crushing the head of the serpent. We're going to see this next week when a snake is thrown into fire. Christ is crushing the head of the serpent, turning us from the power of Satan to God. That's what he's doing across the whole world and across every nation. Christ has been given the authority to do it. And that's why it's so foolish to kick against the goats. Now when I speak like this, I hear all kinds of things. One thing I hear is you're crazy But that's not true. This is what the scriptures say. Another thing I heard is here sometimes is, I wish we still had all of that symbolism. With the tabernacle and the temple, and then I could see it and I would really know I'm a visual person. I need pictures, I need architecture Well today is your lucky day. Because it's still here. Do you not realize at this moment that by faith we have a sacrificial lamb front and center? Did you not notice what was happening with the offering being brought forward? It was a collection of all of the fruit of what God has caused in you to be offered up to the Father by way of the Son. It was a picture of the entire what he's doing across the world. Liturgically, even to this day, we are symbolizing what God is doing with creation through his Son and His Spirit. And I would encourage you to start looking at the meaning of each of the parts of the worship service. They have meaning beyond just the immediate moment. There is an eternal instruction happening even through the actions of our service here. The baptisms and the table, even this pulpit, the word from the king and sp and him being uh the prophet. Christ is crushing the head of the serpent, and he's continuing to communicate this to us through liturgical symbolism. We even have it today, exactly as it is supposed to be. And I would encourage you to begin studying our services to refresh your faith That it would be a glorious heavenly vision when you see them walking that offering down the aisle. There will be one day When Christ will gather all of the good works of his people and walk down the aisle of the world and present them to his Father as the work that he has done for him by way of his spirit. We are but a microcosm of what is happening across the cosmos. All of a sudden, sitting here has great significance, doesn't it? It's not just about that, though. It's not just about that big story. It's not just about the story underneath of the story. You can see that we can't talk much longer without getting into your story. And that's the next point I'd like to raise is your story or our story. If that is, and it is, the real picture of the world and what Christ is doing, I want to know, where are you? I've tried to communicate the gospel spatially, even architecturally this morning, because that's what the Old Testament does. Does it in many ways, and one way is by way of spaces. I'm asking, where are you? Where are you in the space? Those of you who will come to the Lord's Supper today, you are declaring that Christ has restored you to full status and inheritance and to the kingdom of God. Prior to this, before the forgiveness that Christ has earned for you, there was a flaming sword keeping you out of the garden. And now the angels welcome you because of Jesus Christ. But there are more in here than those who will take the Lord's Supper today. That's just one story among some of us Let's say that you are the children of those parents who do take the Lord's Supper. But you cannot take the supper yet yourself, because you are younger and not discerning of the body of the Lord. In a sense, I want you to understand that just because you you are a ch if you are a child of a Christian who makes a profession of faith, but you have not been admitted to the Lord's Supper, please listen carefully. Just because you are not admitted to the Lord's Supper does not mean that you are in the outer realm of darkness. That is not what Christ has done. In a sense, that is true, and you must repent and believe and profess knowingly and intelligently your faith in Jesus Christ. But since you are children of believers, Christ has been gracious to you and allowed you a place within his city and within his temple. Remember the pebble, drop the rock, see the rings radiate out You are not in a center ring yet, but you are on one of the outer rings that are still in the light, receiving instruction that you might move towards the center and be in full communion with us, like we saw this morning with Jack. And may he keep the faith. Your job, children, is to move towards the center. Move to the table. Do everything within your power to move towards the table. Do all of the work necessary to know who Christ is. Count the cost. See that he's the pearl of great price. He's worth your time to understand who he is and what he's doing. Move towards the center. As you learn about Jesus Christ and you believe in your heart, there will come a time when you will make a public profession of faith and join us in the center. And this is, by the way, what we declare in our baptisms. Do not get it mixed up. Baptism is about children who have Christian parents, this kind of baptism. It is a sign that these children are not in the center. That's one mistake that people make. It's not baptismal regeneration. They're not baptized and then enter into the supper But they're not in the outer realm of darkness either, because Christ is gracious to his people. They have been granted a place of catechitical light and instruction. And at the age of discretion, we will see if they move to the center or if they move to the outer rings. That's always what happens. And we pray that the grace of Jesus Christ would move everyone, all of our children, to the center. But I have another scenario that I want to lay before you also as we think about our story in light of this gospel of space. And I still want the children to keep listening closely. What if you grew up in the church? You moved towards the center. And maybe you were even admitted to the Lord's Supper, like what happened here this morning. But then you walked away from the center and right out into the outer realms of darkness. In fact, your community Is officially, and this is one way to find out who you are, who your real center community is. Your community is darkness. Well here is a message from chapter twenty-six for you. It is hard to kick against the goats. Please recognize what that means for you. Resistance is futile Jesus Christ will not fail in his plans for the world. And I just want to know: where do you want to be when he raises everyone from the dead for the day of judgment? And what space do you want to plan? Do or what space do you want to be standing? Jesus Christ will not fail in his plans for this world. Do you think that if you are aligned with the serpent, that you too will not be crushed? You really think he's gonna make that exception? I will crush the serpent, except for this one little part of the serpent. That's not gonna do any good. It's like a virus and it spreads. You must eradicate it all. Therefore, if you have turned to the realm of Satan, I'm here to let you know. As an act of grace from Jesus Christ, just as Paul was gracious to his audience, I am seeking as his messenger to be gracious to you. There is no hope or future outside of Jesus Christ for you. You have heard the gospel message ever since you were a baby. Return to the truth. As you listen to these words this morning, you are in fact on the road to Damascus. I don't care what road you think you're on, the reality is you're on the road of Damascus. The words you hear are like a light shining from heaven. I want you to feel the pressure. Because there is pressure, because you are kicking against the goats. I know you can feel it in your bones. I know that you have had to create elaborate stories to justify your continuing ignorance and rejection of Jesus Christ, but enough is enough. There's no future in all of your energy and what you're striving for. Return to Christ by returning to his community of light. Stop fooling yourself. That's what Paul says in another letter. Don't fool yourselves. Those who indulge in sexual sin, or who worship idols, or who commit adultery, or are male prostitutes or practice homosexuality, or who are thieves, or greedy people, or drunkards, who are abusive, or who cheat people None of these people will inherit the kingdom of God. You are in the outer realm of darkness But even if you have done the most horrible things in your sin, if you turn to Jesus Christ in repentance, he will receive you. We understand that it might be embarrassing to swallow your pride, but it is better than swallowing hell. He will cleanse you. In a manner of speaking, he will take all of your demons away. He will be your shepherd. The goad is for the sake of your repentance that you would take upon his yoke, which is light. This morning we have seen the story by way of the Old Testament scriptures, particularly Leviticus, that there is a story underneath all of the stories, and Paul is expositing that to a celebrity audience. And this ties into our story. And therefore, we may all summarize what we know and what the world must know from us. That Jesus Christ is turning the world from darkness to light, from the power of Satan to God. That we may receive forgiveness of sins and an inheritance among those who are sanctified by faith in Jesus Christ. Amen. And then. Please pray with mess