Please turn with me to Psalm 110. It is the Psalm we'll be considering this morning. In a culture filled with visual media, it can be a little odd to sit under a sermon. If you ever have trouble listening to a sermon, we have a little booklet for you. And you can just talk to Marcy or myself afterward. We have some copies and we can also we can always order more. It even has a section in the back on how to listen to a dull sermon, which you may need today. I'm not sure. We'll see how it goes. But I tell you, it is truly helpful. Just follow those practices in that booklet. Please follow along now in Psalm 110, and then we'll ask for the Lord's illumination. This is a Psalm of David. The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand till I make your enemies your footstool. The Lord shall send the rod of your strength out of Zion. Rule in the midst of your enemies. Your people shall be volunteers in the day of your power. In the beauty of holiness from the womb of the morning, you have the dew of your youth The Lord has sworn and will not relent, a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek. The Lord is at your right hand. He shall execute kings in the days of his wrath. He shall judge among the nations. He shall fill the places with dead bodies. He shall execute the heads of many countries. He shall drink of the brook by the wayside. Therefore he shall lift up the head. Pray. Oh Lord Jesus, this is announced an announcement of your reign. As we see here in the title of these scriptures, we ask that you would reign in the heart of the And the minds of your people. If there is anyone here who has been blinded by the God of this world, we pray that you would allow something like scales to fall from the eyes of their hearts. And then they would perceive the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ by faith. Amen. Amen. It is Well with My Soul. It's a dear hymn for many of us. It was written, I believe you probably know, uh after events in Horatio Spafford's life. Do you know much about his life? His life is bigger than just that um one moment that he wrote the hymn. There's actually quite a narrative there. The first uh tragedy in Horatio's life was the death of his son. Did you know that It was age two in the Great Chicago Fire of eighteen seventy one. It not only ruined him and the loss of his son, but it ruined him financially. He spent the rest of his life trying to recover. He was a successful lawyer and he had invested significantly in property in the sh the area of Chicago that was six extensively damaged by the Great Fire His business interests were further hit by economic downturn in 1873, and therefore he planned to return to Europe with his family, wherein the story that you've usually heard comes in. In a late change of plan, he sent the family ahead while he was delayed on business concerning zoning problems following that fire and his property. And while crossing the Atlantic, the ship with his family sank rapidly after a collision with another sea vessel, it was actually called the Loch Ern, and all four of Spafford's daughters died. His wife Anna survived, and there's a famous telegram that says this, in quotes, saved alone. Saved alone. Shortly afterwards, as Sfafford traveled to meet his grieving wife, he was inspired to write the words As his ships passed by the area where his daughters drowned. It is well with my soul. That's a deep Christian faith that we see present there, and it touches us because we see God touching a person that is experiencing what we experience within our lives or see around us in our lives. How did Spafford, how did Horatio survive such pain we have? How do human beings survive such pain? You can't say uh pat answers. What you do is you just repeat over and over again That's not what he's trying to say with that hymn. You know that the hymn was only part of his grieving process. Part of him grieving with hope and not without hope, as the scriptures say. It's no pat answer. But if you were to just have the hymn before you, and the scriptures before you, and the narrative before you, some observations are permittable. Horatio Spafford embraced what we would call the a a divine triangulation There are three parts that are always a part of our lives. He had a situation to deal with. He had a personal struggle in that situation. And he had his God, the triune God. Though Satan should buffet, though trials should come, let this blessed assurance control that Christ has regarded my helpless estate. and hath shed his own blood for my soul. Meaningful words coming from this man. Though the devil himself should strike against him his personal struggle, part of the The triangulation, even in shipwreck of his daughters, the situation, the triune God broke into his life, inspiring confidence in the midst of grief We see that actually in every hymn, especially in the Trinity hymnal. But perhaps in every hymnal we see that divine triangulation because it's a part of human life. And that's the question for you this morning. How has God broken into the personal struggles and situations of your life? What is your most recent divine triand? Triangulation. What are the personal struggles that you're having right now? What are the situations that you're facing? And how is God on the move as you heard in our elder earlier. This divine triangulation actually happens in every psalm. Is one of the reasons why the Psalms are so dear to God's people, because it is the living out a life with God before your very eyes, enscripturated for you. It is theology with life. The triangulation happens in every psalm. You know that the psalms were collected into five books, and there is a kind of theme that runs through those, a trajectory, a narrative. These five books portray God breaking into different situations and personal struggles, a triangulation in every one, sometimes grouped in collections that you can compare and match. Mimicking the order and the complexity of life. Psalms Book 1 and 2 were primarily about the confrontation with the world. You remember the front porch and the door. What's the first thing that happens as soon as the decree goes out for the Messiah? Messiah. People rage against him. Those first two books are really about confrontation with him. And then when we get into book three and four, we see these laments as the fractured Davidic kingdom moves into exile. And they end with this exclamation. If you look at the end of book four, it ends with this, save us, O Lord our God. But then when we move into book five, and we're entering book five this morning with Psalm 110, it begins with this in Book 5, not Psalm 110, but Book 5 begins with this. Give thanks to the Lord for his steadfast love endures forever. Chesed va Amet. He has not given up on his people, and his people have not given up on him. God's people feel the pain and the pressure of exile, of being taken captive by foreign armies, of having their families killed. But hope has broken in in book five. And at the end of this book, it'll just be one hallelujah chorus after another hallelujah chorus because of the hope that is expected that Yahweh will bring, all based upon His mercy and His goodness, His Hasid Vahamat. Psalm 110 In accordance with this overall trajectory and what we see in the collection of five, triangulates God into the life of the church just like all of the other psalms do. God the Father is active, and the Messiah is active, and they have acted. And here is what this psalm teaches about their activity. That God the Father has appointed Jesus as both King and priest to subdue the world. Quite the activity. You've heard the theme throughout the whole service. And in here, in this psalm, we'll receive an orientation. We need to become oriented to the psalm. You'll then just see two main parts, very clearly broken up by the author here, David. A subduing king and a subduing priest. And so we have an orientation: a subduing king and a subduing priest, that we might understand that God the Father has appointed Jesus as both king and priest. to subdue the world. And this is one of those truths that changes everything, if you actually believe it. First, I want us to go through this orientation that this psalm is about Jesus. When we look at the psalm, we actually don't see his name showing up. And we know that it was written before he was born of a woman. And so we do have to give some kind of explanation on how can I say, with this literature, that the author's intention is to speak about Jesus. So I want to spend just a moment in explaining that. This psalm is about Jesus. And we know that because of the New Testament interpretation of this particular psalm. This is from Matthew 22, verses 41 through 46. Why don't you turn there so that you can see these psalms throughout the scriptures? They are our touchstone in understanding. The scriptures, the Psalms. And so in Matthew 22, 41 through 46, we actually see Jesus instructing the Pharisees from this psalm. That they would better, or for the first time, understand the true meaning and reference of this psalm. While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them, saying, What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he? And he's referring to this, he's thinking of this psalm here. Whose son is he? They said to him, the son of David. He said to them And thinking of Psalm 110. How then does David in the spirit call him Lord? Saying, and notice our Psalm 110, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand till I make your enemies your footstool. If David then calls him Lord, how is he his son? And no one was able to answer him a word, nor from that day on did anyone dare question him anymore. And you'd have to read that narrative to see exactly what's going on there and why they're not going to question. But notice that Christ, in unfolding the meaning of the psalm, he says, and you would just slide right over these words, but these are significant words that David first is in the spirit. That he is not reflecting on past experiences. These are very specific words that are even used within the Hebrew text that don't just mean to speak or the content of the speaking. It really could be translated oracle. We're speaking of the divine inspiration here, of the prophet that is able to foresee. And Christ picks up on this and saying that David is in the Spirit That he is not reflecting on past experiences, but on a divine vision. David is actually hearing and perhaps watching God the Father speak to the pre-incarnate Messiah somehow in some way. To where even David would recognize that this was not about just any earthly Messiah. And Peter brings that out in his sermon. Notice how he also wants to explain the word Lord, my Lord, to prove a point. And Jesus' point is that the Messiah cannot be just a son of David because David is not a servant to him. His sons, the Messiah must be the Son of God, which takes him into a different realm. And Peter, if you wanted to turn to Acts chapter 2, 32 through 36, you can, but I'm just going to read. Read this for you. Peter uses this psalm also. This Jesus God has raised up, of which we are all witnesses. Therefore, being exalted to the right hand of God Having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he poured out that which you now see and hear. For David did not ascend into the heavens, but he says himself. The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand till I make your enemies your footstool. Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly That God has made this Jesus whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. Even David knew that this was not about David or about his successors In the earthly sense, but this psalm was about the ultimate Messiah, who will be the Son of God, come down from heaven, Jesus. And so, as we look at this, we have to insert Jesus into this because of what the New Testament authors are doing. We've got to take the whole canon of Scripture into consideration. Now, this psalm is a coronation or an enthronement psalm, and we may therefore be sure that it was read when new kings took the throne over Israel. However, the king that David had in mind was not another king in the succession of kings, but a king made not from humans, of the order of Melchizedek, actually. The New Testament gospels especially tell us that Jesus is this long-awaited King, and we may legitimately gospel. Understand this psalm in reference to him, our subduing king and our subduing priest. And I spend all of that time because I want to be responsible with this with the scriptures. Anybody can make the Bible say whatever they want. And so I need to explain these things to you so that you know that we're dealing responsibly with them, or you will never use them as a foundation to place the weight of your life upon them. So you can see now why we're speaking about Jesus. And the first thing that is brought out is that he's the subduing king. Let me just show you the structure very quickly. The Psalm is structured around two divine appointments or decrees or enthronements. Verse 1, we're familiar with this because of Psalm 2. The Lord said to my Lord, Yahweh says to Adonai. Sit at my right hand, and in your scriptures it should be in quotations. Do you see that? Okay, so we have a divine speech happening where there is a decree from God Himself as to who his king will be, and they shall be enthroned. I want you to notice that there is another divine speech, which is where the break is in the Psalm. In verse 4, you should see quotations again. You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek. Now do you know how I really know that these are the two halves of the psalm? If you have the first half, 1 through 3, it is 74 Hebrew words. The second half is also 74 Hebrew words. This is clearly the order and the division that the author intended to This is not a contrivance or an artificial way for me to set this up, to have some kind of alliteration or something. These are the two points. The first appointment is that he is the subduing king. Verse 1, Jesus is appointed as King. The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand till I make your enemies your footstool. And then David s David speaks. Again to his divine master, rule in the midst of your enemies, which would inspire confidence in the commanding general. Sit at my right hand The right hand is a place of authority, kingship, and invincibility, because his God, Yahweh, is behind him. Who shall stop the servant of the Lord? It's fascinating actually, now that we've located this to be Jesus as the referent, it's actually fascinating to see this played out in the New Testament. These same terms are used as we watch the New Testament narratives unfold. The anointing as king takes place in Matthew 3, 16 and 17 as one instance. When the Holy Spirit descends upon Jesus at his baptism and he says, This is my son, a declaration of the anointing of King. Jesus' ascension to the throne at God's right hand, as a king would walk up the steps into his throne. He instead walks up the steps, so to speak, into the heavens. To the tabernacle not made with hands in Acts 1. 9. And Jesus' ascension to the throne at God's right hand happens after those first chapters Jesus is appointed as this king. You can see it happening and unfolding before the disciples' eyes. And he's appointed as king to subdue here. Did you notice that? In verse 2, David speaks to his master, Jesus, rehearsing what Yahweh will do. It says here, sit at my right hand, so I make your enemies your footstool. The Lord shall send the rod. You can Think of that kingly mace or scepter in some cultures. The whole world will be under his sway. And to be, rule in the midst of your enemies. In other words, he gives us this image where he's showing that he'll have as a footstep Footstool, all of the nations of the earth, the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, the same thing we read of in the New Testament. Now you know what a footstool is? It's not exactly like an ottoman that you would get from I'm not sure. Ikea. Because that's more of like you're reclining. He's not reclining over his enemies. It would be lower, and he would actually have his feet on it. It would almost kind of like you're at a shoe shine. That's the only thing I could think of that's in our You can think of a a little stool that you use when you play classical guitar. You put your one leg up to elevate the neck of the guitar. There are footstools like that in the ancient Near East. We actually found one. We found the footstool in the tomb of Tutankhamun. Can you believe it? And the paintings were still on the footstool. All the ornamentation was present. And it's fascinating as you study that culture. As the king sat on the throne he would put his feet on this stool, and on the stool that they found in the tomb were paintings of people from different lands, laying prostrate and handcuffed before him, showing that they had been conquered. They actually painted on there where you could see the different nationalities, different colors, different shape faces, showing all that he had conquered in his reign. Now we know that our King Christ is not cruel, and he is not subduing people's wills in that way, although he is a conquering king, and we will see every knee bow to him. Thinking of that image, what faces, whose face is on Jesus' footstool? And if you were to paint it out like a ornate tapestry, what would it look like? What would we see in the battle? What tribes and nations were conquered first? Did it just include the earthly domain, or did it also include the heavenly? Would we see demons and angels bowing the knee and laying prostrate? Him on his footstool. Think of all of the scriptures, think of all of the tribes, all of the tongues, all of the nations, all of the celestial beings that would be on his footstool. That's all present here and decreed by the Father. That Christ would be subduing that all. It's actually fascinating to see how this would initially take place within the New Testament. Jesus ascends to authority, as we've already seen in Acts 1:9. Jesus then sends his Spirit, and through His irresistible grace and effectual call, he subdues the will of one nation after another. Those who had been worshiping pagan gods put them aside and they only called Jesus their God and the Father and the Spirit. It's exactly what it says. It's what we see on the pages of Scripture. You're actually able, as a part of your past history, to reflect on the fulfillment of this Psalm 110. Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, to the ends of the earth, he even saved the Irish, which is a great feat. But I want you to notice in verse 3 that Jesus does not just conquer as king by sending out his spirit and having immediate influence with no human interaction. But he calls volunteers. This is from warfare. In Israel you could uh if you just had a ch if you were just married within your first year you don't need to serve in war. I think there's even some instances if you're just afraid then please don't show up. There are those, though, that are volunteers, not timid draftees, that are going forth in his service. And that's what we see on the pages of Scripture, and now in His providence, the Spirit is sent into that upper room. Jesus confronted the Apostle Paul on the road to Damascus. And like volunteer soldiers following their captain or commanding officer into battle, the king on the move, the apostles And the New Testament church freely, even with Stephen as a martyr, submitted and brought nations into submission to King Jesus. Even those who had days before crucified him were submitting to him. As king and admitting that he is the Christ. We see this in history then, not only on the pages of Scripture. You have been wrapped up in this story. He interrupted you with grace And subdued your will to his own. So this is the question. Is your face on the footstool? Covenant children, is your face on this footstool? Has your knee bowed to Christ But you know verse three brings something else out, doesn't it? There's more to the question. It's not just, are you on the footstool? Everyone will be on the footstool Are you happily on the footstool? Are you a volunteer? Are you a volunteer, like verse 3 brings out The life of Psalms is not only about God's rule and your submission, it is about God's rule and your glad and voluntary submission. Does it surprise you that those on the footstool of Christ voluntarily painted their face there? I understand effectual call. I understand that faith is a gift that is given by grace, and I'm not emphasizing that at the moment. I'm focusing on we are not serving begrudgingly, but we are cheerful givers as servants to our Lord. Lord. Those are the kind of people. Because that is the kind of king. When we truly discover who he is, we find all of our happiness. Our hearts were restless until we found our rest in our King, who has been on the move. Acts 16 records this beautiful moment with Jesus entering into another individual life. And then in that whole community. Lydia, a small businesswoman by the riverside, the jailer who was a government worker for Caesar. Maybe he was ready to collect his government pension, I don't know, but things really went wrong for him. He raised his own sword. But Jesus entered into his life, and they submitted. Happily. Christ as the King calls for your submission. He called for Lydia's submission and her whole household Called for the jailer's submission, his whole household. He calls for your submission and how you run your family, how you work, how you relate to your family. And that's the question for us this morning as we look back on these events that have taken place, are continuing to take place, that are sweeping across every land. The Spirit has been present in America for generations. And the question is being raised, are you, church, submitting voluntarily and from gladness or with resentment and begrudgingly? Before your king. Submitting to Jesus voluntarily is not an event. It's not something you just decide to do this morning. It is a decision, but it happens in little pieces. It's a process, not an event. Step by step, we learn that he is a good master. Little by little, we enter more and more in as volunteers. And eventually, it is our glory and our greatest happiness to have our face on his footstool. Our greatest happiness to have our face on his footstool. Now that's the subduing king. Now we read verse 4 and we see this subduing priest. God the Father appoints Jesus as priest. The oath in verse 4, you should recognize, is another appointment and decree concerning Jesus the Messiah. The Lord has sworn. Again, notice the L-O-R-D are capitalized. Yahweh has sworn. This is a divine speech. You are a preach, a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek. The main question at this point, once we see all the violence, I'm sure you noticed that when I was reading it. Did you notice the dead bodies? And the loss of heads? How does that have what does that have to do with his priesthood? Why is Jesus' priesthood emphasized here? And I believe that the answer lies in close observation of the words here and in the book of Hebrews as Paul unfolds Melchizedek. One, it's emphasizing that this is an eternal king. In Hebrews 7, Melchizedek is without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life. But made like the Son of God, he remains a priest continually. And if you notice in Psalm 110, in the quote, forever is emphasized. That he would be eternal, that would no longer need to be a future king or priest. And that's quite the comfort if they were reading this in exile when they had no king or priest, they had no temple. When they would hear there would be one who would come to reign and he would never be replaced again. You'd never be at a loss. In exile, they had no king, no priest. And thus no communion with God or hope for the future. And here it is promised they'll never lose hope again. In fact, hope will become realized. But the name itself, Melchizedek, is also important. In Hebrews 7. 2, it's first translated King of Righteousness, Sadek, the second half of Melchizedek. And then also king of Salem. Notice the he's the king of Salem. It's mentioned in Genesis, meaning king of peace. And thus as the priest, king, Jesus will speak just words and bring peace to the world between God and man. And this will happen by Jesus subduing God's enemies that hold God's people captive. This is the great work of the priest king. God the Father appoints Jesus then as a priest to subdue. And that's where you can see all of the violence in the rest of the verses. The Lord is at your right hand. He shall execute kings, he shall judge, he shall fill the places with dead bodies, he shall execute the heads. Heads meaning those who are heads of nations, but it may also be a play on words as in Beheadings. When Christ returns, this is something you have to grapple with. When Christ returns, this kind of literal violence will be present. He rides in in a horse of victory, conquering. And actually, we depend on this. I overheard a video coming out of this adult Sunday school when I was studying this direct verse. That said, God's anger is a good thing. We depend on it. It was part of the women's Bible study. Exactly the truth here. We depend on it. It is hard news, but it is not bad news. One woman says, think how we feel when we see someone we love ravaged by unwise actions or relationships. Do we respond with benign tolerance as we might towards strangers? Far from it. Anger isn't the opposite of love. Hate is, and the final form of hate is indifference. God's wrath is not a cranky explosion, but his settled opposition to the cancer which is eating out the insides of the human race he loves with his whole being Now, she's not a theologian, and perhaps we could debate some of those points, but do you see what she's trying to say? That it's hard news, but not bad news. We long for justice. And for the cancer to be gone. And it's only Jesus our Savior that does that. Just as Yahweh had to relieve the cancer of Pharaoh's rule, so too will he relieve the whole earth of every cancerous rule ruler. That's the message here. In partial fulfillment of this violence, we can see it on the pages of the New Testament. Listen to this from Acts 12, 21 through 23. So on a set day, Herod, one of the rulers, arrayed in royal apparel, sat on his throne and gave an oration to them. And the people kept shouting: the voice of a God, and not of a man And I think implied is the fact that he did not rebuke them for calling him God, Herod. Then immediately an angel of the Lord struck him, because he did not give glory to God, and he was eaten by worms and died. This is the kind of power that the Messiah exercises as he's on the move. You can also see this as he enters in the destruction of the temple and leadership in 70 AD. This will one day be the case. As he pacifies all of his enemies. However, we don't see that picture just yet, do we? We see him being long-suffering and patient. And publishing a gospel of peace. When we turn to the New Testament to see Jesus riding out to conquer, now we find a different kind of warfare taking place. And when we search the scriptures with warfare language, this is the kind of thing that we see. Share in suffering as a good soldier, Timothy. of Christ Jesus. No soldier gets entangled in civilian pursuits since his aim is to please the one who enlisted him Or we hear about the kind of warfare that's going to take place. For the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but have divine power to destroy strongholds. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places A far different war than you may have been expected. One where we see Satan falling like lightning from the sky. And this is how Satan and his minions operate. In their case, the God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ. Who is the image of God, which is why we have to break through those strongholds with spiritual warfare. And then you end up seeing that, as I mentioned before, by a riverside. In a small businesswoman named Lydia, where we hear Christ entering in and through the gospel preached by the apostle winning the war against the God who blinds. Now a certain woman named Lydia heard us. The Lord opened her heart to heed the things spoken by Paul. And it's happening in every nation. The grip that Satan has had on the world, his fingers are pried apart by the Messiah, and the glory of God and the face of Jesus Christ is entering into their life. No more shall my elect people be held captive. There is in fact in Psalm 110 a fact capturing this in verse 7. It's a little odd to us, but it says, he shall drink of the brook in verse 7 by the wayside, and therefore he shall lift up the head. This is this is about a king. who's marching on, and they stop by the wayside or on the way, in his battle, on his way to conquer. He stops at the brook. There is a never-ending refreshment that is given to this king. Unending power to accomplish his task as he moves from America to Asia. He's not out of breath when he goes from continent to continent and sweeps through the Congo. There's always a brook along the way for him and his men and his women and his children to refresh themselves. themselves as missionaries, giving a testimony and witness. What a poetic picture of our refreshed, youthful king, and the dew of his youth, his people From age to age, Jesus by his spirit overcomes demonic delusion. And as priest, he recaptures the heart of his people from every land. reconciling them to the Father. There is literally, or poetically rather, a stream of people flowing into Zion. Which is in heaven. Jesus truly in 7B shall lift the head in victory. And that's why that's our theme song. Because it captures what we see Jesus doing at the brook on the way to conquer. The New Testament orients us to see this Psalm as referring to Jesus. Can you see all of the New Testament teachings coalescing and being summarized by Psalm 2 and Psalm 10? The structure of the psalm is obviously 74 words and 74 words. And in each half, God the Father appoints or decrees Jesus He's Jesus the King subduing by the Spirit. Actually, the whole Trinity is present in the Psalm. He's Jesus the priest subduing the world. And one day he will return. Now he has returned by his spirit, and nation after nation volunteers to submit to him and to serve him. And you have joined the ranks, good soldiers. Volunteers, not cowardly draftees. He's building you up as mighty men and mighty women in his army God the Father has appointed Jesus as king and priest to subdue the world. Now I've already mentioned that David wrote this before their exile. But collection five is reflecting the hope of a group of people in exile. The people of God, like us, dwelled not in their own country. They had no king, they had no priest. Right there, physically before them, and yet they were so convinced of Psalm 110 and Psalm 2 that they lived in hope and obedience. Do you see how excited David is when he pens these words? They are a reality to him more than the reality of the 5 o'clock news or the 6 o'clock news, whenever it comes on. These words have been ingested by David. As God entered into the life Of Horatio Spafford, so too God entered into the life of his people through this psalm throughout the ages. And I have a final question for you, which is: has this psalm entered into your life? There's so much that is included that I've already been asking about. I'm asking, have you truly ingested it to where it's worked its way through and m been made a part of your genetics and your cells? Is it determining the way that you're being formed and the way you're walking and the way that you're speaking, the way that you're seeing things? Because it obviously was for David And we're not here for words, we're here for the not the words of the Psalms, but the life of the Psalms that are based on the words of the Psalms. Does this psalm have the same effect on you that other scriptures had on Horatio Stafford as he went by that place where his daughter's drowned? You see, I'm not asking about an effect in general. I mean, what are you doing right now? What are the specific situations that you are facing? What are the difficulties and the pressures and pains that you feel as you wait for your Jesus to return? And how is these truths about Him and what He is doing across the nation? Both in the past and the present and what he'll be doing in the future? How has that been ingested by you? Has this psalm had an effect on you? As the elect in exile, have you spiritually internalized this psalm? And since you are seeing this psalm work out in history, you're not just reading about something that took place in the future, you actually can see. If you were to look at a map just of mission to North America or mission to the world, or you took a missions trip, you would see the fulfillment of the psalm. And how is that affecting you as you put your children in the car, or as you order your lemon milkshake from Chick-fil-A or whatever they have there, peppermint? Are you internalizing what you see and what you hear? Do you know what it looks like for a person to internalize? True change comes about. Change happens in the specifics of our lives, not just in general truths. They just orient us. It happens down on the ground as we're working or as we're relating or as we're driving in our car. I just heard a lecture, and it was actually about an acquaintance that I have and a pastor down in Chattanooga who shared his experience about being what it means to internalize the truth. truth of God. When he was in high school, he's much older now. But when he was in high school, before he was a Christian, this gentleman He went to a high school where the janitor had a severe disability, to where he could not control the movements of his own body. The janitor couldn't. And you've been to high school. You know the janitor can't hide from the students, but has to walk the same halls as the students. And he uh lectures on how the high school students tormented this man. Regularly, getting in his way so that he would trip, saying things out loud so that he would be ashamed of himself Well, he's this this one gentleman who had become a Christian, and he's now a pastor actually in Chattanooga. As a part of his Christian service and becoming a soldier of Christ and internalizing what it means to be a soldier of Christ, he said, I must go back to the janitor And he did. He went back and he spoke to the janitor and he he um he apologized. And this is what the janitor said. Joe, it's fine. I was so focused on what my body will be when Jesus returns That your mocking made no difference to me any day. That was a true internalization Of the truth of God. And let me ask you, what would happen to us as a church? And especially when we sang our theme song, Victory In Jesus, if you truly and your children and your grandchildren internalized this psalm. As it is understood on the pages of the New Testament and as we anticipate upon his return. That janitor in some way internalized, if not this psalm, then truths that were synonymous with it. The work of Satan, as reflected in his disability and the sneers of snotty high school students, were a barely audible voice to him compared to the voice of God. And the voice said, What we have learned today in this psalm: that God the Father has appointed Jesus as both king and as priest, and he is conquering and subduing the nations. Amen. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, we have but a taste of how good you are and your triune work. Lord, we're gonna just stop talking even in prayer at this point because we have got to stand and And sing to you about the work that you have done. All praise be to your name, and if it is your divine will, we ask that angels would sing along with us. In the name of Christ. Amen.