I'll start from the beginning because I will draw upon some of that. Beginning in verse 1. My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart keep my commands. For length of days and long life and peace they will add to you. Let not mercy and truth forsake you. Bind them around your neck. Write them on the tablet of your heart. And so find favor and high esteem in the sight of God and man. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct your paths Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for these clear commands and promises We understand them as they are meant to be understood with reference to Jesus Christ and His Spirit. We pray, Lord, that you would teach us. That you would teach us to be wise as you are wise That we would be your glory in the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. By way of reminder, the Proverbs are in one sense an unfolding of the fifth command: honor your father and your mother. Because they have so much to do with societal relationships. And that's what the fifth command is all about. Inferiors, equals, and superiors. Our focus last time was how we honor our mother and father by continuing the sacred traditions from one era to the next. I don't mean man-made traditions. I mean those traditions handed down to us from the prophets and the apostles. How can you tell if that is true of you? that you have taken the mothers and fathers of the faith, especially those in the scriptures, if you have taken them to heart. Well, we learned last time that one way is social esteem, that we are a benefit to the communities in which we belong. As Christ's disciples, the Spirit works in us to benefit each of our communities, family, church, civic society, just to name a few broad categories. Well, we continue on this week with verses 5 through 6. I'll make a few observations and then we'll get into bringing it home Let's start by looking at verse number five. Verse five, I did not grow up in the church. But I have noticed that verse 5 and verse 6 has been used a lot of different ways by the church. Interesting ways. I'd like to really define and limit how these verses should be used. And the way we'll do that is just by saying they should not be divorced from verses one through four. for To trust in the Lord with all your heart and to not lean on your own understanding is a continuation Of carrying forward the sacred teaching and way of life passed down to us. It is not a contentless, a contentless, and blind trust in God. To trust in the Lord is to trust in his words, which give us true wisdom and understanding at the least The opposite that is given to us here in a kind of poetic parallelism, the opposite is to trust in our own understanding of the nature of reality. And to trust in our own understanding of the purpose and the meaning of things and their destiny. But we are not to be like that We can see different examples, as I have told you throughout. The Proverbs are illustrated throughout the scriptures. Joseph, for example, trusted in the Lord when he fled from Potiphar's wife. That would be a good example of seeing this some flesh and bones on this Proverbs. In short, Joseph says in Genesis chapter 39 How then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God? The Lord was on his mind and heart. Joseph trusted in the Lord and did not lean on his own understanding with Potiphar's wife That's the first observation, is just with verse 5. And so let's make sure we connect it to 1 through 4, and then we can see a clear example within Joseph. Observation number 2 is about verse 6 now. In verse six, the principle and promise are stated in parallel words. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he shall make your paths smooth. That's better than the KJV if you have the KJV in front of you. Make your paths smooth. Now, in all your ways acknowledge him is a little bit of a funny way to put it. Many scholars and translators are not in love with that word acknowledge. We try to say what we mean. And if we did a pretty serious study of the word acknowledge, you would find that it usually refers to confessing And here, something is going on within the proverb and the teaching from the Father in these proverbs that is more than just verbal profession. It's not just in all of your ways verbally profess God. There's something else going on there, and I don't want to get into the Hebrew with you and the different stems and what they can do for words in the added meaning. We can talk about that later if you'd like. But the word means more than verbal profession, so I'm not in love with the word acknowledge. Most translate it simply to know, which is better. It's m more in line with the grammar. In all of your ways, then, this is what it should say, in all of your ways know the Lord. But that's tough. What does it mean to know the Lord in all of your ways? It means something along the lines of like this: in all of your ways, hold the Lord in mind. And when we say something like that, that's a kind of dynamic translation. If we say something like that, we don't just mean I intellectually comprehend him or something. That would be foolish to say to begin with. It doesn't just have to do with the mind, though. That's not how we use it within our culture. In all your ways, hold the Lord in mind. It's not just an intellectual thing. To hold him in mind means to know what the Lord's will is and to desire to do it yourself. You know him, and you know What he wants. You know what his heart is for things. You know what his ultimate concerns are with regard to the world. You know God. The second part of verse 6 gives the promise he will make your path smooth. And this has can stupefy people. You can see that we must work to match our experience with those words. For oftentimes following God does not feel like a smooth path. I've already given you the example of Joseph. Would you describe his life as a smooth path? Would you describe the Lord Jesus Christ and his life as a smooth path? Do you know what's more important though than me asking you what you think they would describe it as is what how would they describe it? And if we look at the Psalms, especially the Messianic Psalms, they would acknowledge the difficulties of life, but they would understand that the Lord did make their paths smooth. That for example Christ was not left in Sheol, nor did he experience corruption, but the Lord saw him And it was the same thing with Joseph. In fact, if you would like to explore this more on what can he mean here when he says that he'll make our path smooth to where we don't become like a prosperity gospel preacher. What you may want to do, and actually I would recommend it, is on your own time meditate on Psalm 27, verses 11 through 14. If you want to do the whole psalm, that's fine, but I'd encourage you to check out Psalm 27, 11 through 14. There's a lot of elements in there. Seek to make them come together in a coherent fashion, because our God is coherent. Well, those are the observations, and I just want to make our doctrine tonight almost just a restatement of what we've observed within the verses themselves. In all their ways, Christians should endeavor to know God. So that's simple. Just picking up one of the lines. In all your ways, acknowledge Him or know Him In all of their ways, Christians should endeavor to know God. Well, as I mentioned, to know God is to know his will and desire it on earth as it is in heaven. And that is true wisdom. The opposite that is given to us in these verses is resting on our own understanding, and that is considered folly. The next set of verses say, Be wise in your own eyes. That is also folly, and it adds to the picture. To unfold this, I want to look at one application point of our own understanding and then look at true wisdom. I wonder how many ways we can rest on our own understanding. How many items could we catalog in leaning on our own wisdom in the way that it is meant here? You can be in active rebellion, building your life on the godless philosophies and ideologies of this world. We're familiar with that way of leaning on your own understanding. But there is another way that is often feels subtle, but it's not. It seems like it would be less harmful, but it's actually not. And that is to lean on our own understanding on how we read and apply the scripture. Which is another way of saying what we say God is really like and what we say God requires of us. The church has always had official interpreters of the scripture. In the far past, it was the prophets. They always clarified things, especially to the king. In the less far past it was the apostles, which is why we are considered apostolic. They show the church how to handle the word with accuracy. Think of Paul's relationship to Timothy, showing Timothy how to handle the Word with accuracy. And the reason why he had to do that is because there are so many people that want to twist it. And it's not just an intellectual problem when God's word gets twisted. Who he is becomes twisted. Not in reality, but who we say he is becomes twisted. And what he requires of man becomes twisted. And causes a tremendous amount of pain and confusion. And so he's always given us official interpreters that we would know how to handle God's word well. We are to read and to teach and to follow as God has taught us through His Spirit and His prophets and apostles to read and to teach. and to follow him. And when they are our interpreters, we do not lean on our own understanding of the scriptures, but on the official understanding of the scriptures. Now, what I would like to do is I want to give you a couple examples of us leaning on our own understanding by way of misreading the scriptures If you misread the scriptures, you will misknow God. And you will misknow yourself, and it it's really horrific. That's why I want to focus on this. It's kind of getting at the root of the problem within Our communities. I want to give you an example of leaning on our own understanding and the misreading of Scripture. I've recently heard of two grievous ways in which the church has relied upon their own understanding and reading and applying the scriptures. And one example is the use of Matthew 18. Matthew 18 gives great wisdom to keep peace and purity within the church. Some, however, have begun using Matthew 18 thoughtlessly. and legalistically, making no exceptions in any case, as if it is a pancake recipe that just must be followed the same way everywhere They say Matthew 18, 15 says, Moreover, if your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he hears you, you have gained your brother. And they would say this, we'd all agree that's what it says, guess what it says. But they would say, no matter the circumstances, this is what we do. And that may sound good on the surface to you, but I want to ask you a question with that Matthew 18, 15. What about in the case of someone who is sexually abusing a mic? And both are in the church. I've raised this question at the men's breakfast, and I wanted to raise it more broadly. Let me ask you a second question with regard to Matthew 18:15. Do we send the minor into a room with the abuser alone? Because that's what it says in Matthew 18, 15 Some say yes, and they do so proudly as if they are acting courageously in the name of the Lord and his word. But I tell you the truth. Those people, at least in this respect, do not know God. I'm not saying that they're not Christians. I'm just saying they don't know God's heart in the matter and how he believes it should be handled. The other grievous example is another kind of abuse case, and that would be spousal abuse. Some use Matthew 18 in error with wives that are beaten also. But I have another example The scriptures say that we are to forgive as Christ has forgiven us, says that in Colossians and about a thousand other places, right? They take this scripture and they tell, let's say, for example, an abused woman or battered woman that they therefore must forgive because the the husband Seems like he's moving towards repentance. And they further counsel this. Forgiveness means that we must forget. And forgiveness means that we must enter back into the relationship as if nothing happened. Forgiveness means a clean slate. Have you ever heard scriptural forgiveness described that way? Forgive and forget? Have you heard scriptural forgiveness described as you need to go back to normalcy? as if nothing happened. It should be a clean slate, using the model of removing our sins from as far as east is from west We import our ideas and our own understandings say that we should separate what happened in the past with us, with the husband that beat us from our present today and have no thoughts about it. We should start with a clean slate. But I tell you the truth. In many cases, at least in this respect, those who give such counsel do not know God. Because God would never shove a woman in harm's way. Remember, to know God in the sense we are now speaking is to know his will. It is to know his heart for the matter. What are his ultimate concerns? How would he handle it? How would he think about it? What would he We do. That is what it means to know God. And that you would desire that it would be done the same way and it would come to the same conclusion Well, that would be an example of us resting upon our own wisdom by some kind of an inherited deformed way of understanding the scriptures. I would say it's legalism in its deformation. But there is also true wisdom for us. That is what is encouraged to us in Proverbs chapter 3, verses 1 through 6. Taking our cue from chapter three as a whole, knowing God's heart, first and foremost, if we are to have true wisdom, His wisdom, His heart, His ultimate concerns, you must know that you will not know God by just a single verse. As verse three one says, do not forget my commands, and it's written in the plural. And right before that it says his instructions or his Torah, which I take, even though it's in the singular, that it's a kind of whole collection. of what he has said, because the poetic parallelism is commands and it's in the plural. It is the plural for multiple reasons. One such reason is that we grow in knowing where God's heart is on a matter, the more we know of His Word. Not just a single sentence or proof text. Proof texting in the way I'm talking about it is from the devil. Take the Proverbs, for example. They're right in front of your face this evening. Do you think you would know God and all of His wisdom if you have just a single proverb? I'll tell you what you'll most likely have if you have a single proverb is error in your life. That can be very, very dangerous to just have a single proverb. I said this also at the men's breakfast, but I wanted to say this more broadly also. Consider, for example, Proverbs chapter 26, verses 4 through 5. I want you to get your head around this. Chapter verse 4. Do not answer a fool according to his folly, lest you also be like him. Did you catch that? Do not answer a fool according to his folly, lest you be like him. Now that's verse 4. Here's verse 5. Answer a fool according to his folly. Lest he be wise in his own eyes. After the comma in both of them are different reasons why you would do different things. Do you see what you are being taught to do just in becoming familiar with the collection of the Proverbs and how it is written is that you must See all of it and keep it coherent that you might know the mind and heart of God, or at least grow in seeing more and more of it. Which is then captured in in Proverbs chapter 15 verse 28. The heart of the righteous, do you know what they do? They study how to answer. They don't just have one answer. They're not a one-trick pony. They know how God would speak in each circumstance and situation by the wisdom that the Holy Spirit gives to them by the word But you know what happens to the mouth of the wicked? It just pours forth evil. And it does so through proof texts Telling women to just wipe the clate sleen and s uh the slate clean and pretend that nothing has happened, and shoving vulnerable children in harm's way. Those are just two kind of extreme examples though they happen more often than we care to admit. Studying how to answer, which is set what it says in Proverbs 15, means studying the entire collection of Proverbs to grow in wisdom so that you can see God's heart, His wise heart for the situation that is before you Reading the Proverbs as a collection is just an illustration that I'm laying before you. Reading the Proverbs as a collection to discover the real concerns of God is just one example. All of the scriptures are meant to be read as a total collection or canon. And through it all we grow to know who God is and what his deep concerns are for our various situations as we are under the teaching of the script. ministry of Jesus Christ in his spirit. It's not just human studying. It is a ministry of Christ in his spirit as he ministers to us and the whole collection teaching us to know God, that our heart would be shaped and formed to be like his heart. And with that mindset, I'd ask you to consider spousal abuse once again. And to think of it in relationship to our passage tonight, where we are to Never forget his law or Torah. Let our hearts keep his commands. Let not mercy and truth forsake us, just like it has never forsaken the Father. And that we would trust in the Lord with all our hearts and not lean on our understandings, but in all of our ways we would know Him. We would know His heart in the matter. If we took those verses seriously as we read the scriptures and as we brought those scriptures read into our lives, what would it look like? If we approach the entire collection seeking to know God's heart, you would begin to consider at least the following examples. in really any kind of abuse case, but this is just spousal abuse. Number one, you would consider who God is to Hagar And the revelation when she says, You are Elvroi. You see me. He sees the vulnerable. He understands what they're going through, and he brings aid. Or number two, you would have been aware of God's heart and the establishment of cities of refuge among Israel. Cities of refuge were for those who feared their life in certain cases, so that a kind of mob justice couldn't be taken out on them. them. But there could be some time to consider what's going on. People could be removed from harm's way while we settle down and figure out what the will of the Lord is. That's God's heart. And this one is very important, number three. I'd encourage you to study the relationship between David and Saul. That is a relationship that is a part of the collection. The stories are meant to teach us who God is and what he requires of us. And I'll say that David did forgive Saul. But he does not forget who Saul is. And therefore he does not immediately restore full trust. to Saul. In fact, he says to Saul, I forgive you. And then he goes to live in the land of the Philistines, far away from that man. So we need to get our head around those kind of instructions on what forgiveness really looks like, if we're going to have real wisdom on how God would handle these same situations if we are to know Him. In all their ways, Christians should endeavor to know God. To know God is to know his will and his desires on earth as it is in heaven We know God's will through the whole collection of Scripture, of course by the teaching ministry of the Holy Spirit. And I'll end with this. May all of his words be written upon our hearts. as Jeremiah said, that we might really know him. And may our hearts be like his, especially toward vulnerable children and women. Let us pray.