Good to see all of you. Nick, if I'm correct, this is the last of my Lawful Living series. So this will be my final talk on the lawful living. And then I think d do we have scheduled next uh Chase Vaughn will be picking up a topic. He's gonna do three. He's gonna do a summer series. Right? Alright, very good. I think it's entitled How to Run a Trot Line. Actually he's still learning. Alright, so let's pray and then uh the talk is uh shorter today. I'll give us more time to talk. And then we can get on with our Saturday. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for your word. It is a light unto our path. You have given us hearts and minds that are serious about you. We want more and more of you and what you're doing. And since we are your sons by the work of Jesus Christ and His Spirit, we want to be like you. You are a good father, and we want to be good men. We pray that you would help us to Do so by way of your word, and that we would pass down your image in the instruction of those coming up in our congregation and more broadly within our larger communities, and that you would lay a foundation that we're that there would be light in Anne Run County. In the name of Christ, Amen. Amen. Alrighty. So this is Lawful Living No. 3, and I'll just begin with a review from last month. Our lives are filled with ethical dilemmas and questions. When we are called to make righteous judgments and take righteous actions, we must at least do the following. We must look at our current situations, seeking to see how they evoke the laws and the stories and the whole canon of scripture. In other words, put that more simply Simply, what in the scriptures is like my situation? Paul saw that his situation in Corinth was like the case of military exemption, farming with oxen, and the priestly temple service. He was able to use those things casuistically to make moral judgments for himself and his congregations. Jesus saw that his situation, a sacred day, with the Pharisees was like David's understanding of sacred food, and he used that in his moral judgment and argument with the Pharisees as they plucked grain. Now in order for that to happen, we must be familiar with all of Scripture which necessitates constant meditation on his word, not just by yourselves, but within a total communion. This is especially true of those who are official judges of the community, fathers and elders. And I would say that that needs to happen through generations to where our young men not only see men that read the scriptures, but they see men that live them. and they can just imitate their fathers and their grandfathers. One of my favorite shows to watch as a kind of role model, and I've watched it with actually my daughters really like the show, is called The Rifleman. Anybody ever watched that Yeah, it's an older show. I'd encourage you to watch it and to think about you as a man in relationship to the rifleman and how he disciples his son. He's discipling his son with everything. Yeah, it's it's excellent. Um Yeah, I keep being attracted to those shows. I think I'm really supposed to uh own a ranch. So if any of you want to give me a ranch. So this is especially true of those who are official judges or fathers and elders. To develop confidence that we know God's will, we should not rely upon one verse, but on many passages and stories. I encouraged you last time to use the larger catechism. Also, the scripture references that are there within the exposition of the Ten Commandments, we must pray asking God to reveal his ultimate concerns and his intended moral order for his creatures. in the current circumstance. That's really key. What are God's ultimate concerns? Think of the parable of the good steward or the faithful steward where the Lord of the manor uh to switch ultimate concerns are to make a judgment in his name. And that's that's what that looks like. And that's what we're doing with each of our moral judgments when we make them in the name of Christ. We know what his ultimate concerns are because we know him so well. And we must be sensitive to the nuance each passage gives so that we can act on a case-by-case basis. We don't want to be a bull and a China shop. Okay. Now what I want to do this morning is to start uh at last time we looked at several examples, really bringing things down to earth. But I was just showing you how it's how this this code verse collection or how to use the law is actually used within the scriptures. Now what I'd like to do is give you some principles for using the Torah as law. We're going to go through a bunch of examples of how to use the stories as law And that's it. That's what we're going to do. Okay. So, uh, and if you want this, I I can give you this lecture so you have all this stuff written down. But the very first thing that we want to do when we're gonna we're gonna try to understand who God is, what he's accomplishing with his creation, and what he requires of us. When we want to do that by way of the stories, number one, we want to aim to discover the views of the human and the divine author that is writing the story Now that is easier said than done. You have to really meditate, and let me put it this way, you need to know how the narrator Thinks of what is in front of you in that story. Was he pleased with the brothers and what they did after the rape of Dinah? You know that story? You're gonna have to meditate and really think about It's going to be an act in moral training just to answer that question But that's what we must do in every one of the stories is we are to aim to discover the views of the human and the divine author. How do they view the situation? Because we are to view it the same way. And then those situations are analogous to the other situations in our life, and it shows us how we should be viewing those things also. The human and divine author view the world truthfully. They are a reliable interpreter of events and reality. By reading and adopting the author's perspective, we learn to view situations as God Himself views them. We think God's thoughts after him by entering into the viewpoint of the narrator. Now let me give you an example for where I saw this in a recent episode of a show that I watched. I watched a show that had a scene between a father and a son. The father is a ranch owner. He owns 200,000 acres, I believe. And he is hopeful that his oldest son will take over the family business, which is cattle ranching and also horse, some horse work. The problem, however, is that he cannot get his son to see the world as he sees it. This is an interesting dialogue between the two of them in a very nice RAM pickup truck. They're overlooking a pasture with cattle. The father says, Are you 38 years old and you don't notice the difference between working this farm and running this farm? They look out on the field before he can answer that question, and there's a heifer under stress. There's a can When they get to her, their calf is breached. They deliver the calf, and then they go and they sit on a fallen tree, and they take off their hats, and they wipe their brow, and the father continues the conversation. And he says, Son, look at that calf and look at that heifer. What do you see? And the son says, I see a young life that needs my protection and for me to feed it until it's old enough to protect and feed itself. And the father said, Son, that is what a cowboy sees. When I die, you will not be a cowboy, you will be a rancher. You need to learn to see these things the way I see them. And I believe at this point he puts his arm on his son and he says, there is no other way to view it. Which which sounds like a good dad. What the father is doing is what the biblical narrative asks of us We must look at the world through the eyes of the narrator. He puts his arm around us and he says, there is no other way to view it. And the analogy stands also in how difficult it is for the son to see through the father's eyes. He had been trying for some time to not be a cowboy but to be a rancher. When the father saw the heifer, he said, the calf, he said, right now it's worth such and such amount of pounds, but in six months it's going to be worth this much. That's how he viewed that, versus protecting the life, which was the view of the cowboy who works the pasture, as opposed to running it. And the same difficulty happens with us. And this is where we are called to pour over the scriptures until we can see as God sees. Analogously, of course. The question that we need to pose though is how? How can we begin to do that? How can we begin to see through the Father's eyes. How can we be sure that we have captured what the narrator approves or disapproves so as to develop our own moral judgment and ethic? What I'm going to do this morning is use a book that I have found helpful in answering that question, and it's this right here. His name is Gordon Wenham, and it's Story as Torah. So there you go. I don't know much about him personally, but his writing has been helpful. It's story as Torah reading Old Testament narrative ethically. Uh Dr. Wenham gives three criteria to answer the c answer the question how can we be more confident that we have the perspective of the narrator, which is the right perspective. He suggests three main criteria for supposing that an actor's behavior in the scriptures in a particular situation is regarded as virtuous by the narrator. And therefore should be copied by you analogously in your situations. So here's number one. First, the behavior pattern should be repeated in a number of different contexts If you examine the patriarchal narratives in Genesis, do y'all know what I mean by patriarchal narratives? It's the core. It's most time spent in Genesis is on the patriarchal narratives. You have kind of the preface. And then you're going to move into the old fathers and their stories. If you examine the patriarchal narratives in Genesis, you'll find a common thread, which is peace. Essentially, both the cycle of stories that involve Jacob in Genesis 25, 19 through 35, 29, and the Joseph story, which is in Genesis 37, 2 through 55. They are stories of family reconciliations. That's a major aspect of them. Let me read from Wen and how he talks about this. Essentially, both the Jacob cycle and the Joseph story are stories of family reconciliations. Jacob and Esau start fighting in the womb, and they can Continue the feud later in life. This reaches such a pitch that Esau plans to kill Jacob so that he has to leave home Similarly, Joseph's brothers hate him, plan to kill him, but eventually sell him to slave traders who take him to Egypt. After twenty years, Jacob returns home and in a most touching scene makes his peace with Esau. The Jacob cycle ends with Esau and Jacob burying their father Isaac. Similarly, again, after about 20 years of unresolved conflict, the Joseph story comes to a magnificent climax with Judah's great speech and Joseph making his identity known to his brothers. The rest of the story tells how he provides for the needs of his fathers and brothers when they migrate to Egypt. When their father dies, like Jacob and Esau in their day, Joseph and his brothers join together in burying him Then the story concludes with another strong declaration by Joseph that despite all his brothers have done to him, he has completely forgiven them Quote, Fear not, for I'm it for am I in the place of God? As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good. To bring it about that many people should be kept alive as they are today. So do not fear. I will provide for you and your little ones. Other stories in Genesis appear to make a similar point. The strife between Lot's herdsmen and Abraham's was so intense that they had to separate. Abraham the older man wants peace with his brethren, so he generously allows his nephew Lot to pick whatever part of the land he wants to settle in. Abraham, whose generosity apparently cost him dear, because Lot chose the well-watered Jordan Valley, is soon rewarded by a much enhanced promise of land and descendants. Lot's choice is soon shown to be misguided. He is carried off when the kings of the East sack Sodom and has to be rescued by Abraham. Later, in response to Abraham's prayers for Sodom, Lot and his family are rescued by angels. Throughout Abraham is portrayed as generously treating generously his kin Later on Abraham prays for Abimelech, king of Garar, called a Philistine, after he had returned Sarah to him. He also agrees to make a treaty with Abimelech, even though for a time Abimelech's men had seized a well he had dug. Isaac too had a similar set of problems with Abimelech, but when they had been resolved, he too agrees to make a peace treaty. Jacob suffered great exploitation. and double dealing at the hands of his Aramean father-in-law Laban, but when he proposes a treaty between himself and Jacob, the latter readily agrees. In all these episodes, the patriarchs are depicted as being anxious to make peace and forgive past wrongs, especially with their kinsmen, but also with inhabitants of the land such as Abimelech. So the point here is that first one where if you examine the patriarchal narratives in Genesis, you will find a common thread of peace. And this meets the first criteria in that the behavior pattern should be repeated in a number of different contexts throughout the scriptures. see that there's this virtuous behavior that is held up and it's all over the place. That's a peace without compromise, which is difficult. Number two, we are to s to suppose that the narrator regards a character trait as a virtue It should be exhibited in a positive context. That's the second criteria. At VBS, for example, sometimes our children may be encouraged to be strong like Samson Yet given that judges is a downward spiral into hell on earth, we want to be very cautious about making the heroes in judges. Real heroes. We have to be very careful of the context. And so that's the second one. We want to make sure that the narrator is uh that this person is being exhibited in a positive context. If he's a part of a dark scene, it might be because he is a creature of hell Number three. The remarks that we find in the legal codes, the psalms, and the wisdom books often shed light on Old Testament attitudes to different virtues and vices. So we can read the stories, and then we can be reassured of our interpretation of the stories based on how the other biblical authors have read the same stories. So for example, Genesis stresses the beauty of Sarah, Rebecca, and Rachel. implying that it was one of their great virtues. But then when we look at Proverbs, it seems to relativize female beauty. And it says, Charm is deceitful. And beauty is vain, but a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised. series is that the legal codes will not provide you with the full picture of what God is calling you to to be in his image. The story often points points more fully to the same ideal to which the law points. They're they're not in contradiction to each other, law and story. It's just that you need both so that you can see the full reality. Fuller reality. You're not going to see the full reality. The law, for example, highlights the importance of obedience to God and his moral order. Stories take a step forward and they show humanity acting From a deep heartfelt piety, even in the midst of such obedience. It's going to color the picture and not just give you the commands of the picture. Let me give you some examples of what I mean by that. And again, this is us seeing that law codes help us to understand the stories, but that we won't want to be careful to not just rely on statutory law, but to see the benefit that the stories bring out. I want you to think, for example, of the first command. You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. One of the things that the larger catechism unfolds about that commandment is that the Lord's name is to be held in reverence. And doubtless we uh learn an uh an ethic from that law, but listen to what we gain when we add the stories. I want you to think of the story of Abraham pleading for Sodom. Do you remember this? Yeah? Then Abraham answered and said, listen to how Abraham speaks to God and how he uses his name. Think about this as men. what it would mean for you. Indeed, this is Abraham speaking, indeed now, I who am but dust and ashes have taken it upon myself to see speak to the Lord. Do you hear who He is? And the way that He approaches God Then he continues in chapter 18, verse 32. He says, Then he said, Let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak but once more. Suppose ten should be found there. And he said, I will not destroy it for the sake of ten. Do you hear in Abraham His heart. Let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak but once more. That man is not presumptuous that he has the right to speak to God And he is not speaking to him like they're just buddies, you know, fish in the local pond. I've heard that argument made when they look at the New Testament, it says we're to call him Adam. Abba father. And then they translate Abba Daddy. And they do that in order to make their relationship with God very casual. And there may be a sense in which that's true. But we see here that it definitely needs to be balanced with Abraham when he approaches the Lord and he says, I who am but dust and ash. Have taken it upon myself to speak to the Lord. There's quite a bit of reverence there. That's going to be difficult in this culture. Reverence is a lost virtue. Whether it's for God or for each other or for our fathers or for our mothers. So you can begin to see, see the color that's starting to be added to the picture? to the commandment? The depths that we have to that that God is calling us to and what it means to be real? Consider this next story in light of not only the first commandment, but the fifth commandment. Then he said, Oh Lord God, this is one of the servants going to get a bride for his master. Then he said, O Lord God of my master Abraham, please give me success this day, and show kindness to my master Abraham. Behold, here I stand by the well of water, and the daughters of the men of the city are coming out to draw water. Now let it be. that the young woman to whom I say, Please let down your pitcher that I may drink, and she says, Drink, and I will also give your camels a drink, let her be the one you have appointed for your servant Isaac, and by this I will know that you have shown kindness to my master. What does that tell you about how this servant views those who are his employers? How does he think about them? What is the respect that he gives to them? How is it that this person views God and the actions of God and the decisions that he'll make? You see how that fleshes out? For example, the fifth commandment honor your father and your mother is supposed to be a societal framework where we understand that we're inferior. superiors or equals and how everyone in supp society is supposed to relate. And here you have, and that's one way of me telling you about it. That's a rationalization in a good sense That's me giving you a rational account of societal moral order. And here, when we add the story, you can start to see the fleshed out humanity of what that would look like and how you would talk about people and how you would posture yourself towards those who are over you and how you would posture yourself over someone so that they would be able to think like that about you and want to serve you like that. You can begin to see what the stories add to what it would mean to live a good life. Unfortunately, what I do see is I see folks writing books who do pick up on the stories like this. And then they'll only pick up on the stories where we see uh I don't know. Jesus gentle and lowly. How about that one? And then they don't balance it back out with the other stories so that we can see, and that's the import and that's the important part also of this series, is that there's a total collection that needs to be taken into account. So we don't just have pictures of men speaking reverently like that. Or we don't just have pictures of Jesus being gentle and lowly. Listen to this picture, which is also a law text Because it is a story. Now when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive, he armed his three hundred and eighteen trained servants who were born in his own house, and he went in pursuit as far as Dan. He divided his forces against them by night, and he and his servants attacked them and pursued them as far as Haba, which is north of Damascus So he brought back all the goods and also brought back his brother Lot and his goods as well as the women and the people. It needs to be balanced out with that, with that too. He's kicking butt. If you need a quick translation of that. So slowly what we see then, and those are just the three criteria. Like I said, I only have three criteria for this you this morning and that this is going to be shorter. Those three criteria allow a picture to emerge. And it is a picture that is more fleshed out than if you only have the statutory laws. First, the behavior pattern should be repeated in a number of different contexts Second, to suppose that the narrator regards a character trait as a virtue, it should be exhibited in a positive context. That's a generalization. There are exceptions, okay? But if they're surrounded by darkness, they may be a creature of hell. Third, remarks in legal codes, psalms, and wisdom books often shed light on Old Testament attitudes to different virtues and vices. vices. But we must balance that back out and realize that legal codes are not the whole picture. The story often points points more fully to the same ideal to which the law points. And I gave you some examples of looking at the reverence within Abraham, looking at the reverence within Abraham's servants as a fleshing out of the first and the fifth commandment. Slowly, a picture of real virtuous men emerge who approach the ideal of Torah living. This takes place not just by studying the laws and the legal codes, but seeing the story too as law. Together, law and story fulsomely point to who God is, what he is accomplishing, and what he requires of us as men. It's all for this morning. The rest of the time we can use to process the total series. So I'll just open it up for questions at this point. And if you don't have any, I'll start asking you questions. Any thoughts? Yes, Bill. I would like to hear your answer to your own question did did Dinah's brothers act in a righteous way in the way they responded Yeah. Yeah, that's uh that's a that's a good question. When I'm studying that account, what I see is a pretty complex moral situation, which is what's going to happen to all of you when you start really studying these accounts. Not that you haven't already. as you continue to study these accounts. You're going to find a complex moral situation where you have to make a bunch of assertions. And that's going to assist you actually in your moral training. I would say that given their circumstances that that they did the right thing. One of the key things of That's a part of that story is when they go and they tell the father what has happened to his daughter, the father acts ambivalently So they take it into their own hands. So there's a further breakdown going on here within the moral society to where the sons need So I think they're acting under the law of Harem, like that would have been taught within the Deuteronomic And it's possible that if the father would have been more active, that this could have gone a different road. So I think there's multiple moral lessons that that are going on here. There's a leadership vacuum that's going on. So you know you want another tough one? Um Ann I'm forgetting her name, but it's actually you have the the Joseph story cycle and then right there in the middle of it it's an interruption with um Laban's Le or Rachel. No. Kmar. No, okay. So she dresses up. You know you know the story of Tamar? She tricks the father in law. Yeah. And and when you look at that, you have to look at that really closely. What's the narrator trying to say about that? that. Well you get a different picture of what wisdom looks like, what it means to get the job done. Um is it a is it a moral example on how women should get things done in the future? I don't know. It depends on the circumstance. It's probably more or less than about, again, the male leadership failing to take control of the situation and and to establish the moral order. Because he kept not giving her the kinsman redeemer to where the line could continue. So then she had to do desperate measures and order for it to happen. It turned into a kind of wartime ethic for her. And it ends up being a testimony against him, really. And at the end he has to confess that he was wrong. So then we take that situation and we start to look analogously. You can start real generally. You can ask, are you abdicating in your leadership? Is that why things are out of order? And then you can get more specific. Darren? Yeah. It needs to be remembered. But it's every narrative is different, even if you have the same character. And I don't tell me if you agree with this or not, but Sometimes when you're reading a story that has the character of David, and there would be an opportunity there to see something that, as you said, in a positive light where there's a virtue that's being expressed, and we would go, that's wonderful. But it might be easy for us to fall into the paradigm of well it's David, and since it's David, then I can always see him this way. That makes sense. clearly know that that's not the case. Right. So we have to we have to remember that each story at some level is independent. We don't want to I mean if you agree with some if you agree with And we we can't just go, David, they're poor. We have to go this character is new and fresh at some level as you look at it and as you look at the stories being told. Do you agree with that? I do, and the narrator uh oftentimes tips us off. So for example, as soon as as soon as David Ensign sees um Bathsheba taking a bath on her rooftop, you know, by the time you get to that end the end of that cycle, uh because Because David had been held up uh so highly with regard to his actions relative to Saul, the narrator comes in and makes sure that there's no question and he says that he sinned against Uriah. Yeah. And then you'll see the and then you see the consequences of the action for the rest of um David's life as his um family legacy is dismantled and his h son is hung in a tree. And then the how those stories also fill into the overall narrative of you know the Timothy Brindon's got the song about the head crushed and so forth. She talks about David and and how you know crushing Goliath. And Goliath is described in the Old Testament, I mean the Hebrew is you know scales. instead of armor and you know so the Leviathan all those different narratives. So it's it's basically Old Testament that much more fun to read when you pick up on those It's not just the story in place, but it's also the overall story. That weaves it together just amazingly. Yeah, there's a lot of layers going on there. One of the thought things I found fascinating About the killing of Goliath is if you read the stories, you can see that God was preparing David to do so because he had been killing bears and perhaps lions with stones prior to that. One for each other. It's not directly said, but you know, later it did list the sons of life, the ancestors of life. Yeah. Mike? Yeah, mine's not so deep. God. Yeah. And you broke it down into father and daddy. Right. So so I hear guys who I I think or I thought or I I don't really know because I don't know 'em that well personally calling God Dad. Daddy, right. And I would think I really wish I had that kind of relationship, you know, like it seems so warm and close like daddy, you know, but But um I always came from a uh a point of humility and respect for God, so I always called him Father God. Yeah. You know, and um so Instead of thinking that way, it made sense what you were saying, that that daddy relationship or that daddy term is more casual. And that's the way they want to use it. Yeah. Yeah. And I'm not sure that's what the narrator's telling us to do. Right. And it's pretty loose, you know, I mean it says ABA, it doesn't say daddy. You have to decide, is this a good translation? And you and what we're talking about right now is what you call a dynamic equivalent in our society compared to their society When they said Abba, did they mean what we understand when we say the words daddy? Right. And I have I highly I have high doubts on that Yeah, I I would say no. Yeah. You know, just uh listening to the explanation of Abraham and uh you know the way he said if I went to my father right now, I say Hey Daddy. But there but but I do see another context where daddy has been used and it's a It's uh usually like in a southern climate and the daughter's using it. Right. I've seen it used very reverently. Right, right. Well this is But any at any rate. Yeah. So you want to think through that and you want to look at the whole collection. Again, that was the point with that point. Look at the whole collection to see what are we getting at? What's the reality here? on why we would call him this way. And I was using that as an example that some people want to only look at part of the picture and they make and that picture ends up making men look effeminate in my opinion. Okay. Good. And I and that's why I balanced it back out with Abraham and him gathering up his servants who had been trained. Going to war and rescuing Lot and his family and the women and the children. That's a very important point. He's a man that fights and is willing to give up his own life, even in physical warfare for the sake of those people that cannot protect themselves. So that's a that's a more complex image than him just um Uh than him being effeminate or only him only in his study or something along those lines. Well I will say this for me the term daddy was never comfortable. Yeah. You know But I've heard it thrown out there a lot. Yeah. And thought thought differently of it. I think I got Doug and then Dwayne and then Nick. I was just gonna uh suggest that maybe daddy implies that there's a very close relationship with mutual love and focus on that, not that it's casual. I just Yeah. You know. If I spoke, I did it kind of like, okay, um, I need to be prepared when I speak to him. Yeah. Yeah. And uh my only point is that some people are trying to use the word daddy for it to become more of a casual relationship and that and that ends up taking too big of a a part of the picture. It ends up becoming the whole picture. So Dwayne, you're up next. Yeah, so I was gonna hold this twisted thought, but when you brought up Lot again, I'm going, okay, I can't hold this twisted thought. Doc just put Rod up there on his list, so I have to bring it up. So so where the angels come to judge Sodom and they come to the door and they are trying the the men come to the door and they want to have at the angels. Mm-hmm. And Lot, wanting to protect Sodom from the judgment that the angels were there to to give, says, No, don't take these men. I have two young daughters who are virgins. Please take them and have your way. Well he wasn't acting as a protector. I've been always bothered by it. I'm like, where's that even right? And so how's that That's not infeminate. He he was he was not standing up as a protector of his daughters. Granted, he won he had a heart for the people, and he didn't want those men to act wickedly with these Men, but he let them act wickedly with his daughter. So it is one of those twisted things you go, okay, what's the story here? Yeah, what's the law? the law that's given there. Now with that tough scene, you know, that's a that starts off with a scene that cycles through the scriptures. And that is a um a town square scene. You sit saw that town square scene. I think you saw it before Sodom. Definitely saw it in Sodom. You'll then see it again at the end of the book of Judges. And then And you'll see it again with Jesus and the Samaritan woman in John 4. So you've got the narrator then, who is not just the human narrator, but we also have the Holy Spirit who's intending the whole thing. thing and we're really looking for his intentions, he gives you multiple parts of the collection for you to see the law present in the situation. Now when you get to judges, it's the same kind of scene except that he pushes the concubine out there. And they uh rape her all night long, and then um she dies with her hand on the threshold So there's a lot of symbolics going on here. He then chops her up into 12 pieces and sends them to each uh of the triangles. So those that scene ends up being a kind of symbol of what has happened within the society, and that it has it has gone from being the people of God to the the total canonization of the place. And so knowing that about judges, which is very clear, it's pretty clear to see that that's the case, you can then read back on the sodomic Account. And you could see that perhaps Lot himself had been sodomized in the sense, not that someone did an act to him, but that he had become like those people more than like Like the people of God. You see what I'm saying? Then you can start to read the story through that lens and you can ask, well, what ha how has a person become sodomized? How do they become a sodomite? What's the digression or the descent? Something along those lines? And how does it show up or manifest itself? Well, in both cases, whether it would be well in all of the cases, notice that there's women. And notice that they're mistreated. So he's going to shove his daughters out there? Can you imagine saying such a thing? Right, and then uh the same thing with the concubine, she's shoved out there. And then when you get to John 4, you see Jesus and he doesn't shove her at all. He actually saves her from all of the other men that had been terrible to her, the five others. Remember that mention? So there's uh the canonization starts to manifest itself in the abuse of women and children. That's a main message. You want to know if you're a just society and after the image of God, look at how you are with women and children and the vulnerable. And then If you want to look at what the people of God are supposed to be like, look at that Abraham story. It brings out in a story which is terse in and of itself that when he went to rescue Lot, he's not like Lot because he rescued the women. and the children also. You see all see all that coming together with the total collection? Starts to show you what it means to be a man. Isn't that beautiful? What do you think, Dwayne? Well thanks for wrapping up the concubine party. That was the other piece. Well w now uh what are you thinking? Why why did you frame it that way? Are you thinking that that was too crass to bring up? Well, um that was another situation where it's like what why does God keep having uh showing kindness to Lot when when Lot keeps acting in this way towards those that he's supposed to be protecting her. It's just like okay. And then you I view for me I read it off as you can God is used some for vessels of good and some for vessels of brat and we're supposed to see and watch what not to do, obviously. Um he's a he's a picture of um You know, God brings rain to the just and the unjust. Just because Lot lived doesn't mean that Lot was righteous. Yeah, no, we know that we know he's not because he's following the eastward path. So he's an example of what not what not to Yeah. Yeah, in most of the situations I'd say so. Um did you have any did anything bother you about talking about that concubine here in Mix Company? Didn't anything bother me? Yeah. Mixed company you mean we got some younger guys. Well they need to know this they need to understand um you know it is a wicked and cruel world and uh there's nothing new under the sun so yeah and I would say it just slightly differently uh that's been impressive And that's something that's not coming across in our culture. You watch the rifleman, you know where everybody stands. You're either a a productive, righteous member of the community or you're wicked, and you're either going to get shot or hung. Well lots lots of interesting lots of interesting Mundells because lots was trying to call Sodom wicked when in fact Lot was just as wicked in different ways. So so Lot was trying to you know sound the clone but and At the same time he he he he would have his issue. I guess I guess what curve is playing too. Talks about Sasau Gomorrah and he rescued righteous Lot, greatly distressed by the sensual conduct of the wicked, for as that righteous man tells him righteous twice, lived among the day after day, he was tormenting his righteous soul over the So I don't know now now I don't know what to do. You're gonna need to keep meditating on the total collection. It's that's and that's I love that. Because when you face moral situations, it's not easy. So you reading these stories when they raise those kinds of Like you just did, it's going to make you have to keep building your moral model so that it is complex enough to deal with real actual life. And that's so that's what the scriptures are doing. They're morally training you. Hold on. We had Duane and then we were going to Nick. We're right beyond it now. Okay. I don't know the jump in since you gave me the mic. If it were easy though, we wouldn't go back to God. We wouldn't go back to the Bible for direction. Yeah, and we would have and you really should be talking about it as a community too. You know. And that okay, so then that brings us to let's do Gordon, because he hasn't spoken yet and then Joe. So I I think you brought up some very powerful and thoughtful points that we as men have to consider but I think it always boils back for our current time to put context of contemporary thought and actions against historical relevance. And We are almost in the midst of a darkness that we have probably never seen as as widespread as it has been in the recent years And so the context of what Duane said and he did is is been kind of digging deeper in what do we Do to continue to hold that balance in the midst of the darkness that's invading us on all levels at every turn. In no matter whether it's something you read on this thing or you're seeing it in public schools, universities, work where you have to Yeah. As a Christian you have to confront the fact that you are being to put it in a more humorous way, you've been demonetized. Your your values, your your So how do we how do we stand to that? We can't all be carrying the swords of God in the workplace or in our daily lives and slashing and burning to stand tall in the saddle. So what's our context? How do we how do we put the glue to what we believe? To keep strong among ourselves and our brethren and still be part of what it is we absolutely fear is going to take over. That's the question. It's a good question. It's a question everybody's asking. So, you know, no matter how much we read and no matter how much we delve deeply in it and commit ourselves to believing it, holding it fast, holding it true, practicing. as much as we can fervently with the grace and honor of God have you know foisting us through the armor, through the word, through the power, through lectures. The day-to-day is you are battling ideology that is in direct conflict with the very thing that you are holding fast. and putting forward that you believe and that you confess your your life and your soul to. It's hard to stand tall when you are being told that you'll lose your job or you'll be in a in a a minority position in a organization or in a school where you'll be uh cornered into a place that puts you off books. with other people uh where if you even raise uh no pun intended a flag in Massachusetts you have to go all the way to the Supreme Court just to espouse that right How do we defend? How do we act as a group of men, particularly because God puts that on us? How do we fight a battle where we can't even raise a sword without having to for a sight of literal literacy stand with readiness to to bleed. Yeah. I I mean I don't see that anywhere else. We are coming to a point where we are have to have a a holy war. How do we how do we keep from going into a holy Holy war if we can, and if we do, what do we do? How what is that war supposed to look like? Have you started to answer that in any way? I have, but I don't like where it goes. Do you wanna do you wanna share? No. No, that's a that's a the time for a different Okay. Hmm. Alright. Nick. Okay. So let's apply. Uh uh hold on one okay. Yeah that's fine. Yeah, go ahead if you're gonna pick up what Gordon said. So let's apply. Let's let's go back the Old Testament, um you know when they were they were in captivity, right? Which is worse than we have it now, but I mean it's not the easy answer, but that's the way you're sure you yeah I'm sure you've already So you're thinking of of like a Jeremiah situation where they're to seek the peace of the city? Mm-hmm. Or And the reason why you wanted to do that is because you saw in our situation something analogous to being in captivity. Is that right? Pardon? Are we not? I'm just I'm just hearing his moral reasoning. Are we being demonetized in the cut in the pronounction Of the culture? Are we being put or in an in a more strict sense, are we being off put from society because we view and hold values and and ideology and fervent love and respect for God in our daily lives and a grower a mu a much larger growing percentage of society does not. It holds values that are the antithesis of what we proclaim. Where do you go? You can't keep walking in mud and let it get keep getting it deeper and deeper and deeper. And the next thing you know you are literally sacrificed to that which you are trying to save the rest of the world from. Disney is a great example. I would have never dreamed in all of my lifetime that we would end up seeing Disney where it is I grew up with Disney being this icon of of family fun and entertainment meant just in a wholesome way. But look Look what our society has done to something as simple as an icon that is meant strictly and it was started by a man who all he wanted was good, wholesome family fun. And that these succeeding years have turned it into something that I I just am unbelievably astonished at. And I will not spend one dollar on on it any further. But it points to a larger picture. How do we as Christians continue to fight against something that seems to be getting ever more pervasive, ever deeper, ever darker and more and more confining of us and expanding of the other story most of it. decide how much we are going to work to do what the right thing is in a more fervent and more expository way. Can't just keep pumping our Bibles. We can keep praying. We better damn well keep praying. Yeah. But at what point do you stand up and say enough to enough. Just just raising the flag and saying, I'm an American first policy man, big deal. That's just talk. Talk with But action is talk. You can't save a world if you don't have a plan. God gave us a plan, but if we don't act, what do we do? And that's the question. What is that action? How do we bring it to fruition? Staying at home, making sure your family is solid, praying, being a good Christian man at home, doing the damnest you can to fight off the influences of evil. You can't ask for more than that of any one of us, but collectively as a as a group of men society we darn well better be shoulder tight and figure out what our plan is to defend what is coming and what is here. And it isn't getting any less. Sodom was just a very small small example of where we are. God will eventually have to give either his answer and we'll have to be ready for it, or we have to act in his state. And that's the question, what is that if we do it? Um Gordon? Yeah, so ahead and then uh be Brian and then Darren. No Joe would Joey. Oh Joe, oh sorry. Hey, uh do you mind if Joe goes real quick? I do, but I only watch it when it's on the port like a space launch. Have you ever 30 days and unplug the TV. My my TV doesn't go on unless it's something I really want to watch. I mean that's the whole point. No, it isn't the TV. perspective isn't the TV, but I understand where you're going. I can tell when people watch television. I can tell when people their thumbs have calluses on them. Okay Oh I just it was a simple question. No it's it's a genuine question, but the fact is I haven't I haven't had cable on my TV since 2010. I don't watch any I understand what you're asking. Okay. But that does not that does Does not mute the fact. Well where I'm going is this is Christ said for some things only fasting and prayer. And fasting means giving up I respect what you are saying. Okay. I respect what you are saying. But I am not asking about how we delve into deep further Prayer and commit ourselves to the Word of God, which many of us do on a regular basis in this moment. As it sort of says in the quiet of our home. We do that. But at some point you have to leave the quiet of your home and you have to leave the quiet of a fervent spiritual dedication to the word and step out into the reality of what's outside your front door. Or what's outside of your worship service. Yes. Yep. At that point, that's where my question comes in. Yeah. That's the side of the house. You have control of whatever is being in your home. And you better well manage it. And that's why I said I respect what you're saying. But it doesn't stop from that when I leave the house I can only I can only do certain things. You reference Disney. That was my point, that's all So what you're saying is the the like, for example, the government is much bigger than that. Than us being a home and and taking care of business there. What goes on today is much bigger than that. It is. It's far larger. Yeah. It's far larger, far more expensive and basic. And I think part of Gordon's point, if I'm picking up what he's putting down, is that us here at a men's breakfast continuing to work out the hermeneutic of moral judgments isn't going to change change a one wink of it. It could be a preparation for change, but until until you act, then it will not be done Is that right? Yeah. So we can keep getting better and better at this. We can learn how to read the scriptures real well and nothing will change unless we take what we have been given by God as a kind of equipment. to then go and act outside the walls of the sanctuary? And will we be shoulder to shoulder to do so? And what does the plan look like? Because you can't go out there willy nilly. You'll just be destroyed. Alright, Joe Joe, that's a go f solve our you're gonna solve the question. The New Testament commends people in the Old Testament that there's no apparent sign of repentance. Lot did not write Psalm 51. Same thing with Jepta. He's in the Hebrews Hall of Faith. He killed his daughter on an unrunched on a vow. It there's no I I cannot accept that that God is commending that behavior. I can only reconcile but that they are the members of the covenant community. And and they have faith in the Redeemer, even though their repentance is not explicitly mentioned in the Old Testament. I don't see how else you reckon. I don't think you there's no way you can say that God is commending evil behavior, but he is commending that they are members of the covenant community and they exhibited a life of faith even though it was extremely flawed. Okay. Anyway. about that. Uh that brought us to uh go for it. Going back to your uh reference to uh The Rifleman striped. Yeah, yeah. There was a theme to all of the shows back then. Did you watch The Rifleman? I watched the Riflem I watch I recently watched The Rifleman. Oh you did? Maybe a few years ago. But I used to watch it in the seventies when I was uh eight, nine, ten years old and and and it's a whole diff it looks totally different now because because I'm older now And I have far more understanding. And the theme you talked about, the father uh uh mincer and his son, yeah, all of the shows back then stressed Without saying the importance of fathers. My three sons. Father knows best. Those were the TV shows back then. Leave it to Beaver. right down the line. The father as an institution, I had a conversation with you last uh uh uh time uh last month yeah I told you I study fatherhood. Yeah, that's right. I was grew up without a father and and and I am a fan of fatherhood. Yeah. And when I look into successful people It is fathers. Almost to every super successful person, they had a father that almost raised them from the beginning. To have that kind of success. And the institution of fatherhood is under attack. And it's a real stealthy, sneaky attack. You know they it's it's this this infusion well you know women don't need husbands, children don't need fathers as long as they have mothers. That is That is a message, an overall message being sent by the TV screen. And when I thought uh uh I don't have a TV In the home, but I still get to watch stuff on YouTube. But every now and then I'll turn the TV on when I'm in my dialysis chair. Every dialysis chair has a TV And some days I I just started watching T V again after about a year and a half, August of maybe two twenty twenty. And I said Well let me give it a shot. Because the playoffs is and I want to watch ESPN. Especially the commercials. Some of these commercials so gross and and the hidden messages. I mean I I I I've read books on uh symbolisms, pedophiles Erectile dysfunction seems to be some kind of epidemic now. third commercial is about it. You're not a real man if you can't perform. You know that these are the messages being sent. And as I said before, we're in a language war And when we let them dictate the language we teach, we are capitulating. I've said this before, when when Christian men use Use the word yay. That is a form of capitulation to the homosexuals. The King James Version calls them sodomites, and the New King James uses homosexuals. But the the homosexual stylomite mafia, they you you will lose your job as as Gwen was saying if you start using the language of description that's the that's one uh battlefield we Christian men have to start imposing Christian language on the narrative. Christian uh uh Christian men have to stop using the language that is dictated by the other side. That's that's that's a point that I've and I've I've been steady on that point. Yeah yeah. Thank you Adrian. Brian I think Yeah, something you and Brad have kind of emphasized in a couple sermons is that we're not wrestling against flesh and blood with all these things. We're not trying to save culture and institutions that represent something good. This is a society and things are turning against God Himself. As we look at the spiritual battlefield, we gotta ask ourselves, what are the the um the actual strategies for doing that, like for for doing spiritual battle? And so It's just a good reminder of like what what's our focus is saving souls to worship God forever and be redeemed because that's God's will. You know, God loved the world, and so you know, that's where we want to focus our I hear what you're saying. I'm not sure if I would say it the same way because it seems more complicated than that to me. I I would actually say that Ephesians reference would be something more along the lines of we fight not only against flesh and blood. Because we do see, if we take the whole collection into account, that there are actual demonic and angelic forces which are at work. work. That's one layer. But then the way that they are at work is through cultural influence and manifestation and actual flesh and blood leaders for example. And then when you go out, I don't think there's if you go out according to the Great Commission, take Paul, for an example, he is using the weapons of the word, the shield of faith, all of those kinds of things. He's also being stoned to death There's a very physical component to the whole thing. So whatever we're going to say we're supposed to be doing, we've got to take into account both of those worlds. Because they're present. And we whatever how however we're going to explain our situation, it needs to take all the facts into account. I also don't see us giving the gospel to save a soul. for just eternity. As soon as they that's talking about duration of time. When we are preaching the gospel and the Holy Spirit is given to them to accept the word. eternal life begins right then and there. It's also a quality and kind of life. So as soon as they adopt that life, if they're in a coercive culture, in order for them to express that life and to live truly, they will necessarily come under persecution and pain and difficulty, depending on and it can look in different different ways and and different periods. To be a Christian in the under Nero was to eventually become a candlestick in his garden. They light you on fire. So you see what I'm saying? Um maybe I misunderstood you or something, but I wanted to tell you all those pieces. Okay. Uh-huh. Or we're not after uh although I would call him a co-belligerent. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Um but forget what Oh okay. As we're employing these methods we need to take the Look at the goal, whatever that is. Yeah, whatever that goal is. Yeah. Yeah, that's good. It's not to save Disney, you know. Yeah. I mean it you weren't saying that, but it it's important, yeah. Yeah, that's right. But I do think a natural progression of Christ and his kingdom is to see it institutionalized in some sense. Which you could call just a kind of institutionalization of a particular moral order, and now that institution has been taken over to support another moral order. Right. So I think when I read the scriptures, it looks to me like we should be fighting for Christendom. That all things should be ordered unto Christ. The question is how to do that during the different seasons that the world goes through. What do you do when you're in captivity? That's an interesting question that we haven't really started to answer. Or there's a foundation stone to how to address that with this three-part series. Know the scriptures first and all of it. Like you said Adjudicating a judgment for a small case depends on that case. Yeah. And how do we answer you use the wrong promo today down at the EPA, you're on probation. How do we and then how do we just I have it easy. I work at a Christian organization. So if I pray, they're like, hey, that's cool, versus a guy that's working for the federal government or a Washington State football coach that voluntarily asks if you would like to pray with me after the game, I'm gonna be at the fifty yard line, and then gets fired because he once have voluntary prayer. Yep. There you go. How do we get to the point we realize God's got our back and we need to start standing up for it and I I'm I'm at a Christian school it's easy for me to say that because they're not gonna fuss at me for praying versus someone who is stuck at Disney Because he started there 25 years ago, and now he's like, how do I get out? But I'm 60 years old, I got five years to retirement. How do I honor my God yet continue to Yeah, those are the kind of moral judgments that we're facing. Um I'm really sympathetic to what Gordon is raising. I learned a lot when I was in seminary. This is like seminary. But I didn't really start learning until I got out of seminary. And I actually had to go into the field and start working with actual people. In some sense, when I started working with actual people I felt like I didn't learn anything yet. And I had to start. So I wanna keep I mean I want to use what Gordon was raising it, that's something that's burning in my own soul. What's this gonna look like? What do you want to do? I'm asking a very activist question. And whatever we're gonna do, it shouldn't be stupid. It sh needs to be well planned out. Um Raisin has So that they can very quickly dismiss you and then put you off into a corner so you have no influence. Maybe that's not the best way to go about it, I don't know. It really depends on what you want to do. What do you think God is calling us to do? Right now, we're still operating within their system, which means we operate within a privatized religion. Allow us to come here on Sunday and keep to ourselves. The moment we try to step into the public square is when you're really going to have to learn. But we're not in the public square. If you've noticed. So in our county, we're not given the whole world. In our county, where can we enter into the public square? And then when we do that, then we're gonna have some real conversations. But not until and I think we're gonna learn enough to then pass on wisdom to our children. I mean you know why in that story the father knew how to get take care of a breached calf, right? Because his great grandfather told his father father and his father taught him. And it was collective wisdom down through the ages born from experience. And we're going to need to start getting some of that too. Just have him Book knowledge is not enough. Anyway, I'm preaching, but I'm in the pulpit. It's uncomfortable and we need relief from it now. But you know it's it's the things that we've been taught. You know, it's it's advancing the family and and you know, have have some children, have them faithful, do the things that we're supposed to do and and it will advance the ethics. They they continually do what you know and so forth and that will that ethic will will advance. God will advance that ethic rather than you know since the um back the Old Testament, right? The the King's Food and so forth. They the all the names are escaping me, thank you. Um they they they were gonna get the king's food. They had a special diet. Daniel? Yeah. Daniel We won't pray when you guys say to pray you know because that's that's wrong for us. And they maintained that. And you know, God chose to bless in that circumstance. He may not choose to bless what I do with my family, you know, and and even even in an attempt to be, you know, to be faithful. Uh but that's that's his choice, not mine, you know, and I'm rambling here, but you know the it's the ethics, right? And and maintaining what Yeah. E even though it isn't immediately rewarding, you know, it's I'll let you in on how I think about that. Okay. I think our church and our families are healthy enough and they're healthy for a higher purpose and we need to enter into the public square. We keep trying to dot our I's and cross our T's I think we're good enough to get to work. It's like we're gonna go on a journey and we got everything we need and then we're just still sitting there thinking about what we could disagree with you on that. that it's it's not that we don't go do anything but yeah definitely the the the first base we have to cover and and like you say it's covered it's thousands of families and so forth. And then from then it's you know a small action or whatnot. It's not Um it's not hiding in our homes and hoping that it goes away, you know. Because my question I'm asking is what is the first what is the first action? Because people talk about it as if it's easy. Let's get out there and do it. When you start thinking about that, it becomes very difficult to know what to do. Where to begin and what's the plan. I got my radar up all the time. I don't know. I still don't know. I thought about having uh entire dump truck worth of manure delivered to Stuart Pittman's house and and to call the the news people to be there when it shows up. And the little sign that says you're full of SHIT Pastor, Severn Run Evangelical Presbyterian Church. But I I didn't think that was the right that wasn't the right righteously go to Jewish. So that's that's much easier than chopping the dead body into one piece. Yeah. Uh sorry. One more thing on the files the the followers. Yep, and we'll close we'll close with you. Okay. US News and World Report does statistics periodic and they said the single greatest factor in a child's success success or failure is simply the presence of the biological father. Number two, children who live with their biological fathers are the least likely To be involved in a crime as a perpetrator or as a victim. They don't get had and they don't do anybody. Children who are raised by fathers who teach them about guns are least likely to do a violent crime and if they do a violent crime they are least likely to use They're gonna use some other item. And ninety percent of the black men in prison are raised by single mothers Mm-hmm. That's just you know, so I'll I'll I'll just give you that to think about. Because those are things that those are facts that when you argue certain things about family and fall as an even. And I've only been in the scripture. I was baptized in 2013, so this is my ninth year. In the scripture. These are things that I studied and learned before I came into the church of Christ. And what I'm seeing in my study of the scripture Is the scripture is confirming the downfalls of certain things, the importance of of the family and the father. I think even a book about There are no men in the homes. It's not a home if the man's not in it. But I'll have to check that out. But these are this is a line of this This can help us with a line of reasoning going forward. Okay. Putting together a game plan. One is reassignment Yeah. So that's what we do. If you guys want to uh think in terms of strategy and that kind of stuff for action, uh there's a pretty good book uh called Rules for Reformers. Uh it was written by Doug Wilson, actually. I don't want to adopt everything he says, but it's an interesting book to think through, Rules for Reformers. And uh it's action-oriented So Alright, thank you guys for your time and let's pray. Father, it is the mark of wisdom to know the season in which you We see throughout the scriptures that sometimes you hand the young men a sword and they go out and they conquer the land. There are other times when you told them to plant a garden and to keep the peace. Being a light in that society until the times have turned and you have acted. Lord, these are different models, and there are different models Still. Lord, we ask that you would show us the way in which we should be operating based on the season you have given us. More recently we hear things like the Benedict option or the uh whatever. Lord, we cry aloud to you for wisdom. We believe that you have given it to us in your word. We believe that you have stocked our shelves, so to speak. So that we can be equipped. But Lord, we still need to take a step into the public square. We ask, Lord, that you would show us how to do those kinds of things. We pray that all that you have given to us In our Bible studies, in our upbringing, in our experience, that all of these things would be ushered to a point. Where you may be glorified, and where the foundation may be laid for the youth that is coming as they continue to build the kingdom of God. In the name of Christ. Amen.