Chapter twenty two, and we're going to stand for the reading of his word. And I'll be reading verses thirteen through thirty this morning. Here is God's word for us. Beginning in verse 13 of chapter 22. If any man takes a wife and goes into her and detests her and charges her with shameful conduct, And brings a bad name on her, and says, I took this woman, and when I came to her I found she was not a virgin. Then the father and the mother of the young woman shall take and bring out the evidence of the young woman's virginity to the elders of the city at the gate. And the young woman's father shall say to the elders, I gave my daughter to this man as wife, and he detests her. Now he has charged her with shameful conduct, saying, I found your daughter was not a virgin And yet these are the evidences of my daughter's virginity. And they shall spread the cloth before the elders of the city. Then the elders of that city shall take that man and punish him, and they shall fine him one hundred shekels of silver silver, and give them to the father of the young woman. Because he has brought a bad name on a virgin of Israel, and she shall be his wife. And he cannot divorce her all his days. But if the thing is true, And evidences of virginity are not found for the young woman, then they shall bring out the young woman to the door of her father's house, and the men of her city shall stone her to death with stones. Because she has done a disgraceful thing in Israel, to play the harlot in her father's house. So you shall put away the evil from among you If a man is found lying with a woman, married to a husband, then both of them shall die. The man that lay with the woman and the woman. So you shall put away the evil from Israel. If a young woman who is a virgin is betrothed to a husband, and a man finds her in the city and lies with her, then you shall bring them both out to the gate of that city, and you shall stone them to death with stones. The young woman because she did not cry out in the city, and the man because he humbled his neighbor's wife. So you shall put away the evil from among you. But if a man finds a betrothed young woman in the countryside, and the man forces her and lies with her, then only the man who lay with her shall die. But you shall do nothing to the young woman. There is in the young woman no sin deserving of death. For just as a man when a man rises against his neighbor and kills him, so even so in this matter. For he found her in the countryside, and the betrothed young woman cried out, but there was no one to save her. If a man finds a young woman who is a virgin, who is not betrothed, and he seizes her and lies with her, and they are found out. Then the man who lay with her shall give to the woman, the young woman's fathers uh fathers fifty shekels of silver, and shall be his wife, because he has humbled her. He shall not be permitted to divorce her all his days A man shall not take his father's wife, nor uncover his father's bed. Please join me in prayer. Lord, we ask that you would take these words and give us understanding, and that you would give us a will to accept them in the name of Christ. Amen. And then you may be seated. To make sense of our lives, we tell stories. My question to you this morning, given that fact. Is what story do you tell yourself about your life as a romantic and sexual creature? How do you make sense of it? How do you make sense of your actions and your feelings? Let me raise another question. Is your sexuality private? And you can do what you want as long as you don't hurt anyone around you? What's the harm? That would be the kind of statement you'd make Or I've heard it specifically said like this. If he loves me, and I love him, then why can't we just be together? Or I've heard this from a man. If my wife hasn't paid attention to me for two years, then shouldn't I be able to pursue others? You see, those are the kind of questions that pop up regularly within human minds, both man and woman, both young and old. And in our culture, there are different answers given to those different questions. Different stories told to make sense of the answers. But really, if you think about it, as Rob brought out in the confession, there's really just two stories. There's two main narratives. There are thousands of stories that are made up upon the earth, depending on the age, to explain and to answer those kinds of questions, and then there is one story that comes from heaven. And it gives a totally different explanation, as you can hear within the Deuteronomic passage this morning. I would say that you could really split it into two parts. Are you informed? About your sexuality from below, or are you informed about your sexuality from above? Those are the two options, earth or heaven. Now, what happens if we try and understand our sexuality not from below, but from up on high? Well, that's exactly what we're seeing here within this passage. Although it may sound archaic to you with the kind of terminology Just review last week's sermon, which also initially sounded archaic to you, and it gave you a wealth of vital information for your life as a human being, specifically as a human being owned by God. And so we see a continuation of that same kind of thought. God through Moses has revealed here a heavenly perspective He has done so in the past, if you haven't been with us, he's done so on education, he's done so on m certain marriage situations, he has done so in child raising. He has done so even with the gender dispute and cross-dressing, all have been addressed within here, from God to Moses to us. He even addressed last week ecology, what you're supposed to do with birds and their eggs if they're found unexpectedly in a field. And now we see that no stone is left unturned because here we see expressions of our sexuality. You know, in the past, when we looked for controlling truths to help us orient to anything within our life, there were statements like this in Deuteronomy. You need to love God and you need to love your neighbor. Or he would say, humans are meant to be righteous, only righteous, especially under the leadership of Yahweh. And then last week we used a new term term. Do you remember what the term was? It was stewardship. How do you uphold the designs and purposes of the Creator? And now you get to ask that question, not just with the topics from the past, but here today, dealing with human sexuality. Really, what we have here are six new case studies, seven if you consider the counter case, which we heard. And I want to address each very, very briefly because there are six And then I'm going to pull out some truths and we're going to talk from there. What does, here's the main question for you this morning. What does a righteous sexuality look like? And what does it not look like? There are far more negative examples here within the Deuteronomy passage, so we have to ask that too. What does it not look like? What does it look like to steward even this that God has given to us? Well, let's begin with the very first case study. We're just going to go from case study to case study this morning. And the first one begins in verse 13. If you read it long enough, you'll realize that it should be titled This, The Case of a Bad Name. The first case begins in thirteen. If any man takes a wife and goes into her and detests her and charges her with shameful conduct, and brings a bad name on her and says, now in your scriptures you should have a quotation at this point, because it's the man speaking. This is what he's spreading around the neighborhood. I took this woman, you can imagine perhaps sitting at the uh the neighborhood picnic or pig roast and decides to bring up this topic. I took her, uh, and uh, this is what I found out. And that starts to spread throughout the neighborhood. But you notice, as this continues, that it's not the husband only who has a voice. The father and the mother of the young woman shall take and bring out the evidence of the young woman's virginity. You see, there can be a dispute here that's then brought to the elders, and they the mother and the father can come forward and say This is what this man is saying. He's slandering our daughter, ruining our family name, ruining the name of Israel, and I'm going to bring this before the elders to make sure this is straight. There shall be no evil speaking of my daughter in this situation The father and the mother, in other words, protect their children from expressing their sexuality before marriage and protect her sexual reputation after marriage The husband says things like, I took this woman, she's not a virgin. In verse 15, the father and the mother may take recourse against the slander by providing material evidence. The father, for example, look at verse 17. The father could make this speech. This man lies. Here are the evidences of her virginity. That's a paraphrase. And the elders, seeing the evidence, will find the slandering husband and will recommit him to his wife and restore the wife's name. But you do see the countercase here also in verse 20. What if it's not slander? What if that really is the case? What if it is true what the man has said? Then the wife is to be stoned, verse 21. And she is to be stoned. And this is of great symbolic significance. You know how important symbols are within Deuteronomy, within the Torah as a whole. With great symbology, she is to be stoned in the fr in front of her father's doorstep. Now, when you look at these kind of details in this first case study, I told you I was going to deal with these briefly. We can talk more afterward if you'd like. I'm sure you have a lot of questions about the particulars. I think they're better handled personally rather than for all ages. The details do reveal quite a bit. The greatest emphasis within this passage, this first case study, is that the expression of your sexuality is not a private matter, as you thought. You notice that? In our culture, we would say, well, that's their business. But we don't see it as just a private matter. The father and the mother protect their children from expressing their sexuality before marriage. And they protect her sexual reputation even after marriage. The father and the mother step in to defend her when the husband collapses and slander. Notice in verse 19 the phrase that he that is used within the passage to show you the communal aspect of sexuality. She is not a virgin privately, she is a virgin of Israel. She's a representative of her purity, Israel being a feminine name. She represents the entire nation in their purity to God's designs. Do you see that? It's a communal collapse if there is a collapse. And then when you move into this part where she's found untrue, perhaps, then the punishment is not private. It is public and it is communal. She is shown on her family's doorstep showing that her sexuality was all along the larger responsibility of her entire household. And now the same place where those laws were written on the doorposts, and maybe there was a scroll there by the door showing all of laws. In that same place where that was to be upheld, where the children were to be educated under the mother and the father within that home, she will be stoned at that very place to show who was responsible and who should be taking responsibility for this. The whole family. There's a communal aspect. Man, does that raise questions for us in our culture? As parents and as grandparents, have you taken responsibility for the purity of your family? What about as friends? Have you taken the responsibility for your Christian friends and in their purity? Well, that's the first case study in the countercase. Then we move into a very brief one that I'll give here beginning in verse 22. If a man is found lying with a woman, married to a husband, then both of them shall die. The man that lay with the woman and the woman, so you shall put away the evil from Israel. Moses is now relaying the case of a married. I'll call it the case of the married. Moses relays the case of a man and a married woman found lying together. It doesn't say that the man is married, just says that the woman is, but the fact that there's one that's married sets this off into a specific case study that you can see has grievous consequences. If this happens, then the laws of Israel demand the death penalty for both. Now we've met this situation before in the seventh commandment, and it is called adultery. It is also falling under the tenth commandment, you shall not covet, even your neighbor's wife, and it is outside clearly of the designs of the Creator. You can look at the verses, you can see exactly what it's saying. That adultery is outside of the designs of the Creator. And I want to emphasize that because when a person becomes tempted to commit adultery, they can figure out ways to justify and say, no, God doesn't really care about these things. But clearly he does. He cares about them so much that if they are violated, these designs are so important that there is the death penalty. Think about that. And now we have another case study. This is the case of the betrothed woman. Have you heard that language before? Betrothal? It's not really a part of our culture any longer. But to be betrothed is similar to engagement within our culture. Admittedly, for them, it is far more formal and far more serious. It is a real contract, not just between a man and a woman, it is a contract between two whole families that have agreed upon this. For them to come together where they would be betrothed. In this case, the betrothed breaks the contract with someone who is not the fiance. And as you heard this read, did you notice the details? Take a look at verse 23 with me. If a young woman who is a virgin is betrothed to a husband, and a man now notice these details. Finds her in the city and lies with her. Why add that? And then look at 24. Then you shall bring them both out to the gate of that city And you shall stone them to death with stones, the young woman, because she did not cry out in the city. You see the repetition of the word city here It gives you the emphasis of what's happening. They are in the city, obviously. Verse 23. She did not, verse 24, cry out in the city. And here's the point. I'm sure you've picked it up already. It's that she since she did not cry out for help and she was in close proximity to others where they would have heard her, this becomes evidence for voluntary participation or consent. I imagine the mother and the father teaching a young daughter that if a man ever is in the situation where he's forcing himself on you, you better scream like hell. And that's the kind of situation that we would see here, but there was no screen, and so there was a voluntary participation or consent according to this law And as before, the death penalty is executed. And I want you to notice again the public nature. This keeps being repeated, which is so contrary to our specific culture. It is happening now at the public gates of the entire city. And thus showing once again, not just that a family was responsible, but that a whole city Needs to take part in this. There is a communal responsibility once again to our purity. Doesn't happen at the Father's doorstep, but the gate or the doorstep of the city. And it broadens out the question for us. It's no longer, hey grandparents, hey parents and friends, do you take responsibility? Now it broadens out and it says church community. Are you in some way taking responsibility for the purity of this community? Do you, as a Christian community, Seven Run, protect and nurture the pure expression of sexuality? That's a great question for us. Now we move on to verse 25, which brings us to another case study. We had the case of the bad name. We had the case of the married. We had the case of the betrothed woman, and now we have a tragic situation of the case of rape. Verse 25, but if a man finds a betrothed woman in the countryside and the man forces her and lies with her, then only the man who lay with her shall die. And there's a great contrast that happens between this case study and the case study that we heard before with the repetition of the word city. Notice that the betrothed is not in the city in this case. She's in the countryside. And that changes everything. If a man forces her to lay with her, no one can help. She could scream as loud as she knew how, but no one would be able to hear. Look at verse 27. For he found her in the countryside, and the betrothed young woman cried out, but there was no one to save her. So the man, she is not responsible for this act, and the man, however, is to be treated, verse 26, the same as a murderer. And he shall receive the death penalty. We move into another case study here that seems like the continuation of the rape, but I'm gonna make an argument that it's not. And beginning in verse 28, I'm going to say that we have the case of seduction. Take a look at it closely with me, because the words really matter, as they have all along, but particularly in this case. If a man finds a young woman who is a virgin, who is not betrothed, and he seizes her and lies with her, and they are found out, then the man who lay with her shall give to the young woman's father fifty shekels of silver. That's twice the the price of of uh for original if you were to marry. And she shall be his wife because he has humbled her. He shall not be permitted to divorce her all his days. Depending on your translation, especially if you have the NIV this morning. This literally says when the man rapes her. It is depicted as a continuation of the previous case study. And if that is what it says, then this unravels people. Because basically what you would see here is a law that enforces the rapist marrying the victim. if he pays enough money, which really would add insult to injury beyond belief. Now, if that's what God said, I'd be willing to repeat it. But when it says something like that and you see the grace in all of these other laws, you're forced to look even closer And I think the issue comes down to a single word in verse twenty-eight, which in the NIV I believe, I believe it's the NIV, is translated right, but here in verse twenty-eight in my translation it says, seizes her And I think that's good that they left that more ambiguous so that you'd have to search it out. The word is definitely there. I'm not going to say the word's not there in the Hebrew. That would be easy. Easy, but it's there, and it says seizes. The word is definitely there and it does denote a kind of grasping or holding. But I don't think seizing here is in the sense of rape. First, I believe that this passage is a restatement of a case from Exodus. And I want you to turn there just so you can have this in mind. In Exodus chapter 22, verse 16. It's right after Genesis. It's Exodus twenty-two and in verse sixteen. Notice that it's the same situation. If a man entices a virgin Who is not betrothed and lies with her, he shall surely play the bride price for her to be his wife. And I believe that this is a repetition of that same law that we see within Exodus, that this is why I call it the case of seduction. The second reason why I believe that is that the word seizing is actually used elsewhere within the scriptures for an act of seduction. And we can see this in Genesis chapter 39, verse 12. And I do appreciate it, I don't mean for you to be bothered by this, but let's turn to Genesis 39 together. Verse 12. And I'll read it for you from my translation. But it happened about this time. We're all very familiar with this story. But it happened about this time when Joseph went into the house to do his work, and none of the men of the house was inside that she seized him. by the garment, saying, Lie with me. But he left his garment in her hand and fled and ran outside. See, I see this as an act of her seeking to seduce him, which fits quite well with the repeated exact case study that we see within Exodus chapter 22. And I'm not the only one to make this argument. That's a case of seduction, then, and you can see what is required of such things. Lastly, we have in verse 30 the case of incest. And you I'll just read verse 34 you. A man uh uh vr a man shall not take his father's wife, nor uncover his father's bed. And both of these are repetitions from a previous law within Leviticus 18, 6, and 7. And there's an overarching concern within that section. And that has to do with how closely we are related to other people and our relationship with them. And you can look at that section. It's called Kinship Law. You can look at at those passages yourself. But it says, for example, none of you shall approach anyone who is near of kin to him to uncover his nakedness. That's the kind of language used for sexuality. I am the Lord. The nakedness of your father or the nakedness of your mother you shall not uncover. She is your mother, you shall not uncover her nakedness. And it goes through and it names aunts or uncles or cousins or how however uh close or far away the relations. Now those are the six case studies that we have before us And they deal, if you want to put it this way, with the limits. Do you see the boundaries that are maintained and the limits that are placed? Just as last week was dealing with boundaries and limits. So too we see in these six case studies the limits of our sexuality. In the case of the bad name, God reveals that our sexuality is meant for marriage. Did you notice that? It's the implication actually in all of them, between man and woman, husband and wife. That's the intended design of our Creator, is that is where it will take place To be with someone else's spouse is against God's designs. It's reiterated again here. To be with someone's fiance is against righteousness. Rape is unrighteous and is as grievous as murder. One night stands and seductions are not God's intent for human sexuality. Incest is unlawful. In all the examples, in one way or another, There is truth in the fact that sexuality is private between husband and wife, but in another sense we learn this truth, that sexuality is not private. Whether it is the immediate parents or the whole city, the community of God's people, take responsibility for the purity of their children in these particular ways. And it raises major questions that we've already asked within the sermon: like, how are we protecting our children and our fellow church members? From breaking the boundaries and going beyond the limits that we see here in sexual misconduct. Is the question really even being asked? Inevitably, I think folks have a really tough time making sense of a biblical sexual ethic. And there's some of the data for it right here. This is what we're doing. We're building, through these case studies, a biblical sexual ethic. And most people would see this as entirely irrelevant. Can you imagine Seeing uh a teenager struggling and you decide to send up a time to sit down and talk to them about a biblical sexual ethic, and you open these passages from Deuteronomy, the kind of looks they're going to give you And yet they're not to be despised. There's so much here, even as we saw last week, so much there. Most would say that this is primitive and we've evolved past these Old Testament times. And yet, you know, the interesting thing is that if you were to turn to the pages of the New Testament, you'll find all of the same law. All of the same examples given for the Christian community. The other thing that we see And hear about when we talk about a biblical sexual ethic, where the laws are so clearly laid out here as to what the limits are, what you should or you should not do, the kind of relationships you should be in with who. The other thing that's that people end up saying is that Christians are uptight and they want to ruin everybody's fun. And we finally have broken free from such chains and that sexual straitjacket we were in, and we need to continue to ride the wave of the sexual revolution from the 60s. We don't need to go back to that. But there's a couple responses that we have to deal with with those kinds of rebuttals. First, we have to be very clear that these teachings did not originate with Christians. Remember, what I'm claiming here from this pulpit. Is that these are teachings from above, not from below? This is what God has revealed. And I just have a couple questions for you. If God made the ear, does he know how it's supposed to work and what it's for? And just continue the analogy in your own mind. What are the contexts? He as a desire clearly tells us what those contexts are. It did not originate from us. It is from God. So here's the question that you really need to ask if you're going to ask that first question about Christians being uptight. Here's the question. Is God approved? Is God trying to ruin fun? Does God hate sex? Is he like the church lady on Saturday Night Live? Now this is what I would like to do. You know what I would love is just to spend the rest of this afternoon and exposite song of songs for you, holding nothing back, and watch all your faces blush. And watch all the little kids and the moms usher the little kids out the door very quickly, because they're not ready to hear any of that. Oh, our God encourages far more fun than you realize And I would encourage you when you think it is appropriate and if you would like to talk about it, that's fine too. Read Song of Songs. And I give this challenge to you. When you understand what the symbols mean in the book. Try not to blush. Here's the other thing that needs to be said about a passage like this. Most people, I would say all, in this room have violated one or more of the laws within this passage There are other laws that are even stranger with regards to our sexuality, and there are some people in this room that have violated even those. And if you think that you're exempt from this, remember the sermon from the seventh commandment. That Jesus takes it a step further, which isn't really a step beyond the intent of this passage. He just brings out everything that was meant to be had to begin with. And he says that even if you have lusted in your thoughts, then you have committed adultery. And you could go on with the rest of these, not just adultery, but all the other ones too, in terms of your thought life. We all fall short before a passage like this. And don't forget the teachings of Jesus, where he shows us just how far we fall short. The question that I want to ask everybody here, do not answer this aloud. Where have you broken the sexual limits of God's designs? And I pray that the Holy Spirit would remind you of where you have. So you would remember who you are before God and who you are relative to the people around here. Number one tr you want to hear a major truth you need to accept today? I don't care how long you've been in church, I don't know how many suits you have and if you're wearing a tie today. You have, as a sexual being, no right to look down your nose in condemnation upon someone else with a checkered sexual past because you are just as sinful as them. You can correct them, but not from down your nose. You stand as a sinner beside them. We need to speak the truth, but not with a haughty spirit, forgetting who we are. That's the question. Where do you break the sexual limits of God's design? Where are you still doing so? Everyone has. And the biblical sexual ethic, perhaps more than any other, exposes the unrighteousness of our hearts If the Lord Jesus Christ showed up and he brought an HD TV and he showed your sexual life and your thought life on that TV in front of all of us, everybody here would be ashamed. And you know it. God gave Moses these commands, and Moses gave these commands to the people face to face. If you keep reading, this group of people here who received it who received it in a different way than you're receiving it right now. This group of people in this text will corrupt their sexuality in every area and more It will be one of the major reasons that God removes them from the promised land. These sins expose everybody Whether you are an Old Testament Jew or you are someone from any other nation, we will have to ask this question before these kinds of verses. How in the world will you be forgiven and become pure before a holy God with your sexual past? Or take it a step further, in the way that you have not responsibly managed your family and your friends in their sexual past. How will you? And it is in the light of these passages that we hear the good news most gladly. When we ask this question, how may we be forgiven by God for our sexual choices? And can we be restored? The answer, of course, is that God the Father has given Jesus the Christ and his death, his resurrection, and his ascension for both forgiveness and restoration. I remind you of a passage in Luke chapter seven verse forty-eight, and I'd like you to look at that with me very Briefly, I just want you to have this passage in your mind for today as you think about your own life. I'm not going to read the whole section. It's Luke chapter seven, verse forty-eight. And it really is kicked off with Jesus meeting with tax collectors and sinners, which included prostitutes. And he asks Simon a question in verse 43, and he says, I suppose the one and and saying which will forgive uh Who will love more, one who has forgiven more or less. And it is Simon that says, I suppose the one whom he forgave more. And he said to him, You have rightly judged. Then he turned to the woman, who was presumably a prostitute at his feet, and said to Simon, Do you see this woman? I entered your house, you gave me no water for my feet, but she has washed my feet with her tears. And he continues, and then he says in verse forty eight, at most Important thing. And I need you to hear this. Oh repentant ones. Oh those wanting to shed their sexual path and to be forgiven from God. Or to remember their forgiveness in verse 41, Jesus Christ has the power to say this: your sins are forgiven. Even those are forgiven. And I'll remind you also, we won't turn to this passage, but I'd encourage you to take a look at it again. In 1 Corinthians chapter 5 The very case of incest that we see within Deuteronomy is amongst that congregation where a young man has chosen to be with his stepmother. And Paul does he confronts the sin head on. And the man is removed from the congregation. But then through the grace of Jesus Christ and the sending of a spirit of repentance, this young man in 2 Corinthians is restored to that congregation He is gathered back in in full repentance. And that answers the part of the restoration. He is disciplined. He's given over to Satan, it says that he would be brought back. And so we have here both from Luke and from 1 Corinthians chapter 5: we have forgiveness offered to our crazy sins that we have committed. And we have the promise of restoration. Disciplined to repentance and then restored to live and sexual righteousness. Forgiveness and righteousness. are through Jesus Christ. Here's the good news that not many people say these days, even and especially for your sexuality. And I ask that as you move and operate within your forgiveness, that you would consider once again the biblical sexual ethic that is given to us, not just within Deuteronomy, but across the pages of the New Testament. God cares about you as a sexual being. And remember that he is the one that has designed you And when we receive his words from above, we receive the truth, and in truth, there is life. Please join me in prayer. Father, we thank you that you really do leave no stone unturned. There are so many questions that we still may have that you're haven't addressed in these case studies. But we know that your word does address them all. And we pray that you would get a conversation going that is intelligent, that is competent, that takes your word seriously. with regard to your biblical sexual ethic, especially amongst your church, that you would get us establishing that again. Lord, we ask that you'd help us, especially in the midst of our culture and the revolution that it is going through, pray that you'd help us to shore up the foundation. The pillar, for we are the church. And may the truth come from us that rests upon the apostles and the prophets and the chief cornerstone, Jesus Christ. Lord, we ask that if there are those out there struggling severely and having trouble making any progress As Christians who are sexual beings, we pray that you would bring them those to walk alongside them and to help them. We pray, Lord, for those who feel shame but don't know what to do with it, that they would bring it before you And that they would repent and they would believe, and that you, Lord Jesus Christ, would throw all their sins into the sea. And you would give them an assurance of salvation and show them progress in this area of life. We ask these things in your name. Amen.