Likewise, deacons must be reverent, not double-tongued, not given to much wine, not greedy for money, holding the mystery of the faith with a pure conscience But let these also first be tested, then let them serve as deacons, being found blameless. Likewise their wives must be reverent. Not slanderers, temperate, faithful in all things. Let deacons be the husbands of one wife, ruling their children and their own houses well For those who have served well as deacons obtain for themselves a good standing and a great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus. Let us pray. Oh Lord, we are sick and tired of disorder and the spirit of this age. We are so thankful that you've brought us into a different order You have brought us into your a state of salvation. And so we are looking to be instructed as much as possible, not only in our minds, but in our hearts, as to how you have set up the world. What is it that you are doing? And may we conform like clay to your will. I ask that you would use your preached word today to accomplish just this, and that you would really just use everything for the good of your congregation unto your glory. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Though Christ is in heaven, he in fact has hopes for us on earth. And in that hope, for the purposes of Christ, he sends us some men to bring those hopes to fruition. But he does not just send you any men to bring those hopes to fruition. He brings you certain men. And that is why a church, a healthy church, is marked by appointing certain men, men who desire to do good works, to the eldership. A healthy church is a church that appoints men who desire to do good works to the position of good elder. That's what we learned. That was our doctrine from last week. And now we're moving into the second office, which is the deacon. And I have a few observations for you and then a few points of application. So I ask that you please follow along with me now in the scriptures. And let's just begin with verse number 8. This is a faithful saying. If a man desi I'm sorry, likewise, deacons must be reverent, not double-tongued, not given to much wine, and not greedy for money. You can see that Paul is continuing in the same mindset and the same spirit as the earlier paragraph. He outlines the qualifications of the deacon, which is another office. He begins with personal characteristics, doesn't he? When you look at that list, a good way to group that together is these are the personal characteristics that should be a part of these men. He mentions, for example, that a deacon should be reverent. This is a word meaning worthy of respect. This is not just because they wear a three-piece suit. This is because of, remember, these are characteristics. A person with these characteristics often does wear a three-piece suit. suit I find in my own life. They are dignified. They are people of excellence. They act appropriately and fittingly to the situation. He goes on, and he says that deacons, in addition, should not be double-tongued. Their speech should be exemplary, actually. They are not liars. They are not flatterers. They are not troublemakers. One of the best ways to start trouble in a congregation is with the tongue. Even though it is small, like a spark, it can set the whole forest on fire, isn't that right? According to James. And so he brings that out as a personal continu uh personal characteristic And then he continues even further in verse 8 saying that they have got to have self-control. They've got to have self-control in the way that they handle alcohol. And I would say this would lead us by way of inference to just about every item in life. And that would include money. And you could see that this would be particularly important because the deacon is going to be the one who is in charge of the congregational treasury, so to speak. So we don't need someone who's inclined towards fraud. That can happen. We hear reports of that happening sometimes within churches. That's the first observation that I want you to see is that Paul outlines the personal qualifications The next thing he's going to do is he's going to outline the church qualifications, or if you want to be fancy, the ecclesiastical qualifications of the deacon. He mentions specifically that they should hold the mystery of the faith with a pure or a clear conscience. You can see this in verse 9 if you want to know where that is in your Bible. He says this in 1 Timothy chapter 3. He'll go on to talk about what this mystery is. We use the word mystery as saying, well, we don't know what happened. But that's not how the word mystery is being used here. This is the plan that actually has been disclosed or revealed That revealed divine plan of redemption is the plan that they are not to be ashamed of. They are to have a pure conscience about it. We see this use of it, for example, in 1 Timothy 3, verse 16. He says And without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness, and we'll I'll preach on this in a few weeks, but the mystery of godliness he then outlines It all actually looks like a hymn of some sort. And he says, God was manifested in the flesh, he was justified in the spirit, he was seen by angels, preached among the Gentiles, believed on in the world, and received up in glory. So you can see it's this, if you wanted to be really specific, it's especially the mystery of the incarnation. But the mystery of the incarnation is situated and located with a larger plan that the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit are unfolding and accomplishing or executing in the world, both in heaven and in earth. And he's saying here, therefore, that the deacon should not be ashamed of this message. The mystery of the faith is the good news, and they should not be ashamed of the good news for the gospel. The deacons must have a pure conscience about this faith. They must not, in other words, suppress the truth in unrighteousness because they may feel ridiculous around some people in the community. Do you remember in Titus when there were certain men going into households and subverting the entire family? The same thing could happen if you had a deacon who was did not have a pure conscience about the faith. He's in your private life. That's part of his office. And the last thing you need is a snake in your private life. You don't need someone to tempt you away because secretly they are ashamed of the gospel. You need someone to strengthen you, especially when you're being being subjected to ridicule. That's some of what's going on here. That's the spirit from which Paul is speaking. I'm sure that he has in mind, or I am let me put it this way, just to I imagine that that Paul has in mind here that we definitely should not have people like Hymenaeus and Alexander as deacons. Do you remember the description that he gave of them? He spoke of them a little bit earlier in this same letter, and then he's going to speak about them again in the second letter. He says that because th that they have uh shipwrecked their faith, And that they have burned their conscience. That's some of the language that he uses. He says about them in 2 Timothy 2. 18. They have strayed concerning the truth saying that the resurrection is already passed and they overthrow the faith of some people. You see that? You don't want that in an officer. You don't want that in an officer. You want the officer to hold with a pure conscience all of the faith. Now in verse 10 You can see, take a look at verse 10 and see that there's this kind of follow-up with reference to all of these things. You can see that these men should be those who are tested in these matters And they are found blameless. That's the whole idea. Now, this is a public test. This is a test where you would check with uh perhaps their co-workers. And all of these things apply to the elder, by the way. You would check with their co-worker, you would check with their families, you would check with maybe some of their extended family, and you would find out How this, what is the fruit of this person in each of the domains of their life? This is one way. That's the idea of blamelessness. This is a public recognition of the character of this person. They are, if we were to look at the qualification that we saw in the elder portion, they are not novices. They are not novices. They have gone through some things, and they came out the other end, by God's grace, even stronger in the faith, actually. They are proven in the sense of gold being proven. They are proven to truly embrace the faith and to have exemplary character. They're not perfect, I'm not saying that, but you can see why we would want this. And if you can, I'm going to follow up on this point a little bit later. So here's the third observation He then he has talked about the personal character or qualifications of the deacon. He's talked about the ecclesiastical qualifications of the deacon. And now he's going to move into what's say the family qualifications or the familial qualifications of the deacon Here, he begins with a parenthetical moment. And I don't know if you've ever seen this before, but he starts by giving direction To the wives of deacons. Now, if you have some questions about that reading of this particular passage, let's please just talk with me. I have lots to say about it. I don't want to say it right now He starts with a parenthetical moment to give direct commands to the wives of deacons, and this applies to any officer. And you'll see why a little bit later. He says about them that they have got to be reverent and dignified themselves. That they sh and then he starts to get in some of these particulars. They can't be gossips They can't be troublemakers. They can't have a lack of self-control with their mouth and what they choose to share. They can't be oversharers. They should have self-control or temperance, and they should be faithful or reliable in all things. And you can see why this is the case, because the deacon is a part of the private lives of the congregation. And therefore, he cannot have a wife that is not trustworthy with the details, or let's call it this The fine China of our lives. Whoever is going to be holding the fine China of our lives, they must be trustworthy. And what are we going to do when because of some marital argument, you show up at the deacon's house at 3 a. m. and we have a wife who likes to tell all her friends, guess who showed up at my house at 3 a. m. And the worst thing that could happen, of course, is for that to blow up on social media of some sort. That would be horrible. So you can see why Paul would bring these kinds of things off and speaking about familial qualifications He has a parenthetical moment beginning with the wife. And then he continues on. He continues on as to what else needs to be a part of the diaconate. They need to be a good husband. We could talk about the details of that. That he must be also a good father, and we could talk about what the details are are of that. But I think you have a good sense of what that's supposed to look like. If not, please speak with me. And now we come to the fourth observation. Finally, Paul ends with an encouragement for men aspiring to this good work. I love that Paul ends with reward. I love that he ends with reward here in verse 13. He says, those who serve well as deacons gain a position of honor. And great boldness. And I think this is especially referring back to the way that we see social esteem within the book of Proverbs. That would have been a part of this culture And so they would have gained great social esteem among the church, and most importantly, before God Himself. Uh you should be thinking of the phrase, well done, good and faithful servant, and just how important that is to hear that kind of affirmation or acknowledgement after all the hard work that you've put in. And hearing that from your children or hearing that from your community and what comes along with that kind of social esteem, I think is worth working for, honestly. I don't think you should be ashamed of that at all. It's worth working for social esteem That's all over the scriptures. Think of Boaz and how his efforts to serve Ruth and the rest of the community are perpetually recorded for us that we might always hold him in esteem. I mean he's leading into David and David's leading into Christ, but Boaz is still there. And may we and our reputations still be there in a good way if we serve as deacons And so here is our doctrine this morning. It's real simple, which is always better. A healthy church appoints qualified men to the office of deacon. A healthy church appoints qualified men to the office of deacon, and we've given you some qualifications here So, what I'd like to do now is I'd like to look at the common sense of this teaching, the common solution to this teaching, and an uncommon observation. Let me say that again. Common sense, common solution, uncommon observation. Now, when I get in the car, my daughter's going to say, You went too fast, so I don't have the doctrine written down. So let me say it one more time. A healthy church appoints qualified men to the office of deacon. Common sense, common solution, and an uncommon observation. So let's just begin with the common sense. I want us to see that if you were there deliberating with Paul what to write in this letter, you would see that he's really writing things that are commonsensical. He's what he's doing, he's putting together a list of qualifications that make sense in relationship to the purpose or the task that these men will have to accomplish. Let's rewind for a moment and just to warm up to the idea of Deacon, let's rewind and go back and consider the common sense of these qualifications in relationship to the elder. If you reviewed the list of the qualifications from Timothy and from Titus, you would see that they make sense relative to the tasks and In the situations that these men are going to have to face. Now, where would you find those situations? In the scriptures Is there any place where we where it's revealed this is what they're going to have to do? This is what it looks like on the ground to serve as a soldier of Christ Within these offices. Well, one place that you could go, I wonder if you thought of this, is Acts chapter 20. In Acts chapter 20, that's particularly pertinent Because in Acts chapter 20, Paul is giving instruction to the Ephesian elders, and Timothy is serving in Ephesus. And so here we can see a little bit of the background of what's going on. Paul gives them a charge in Acts chapter 20, verses 28 through 31. It's instructive to keep reading. Perhaps you could do that over your Lord's Day sandwich. And this is what it says. It says, therefore, Paul is speaking to the elders. He's gathered them all together. After he's done his speech, he's going to drop to his knees and they're going to pray over him. And then he's going to be off. And this is what he says to the elders, some of what he says. Therefore, take heed to yourselves and to all the flock, among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers All the same language from Timothy. To shepherd the church of God, which he purchased with his own blood. For I know this, that after my departure, savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock. Also, from among yourselves, men will rise up, speaking perverse things to draw away the disciples after themselves. Therefore, watch and remember that for three years I did not cease to warn everyone night and day with tears. Now this needs to be an addendum or an appendix all in these letters to Timothy and to Titus. This helps us to see and to give some color as to what is going on there and what these men are going to be up against. And here's my point. If you go back over the list for the elder or the bishop, then you will see that the qualifications match their purpose coupled with the situations that they are going to face. He needs shepherds that can face the wolves, but it's not literal. He's using that as imagery, which is authorized throughout all of the scripture. To paint a picture for you as the kind of carnage that is going to be done and attempted. And the same thing can be said of the deacons. If you want to see more about, you could review the lists of qualifications for the elders and you could see how they had to stand up against these wolves. So they needed to be bold in the faith. not not have a a a quivering conscience, but uh a solid and pure conscience. They needed to know how to stand up against attacks They needed to know how to defend. All of this language is a part of the Timothy and Titus lists for the elder, and we can find the same kind of common sense In the formation of these qualifications, if we look for other passages that give us the backstory for the deacons. Now, if you had to find a backstory for the deacons, where would you turn within your scriptures? I wonder if immediately inside of your head a light bulb went off and written on the light bulb in blue ink is Acts 6. Acts chapter 6, starting in verse 1. Now let me read that to you. Now in those days when the number of the disciples was multiplying, There arose a complaint against the Hebrews by the Hellenists because their widows were neglected in the daily distribution. Let's stop there for a moment. That's Act 6. 1. Let me just make a few remarks about that. This is interesting on multiple accounts, even more than I'm going to mention here. The daily distribution If you were to read the rest of Acts, it was from a common treasury of food, which the people had gathered so that everyone had what they needed. There was no lack. And in this particular case, as you heard, that treasury of food was being distributed in such a way to where some of the widows were neglected Now that's a serious thing within that culture. For us, if we were neglected by some kind of common treasury, we would go to Mission Barbecue. They didn't have that option. Now, how are they going to solve this? And this continues the rest of Acts 6-4. The apostles put together a plan. This is what they say. Then the twelve summoned the multitude of the disciples and said, It is not desirable that we should leave the Word of God and serve tables. Therefore, brethren, seek out from among you seven men of good reputation, full of the Holy Spirit and wisdom. Whom we may appoint over this business, but we will give ourselves continually to prayer and to the ministry of the Word. Let me make a few other observations here Did you see that some are going to serve the tables? That word serve in the Greek is deacon Now, before you jump to conclusions that I want you to draw, interestingly, within this passage, when we get down to the elder, when he says, But we will give ourselves continually to prayer and to the Ministry of the Word, the word ministry there is also deacon. And this brings out a point about the word deacon is that it's most often just used generally for the sense of service. Service of all different kinds. In our passage in 1 Timothy, it has a technical meaning in terms of an office, and we could talk about that more if you'd like I just want you to see here that according to Acts chapter 6, 1 through 4, there is a division that is taking place. Some are going to serve tables, and some are going to serve with the word. And there it is. We see this distinction arising up within the church by way of apostolic authority and the election of the brethren. There's a presbyterial system right here In this passage, thank you, God. And that continues forward within 1 Timothy as Paul applies the same structure. And so here's the picture. Christ will give to his church men who are accountable for two main acts of public service for the common good of the church. Some men will focus on ruling teaching and coupled with prayer. And prayer is oftentimes a petition to God to bring the judgment that they have ruled upon, actually. A lot of prayers are lawsuits. And other men will focus on serving the physical property and the needs of the congregation, like the distribution from a food treasury to widows. And there we see this double division that carries forward in all of these letters. Now, when you realize that the deacons, and but this is my main point When you realize that the deacons have the task of managing the congregation's treasury and working with the congregation when they are in moments of vulnerability and need. And working with people who are by definition in that society vulnerable, the widows, you can see the common sense of the list of qualifications that are given in 1 Timothy. That's the first point, is that this is common sense. But I want you to see that this is not only common sense, these qualifications, and that's supposed to help you because then you can start to use your common sense according to the general rules of the word, to determine who you should elect to an office, whether it be elder or deacon. But there is also a common solution I hope that you've noticed that when Paul is teaching, he is not an innovator. I actually had someone say to me very early on in seminary That Jesse, if you come up with anything new after all of your studies in seminary, you can guarantee that you're a heretic We are not called to be innovators. We are not called to be innovators. Now he's being funny. There is a way in which some things can be new. or insights, but we're not going to add to the faith. If we do, then let us leave. He's not being innovative, and we've seen that Paul is not innovative throughout all of the preaching that I have done. I've sought to show you that when they are speaking, especially within the New Testament Testament, they are developing things from the old. That there is a kind of continuity, and that Paul stands, or if you want to imagine him in an inner tube, he floats down the same stream as the rest of the saints that have been given or have to whom God has disclosed themselves. And that is the same thing here with deacons and elders Take, for example, Paul's teaching on the social roles of men and women in the church and the home. He says that a woman is not authorized by God Himself to have authority over a man in particular situations. Is that an innovation? Where no no, that's right. No, no. Man, we got some good kids around here. Tell you what. No, no. No, what does he do in the argument in the same letter? He points us back to the second and the third chapter of Genesis, showing us that this has always been the way that God has ordered things. And we call that the created order. So that's an example of Paul not innovating, but drawing upon the long-term holy tradition to show societal order. And he's doing the same thing here Same thing here with elders and deacons. The roles which you see in the elder and the deacon match the roles of the priests in the Old Testament In the priesthood, God created two main roles, and in each of these roles, they were performed by different families or priesthoods. Perhaps you're not aware of this, but there is an air-eronic priesthood Coming from Aaron, and he is going to be in charge, let's just summarize it in terms of the sacrifices. But then there is a priesthood that is flowing out of the Levites. And if you look at the description of what their duties are relative to the people, they are not doing the same thing as Aaron and his family. They take care of educating the people. They take care of ruling and doing dispute resolution. They take care of the physical property of the people. They're actually the overseers of the entire treasury of Israel. And they seem to be the ones who took care of the vulnerable in the community. I hope you can begin to see the relationship there. Now, human beings like to make relationships where there are none. What makes what can give you some confidence that I'm not drawing a false analogy Well, here's one way for you to know that my analogy is real. During this Lord's Day, take some time to look at 1 Corinthians chapter 9 Verses 13 through 14, and you will see that Paul likens himself to a Levite who is meant to be supported by the congregation with food, since he does not have time to work. And a because he's d devoted to the ministry of the word in prayer. The reference that he gives is to the Old Testament with the Levites. That's how he views He's using that as the framework and the model to understand his role as a kind of separate of the church. And the same thing can be said for the deacon What you see, therefore, in the New Testament is the continuation and the authorization by the apostles of a model from the Old Testament on how the church should be structured. Within the leadership of the church, there is a division of labor. And that division of labor is set in motion to make sure that someone is responsible for the main two main needs of the church, both spiritual and physical. And so this is not an innovative solution. This is a common solution in continuity with the solutions that God gave to his people in the past. So that now moves us, we've had the common sense, we've had the common solution, and now we've all been waiting for the uncommon observation. And here it is. When you look through the scriptures at the work of the Levites, you will notice that although only males are ordained to the priesthood The women are participating in the work. So let me say that again. When you look through the scriptures at the work of the Levites, You will notice that although only males are ordained to the office, just as we see here in 1 Timothy, the women are participating in the work. When you have the opportunity, take a look at Exodus chapter 38, verse 8 sometime. They are called the assembling, or more properly, the serving women. And then if you want to see the same qualities within a uh A woman who stands for all women. You would look at Proverbs 31, verse 20, and you would see that it says this about her. She extends her hand to the poor. Yes, she reaches out her hands to the needy. The same kind of act that the Levite is meant to be doing. Here, her work overlaps with the official function of the Levites. We should not be surprised, therefore, based on my earlier argument about continuity. We should not be surprised to find, therefore, many women in the New Testament era Characterized as serving women in the New Testament, helping along the apostles and the elder and the deacon. I encourage you to look at Romans chapter sixteen, verses one and two, for example, at Phoebe. She ends up being a pristine example. Paul commends her in this passage. Some have tried to use her to establish an office of diaconus I can understand why they would do that, but they have the narrative wrong. I would say the best translation is that she is described as a serving woman. And then look at the rest of the list after her. There's a bunch of other women that are serving too. And that is the case throughout every era, is it not? Don't we always look around within the Christian community? community and women are always up to all kinds of good things. I think I'm doing a a great work by finally getting down to the hospital to visit somebody who's who's uh undergone some kind of sickness or severe health concern and I get in there and I I'm worried about them being lonely and once I get in the room and I hold their hand they say to me, three women have already been there That's the case in every era, and you can see it on the pages of the New Testament. Look at that final chapter in Romans, chapter 16, that roll call. Of all those different women that are serving, just like we see the assembly of women outside of the tabernacle gates in the book of Exodus. and some other places. So what you end up seeing here is a continuation, not an innovation again. And this can be an uncommon observation. There's one more uncommon observation that I'll use just to support what I'm saying here about women assisting, especially the diaconate. Did you know that in our Book of Church Order, chapter 9, Article 7, that it says the same thing? Here is how it reads. It is often expedient that the session of a church should select and appoint godly men and women. of the congregation to assist the deacons in caring for the sick, the widows, the orphans, the prisoners, and others who may be in any distress. or need. The elders appoint. And what do you think from our passage the elders will use to appoint such a person to help the deacons? at least the list of qualifications for the deacon's wife. So again, it's not just going to be any woman, just like it's not any man. But there we see that captured in terms of expediency. I think there's biblical wisdom. It's in line with the general rules of the word that there would be assistance, both male and female. to the deacons to help with the sick, the widows, the orphans, the prisoners, and others who may be in any distress or need. I actually will go so far to say I think the power the diaconal ministry is more powerful With the women involved. And the reason why I say that is because there have been many situations that I myself have been in trying to care for those who are in distress in various forms And I tell you, sometimes when the woman walks in the room and the way that she knows how to talk or to hold a hand, or if the topic is sensitive and embarrassing to talk to me about. I'm so grateful that the Lord Jesus Christ has brought that woman into the room to do that kind of work. We need to think about those kind of things Whether it's from Scripture or from our book of Church Order, we need to draw upon the wisdom from the past. Well, our main teaching today is this. A healthy church appoints qualified men to the office of deacon. It is my hope that you can see that the qualifications are based on common sense They're based on their role within society and the kind of things that they're going to face. I also hope that you can see that elders and deacons are a common solution. They're not innovative. They are continuous with models that we see within the Old Testament. And I hope that we can make common the uncommon observation that women have always been at the center of the work of the church. Just like Phoebe. It actually should be an aspiration of the women. This should be like Phoebe or Tabitha, for example So whether we are elders or deacons or men or women, each in their proper order, may we, under the power of Christ, fulfill the societal vision of Christ. And I leave you with this vision, and you can look at this later also. Psalm chapter 68, Verses 9 and 10, you can read on your own. I will give you a shortened version of it. Psalm 68, 9 and 10, it says this. This is a beautiful vision, whether you want to be an officer or not. This is the vision for human life. You, O God, sends a plentiful rain. You, O God, provided from your goodness for the poor. If I had time, I would show you that the rain is the Holy Spirit. And that in the case that we speak this morning, the Holy Spirit gives gifts of service. To deacons and to serving women who assist them. They are like the rain on a field And it is from their work and the gifts that the Holy Spirit has given to them that they raise up fruit and health and order, especially among the sick. and especially among the friendless, and especially among those who are distressed, and especially the widow. Amen. And praise be to God that He sends this rain. Let us pray