1 Timothy 3, 1 through 7. This is a faithful saying: if a man desires the position of a bishop, he desires a good work A bishop then must be blameless, the husband of one wife, temperate, sober minded, of good behavior, hospitable, able to teach, not given to wine, not violent, not greedy for money but gentle, not quarrelsome, not covetous, one who rules his own house well, having his children in submission with all reverence For if a man does not know how to rule his own house, how will he take care of the Church of God? Not a novice, lest being puffed up with pride he fall into the same condemnation as the devil Moreover, he must have a good testimony among those who are outside, lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil. Let us pray. Lord, we've seen in this sermon series that you're focused on an ordered and healthy church. And we pray that you would bring conviction to our hearts as to the truth of the matter. And Lord, that this would not stay a mind thing, but that it would shape and form us in our practice as we live for you and for each other. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seeing. Well, last week we saw that Paul instructs Timothy to order the church. And that he is to order the church so that Christian women exemplify good works within the church. Now, sometimes this involves being intentional about clothing choices Choices was what we would wear even in our accessories or jewelry or how we have our hair Ensuring that those choices make sense with God's vision for harmony and godliness in the life of the church. And additionally, we learn that women are encouraged to prioritize learning and spiritual growth, especially in the worship service, allowing the Word of God to shape their lives. This week we continue with looking at a healthy church. And so I'd like to make a few observations here. You can see in the bulletin that the title is Leadership in the Church Part 1. We'll focus on the Elder this week And we'll have leadership in the church part two next week, which will focus on the deacon. So let's make a few observations about the passage that you just heard read. Now, last week was a difficult passage for some. And I think one of the reasons, not all of the reasons, but one of the reasons is because the passage limits the social roles of women. At best, some will have a problem with limiting the social roles of women because they will consider that old-fashioned. That will be the primary or way to paraphrase the concern. But there is a worse position that can be taken And the worse way, or the more tragic way for a person, is that they see limiting women as a continuation of male subjugation of women Our argument last Sunday was that it is not old-fashioned to have this order. It is timeless. And our argument also is that it is not when it is done well and not abused. It is not patriarchal subjugation. but the good created order of our Creator God. If you know if you want to know what I think, and more importantly what God thinks about the subjugation of women, I encourage you to re-listen to our judges. serious. We try not to stand for that. But there are a lot of doubts, no matter what, that surround the topic within our culture. And undoubtedly there are some doubts in some of you, not all of you, but in some of you. And I wonder, you know, I don't think there's going to be any silver bullet here this morning that just switches those who may be convinced otherwise. But perhaps as we are entering our first observation with this passage, perhaps when you see the continuity with last week's passage, that that will be helpful in some regard And so I want you to notice, therefore, that the authoritative role of the bishop, sometimes also termed elder or overseer in different passages that we see in verse 1 is designated for men. It's a pretty clear sentence there. If you were to think it's ambiguous because we need to look at the original languages, It gets more clear in the original languages that we're talking about male leadership within the church. Paul instructs Timothy that certain, not all men, but certain men should desire a position of the bishop or the elder. And then if you take a look at verse two, look at how this is confirmed. Paul continues the same paradigm of male by saying that it must be a husband. Of one wife. And we could talk about what it means to be of one wife, whether he's referring to polygamy or not, but my point to you here is that it's a husband. You didn't open it up to husband and wife because it is a male position. Now, let me be clear. Some of you may not like what I just said. I understand that you don't like it. The only thing I'm really trying to point out to you first and foremost here by this continuity is that I'm not making things up. I don't have a vision that I'm trying to impose here on Paul's writing to Timothy. I'm trying to show you what it says and what it says consistently And so that is the reality that is taught, not just in 1 Timothy, but from the beginning of the Bible all the way through. And I would love to have some conversation if that really bothers you. I hope that one day it can be an encouragement and a stability. But that is the reality in the scriptures over and over again. again. That's the first thing I wanted you to see was that continuity as we slide over here into the role and the continued order of the church with the elder. Now, let's talk about that man, that certain man is what the Greek says, that certain man who desires the position of an elder or a bishop Paul says that he desires a good work. This is the second observation I want to make, or I want you to notice. Is that he is desiring a good work. We've seen this language of good works before. We actually saw it last week with the women. It belongs to the domain of salvation. God has not left us in sin and misery, but He has sent us a Savior who is Jesus Christ. And Christ saves us from not only the guilt and punishment of sin but also the corruption, which comes out in all of our actual transgressions. Sending His Spirit, He remakes us, and we become people who actually Desire to do good things for God and for our neighbor. And the shorthand of that in the scriptures is that we bear fruit. Now, last week, Paul encouraged women to do good works in the church, consistent with their profession of being a follower of Jesus Christ. And this week he continues that same thing, but focused now on the men. He instructs Timothy that if a man aspires to be an elder, he desires a noble task or a good work. Both of those are quite legitimate translations. a noble task or a good work. And then lastly, I'd like you to notice one more thing before I state the doctrine this morning. Since this is a noble task, not just anyone in any stage of their life is fit for the task And that goes all the way back to where he says a certain man. He really has his eye on particular men who are ripe for the picking, so to speak. And so in the rest of the verses, Paul lists some qualifications in the positive And some of the qualifications in the negative, but he does not give you an exhaustive list here of all that may be required of the elders That you would elect. This is a representative example of the kind of things that you would need to see in these men if they are going to accomplish the task that is the eldership. If they understand what their duty is, if they understand the mission that they're sent on, they are going to need to have certain attributes. There are certain qualifications that will need to be met. Now verses Verse 2 and 3, I already read these things to you. They contain some positive qualities that we want to see in these men. We've gone over this in Titus also. Then when we go to verse 4, he starts stating things in the negative like not given to wine, not greedy for money, and he goes on from there. Paul could have given more qualifications. This is not an exhaustive enumeration. But it does capture requisites, however for a man endeavoring to serve the community in the position of bishop, elder, or overseer. All of those are synonyms. They are not indicative of a church hierarchy. All right, bishop, elder, or overseer. That's those are the requisites. And so here is our doctrine this morning. A healthy church appoints men who desire to do good works for the church to the position of elder. Now, I can say the same thing next week about the deacon. But right now we're just focused on the elder. A healthy church appoints men who desire to do good works for the church to the position of elder. Now I'd like to look at this under a few things. Now if you'd like to take notes, sometimes I go too quick for you to write all of the headings here. I I apologize. Would you like me to restate the doctrine? Yes? Okay A healthy church appoints men who desire to do good works for the church to the position of elder. And I really just want to focus on that good works phrase that we have seen there. You could go back to the Titus series if you wanted to look at more of that list. and what some of those words mean. But I I think just by dealing with what he means by good works and how we're supposed to view that will really help us to make sense of the rest of the words. If we ever wanted to study that later. And so this is what I'm going to do. I want to look at good works under three main parts. I want to look at the prominence of good works I want to look at the story of good works, and I want to look at an example of good works. the prominence of good works, the story of good works, and an example of good works. Now, let's start with the prominence of good works. If you don't know how to spell prominence, children, just write the P of good works, and then see me afterwards and we'll spell it together The prominence of good works. Now we saw a good work or a noble task in last week's passage concerning women. That even their choice of clothing could, in fact, depending on the situation, Most of the time it doesn't make any difference. But depending on the situation, it could be a noble task consistent with their life of godliness, because in certain cases it builds up. Instead of tearing down the community. And building up the community, even with your clothing choices, is considered a good work in Jesus Christ. Now, interestingly If you looked through the rest of 1 Timothy, you would find three other references to good works. You would find a reference, for example, in chapter 5, verse 10. And it would be the good works that are meant to be a part of the life of the true widow. We'll talk about that in another sermon. There is good works mentioned in chapter 5, verse 25. And these are the good works of men in certain situations. And then in chapter 6, verse 18 of the same epistle, there are the good works of the wealthy, that you would not just have wealth in terms of dollars, but that you would be rich in good works. is the way that Paul puts that to those who are affluent or who are well off in that way. Now that's just 1 Timothy If you look through Titus, and I mention Titus because that's another pastoral epistle, and we have already gone through that, if you were to go back through Titus, you would find Seven further references to the concept of good works. And if you were to leave that book and you were to go to the book Written to the Ephesian church, which would be fitting because Timothy is stationed at Ephesus, according to this letter If you were to look at that book, you would find even more references to good works, and you would find an extremely important one in chapter 2, verse 10. Now, that is the prominence of good works. It is like there were a bunch of seeds in the Lord's hand, and all of the seeds were good works. And he just kind of casted them out, and they're all over the place within these letters. It should be a major part and feature of the Christian's life and the life of a healthy church. Our good works. Now The second main thing I want to bring up with you, besides the prominence, the popularity of good works, the frequency of good works that we see within these letters, is the story of good works. We've got to see how this works out and where they come from. If you were to study all of those passages, and if you were to study more, because there are more passages on good works than that, then you would find that there is a narrative that arises. There is a way to put all of those passages together that tell a story. And it is an authoritative story. It is the story of salvation. In Adam, all mankind becomes unfit for every good work, and they become the human race like a diseased tree, and they're rotting from the inside out until it And you don't notice all the time until a limb falls off and damages your car. And yet God does not leave mankind in their sin and their misery, but he sends the eternal Son to take upon himself human nature. And bring salvation. And this eternal Son, who has taken upon Himself human nature, accomplishes salvation. And his accomplishment of salvation is a good work that he voluntarily set out to do In the name and for the glory of the Father and by the power of the Spirit. And as a good work, just like pretty much every other good work, it required a tremendous amount of sacrifice on his part Now we know about his sacrifice, which is characterized by the cross. Now, he did not stay on the cross. He is raised from the dead on the third day. He did not stay walking among his disciples, but even after that rising from the dead, he rises still further. It's called his ascension And he ascends to all authority. And in his authoritative role, having authority over heaven and earth, Jesus the Christ applies his salvation to those whom the Father has given to him. And those whom the Father has given to him are like things in his hands that he will never let go. And what he does for those is he sends them his spirit. We around here call that Pentecost. The Spirit recreates us, including our desires and the inclination of our will. And when our desires and the inclination of our will are changed, We get turned away from the things that were corrupt, that we were pursuing, the hopelessness that was a part of our lives, and we are now inclined and set toward good works. At first, when we are set toward good works, at first, we are like sapling fruit trees. Anybody here ever started a fruit tree from Scratch. By the time you get to the nursery and you buy a fruit tree that has been shipped there for you, you know it's like three, four, five years old. If you started it from scratch, you if you and you planted it and you thought Honey or whoever the honey is in your life or friend, I'm planting this from scratch and I can't wait until the summertime so that we can get some fruit What they should say to you, they should look in your face and they say, yes, five summers from now. And it's the same kind of thing With when we enter into the kingdom of God. We are like sapling fruit trees, and the real focus and all of the energy is not toward producing much fruit at this point, but really just getting our roots established. Getting our roots established so that in further years we would start to notice a blossom. And we would begin to see that some fruit fills out the branches of our lives, and then we would see a harvest of righteousness that exceeds a hundredfold. That is often the trajectory. Now, if you were to look at a person's life, it looks like this, even when they're under the shepherding of our Lord, but I assure you they're trending positively. And that is, if we were to take all of those passages that deal with good works, that is the story of good works. That's how we have to situate our good works or locate them to be able to understand what's going on. We see the salvation of Jesus Christ, including the sending of his Spirit, and the application of His work to us. He moves us into different inclinations, and those inclinations are good. We have good desires because of him. So that's the prominence of good works, and that is the story of good works, but I want to leave you with an example of good works. Among some of those trees that grow up as little saplings, eventually get the kind of branch that could handle a yield of fruit And begin to produce all kinds of fruit. Among some of those trees are men. Now there's women doing the same thing. But some of them are men. And among those men there are certain men That will develop a God-given desire to not just bring good in many of the places that you can bring good as a Christian. We summarize them as doing good to yourself, doing good to your family, doing good to your church, and doing good to your county or your nation, if you want to put it that way. But they end up having a particular desire, perhaps for all of those things, but especially for doing good and good works to the community of the church. Now everyone is interested in that and should be interested in that in a certain degree, but this is a different degree I'm talking about here. To become an officer or an elder, that's a whole different world, or it can be. It is a different level of responsibility. Now, my argument, therefore, in launching from Paul's enumeration. Is that if the desire to be an elder is understood as a good work for the community, and that it is in line with the order of God's salvation economy. If it is if those things are not present, then the person should not be elected as elder. They should not even stand for election. Let me restate that. Here's one of the main arguments I want to be before you in these uses. If a person, a certain man, stands before you and says that he wants to be an elder of the church but he has no real interest in the good of the people, then he should not be an elder. That is a primary requisite that I am seeing within the list, that he would desire a good work among the people. That he would not just be excited about administration for its own sake or whatever the task is that maybe he does at the office, and he's become really great at that. He wants to get us new phone lines or whatever it is he has in his mind. At the core there is something that is a requisite among or above requisites, and that is he better have some vision for the good of the people that he would serve Now, let me put this another way because I think that first way is still opaque. Let me put this another way. Within the tradition of the Christian faith, We typically have seven virtues. There's a lot of virtues. We can reduce them down to seven sometimes. And we could reduce those seven down to two. The first category are called cardinal virtues. Anybody heard this before? Yeah, okay, great. Cardinal virtues And those are, there's four that are under that category. Prudence, justice, fortitude, and temperance. We've been through this before. Those are the cardinal virtues. But those virtues are even among, they're among Christian and non-Christian alike, in varying degrees But there are a set of virtues that are among those whom Christ has sent his Spirit in a particular way for salvation. And these are called the theological virtues. And this is faith, and this is hope. And this is love. Not faith in general, not like faith that one day we'll have no more murder in Baltimore. I'm talking about faith in God, the acceptance of His order, the acceptance of His deposit that He's given to us Hope in what he declares within his scriptures, and a love that we would do all things for him, and out of our love for him that we would love our neighbor. Those are those those are the theological virtues Paul's enumeration that you see here in this passage, where he goes over all of these different qualities that the man should have in order to be able to fulfill the task, these are primarily cardinal virtues. Whether it's you need to be self-controlled. You need to be self-have someone who's in leadership needs to be self-controlled with how they drink, with how they are with women. How they relate to other women besides their wife. They need to have self-control and self-discipline. They need to have self-control with their physical desires, period. They should not be greedy. These are all cardinal virtues that are supposed to be present within a man who's going to take up this task. Each one of them in the list can be found and located within the cardinal virtue list. And here is my main argument to you. It's just a restatement of what was opaque before. No man Should seek the eldership, and no congregation should elect a man who does not also have theological virtues in great measure. Faith, hope, and love understood within a canonical context Now when I say when I say that to you, I wonder if you're in your mind you're thinking, well Jesse, thank you so much for sharing the obvious with us. I pronounce upon you a new title, not just Teaching Elder, but Captain Obvious. How's that? Right. It is obvious. Of course, we should uh only elect men who have faith and love in and for God. But have you thought about her have you thought about that third category? where they are supposed to be overcome by hope. That's the real meat in the argument that I'm giving to you This morning, my argument is that only those who especially have a strong gift of hope should be elected. And I don't just mean, but it is included, I don't just mean hope for a better world one day. Of course that should be there. We should you should have an elder who's optimistic because of the promises of God. And I don't just mean hope that God will do his promises, however. But I mean that they would have, even in a general sense, hopes and aspirations for you in particular. Men who have hopes and who want to give up their lives in some measure so that good things can happen. be a part and a good life can be had here in Severn Run. Now that sounds kind of obvious too, but though it is obvious, I think we can mis It sometimes we can forget about that aspect. And so I'd like to give you finally a picture of what perhaps this can look like. I wonder if you were to think on this a little bit about this picture I've given of uh of the man you should elect, the the kind of man we should raise up, by the way. You should be raising up men like this. That's what it means for them to be catechized. They should be raised up into this I wonder if you were to search the scriptures, if you could find someone who's exemplary of this. Of course it's Jesus Christ, but is there someone that we've studied recently who is a type of him? And there is, and that is from the story of Ruth. That story has really stuck with me. I would say that there's a large percentage of my life wherein that story is framing how I'm viewing things and what my own aspirations are. That story goes to great length showing you the virtues, both cardinal and theological, of Boaz. He is a hard worker. He shows fortitude with his agricultural business He demonstrates temperance or self-control with how he conducts himself with the workers, with how he conducts himself with the women in his life. with how he conducts himself with others who may also have an equal right to the situation. Boaz has prudence in dealing with others. Boaz knows his goals and he thinks through what are the means That I need the realistic means that I need to use to be able to accomplish these things that I'm trying to accomplish on my farm, or that I'm going to accomplish with this destitute family that has been presented to me Now, those are all cardinal virtues. Those are all cardinal virtues. And so I think the thing that we should love most about him Is something that is a theological virtue. Perhaps, above all, what should warm our hearts within Boaz is that he has hope For Ruth. And by that I don't just mean, I hope it works out. I mean he has aspirations and and hopes and endeavors for her and her family. She wants to he wants to see good upon them. And that, brothers and sisters, is a sign that he should be an elder in the church. It's not the only thing that needs to be considered. But you can tell that Boaz is most of all Full of hope. He wants a good life for her. Now, do you remember? Maybe this will be helpful as a kind of takeaway. Do you remember the image that is used for his good works? For the hopes that he has. He is considered to be a wing. He provides shade. He is a wing symbolizing all of the good works which Boaz aspires to do for Ruth and for her family. Today we're talking about elders. We can have very similar applications for women because Ruth herself was a wing for her mother-in-law Naomi. And she's there doing her good works, full of hope for her mother-in-law. And so that is a picture of good works. Brothers and sisters, the bottom line and the most obvious application for you hear once you hear all of these things this morning is that you have got to be careful in your election of elders Listen, I mentioned very early on in this sermon that there are some women that are concerned that verses like we dealt with last week Encourage and empower abuse of men to abuse women And with that statement, I agree. There have been many men that have used passages like we studied last week. not for the hopes of anybody or the good of anybody, but their own selfish desires And so we have got to be careful in our election of elders. If you really believe what the Bible says, And you really understand all that it says about men, not just that they can hold a particular office, but everything else it says about them too, then you have got to be careful in the election of officers. Some men seem like they would fit, but that is only because they demonstrate cardinal virtues. They are usually the owners of companies or something along those lines. They're great at organizational skills. They're articulate But because they don't really have mature theological virtues, when you put them in a position of power, they destroy. There is more that is required than just the cardinal virtues among officers. There is more that is required among those who rule the house of God. They must be regenerated and therefore strongly demonstrate they cannot be a novice. That's one of the fun remarks there. They cannot be a novice, and this is part of what this means. They have got to be a sturdy and strong tree in faith. And in love and in hope. And not just hope in what God is doing, but hope for you and a willingness to work for you that we would accomplish God's hopes for you. So let me ask you. I think I've probably scared away all the bed at this point. Do you aspire to the task of being An elder. This is timely because nominations are coming up. Do you aspire to the task of being an elder? If so, you don't need to be too specific And there are many other things that we need to talk about, but I ask you at least this question: what good works do you want to do for these people? What hopes do you have for the people that are sitting right around you? What do they need from you? Now, if you are already an officer of the church, this is a good reminder for us, isn't it, brothers? Do not forget that you voluntarily took the election. You decided that this was a noble task and that God was calling you to do this And you voluntarily took that role in the church. And I would just use this as an opportunity to remind you or to ask you, why did you volunteer What hopes do you have for these people? What hopes do you have for the children that are in this church What hope do you have for the marriages in this church? What hope do you have for the widows? that are in this church? What is your vision of the good life for them that you have received from God Himself What about for our students? What about for all of the women in all of their various situations? What are your hopes for them? What do you want God? What kind of fruit do you want to bear That is good. What kind of wing do you want to be? What kind of shade do you want to provide? The other thing I'll mention to you, to those of you who are officers already, is that some of you Have been officers for a very long time. You have been, you've served the six years, you've rolled off, and you hopped back on And one of the things that can happen to you, brothers, in serving as an officer, is you can get tired and you can lose your motivation. And I am telling you right now, it is a common feature among all human beings that if you forget why something is important for you to do, you will no longer be really motivated to do that thing. You will become resentful in your service to God. You will become short with the people. You will push them off, and you will not show up like you used to show up. And so I'm telling you here today, there is another application for you is to remember what are the good things that excite you To do for the people of God that are worth another six years for you to be able to keep going. Now I thank you for your patience in being able to address the officers for that long, but they get tired and they need some. encouragement from the pulpit sometimes. What good works do you still want to accomplish in order to obtain these hopes? The focus has been on officers because the passage is obviously on officers, but we can spread this out a bit too among all of you. What are the hopes that you have for the people in your life? Sometimes we can get into the mode where we, and this is necessary sometimes, where we're putting one foot in front of the other because we're loyal. And we're not going to give up on the people around us. And that's good. But I would encourage you to refresh your spirit by asking God to remind you. Why do you want this life? Why do you want to be in the relationships with the people that you're in relationships with? What are your hopes and your aspirations for them? And what are the good works that you are willing to do to be a contribution that they would have a good life? Though Christ is in heaven, he has hopes for us here on earth And he sends, at this era of history, particularly with regard to officers, he sends certain men to bring those hopes into a greater reality. But he does not just send any man. And therefore we must affirm in the end our doctrine this morning that a healthy church does not just appoint. Any man. A healthy church appoints certain men, certain men who desire to do good works and have hope for the people of the church. Let us pray