Today is from Titus chapter three and it is uh verses twelve through fifteen. This closes our series in Titus today. We'll move on to First Timothy next week. When I send Artemis to you or Tychicus, be diligent to come to me at Nicopolis, for I have decided to spend the winter there. Send Zenos the lawyer and Apollos on their adjourney with haste, that they may lack nothing. And let our people also learn to maintain good works To meet urgent needs, that they may not be unfruitful. All who are with me greet you. Greet those who love us in the faith. Grace be with you all. Amen. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Lord Christ, we thank you that you have preserved this letter for the continued benefit of your church. And we pray, above all things, that even in this final preaching of your word, it would take us that much more further in to being a fruitful church. For your glory. We ask these things for your name. Amen. You may be seated. Throughout this series we've spoken about the different tools that God has given us and last week I especially singled out That compassion cannot be your only tool. You do have to have other tools that can surgically remove cancers That are spreading. That is a last resort. It is not to be taken lightly, and it is not to be done by any single individual unless you had a kind of apostolic status, which you don't. We must include in our tool bag certain medical instruments to lance the boil and cut away the cancer, and this is all another way of us saying that the church has a responsibility and is called to maintain health against heretics. Don't neglect your duty. I want to make a few observations with our closing passage, and then we'll draw those out. Here for Titus. Here's the first thing that I want you to notice: all along we have listened to Paul give Titus instruction on how to order the Cretan church. That's how this whole thing began. He has uh sent Titus to order what was left in disorder, and there were all these different ways that we've learned over time here in this series of how order is to come to be. In verse 12 of our passage, we see that Paul has additional plans for Titus and for other co-workers. There is a major work going on all the way around the Mediterranean Sea. People are sailing this way and that in order to accomplish the works of Jesus Christ. Paul will send, in our example here, Artemis or Tychicus to Crete, and presumably they will take over the work at the church. Once they relieve Titus of his posts, then Titus will sail from Crete to join Paul at Nicopolis for the winter. Titus is south on the island and he needs to take a sailing route that's going to go right up into a little harbor area on a western side of a peninsula on Greece And that's what we see here first, is this larger movement that's taking place. Before Titus sets sail, the second thing I want you to notice, however, he must complete one last Task for the Apostle Paul, which really ends up being the first task, if you think about it. In verse 13, when Zenus the lawyer and Apollos arrive, most likely with Paul's letter to Titus. Titus is to use the opportunity to begin ordering the church in true love by offering hospitality to Zenus and Apollos, providing, verse 13, their urgent needs for the trip. When Artemis or Titicus arrives, another opportunity will arise to provide housing and food and other needs, especially financial. uh cash for the road, so to speak. And this, Paul says, is going to ensure that they are not unfruitful in Christ, but instead they are fruitful. So we see again the unfolding and continuation of this kind of work. And now here's the third thing I want to observe in light of that. We've worked through the whole letter. Congratulations. But we must remember what it was like for Titus. He received this letter. He read the letter. And these are the final words that he has read. He has not done any of the stuff that you and I have been talking about because he just finished the letter He has not begun any of the work. He hasn't had the time to appoint any elders yet. He's just finishing the letter. He did not remove heretics yet. He just knows that he's got to do it. He just finished reading the letter. And the first work that he would start above all of the other work is to motivate the Cretan church to do good works by providing for Paul's co-workers so that they have a place to stay since they're on travel that they would have their expenses met, especially food or any other kinds of medical needs. And this, Paul says As Titus begins the work, not ends the work, that's the funny thing about this letter. We're ending the letter, but now he's going to begin the work. As he begins the work, he says to Titus, well, let me show you what he doesn't say. He doesn't say what you really need for this group of people on this island is to get them in seminary for the next five years so they can learn about everything that I have said to you. He actually does not say that. These people have already been introduced to the gospel and its contents. We've seen that throughout: that Titus has a ministry of reminder, not just a ministry of introducing things. Instead, Paul says what needs to happen right now, the very first work, is they need to get to work. And he actually puts that in a funny way. Take a look. It's a kind of turns our educational system on its head. Look at verse 14. And let our people also learn. Well, how are they going to learn? Or what are they going to learn? They're going to learn to maintain good works. How are they going to learn about good works? And how about how to meet urgent needs. They are going to immediately start to help these missionaries. That's how they're going to learn. They're going to learn by doing They will learn by doing good things so as to be fruitful. Now that's an interesting perspective. And the doctrine that we gather from these things is this. The church is ordered to the same end as an apple tree. Now that's a little funny But I hope that you can hear out the sermon. The church is ordered to the same end as an apple tree, fruitfulness for other people. And the best way to learn that is to get to work. That's the message. That is our doctrine. The church is ordered to the same end as an apple tree, fruitfulness for other people, and the best way to learn that is to get to work in the Lord. What a great message. What a motivating message Paul has for us this morning. I want to unfold that this morning under two main headings for your sermon notes, made in his image. And acting in his image. Made in his image and acting in his image. We're ordered to the same end as an apple tree. Let's get to work. Now, let's start with being made in his image. That really ends up being the roots of the apple trees. It's where all of the vitality is going to come from in our understanding and motivation. I love that Paul ends with the image of fruitfulness. Honestly, if you want to know what Titus is all about, it's all about fruitfulness. This is the main theme of the letter. The church is ordered to fruitfulness. When he looked and surveyed what was going on in that island, they had become fruitless. And we're starting to produce poison for the people that was around them. And he is encouraging Titus to get the orchard in order so that we can be fruitful again. That is the basic message of this letter. Now, having gone through the letter, can you think of the profound theological reason why that is the case? Why are we, as the church, and all of us as individuals in the church, why are we called to be fruitful? What is the deepest theological reason for doing so? It is this, and we've heard it already before. It is because we are being remade in the image of God. The church is being remade in the image of God. Listen to this. Here's a fancy little syllogism for you. The church is being remade in the image of God. The image of God is characterized by fruitfulness. We are being remade or being characterized as fruitful. Now, God Himself has a long history of fruitfulness. Can you think of all of the ways in which God is fruitful? In the way that we hear in this letter? What are some of the Bible stories that come to your mind? We alluded to this history when we acknowledged two weeks ago that God gives us sunlight. Do you remember this conversation that we had? God gives us sunlight and he sends us rain. Now let me ask you this question: how long has God been doing that? For a long time. It goes all the way back to the beginning, right? God has always been fruitful toward his creatures. If you look at the Genesis account, this is really brought out when he says, and he blessed them. This is that idea. You can see the whole world teeming with God's fruitfulness. In fact, when we're thinking about the creation account as the kind of main paradigm for understanding who God is. Is this another way that he's fruitful? And just the other night we were sitting on my back porch. We were having a nice dinner together as mostly a family. We had one person absent because they're on travel But the other night at dinner, the family and I, we get into these discussions. I like to ask them all kinds of questions about the, they don't know it, but it's always about the shorter catechism. The other night at dinner, they we were talking and I brought up the idea of uh the creation of the earth. I asked a certain question and I'm not gonna repeat that now. But one of my younger children noticed as we were thinking through the Genesis account, one of them quoted the Genesis beginning. And then they started to ruminate and think about that passage. And one of my younger children noticed that the earth was without form and void. And she thought that was quite interesting. And she was trying to put the pieces together to see exactly how she wanted to articulate this. And she ended up further noticing that part of God's creative act was to give form To that which was formless. And that was perceptive. That was something that I did not learn until my last year in seminary That was perceptive for them to be able to see that because usually when people talk about the creation account, they bring all kinds of complicated modern scientific concerns into the reading. And there's a place for that, of course. The Bible helps us to address all of our concerns. And there is a place even for that concern. But we shouldn't allow that concern to override the emphasis that is given to us there in the Genesis And the emphasis is on God taking that which is doesn't have form, it does not have the ability to give life You can't be there, it's not habitable, and God does something with it. You'll see the same kind of language in the prophets, for example. Jeremiah is a great example where he's talking about a wasteland. That's the same thing and the same kind of picture that we have there in Genesis is there's a kind of wasteland that's good for nothing and no one But then God steps in and he puts form to it in a particular way to bring blessing and life to everyone. You want to know why? Because he's fruitful. That's a way that we would characterize his work there. The picture really is more simple than we would often like to admit. It is a simple story about a cosmic farmer Who takes formless wasteland, making it habitable for all kinds of creature and fruitful as a total ecosystem? And do you know what psalm that that is captured in? Well, it's captured in several, but the most famous is Psalm 104. I encourage you to read through that. Especially if you're sitting under a pine tree on some moss after fly fishing for the afternoon. Psalm 104. Let me just give you the beginning of it. He sends the springs into the valleys. It starts up on the mountain because that's where God dwells, so to speak. He sends the springs into the valleys, they flow among the hills. Now listen to what's going on here. They give drink to every beast of the field The wild donkeys quench their thirst. By them the birds of the heavens have their home. They sing among the branches. He waters the hills from his upper chambers. The earth is satisfied with the fruitfulness of your works. He causes the grass to grow for the cattle and vegetation for the service of man, that he may bring forth fruit from the earth and wine that makes glad the heart of man, oil to make his face shine, and bread. It should say sourdough bread. But it says bread which strengthens the man's heart. I say sourdough because that strengthens my heart the most. And bread which strengthens man's heart. Do you see what God is like? If you return to the main point, a whole reason why I started talking about this. You know what I'm saying? I'm saying that we are supposed to be like God. That's what the work of redemption is, in large part And God is fruitful, which meant that you are meant to be fruitful. There is a picture of the kind of blessing that God brings to the earth. In Psalm 104, and I encourage you to look at that. In an analogous way, the church is meant to work so that the people and the creatures around us are satisfied with the fruitfulness of our good works. And what had happened to the Cretan church? It had started degenerating into a formlessness and void. In the farming sense of those words. They were becoming a wasteland that was good for nothing. They were poisoning each other with their attitudes, and false teachers were destroying them and their families And Paul sends Titus there to do the work of ordering them, but ordering unto the fact that it could be habitable again, where life would teem and everyone would be fruitful for each other. It ends up being a kind of picture of the church as the Garden of Eden. That's what's going on. Now, let me give you another scripture besides the creation account that helps us to understand what it means to be made in the image of God, even as a body called the church. This deep theology of fruitfulness shows up in a book that is not often read or preached. I am tempted to preach this very soon. I've been studying it, and it is the Song of Solomon. Can I do it? I don't know. We'll see if the Lord permits it. The Song of Solomon. Now here is one from the Song of Solomon, chapter 2, verse 3. Like an apple tree among the trees of the woods, so is my beloved. This is the woman speaking, by the way. She's talking about her groom. It's her beloved. So is my beloved among the sons. I sat down in his shade with great delight, and his fruit was sweet to my taste. Here, the groom in the wedding is pictured with the same characteristics of fruitfulness just as God. The bride captures this by the image of an apple tree. And that's the beauty of the Song of Solomon, by the way, is it says volumes without saying anything inappropriate. He is more fruitful. One of her first points is, he is more fruitful than all of the trees around. And the apple tree does not just give her fruit But you notice that he also provides shade for her from the hot desert sun. And shouldn't that remind you especially of Ruth and Boaz with that wing that is bringing shade? You can see how these images are going to be piled on top of each other and evoking all kinds of other images from the scriptures. And this is, of course, poetic, and it says volumes about the husband Some of which should not be drawn out with a mixed audience, and I won't. But the main picture is clear as to what humans are meant to be to each other. This is not, this certainly does characterize marriage, but there are analogous ways in which the human community in the church is meant to relate in these same ways. Not exactly the same way, but analogously. We are fruit and shade for each other. We meet each other's needs and we provide protection. We are meant to refresh each other and to help each other to relax and to finally find some rest. That is what you are to be to each other as a church. And we've already learned in Titus that insofar as it depends on you, you would be the fruit and shade. shade to those who are not a part of the church and not the blistering sun of condemnation. But the main point is that we are like that because we are meant to be like God. God is the apple tree, right? If we were to follow this all the way through and we were to look for the most ideal groom in all of history, don't we have to pronounce that Jesus Christ is my apple tree? Of course, that's not original with us, that's already been sung. Christ is the apple tree, he provides the shade, and as his children, we should bear his resemblance. Isn't that Paul's main point earlier in the letter to Titus? Listen to this description again of Jesus Christ in relationship to him being an apple tree. Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from every lawless deed and purify for himself his own special people, zealous for good works. Titus 2:13 through 14. Jesus Christ is the great groom who is fruitful and gives the shade of redemption to his bride. And is he not making us in his image that we would be like apple trees to each other in analogous ways that he is an apple tree to us? Another way to say this very simply is that The apple doesn't fall far from the tree. And we shouldn't fall far from being characterized just as our Father in heaven is characterized. We are meant to be fruitful. We are to be characterized by fruitfulness. Being united to Jesus Christ. The apple tree sap of the Spirit empowers us to bear good fruit. That was the rest of the passage. Zealous for good works. We become strong branches in the Lord, providing shade for everybody that is around us. Now that is the deep theology behind What's going on here within Titus is that like father, like son and daughter. And that's true even for the description of the apple tree. Now, the second main thing I wanted to bring out was not just remembering that we're being made in his image, but acting in his image. His image. Because we come to a close here in this series, and we need to remember the emphasis of Paul in this letter, and it's this: don't miss it. Get to work. Many of the translations actually of the do good works is busy yourself doing good things. I'm up and I'm doing good in Jesus Christ. It is good to remember all of the scriptures that I have brought out, the creation account and the song of Solomon But Paul says the best way to learn to be like God as a Christian is to get to work, being fruitful, and providing shade for the obvious examples that are around you right now. For the Cretan Church, what did that mean? What was right in front of their face? They have two men that have gotten off of a boat and they've got nothing to eat, nowhere to stay, and no money. What do you think they should do? And I love that he begins there. I love that he begins there. It tells us that you do not need to come up with some highfalutin plan to begin to work in Christ. Well, before I work in Christ, I need to come up with a business model on how I'm going to do this, which is going to require at least six years at Harvard. Then I've got to get into an internship. He just says, whatever is right there in front of you That is an obvious need, an urgent need, he calls it, you are to begin working right there. And that is the question that we have all before us as we end this series. We've heard all of the deep theology We've had the benefit of sitting and thinking about this longer than Titus has in that exact moment. And the question now for us is What are the current opportunities which God has provided for you to learn to do good works in Christ so that you are fruitful like an apple tree? What is right in front of you? Let's put it in these terms. I find this emotionally moving, and it's been powerful for me to think of myself as shade for people. That is actually very exciting to me. I have an aspiration to actually be shade for people. That's an exciting work. To see people refreshed and to find rest in this very difficult world, that excites me. And what about you? What is the shade that you can provide? I want you to think of all the ways in which the hot sun has fallen down on this world. Think of the original context of Song of Solomon in that eastern land. You know how hot it is? You know what it's like if you get caught and there's no shade. Talks about that a little bit in the Song of Solomon. What are all of the ways in which the hot sun of this fallen world beats down on the people around you? Do you all know that I have an Australian Shepherd? I have a dog. I got him because I wanted him to be active. I wanted to mountain bike with him. I wanted him to jump ten feet in the air and catch a frisbee because I saw dogs do that on T V. And do you know what he does when I take him out on a summer day? He tries to find a place of shade where he's not catching a frisbee or going mountain biking or anything. It was a great surprise to me. But he gets it, and so do we. And what are the ways, moving away from the analogy, what are the ways that you see the sun beating on the people around you right now? And how can you become a strong branch that can give them some shade? I promise you, you can't do everything, but is there something that you could do? How could you provide them shade and some rest? Please do not start with elaborate plans. Begin with those immediate and obvious cases within your reach. What are the ways in which people are sunburned? Start to list them in your mind. Are there some people that are lonely? How difficult would it be for you to just have them over for dinner or to have a cup of coffee? Can you believe that something that simple could be just the right amount of shade that somebody needs? Do you see a mother who looks faint from her hard work and trying to keep up with all the children And that's just one part of it. If you're in a mom's life, she's got a thousand other things that are stacking on top of her. Is there any kind of shade that you as the husband could bring? It will require sacrifice. You won't be able to do the some things that you would want to do. You'd have to put yourself in the sun for her. But uh isn't it worth it to be like God? There was no shade on the cross Can you take up your cross for those who are around you? What about some of the widows in our midsts or those who are just confused right now? What about those who don't have friends or they're having trouble connecting? What about those who don't feel like they have anybody where they can share the most important things with because they have trouble trusting people. Could you provide shade by being a trustworthy person? Those are just a bunch of examples that I came off with the top of my head. They're not even written down. I just had those in my mind. I bet you you have a thousand more examples Of something that is just around you that you could just pick. And you, in that moment, by the power of the Holy Spirit, you could be just like God in bringing shade and fruitfulness to this land. Start with some simple ideas. Who is around you right now, and how in the world are they doing? I'd encourage you, remember that I've got to remember who I'm talking to. When you start to get some ideas. Please do not forget that your ideas are not the end of the matter. Paul says here clearly, That if you want to be like God and be fruitful, you've got to put the ideas aside and you have got to get to work That is how you will learn to be like him is doing. That's what he says. That's the educational uh curriculum that is the pedagogy of Jesus Christ. In this case, we learn by doing. And we, by the power of the Holy Spirit, become like God. Well, that is the letter to Titus. If I had to paint a picture of the meaning of the book, it would be a landscape. And do you know what would be right there in the center of that landscape? An apple tree. It would be an apple tree. And the reason why the apple tree is fruitful and still standing is because Jesus Christ has sent it it's his spirit and he has sent people who will protect it from plague and blight and pests Who are not afraid to admonish and rebuke, and who have the apostolic and prophetic authorized fertilizer that it might grow, and the same thing with watering. But there it is. It's all of us together, it's each of us individually. An apple tree smack dab in the center of the landscape, and you know what it has? It has big boughs and branches. casting out all kinds of shade. Isn't that interesting that our shadows can be so long when the sun is just right? And when someone would ask me how the church should be ordered when we were looking at that painting together. I would say the church should be ordered to the same ends as that apple tree. We should be fruitful and we should have shade for the whole world. And that's our doctrine. Because we are being remade into the image of Jesus Christ, we as the church must have the same end as an apple tree We are reborn for fruitfulness. Amen. Amen. Let us pray