Uh together to the book of judges, chapter twenty one, for our last sermon in that series. Our next series, we're going to stay in the time of judges and we're going to have a quick little run through the book of Ruth. Today the reading is from Judges 21. Now the men of Israel had sworn an oath at Mizpah, saying, None of us shall give his daughter to Benjamin as a wife. Then the people came to the house of God and remained there before God till evening. They lifted up their voices and wept bitterly and said O Lord God of Israel, why has this come to pass in Israel? That today there should be one tribe missing in Israel So it was on the next morning that the people rose early and built an altar there and offered burnt offerings and a peace offering. The children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel who did not come up with the assembly of the Lord? For they had made a great oath concerning anyone who had not come up to the Lord et Mizpah, saying, He shall surely be put to death And the children of Israel grieved for Benjamin, their brother, and said, One tribe is cut off from Israel today. What shall we do for wives for those who remain, seeing we have sworn by the Lord that we will not give them our daughters as wives? And they said, What one is there from the tribes of Israel who did not come up to Mizpah to the Lord? And in fact, no one had come to the camp from Jabesh Gilead to the assembly For when the people were counted, indeed not one of the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead was there. So the congregation sent out there, sent out there twelve thousand of their most valiant men, and commanded them, saying Go and strike the inhabitants of Javesh Gilead with the edge of the sword, including the women and children. And this is the thing you shall do you shall utterly destroy every male and every woman who has known a man intimately. So they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead four hundred young virgins who had not known a man intimately, and they brought them to the camp at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan. Then the whole congregation sent word to the children of Benjamin who were at the rock of Rahman and announced peace to them. So Benjamin came back at that time, and they gave them the women whom they had saved alive of the women of Javesh Gilead. And yet they had not found enough for them. And the people grieved for Benjamin, because the Lord had made a void in the tribes of Israel. Then the elders of the congregation said, What shall we do for wives for those who remain, since the women of Benjamin have been destroyed? And they said, There must be an inheritance for the survivors of Benjamin, that a tribe may not be destroyed from Israel. However, we cannot give them wives from our daughters. For the children of Israel have sworn an oath, saying, Cursed be the one who gives a wife to Benjamin. Then they said, In fact There is a yearly feast of the Lord in Shiloh, which is north of Bethel, on the east side of the highway that goes up from Bethel to Shechem and south of Labona. Therefore, they instructed the children of Benjamin, saying, Go, lie in wait in the vineyards, and watch. And just when the daughters of Shiloh come out to perform their dances, Then come out from the vineyard, and every man catch or snatch a wife for himself from the daughters of Shiloh. Then go to the land of Benjamin. Then it shall be, when their fathers or their brothers come to us to complain, that we will say to them, Be kind to them for our sakes, because we did not take a wife from any of them in the war, for it is not as though you have given the women to them at that time, making yourself guilty of your oath. And the children of Benjamin did so. They took enough wives for their number for from those who danced whom they caught. Then they went and returned to their inheritance, and they rebuilt the cities and dwelt in them. So the children of Israel departed from there at that time, every man to his tribe and family. They went out from there, every man to his inheritance. In those days, there was no king in Israel. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes. Let us pray. Oh Lord Christ, we ask that you by your Spirit would give us our final lesson in this series. And please, Lord, by the power of your might, make these words effectual. Make them stick. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Maybe you've seen him. Last week we acknowledged that sometimes it is necessary to use lawful force to defend against evil. Several of you stationed at Fort Meade, if you are a police officer, you know this, and we expect you to do your work sometimes through force. And we thank you for it, and God is pleased with you. But that is not the only way in which Christ advances justice. It's not even the main way. From every, as he moves from nation to nation and tribe to tribe, he crushes the head of the serpent, primarily By empowering our use of teaching and preaching to capture the consciences of our children and our neighbors, He takes them captive to Himself May the Lord give us boldness to use the sword of the church, which is the Word of God. Now that's our review from last week, from chapter 20. As we watched all of the tribes of Israel gathered together to fight against the Benjamites, since they would not release the guilty men of Gibeah. This week we move into our final chapter in twenty-one and I just have a few observations. The timeline can be a little difficult to follow in this chapter. keep uh getting worse with every decision that they make. And um just a real sign of poor judgment. And and so let's make a few observations or please listen to these few observations and then I have a few points of application for us. Today. The first thing I want you to notice is that this final chapter begins by taking us back in time to the decision to wage war against the Benjamites. During that time, which we saw in the earlier chapter, they apparently had another conversation that we didn't see there, and you're seeing that conversation come up in verse 1 of chapter 21. They had vowed not only to go to war, but they would never give their daughters in marriage to a Benjamite. Well, this has created a crisis. Because they have hacked, the word here in the Hebrew is they have hacked, they have hacked to pieces the tribe of Benjamin. Think of a lopping off an arm from where a tribe has fallen off. And they have only left 600 men hiding at the Rock of Rahman or the Pomegranate Rock. All the women and children were killed in this war, according to these accounts. And this tribe is on the verge of extinction. So the question arises among the Israelite leadership from among all of the tribes is an important observation. Is this, given the vow to not give their own daughters, how will they ensure the continuation of the tribe of Benjamin? How are we going to solve this moral dilemma? And that ends up being the main question that will now unfold into other problems and other apparent solutions. That's the first thing I'll mention to you. Here's the second thing that I'd like you to notice is that the leadership decides that if they could find a tribe who was not there, who took that vow, Then you saw what they did, right? We're going to go to that tribe. They're not under this vow. We'll kill everybody except for the young women, and then we'll just kidnap them and give them to the men of Benjamin. But the problem thickens. The leaders already vowed, like I mentioned, that any that anyone That was not present, here's where it gets more complicated. We could do that, but we did vow that anybody who wasn't present at that war meeting, they all need to be executed. That was another vow they took. They're vow happy, I guess. And so in verse 11, they decide to work this out. through shoddy moral reasoning, and they decide that they could keep the vow if they kill everyone. Except for the young girls that are needed, for the Benjamite men who are over at the Rock of Rahman. And that is what they do. You see, that they send all these valiant men over there, they kill everyone from Jabesh Gilead except the virgin women. They bring them back. They make peace with the Benjamites in verse 13. And they give them the women. And then here's my next observation. A new problem has arisen. Do you know what the problem is now? There's not enough women. They didn't capture enough. You can see in verse fourteen. So they think, what should we do now? They contrive another plan. They decide to kidnap girls from a local festival. In verse 19. And they're not going to ask for permission from the fathers. They're going to ask for forgiveness or rationalize the whole thing due to national interests. It says this in verse 23, and the children of Benjamin did so. They took enough wives for their number from those who danced, whom they caught. Then they went and returned to their inheritance and they rebuilt the cities and dwelt in them. The next thing I'd like to point out is that in verse 25, the narrator makes sure that you don't misunderstand what's happening in front of you. Do not be fooled. This is not an example of excellent problem solving. The Israelite leaders are shown to be completely canonized at this point, and they are talked about actually in the verbs that are used, I can't get into this, but the verbs that are used here in the Hebrew, they're talked about as if they are uh predators. preying on people and eating them. Their whole faculty of judgment has become warped. They seem to be righteous in keeping their vows and appealing to national interests, but all they are doing is keeping the letter of the law while violating the heart and the spirit of God at every turn. If you need an example specifically from this account, I don't know that you do, but I'll just point out to you that there are two, and I don't want you to misread these. I want you to read 25 as a lens through which you You should lead this whole account. Keep in mind here who the Benjamites are and what they have just been encouraged to do. The Benjamites here are encouraged by the rest of the tribes to tear young women away from their homes. Isn't that why they just went to war? Because the Benjamites were protecting men who tore a woman away from her home? And here they're encouraged to do it with hundreds of women Things have gone wrong. They tore the concubine from her home. Here they do the same. but to a couple hundred of them. Or you could consider the case wherein the elders appealed to the fathers to let their daughters be taken out of grace and mercy for the Benjamites. Can't you hear it? But have compassion on the Benjamites. Come on. Think of the nation. Where is your patriotism? One scholar says this about that interaction between the fathers and the elders of Israel. To the modern ear, the statement sounds so human. It sounds so sensitive, so caring. But these people are blinded to the reality that in lavishing grace on Neo-Canaite Benjamites, they have oppressed societies Innocent and weak. That is the reality of the situation. Now, you could see the problems that arise and the solutions That they try to give, but they're broken. You know that they can't see this through God's eyes any longer. They just do what's right in their own. If we wanted to gather all of these things up, then our doctrine this morning hits on the final symptom of the canonization. Of the church. It's a major one. The final symptom of the canonization of the church is the defiled conscience of representational leadership The elders are at the center of the story making all of the decision. There's no king at this time. You read that in the final verses also. And so see you see the consummate bottom of the spiral in the final symptom of the canonization of the church is the defiled conscience of rapid Representational leadership. So I'd like to unfold that a bit. There's a couple fancy words in there. I'd like to unfold that first with two main problems. Second, um I'll name that point later, and then we have a final question. And so let's begin with just two main problems here. The first um the first problem that I'd like to To bring up is I just want to talk about in that doctrine I said the final symptom of the canonization of the church is the defiled conscience of representational leadership. And I want to ask the question first of what is the conscience? Now that might sound like a technical question here on Sunday morning, but it's necessary. I hear you all use it all the time, actually. It would be good to define it. We use the word conscience all the time. If I asked you what a conscience is, you may not know how to explain it. So let's just talk about it for a moment because it's at the center of what's going on here. I think the easiest way to understand the conscience is to look at the parts of the conscience. And I have no real interest of standing up here and telling you what I think about the conscience. We actually have a consensus within the Protestant tradition as to what the conscience is, and I can just tell you what the saints think. Okay, for a long, long time. We've been on the same page as of what this is. The conscience has three main parts. And I would love it if you were to start evaluating yourself this this way too. Hopefully you'll get some real insight into yourself and how you operate. The conscience has three main parts. It's um, if you were to think about them all at once, it's like a little courtroom inside your heart and inside of your mind. That's the conscience. The first part we would call the law The second part is the witness, and the third is the judge. Those are the three traditional parts of the conscience. And with those three parts in mind, I want you to consider an example, which is another way of understanding what the conscience is. I'm not going to give you some logical definition. I just want you to see the parts, and then I want you to hear an example as to how these parts work together. You know, let's talk about the judge or the law first. You know that all those who murder deserve punishment. I tried to pick one that we would all agree on. I hope that that is that's a good one. It's getting harder and harder these days. You all know that those who murder deserve punishment. Okay, that's the law of the conscience. Now here's the witness of the conscience. conscience. The conscience not only sees law and knows it, but acts as a witness in a courtroom and says this to you. On the night of Friday the thirteenth, you did in fact murder. You did not self-defend. Be quiet. You did not just kill. I see the distinction, but you murdered. It was not an accident. Stop yourself. You murdered. That's the conscience acting as witness, and memory is serving the conscience to bring up everything that happened, even in your private life Now, the third part of the conscience is called the judge, and there's an inference that happens. The conscience is very good at logic. And the conscience therefore draws the conclusion and says, you deserve punishment. Your conscience brings up the law, your conscience acts as a witness, reminding you of the events of Friday the thirteenth, and your conscience draws the inference and makes the judgments, accusing, not excusing, but accusing you. the way that the scriptures talk about that. Now, the reason why I give you that is just as a base or a foundation for what's going on within this passage, because what you see here in the representational leadership just as the doctrine stated is that they have a defiled conscience. They have a defiled conscience A defiled conscience is the conscience that has become blind to the law. They have become false in their witness And therefore they render, or sometimes refuse to, but they will render evil judgments instead of good ones. The worst place you could see a human being is where they start to call what is bad good and what is good bad. And that's the mark of the defiled conscience. The whole thing has gone haywire. And in Romans, it talks about us having an active place in that going haywire where we suppress. And these are the different ways that we can suppress through the law, through the witness, and through the inference. So let me use an example just so we can get our heads around this. Let's think just for a moment of what would it look like for a conscience that is defiled to deal with the law of murder? They could say something like this. I'd be interested to see what imaginative tale you could tell me that maybe you've heard. They could say something like this, and this would be based on a social Darwinism. Murder doesn't deserve punishment. It's a social construct. Look around at the animals. They eat each other, and we don't call that murder. I'm just the lion of my population. I eat who I want. That would be a not acknowledging of the law any longer But adopting an entire worldview system to be able to proclaim murder doesn't deserve any punishment, it's a natural consequence of living life just like the rest of the animals Here would be a defilement of the conscience in courting, if you were to not focus on the law, but you could focus on the witnessing function of the conscience, it would say, sure, I took his life. But am I really to blame? Look at the life that I have had. Look at how my mother treated me. Look at how my father treated me. Look at my government. I've been oppressed since my birth. If anyone is to blame, it is my mother and it's this society. Why don't you lock them up? And then the defilement of judgment would come out like this. I am not a murderer, I am a victim, and I deserve a reward, not a punishment. Now, I know that sounds crazy, but that happens every day. Right there, that conscience being defiled and twisting, all kinds of stuff. I bet you you've seen it in your two years. year old. Whew, man, they can whip their conscience right around to see that they were completely justified for having their hand in the cookie jar. Now I want to take another step. Those are um That's a problem. You can see that that's a problem. But here's what we're actually seeing in the passage. Imagine if that doesn't happen just in an individual, but across the board in an entire leadership that runs What if a collective conscience becomes kind of defiled? Each one being shaped and formed in evil like the other, and then is in charge of making the decisions for an entire group of people. Now that's a whole nother degree of problem. And that's what you're seeing here at the end of Judges. Now we have gone through judges. We've seen the defiled conscience. We witnessed a defiled conscience in Gideon. We wit witnessed a defiled conscience in Gideon. We witnessed a defiled conscience conscience in Jephthah. We witnessed a uh a defiled conscience, especially in Samson It just really got bad with uh the Levite and then the second Levites, and then we saw a defiled conscience in the Benjamites when they wouldn't give up the evil men of Gibeah, but decided that they should go to civil war But none of that is as bad as watching all of the tribes gather together in a unity of defilement of conscience. By way of their representation representational leadership, or the elders at this time, since they had no king Now this will continue as you go into 1 and 2 Kings. You will see others rise with a defiled conscience, and they will do horrendous things. But here you see it in a group of people. They showed now I just want to go through a couple things that these elders have already done in their decision making. They showed no restraint in their war against their brother Benjamin. They treated Benjamin like he was just a Canaanite. They read what God had talked about in terms of the law of Harem, or total extinction of everything by way of fire, and then misapplied it to themselves. There was no proportionality in how they treated them. They made hasty vows, promising to execute anyone who did not show up to their war meeting No one was there to say, maybe we shouldn't make that vow. Maybe we should think about this a little bit more. What will happen if And then they have to think about that on the flip side and make all kinds of crazy decisions. They use catastrophic thinking in order to justify kidnapping 200 women and forcing them into marriage. Now, unfortunately, you're all too familiar with watching leadership have a defiled conscience. But let me ask you a question. Do you know the specific name for the problem that we see happening in the defiled conscience of this representation? leadership. If you had to put a name on it, what would you give it? If you study the passage long enough and you look at what they're doing and the moral logic that they're trying to use, you will find that you give it one name. Legalism has different aspects and different definitions. It's used in different ways throughout even to the history of the church. Matt just mentioned one where we seek our salvation by way of works righteousness. That's one kind of legalism. But here, there's something else going on, and it is a misuse of the law. It is an apparent following of the letter or of the law, but missing its purpose, its intent, and missing God's heart entirely. It's actually through the law decreating everything instead of allowing it to flourish. It is taking the law and using it to kill instead of bring life. And now that should be a reference to That should remind you of that passage with Jesus dealing with the Sadducees and the Pharisees with regard to the Sabbath. They were going to let the law allow death to reign. But Jesus was interested in life because he really understood the law of the Lord's day. Legalism, as I say, has several aspects and definitions. The one I am concerned with is the kind wherein laws are recognized by the conscience But not the true heart and the spirit of the law. If you took time to look through our passage, you'd see little allusions to the laws in Deuteronomy. To numbers, to Exodus. And what they ended up doing as a leadership is they used those laws to justify their actions That sounds like what they're supposed to do, but they did it all wrong because they didn't understand the heart of the laws. Their conscience is defiled, and so they missed the heartbeat. And the spirit of what the laws were intended to give. You could put it this way if you wanted, actually, as a kind of summary of all that we've been saying. When the church becomes worldly, they do what is right in their own eyes. Legalism is one form of doing what is right in their own eyes. The worldly church is often, therefore, the legalist. Church. It is a church that uses the law, but not in accordance with God. They use the law through their own eyes instead of the eyes of God and his purpose. Now, we recognize this kind of defilement in the conscience in cults. I remember in seminary, I had to take a course on cults. It was quite displeasurable. More so than the rest of the seminary. And they definitely had a defiled conscience. You should hear some of the things that they led people into. Using God's law, by the way. But I want to give you a few examples of where this shows up even in our own midsts. And I'll even share an example here. I'm just going to give you one example of what I have heard in my own experience since 2008. Here's one example of a judgment that I've heard in my lifetime. I once heard a woman that was being physically assaulted by her husband. The law that was given to her for her direction was this. It was taken from 1 Peter chapter 3, 1 through 2. This is pretty typical actually. Leaders will go to this for as like a a a resolution to all the problems that they see with um husband and wife. This woman was being physically assaulted by her husband, fist to the face. And here's the law used in this case. Wives, likewise, be submissive to your own husbands, that even if some do not obey the word, they without a word may be won by the conduct of their wives when they observe your chaste conduct accompanied by fear. Can you imagine? That is a leadership with a defiled conscience. And that woman, because she trusts her leadership, will start moving in that direction. Let yourself keep getting hit, ended up being the advice. Why? Because we'll be won over by your submission. It's like an act or sacrifice for the gospel. That's a defiled conscience, and do you know what that is right there? That's legalism. Because they just took a 1 Peter verse and used it for intentions that God would never intend. The law was given for us to worship our God and to flourish in our work with each other and to be a witness to the whole world of the goodness that God intends for this Let me say that to you one more time. You should have this written above any place that has law. The law was given for us to worship our God. The law was given so that we could flourish in our work with each other, and the law was given so that we could be a witness to the world of the goodness that God intends for his creatures. It is meant to bring blessing and not curse. Even if it convicts you of your sin, it is for the sake of bringing you blessing. And by our misuse of the law as the church, the keeper and holder of the Torah, by our misuse of it, God and his church become a stench. And we are not trusted when we do things this way, when we have stories in our midsts of 1 Peter being used that way. Anyone with the Spirit or not can see that God does not want that woman to keep taking punches. Now I've seen good pastors too. I've seen pastors show up and break that guy's nose and then call the police. And that's good that we have them in our midsts. Now I have one final question. What we've done is we've stitched together a few things. We've taken what God has given to us and our understanding of what the conscience is, and we have used that to understand this passage and to see the defiled conscience and how the defiled conscience especially expresses itself in legalism, which is a misuse of God's law to death instead of God's law to life. Now here's the final question that is in relationship to all of those things, but it is also in relationship to judges as a whole. I wonder if you noticed that in our passage the Israelites cried out to God. Did you see that? They kept asking him questions, crying out to him. Did you notice that in this final chapter, there is no word from God? There's silence. There may be ways you can infer other ways in which he's speaking even at the time. Time, but just explicitly considered their silence. So here's my final question to you as we end judges so that you don't miss the whole point of the whole series. Let me ask you, what will God eventually say about everything that we have seen in Judges? What will God say about everything that he sees across the face of the earth that is Canaanized? What will the words be that he gives to us? What will he say when he speaks up about the world and the worldly church? The answer is that he will speak, especially in the person of Jesus Christ, and the work that Jesus Christ will do among this entire world. That is the final word of our God. He has chosen not to leave us in a state of sin and misery As the catechism tells us, but he has in fact sent us a redeemer. And he does so in answer to the horror that we see in the pages of judges. Jesus arises as the true deliverer, the one that none of the other deliverers could be. God's answer to us all doing what is right in our own eyes is Jesus Christ. God's answer to our legalism is Jesus Christ. It is Jesus Christ who has arrived and he is changing every nation. He is cleansing our conscience not only from the guilt of sin but from its defiled judgment. Our hope at the end of Judges is that God has spoken. He did not remain silent. Our hope is that when he did speak, it is good news. It is the good news of the gospel that Jesus Christ, even now is remaking men and women who have the law written on their hearts and they are no longer legalists. Jesus Christ in every tribe, in every tongue, and in every nation is even disciplining the church To make sure that when we render judgment and our representational leadership renders judgment, that we do so in the same spirit The same intent and the same heart that is intended by our God. And I have watched pastors who are incompetent, Do you want to hear some good news? I've watched Jesus Christ remove them from the church. And yet, when they're outside of the church, Jesus Christ still comes along them. and mends them, but does not allow them back into leadership. That is your Christ. That is our hope. That is the word from God who has not remained in silence. The final symptom of the canonization of the church is the defiled conscience of representational leadership. But that's not the last word. The final work of Jesus Christ is a human conscience renewed by the Spirit, creating just societies who live in love. Joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. Especially with reference to women and children Jesus Christ is making a people who no longer want to do what is right in their own eyes, but want what is right in the eyes of God. Amen. And that'll bring us now into the series of Ruth, where you're going to see a woman who is actually taken care of and redeemed. Let us pray.