Yes. I messed it up. All right, good evening everyone. Let's go ahead and open our time with a word of prayer. Please join me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, I thank you that you've given us this day to remember you and your great work. Amongst your creation. We thank you, Christ, for sending your spirits, and for your spirit even being present with us now, whereby we may commune with you. and your worship. I pray that you would direct each of our steps, that we would uh sing songs that are truthful And convicting and inspiring, Lord, as we reflect on who you are and what you're doing, and that you are in fact our Father, our Lord, our God. And comforter. Pray, Lord, that you bring all these things out onto your glory, and that we'd leave longing to love as you have loved. these things in your name. Amen. Let's stand and our call to worship this evening is from Psalm 146 verse 10. The Lord shall reign forever. Your God, O Zion, to all generations, praise the Lord. Let's sing together hail to the Lord's anointed. El tour one right person Israel be God. He wants to bring for To take away transpression and He comes with proper sleep, close to Whose souls could have precious in this He shall come down my showers upon the fruitful And price just something to For every grow victory on his prom Through a small glory, all blessing and law bless His danger stand for me to cross his love And please remain standing for our reading that will lead us into the confession of sin. This is taken from Ephesians 5, 1 through 7. Therefore, be imitators of God as do your children. And walk in love, as Christ also has loved us and given himself for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling aroma. But fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not even be named among you as is fitting for saints Neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor coarse jesting, which are not fitting, but rather giving of thanks. For this you know that no fornicator, unclean person, nor covetous man who is an idolater, has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ in God. Let no one deceive you with empty words. For because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Therefore do not be partakers with them. Amen. Please join me in a time of confession. Lord, behind each one of these sins that you name is your intent for your creation and your creatures. To live in society that loves you and loves one another. We could go through each of the listings And we could find that these sins are not only sins because you say so, which is enough, but also because it destroys It tears down what you long to build up. Lord, as we think about uncleanness or covetousness, filthiness. coarse jesting, foolish talking, being an idolater or a fornicator, these are all things that when entering into a society, destroy the society. It tears apart women, destroys families, makes children grow up in places where they are neglected. And that is not your desire. And yet, Lord, these things can be appealing to us. Our culture makes its money off of making these things look Good. Lord, we have bought some products from our culture, so to speak. And so we must come before you. We must confess to you again. the inclinations of our hearts. We must confess to you that what is bad we have called good. And we must plead with you that you would give us repentance and take us out of the captivity of the devil and his snares. I ask that you would hear your people now as they come to you in confession. Hello Lord, we thank you for hearing our prayers. We do not presume that just because we come to you in confession, that we deserve forgiveness. But we do understand that we come to you in the name of Jesus Christ, and we confess that we have received forgiveness of our sins And we thank you for that. We thank you for our Christ. We thank you, Lord, for taking upon yourself human nature to help us in our plight. Raise us out of the ditch. In the name of Christ. Amen. Our assurance of pardon tonight is taken from Psalm 103, 6 through 14. fourteen. The Lord executes righteousness and justice for all who are oppressed. He made known his ways to Moses, his acts to the children of Israel The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in mercy. He will not always strive with us, nor will he keep his anger forever. He has not dealt with us according to our sins, nor punished us according to our iniquities. For as the heavens are high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward those who fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us As a father pities his children, so the Lord pities those who fear him, for he knows our frame. He remembers that we are dust. Amen. And thank God for that. Let us stand and sing hymn number two. Ah, holy Jesus, how hast thou offended? I was coming back to My line will reach it all subject Who was not guilty? Who wants his dog Oh last my tree done. She's last time done. Was I Lord Jesus? I it was thee. I brute And last time that so that's While he not indeed God interst Jesus was thy birth And thy life And my dish For my salvation, therefore my Jesus Us since I cannot take me I And will everyone high lady And thy love answer me, not my deserve. Amen. Let's turn together to Proverbs chapter three. And our reading this evening is Verses thirty one through thirty-five. Beginning in verse thirty-one. Do not envy the oppressor, and choose none of his ways. For the perverse person is an abomination to the Lord, but his secret counsel is with the upright. The curse of the Lord is on the house of the wicked, but he blesses the home of the just. Surely he scorns the scornful, but gives grace to the humble The wise shall inherit glory, but shame shall be the legacy of fools. Let us pray. O Christ, in your ascension glory, you have poured out your Spirit on us that we may know you and your great works. And what you require of us. I pray that through your word and the preaching of your word all will be revealed this evening. I pray that you would minister to each of the hearts present here. By your spirit unto your glory. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. The topic we've been on in Proverbs, perhaps to your surprise, is wisdom. Funny. But it's a specific kind of wisdom. We're finding that wisdom has a lot to do with what it means to live in society. That's what Proverbs is about. And that brings us to the topic of being. A neighbor. A neighbor who is neighborly, one who looks out for the well-being of others. Last week I reminded you of some of the ways in which good neighbors presented themselves. themselves, some of the ways in which neighborhoods held on to wisdom. And the question that was before you is, or was, will you hold on and keep what it means to be Remember when neighbors would shovel each other's sidewalks. Remember when we stopped to help with flat tires. Now those are just kind of regular examples that we're aware of in life. There's thousands more that could be listed, and some of those are probably going to be outdated. Just do to technology. I don't need anyone to jump my truck when I have a bad battery because I have this little thing that just jumps it itself. But you get the idea. It is to be a light in this world of folks who have lost what it means to be a good neighbor. And this is the wisdom that we must keep. How practical, or how much more practical, could we get in the book of Proverbs? We must keep what we owe our neighbors. And our prayer last week, and I hope even through the week, was may the eternal Son of God in the flesh, Christ Jesus, fill us with his Spirit as we are. Now we don't leave that topic tonight in verses 31 through 35, although it might look like that. That's not the case. So I'd like to make a few observations and then I have a single application for us. Tonight. First thing I want you to notice, as I've already said, is that we are still on the topic of neighborly wisdom. Verse 31 is not a change in topic. It looks like a jump because it says, do not envy the oppressor. And just before that we were all talking about what it means to be a good neighbor. But what this is, it's just a teaching aid. That all teachers use, and they are supplying contrast of what you should not become, that is to say, the opposite of what a good neighbor is here. The oppressor, or literally It's the violent person in this context is someone who is anti-social. That is to say, they break down societies and communities due to their practices as Attitudes, thoughts, behaviors. That's the person that is present here. They destroy good community. They're not good neighbors. The question that you want to ask, once you realize that we're continuing the neighborliness discussion, is, well, if that person is destructive, take a look at the verse in 31. If the oppressor is destructive or the violent neighbor is destructive, why would we be commanded to not envy them? Why is that present? Why does the proverbist tell us not to envy this person? That seems like a no-brainer. But it's not a no-brainer, and you could see this by s by just spending a minute reflecting on your own experience. Violent neighbors or those who break down community are often the most successful among us. And the path that they take is easier than the hard work and diligence of the wise. You can read that from the very first proverb as he encourages the youth to not join the gang. Their ways, therefore, are appealing especially to the youth. Think of some typical examples in American life. You can, in fact, get a summer job to have nice things, or this was the case when I was younger, we had those who would get a job working And it would be difficult, and then they could take the money that they would have to save, delay gratification, and eventually get something nice, or you can be like another group of people that I knew and you could just steal the bike. You can work hard to build up a nice house or home, or you can be litigious and just sue everyone for the money that you would like. You can reap the fruits of diligence and responsibility, or you can scam people. Those are the two houses That's what's going on here. The latter examples are the lawless person or the violent person or the oppressor. They're the that's the idea that the proverbist is seeking to get across here. And we are not to envy them. And the temptation is to envy them because they seem to get the things that we would like. And they get them more easily. But here's the thing, and this is observation number two. The rest of the verses are the basis for why you should not envy them. And it boils down to this. It seems like evil has many advantages. But in due time the Lord brings them to justice and he establishes his good society. In other words, don't get cross-threaded with God and the way he upholds the society of his creatures. It's the message of multiple Proverbs, and especially here. For example, I just want you to notice a few other things under that basis. Look at verse 32 with me. For the perverse person is an abomination to the Lord, but his secret counsel is with the upright. Do you know what it means to be an abomination to the Lord? One literal translation of that is that you turn his stomach when he thinks of the things that you do. That's what he thinks of perverse practices. Turning his stomach. And what you end up seeing in verse 33, which should remind you of this morning's sermon, is that this whole thing escalates. It's as if people when they choose this path of envying the oppressor, they get themselves in a rut and on a path, and the path necessarily leads to a particular destiny. First, you enter into the path of perversity and you join those who turn the Lord's stomach. Then look at verse 33 with the next step in the path. It escalates, declaring that the oppressor or lawless neighbor is now placed under God's curse. In verse 33, the curse of the Lord is on the house of the wicked. And then it continues in verse 34. He scorns the scornful. And then you see in 35, the great destiny of those who choose this path is nothing but shame. That is the legacy of full Fools, although you would never have thought that when it first began, because it looked like they were the ones that were winning. You heard all about curses this morning. You don't want to be under the curse of the Lord. And that really is the whole motivation. Do not choose the violent neighbor's ways. You will be cursed and end up in misery. All of the warnings, finally, in the third observation, are coupled with promises for a good life. And this has to be thought through wisely so you don't land in an overemphasis or misunderstanding. understanding into a kind of prosperity gospel. And we can talk about that together later. It requires much conversation, but let's just point out for the sake of sake of acknowledging what is present here in God's Word, the promises. Verse 32, like a friend, God takes you into his counsel. Verse 33, God blesses the home of the just, those who don't go down the path of the oppressor. Verse 34, God gives grace to those who submit to his king and His kingdom. He gives grace to the humble, in other words. And then verse and then verse 35, it is the wise who inherit glory. And so when we bring these observations together, it's a pretty straightforward doctrine this morning, this evening Christ has sent us his spirit to be good neighbors. We saw that in the Ephesians passage. That's what that all that was about. Christ has sent us his spirit to be good neighbors. But there's an additional thing we have to say here because of the focus on the oppressor, we are to avoid the temptation to adopt the ways of the neighbor who destroys. So let me say that again. Christ has sent us his spirit to be good neighbors. Avoid the temptation to adopt the ways of the neighbor who destroys. This passage and its teaching, I wonder if it reminds you of any of the teachings of our Lord. Really, this whole section all the way from 27. Verse 27 of chapter 3. It should evoke a conversation that our Lord held with a lawyer in Matthew chapter 22. It says this. But when the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together. Then one of them, a lawyer, asked the Lord a question, testing him and saying, Teacher, which is the greatest commandment in the law? Jesus said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind. This is the first and great command. And the second is like it. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments hang all of the law and all of the prophets. We see nothing different within Proverbs. Our proverb implies the first of the great commands, but it emphasizes the second, since it is focused on societal wisdom. Our lives are in a very real sense our relationships. I want you to think about that for a moment. Let that land on you and nest. Our lives are in a very real sense our relationships A clue to this is that we are often called by relational titles. Sometimes people call me Jesse. Most of the time I'm being called something else. And it's not bad, it's just a relational title. Think of all of the things that you're called. And how often is it your first name versus the relational titles that you have? For example, mom, dad, grandma, granddad, brother, sister, husband, wife, friend, classmate, co-worker, church member, citizen. You could probably find some other ones depending on where you work. In certain institutions, they have certain titles for certain people. Your life, the indic what this indicates, all of these relational titles, it indicates to us what we've already said. that our life is made up of a bunch of people and our relationship to them And what is coming out very clearly in the Proverbs so far, and I hope that you have not missed it, is that God cares deeply for how we Relate to one another. All of the law and the prophets hanging on these two commands, and one of the commands is how we relate to each other. Could he have stated in any other in any other way to show its importance? He cares what kind of neighbor we are. That's been the message for the last seven years. several sermons. This is what Christ seeks to establish, in fact, in the sending of his spirit, that we would be a neighbor like he is a neighbor. Review the New Testament with neighbor on your mind. Look at all of the passages in Ephesians and Apollo's letters and see the emphasis on that second command. What I want you to do for just a moment is I want you to imagine yourself at a four-way stop or crossroads. If you there are when you look out at a crossroads, there are several roads to turn on. I mean traditionally there's three other ones besides the one you're on. That's a four-way stop, but you could add roads if you want. Some of those roads that you would choose would be a path that's not good. And then there will be paths that are good. Without Christ, you would often take a left or you would take a right in your relationships, and those would be destructive paths. They would be the same paths that perhaps your mother used to take, or your father, or your grandmother, or the way that people handled things in a particular neighborhood in which you grow up. But here's the thing, and this is part of the message. Because the eternal Son of God is behind this passage also, in the teaching of His Spirit. With Christ and His Spirit, we are now able to take new paths. and do new things. We can choose a path that brings life to those who are around us. And just instead of perpetuating the death that we've seen carried on from one generation after another within our families. Do you know what I'm talking about? Have you seen what families are capable of? The violence and the oppression that we can witness in our generations that preceded us, and how we in many ways carry forward those same things? It's kind of our inheritance in a way. But Christ breaks the bonds. He gives us a new inheritance. Let me give you a different picture. Have you ever seen on the news where a tornado has just uh drilled through a neighborhood? Casting this house and that and this home and that, stuffed animals and dishes everywhere, shingles torn about. I wonder if that is an image of how you have been with the people in your life at certain points. Perhaps that was you in the past in the lives of your children. Perhaps that is a path that you have taken with your parents or in your marriage or in your church or in your school. You know, one of the um cruelest places I hear of is the school. Doesn't matter what school it is, but people can be Deadly cruel in school. The things that they say about each other. And that's like a tornado cutting through a neighborhood, destroying people. But the main thing with the four-way stop and our recognition of Christ as Lord is that it doesn't have to be like that anymore. I'm telling you, there's a new path. That Christ has ready for you, and you don't need to take a left or a right any longer. I want you to think, what are some of the ways In which you can bring life to the communities to which you belong. We ask that question a lot here, don't we? What are some ways that you can bring, take a new path of life? To bring life to others in all of your various communities. I see several upperclassmen here. What are the ways in which you will bring a culture of life? into your schools instead of the death that you know can be present. What are those ways? I want you to look one last time with me at the passage. In verse 35, it says, the wise shall inherit glory. What does that mean? We've heard that word before already in the book of Proverbs, glory. What does glory mean in this context? Does it mean that everyone will be bowing down and serving you and all of your interests? What glory he here means once again, as we've already seen in chapter three, is that you will have social self-esteem. What that means is that you will be held in high esteem in your societies because you bring so much life to the people that that are around you. That is to be a major motivation for us. That that if you were to no longer be a part of that community, people would grieve at the loss of the fruit. that they would feel a real absence of life because you're no longer breathing there. Let us make that our goal by the power of the Holy Spirit. And let us consider that final question. What are some ways in which you can bring life to the communities? to which you belong. Let us pray that the Lord would show us the ways that we can bring life to the communities to which we belong Christ has sent his spirit to us, his church, that at the very least we can be good. Neighbors. It is in Christ that there is the fulfillment of the law, and that is how He's fulfilling it. We are therefore to avoid the temptation to adopt the ways of the neighbor who destroys. Let us pray. Father, these are by necessity general statements and require Application on a case-by-case basis in every person's life here. And so, Lord, I pray that you would give this congregation the wisdom that they need. To apply your word in their specific situations. Show them the different communities to which they belong. Show them the ways in which they have the power that you've given to them to bring life-giving influence into those moments. in those situations. Give them this kind of wisdom that is called being a good neighbor. Lord, of all people who have this wisdom, is it not you? Have you not, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, existed in perfect relationship from all eternity? We ask that you would pour your wisdom down on us by your spirit. We are your sons, we are your daughters, and we long to carry forward the family way of doing things. We are no longer a part of the old family, but a part of the We are united to the new Adam, and we pray that we would be like you, our Father, like Father, like Son and Daughter. We ask these things in the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. Let's stand and sing together number three, hymn number three, O quickly come, dread judge of all. And no more our souls and drawing them. And go with the home along as we thought you're along On every home near the His Lord is not for weakness for freedom that worked out my gloriously For when we consulted for our thing, and we In which we fall through if we marching for God. Amen. Now receive the Lord's benediction. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all. Amen.