Have a copy of God's word, open it up to Matthew chapter six. The sermon this morning is taken from verses twenty-five through thirty-four, but I'm going to start reading just a little before that in verse nineteen. Matthew chapter six, this is God's word for God's people, starting in verse 19 Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. The lamp of the body is the eye. If therefore your eye is good, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in you is darkness, how great is that darkness! No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. Therefore I say to you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat, or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air, for they neither sow nor reap, nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly father feeds them Are you not of more value than they? Which of you, by worrying, can add one cubit to his stature? So why do you worry about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin, and yet I say to you that even Solomon, in all his glory, was not arrayed like one of these. Now, if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith? Therefore, do not worry, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For after all these things the Gentiles seek. For your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you. Therefore, do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will worry about its own things. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. Please pray with me. Our Father in heaven, gracious God, this is your word. You have given it to us that we would be conformed into the image of your Son. We beg you that that it would be what is accomplished here now, that through his own teaching, his own words, we would be made more like him, as your spirit revives us through your word. and gives us true understanding of what it is we are expected to do as your children Father, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength, my rock, and my redeemer. It is in Jesus' name we've prayed. Amen. Please be seated. In my experience there are Some things which you can say to any person and and most people will have the exact same reaction to that statement. No matter what walk of life they come from Everyone will react in just about the same way. For example, most people, if you tell them not to to think something, the first thing they'll do with very little effort is think about that thing. If I say to you, do not think about your favorite donut, chances are you're thinking about a donut. Or if you're a parent and you've ever been out on a date having a good time with your spouse and you got a call from your babysitter, and the first thing they said was, Now don't worry. I imagine the first thing you did was you started to worry. Now I'm pointing this out so that you're aware of it. Our passage this morning begins with our Lord and King telling us, don't worry. And my hope is that you don't immediately begin to worry about all the things that are going on in your life. And then miss all that he has to say to you from his word. I started reading in verse 19 so we would have a clear idea of what Jesus is referring to. As I've heard many others put it, we need to know what his therefore Is therefore. Jesus has been teaching the differences of those who follow Him from all those who don't. His disciples pray differently They fast differently. They respond to their enemies differently. Jesus' disciples value things in life differently. They care about what is put into their minds differently. They live and behave in a way different to the rest of the world. And the biggest difference is that Christians live knowing that their Father in heaven loves them. And is working out a wonderful plan in his creation. Yet Jesus knows that even with that foundation, his followers will struggle in a way that is common to all human beings. We will worry about all kinds of things in life. Having taught that his people should be different from the world, Jesus here teaches. That all these differences should culminate in a different way of thinking about all of life. And he does this through a command, repeated three times, and the reasoning which he gives for the command. In this passage, Matthew 6, verses 25 through 34, we learn that worry is the result of a disordered view of reality That is only overcome by wholehearted submission to God's sovereignty. Worry is the result of a disordered view of reality That is only overcome by wholehearted submission to God's sovereignty. We're going to look at this in two sections this morning. The first section Is verses 25 through 30. That is the cause of worry. And then the second section we'll examine is the solution to worry from verses 31 through 34. This teaching from our Lord Jesus Christ starts by showing us the cause of worry, which is a disordered view of reality. We're looking at verses 25 through 30 together. In this disordered view of reality, we have a disordered view of our lives. And we see this in 25 through 27. We think we really know what life needs. Therefore, I say to you: do not worry about your life, what you will eat, or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Jesus commands us not to worry about our life or our body, which means that we don't need to worry about these things. To worry about our lives and our bodies is disobedience to this command of our Lord. Yet we all do it. Why? Well, because we think we know what our lives and our bodies need. These are some big basic things which, if we're honest with ourselves, are always on our minds. Things which we think are our most important needs. To most people, these are the most basic and essential elements needed to survive. Food, drink, and protection against the elements. Isn't it prudent and wise to be concerned with ensuring our survival? We think we get it, that we understand what we need to thrive, but our understanding is broken and limited. We put a disordered emphasis on these things because they seem to us, at least in some small way, to be under our control. And it is this illusion of control that makes us feel like we must be obsessed with meeting these needs in our life. In sin, we think we're on our own, and it's up to us to keep ourselves going. We must put ourselves first. No one else will ever care for us like we do. But we really don't know all that is truly required to sustain our lives or our bodies. Look at the rest of verse 25. Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? It is the arrogance and pride of thinking that we actually do know what we need which fuels our worry. Our focus is on what we can see and understand. But what gives us life and keeps us alive is so far beyond what we can perceive or understand. In this age, the technology age, we think we know everything. We think that because of the advancements that have been in technology, which allow us to observe things which have Been unknown to the whole human race, because of those things we think we really get it. Right? We know about DNA. We know about the structures of the cell. We know about all of these wonderful things. Well, these advances have indeed proven what Jesus says here. We are sustained by much more than food, and our bodies Are far superior in complexity and function than even the most intricate of human outfits But we do not have the capacity. It's not even possible for us to worry about all of the things which must function just right for us to stay alive. Jesus' simple question points out what we know deep in our hearts. Life is definitely more than food, and the body is more than clothing. Life is more than physical sustenance. It's more than eating or drinking. And keeping our bodies from falling apart is more than merely protecting it from the world. What good is it to cripple and exhaust our minds by obsessing over things which, even if we could be in perfect control over them, like food, water, shelter? What good is it to be crippled and exhausted in our minds if it wouldn't even guarantee our survival If God were to remove his gracious ordering of everything in the universe, which must be just so for us to stay alive, what good would it do for us to have full bellies and warm backs? We don't really know what life needs. We think we do. And so our minds are obsessed with what we understand to be our vital needs, and we worry. Yet that's not the extent of the disorder view we have of our own lives. We also don't really know how our needs are met. Look at verse 26. Jesus says, look at the birds of the air, for they neither sow, nor reap, nor gather into barns. Hear me, brothers and sisters, being focused is not a bad thing, but a disordered focus can easily turn into worry. Birds do not engage in any of the worry and anxiety which human beings do, and they certainly don't act the way we do about food. They don't sow or reap or store up a bunch of food for the future in barns. This is not to imply that they do nothing. Anyone who's ever watched birds can tell you that they are anything but lazy. Watching a hawk or an eagle hunt, you can tell that they are supremely focused. Yet they're not worrying. They work according to their nature in the way that God designed them to work. They do the labor of birds Which to us seems inadequate for survival. And yet, they do survive. Is it because they feed themselves? No. Jesus says, yet your heavenly father feeds them. They are not sustained through their obsession with food, though it could be argued that they're even more obsessed at finding food and water than we are because they don't have any for the future. They have to do it every single day, finding it afresh. It is not their labor or their focus which provides what they need. God provides what they need. He uses their labor and their focus as the means of his provision. The bird goes out seeking food, and he finds it by the grace and the power of the Creator. Again, a simple question from Jesus strikes at the core of our sinful worrying. Are you not of more value than they? Do we really think that God cares more for birds and his other creatures than he does for mankind, whom he has made in his own image? Of course, this is nonsense to those of the world. Humans are simply a different type of animal. And we're all in the same circumstances, every other animal, just trying to survive by whatever means necessary. The world does not question the one who worries about meeting these basic needs of life. And if we're all alone in this life Well then to whom can anyone turn for help? Other faulty, frail human beings? To them this worry is valid because they don't know God. Nor do they know how he has ordered his creation. They don't know how God works. They don't trust his special love and care for human beings. They don't understand how he is the only one who can provide all that every creature needs. They do not have eyes to see or ears to hear This whole existence is just the product of chance, just chemical interactions, oodles and oodles of time, so those chemicals can bang together until it spits out you and your body and your life. Christians, this is not what you are to believe. Do not allow a disordered view of life to cause disobedience to our Lord Jesus Christ. He is the one who has made all things. He is the one who has ordered all things. And he is telling you: do not worry about your life. He tells us this because he knows we have a disordered view of reality, which disorders how we see and understand our own lives. And the disorder doesn't end there, does it? We also have a disordered view of our power or our capability. And we're looking at verses 27 through 30 now. What can we actually do for ourselves? What is actually in our control? He says, which of you, by worrying, can add one cubit to his stature? It is understandable why one who does not know God might think they need to worry, to be obsessed with achieving the goals of acquiring the things they think are necessary for thriving. But Jesus points out the futility of this. Even if we could know all the things which need to be in place for us to be perfectly safe and secure in all of our life, worrying about it would not affect it one bit. We can't worry ourselves taller. We can't worry ourselves healthier. We can't worry ourselves thinner, or stronger, or smarter, or whatever you can fill in in that blank Worrying is pointless. It does nothing. It accomplishes nothing. Now I'll briefly point out that if you're using a version other than the New King James Version, it may be slightly different in your translation. And that's because some take the Greek word elikion as referring to a person's lifespan. But this word was used in Luke 19, verse 3. And it's used to describe the small stature of a certain man, a man named Zacchaeus. And we all remember what Zacchaeus's small stature made him do. Made him climb a tree so that he could see the Lord Jesus. Well, the parallel passage, the one we're examining from Matthew, the parallel passage in Luke 12, also uses this same word. And so it seems more consistent to understand this as referring to our physical stature, regardless. We see how both can be true, don't we? However, we are to interpret what Jesus is literally saying to his audience, the main point is the same, whether it's a physical stature or whether it's our lifespan. Our worry has no power to change either. We have such a disordered view of our own power that we think we are responsible for giving our life purpose. We think we are in control of fulfilling our life's purpose. Look at verses 28 through 29 together. So why do you worry about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin, and yet I say to you that even Solomon, in all his glory, was not arrayed like one of these. Notice that Jesus wants us to consider how the lilies grow, not just how marvelous they appear. We can get distracted because the the worry is for clothing. And Jesus uses a word translated spin, which is only ever used here in the parallel passage in Luke 12. And once In the Septuagint, the Greek Old Testament, when the gifted ladies were spinning yarn to make beautiful fabric for the tabernacle. We have many more occurrences of the word that's translated toil, which is consistently talking about wearisome labor. Work which is very difficult and takes great effort. So let me ask you, does the lily decide where it's going to grow? Can it pick up and move if its location isn't ideal for Lilyang? Does it expend immense effort to design plans of action and devise methods of working so that it can fulfill its purpose? The reference to Solomon's glory helps us understand this better. We know who Solomon was, and he wasn't just the snappy dresser. We know how wealthy and wise and blessed he was. We know that under his rule, God expanded the kingdom of Israel more than at any other point in history. His glory was unparalleled among men. But a flower, the lily, surpasses Solomon in glory? How? Because it surpasses him in its fulfillment of God's purpose for it. Solomon worked hard most of his life, but later on he messed up big time. And you can read about that in 1 Kings 11. Because of his sin, the kingdom of Israel was split in two. David's house lost all but one tribe. And there's plenty of reading you can do this afternoon in 1st and 2nd Kings to see the tragic results of God's judgment. The lily doesn't work hard or strive to achieve glory as Solomon did. The lily depends on God for its every need It depends on God for its location and sustenance. It depends on Him to send rain and sunshine so it can thrive. It depends wholly on God for its protection. Flowers are not known for their durability. They're even more fragile than human beings. So why should we think that we have the power to do better than the lily? The richest and wisest man in history couldn't do better than the lily, who in all things is at the mercy of the Lord. Our disordered view of our lives and of our power and ability causes us to think we know the right things to worry about, and that our worry will somehow affect our situation. We think that we will be protected and able to fulfill all of God's plan for us so long as we're in total control of just a few things. And so we worry. This shows that in our disorder view of reality there is something which stands out above all the rest of our disorder. We have a disordered view of our God. Look at verse 30 Jesus says, Now if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you? The lily, which all it does is submit to God's plan and rule over its life, is given life, sustained in that life, protected from destruction, and enabled to glorify and enjoy the Almighty Creator. Do you honestly think that God is more concerned with flowers than with you? Why do you think God will not do the very same for you that He does for the lily? He loves you more than birds of flowers. He gave his only son to die in order that you might be with him for the rest of forever. That flower, if you've ever grown flowers, is only around for a very short time. There are some flowers that only blossom for a single day and then they die. If God cares that much about something that is only going to live for a day and then die, Doesn't it make sense that he cares even more about you who will live forever? Our Son, the Son of God, he gave himself to die in order that you might be with God forever. He didn't do that for birds or for flowers or for plants. He did it for you, Christian Well, Jesus ends this section with one Greek word that highlights all of the disorder in our lives, especially our disordered view of our Heavenly Father. That word is Holigopistoi. Oh, you of little faith, or little faith one, we do not believe God as we should. We do not trust Him as we should. Notice that. It's not our circumstances in our lives which must change. It is our faith in the Almighty God which must be strengthened and exercised. More than food, more than drink, more than bills, more than clothes. And trust me, I know that's a big deal if you have children, because you're replacing every article of their wardrobe every six months. More than anything else. In your entire life, your mind must be fixed upon God, believing His word and trusting Him Worry is the result of a disordered view of reality, a disordered view of our lives, a disordered view of our power and ability, and most of all, a disordered view Of our God, how much He loves us and whether or not He can be trusted. We need to get all of this in order. And there's only one way to do that. There is only one solution to worry: wholehearted submission to God's sovereignty. And we see this in verses 31 through 34. First, we see that we must submit to God's order. Every person on this planet needs the same things in order to stay alive. He says, Therefore do not worry, saying, What shall we eat Or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For after all these things the Gentiles seek. We've already touched on how the world is obsessed with these basic necessities of life. These concerns of the flesh, which attack our spirit and make every one of us susceptible to worry. Those who don't know God think that they must prioritize these concerns over everything else If they have no Heavenly Father, to whom can they flee? If they don't get these things for themselves, for all they know, they're just going to die. But we are not to be like all other men in this world, are we? We have been called by God, given the gift of faith to believe his word and all that he tells us about him. We know God and we are known by Him because of the great work of Jesus Christ. We believe Him when He says He will not forsake us. We believe him when he tells us he will not leave us. We believe him when he says that he will be with us even until the end of the age. We must submit to his order. And the fact that we need food and water and protection from the world, it's not a surprise to God. It's his design. Jesus says, For your Heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. He knows that we are dust. He made us from the dust. He knows that we must be fed. Remember how he fed his people in the wilderness? He showered manna, bread from heaven upon them. Now you may also remember that they were really worried about their survival, weren't they? They were so worried about their bellies. That bread from heaven just wasn't enough. And it led them to cry out against God's plan for them. They wanted to return to slavery in Egypt. So, what did God do? He gave them more meat, more quail, than they knew what to do with. Numbers 11, 19 through 20, he says You shall eat not one day, nor two days, nor five days, nor ten days, nor twenty days, but for a whole month Until it comes out of your nostrils and becomes loathsome to you, because you have despised the Lord who is among you, and have wept before him, saying, Why did we ever come up out of Egypt? It is God's design that the result of man's sin, our fragility, our frailty, our weakness, our vulnerability would drive us to Him. If we have a properly ordered view of our lives and our ability and our God, we will throw ourselves at His feet, seeking His merciful provision, because we know We cannot provide for ourselves. We cannot sustain ourselves. We know that we cannot do what we most need. God has given us better bread than the miraculous manna from heaven, hasn't He? The body of our Lord Jesus Christ. He's given us better drinks than even the miraculous water that came from the rock. He has given us the blood of the true rock, shed by the only one who can save us from our sin. We must submit to God's order if we are to have our minds liberated from the slavery. of worry. And we do this by submitting to his kingship We submit to his absolute authority and sovereignty over all things. We submit to the King of Kings, the Lord Jesus Christ, by prioritizing God's plan for his kingdom. His plan for his people. And we see that there in verse 33. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you. We must not allow our plans to dominate our lives. His plan is the only one which should really matter to us. His plan is to redeem all of his chosen people from the estate of sin and misery and to unite us to himself forever in Jesus Christ. Prioritizing God's plan will, by necessity, limit the things we choose for ourselves. It will eliminate certain options which the world presents to us. It eliminates certain positions on certain issues. It simplifies our lives such that we will have no room for worry. As if this simplification of decision making wasn't enough of a benefit, Jesus tells us that all these things shall be added to you. Our Father knows what we need, and He will provide all that which we need to accomplish His plan for us. The chief concern of our mind does not need to be how will we survive, as is the primary focus of all those who are estranged from God. Rather, we must devote ourselves to Him. Devote ourselves to his plan, to his kingdom, to his righteousness. We must live as those who have truly received what we need the most: everlasting life. Forgiveness of our sins, the righteousness of Jesus Christ imputed to us and received by faith alone, and that faith itself is a gift from God. Finally, Christians, submit to God's sovereignty by abandoning any self-deception that you are in control. In other words, get out of the way. Let God be God. Therefore, do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will worry about its own things. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble This may be hard to hear, but God doesn't need you to bring about tomorrow. He doesn't need us to build the future He's not waiting on us for anything. God doesn't need you to take care of all the things he's overlooked. There are none He doesn't need you to pick up the pieces that he's mistakenly left behind. God doesn't do that. God doesn't drop the ball. That's what we do. He wants you to have no other gods before him, and that includes yourself. So brothers and sisters, let God be God. Stop the nonsense He knows what you need, and he knows what you don't need. He knows what he has planned for you, and he knows what he doesn't have planned for you He knows that you will face trials and troubles and tribulations of all kinds, but you never, ever need to take over for him. He has this all under control. And that should be the most comforting thought that any one of us can ever have. Now, please, I do not want you to misunderstand me. Please do not think that I think that this is easy. There's nothing easy about this, but it sure is simple It's simple because we only have one thing to worry about: seeking God above everything else. Every day has trouble of its own. All of our lives will be filled with challenges and trials. In all of it We must order our lives so that the most important thing we do is seeking His kingdom and His righteousness. We have lots of decisions that we need to make every second of every day. How can we be sure that we're making the right ones? Well, if the most important thing in our lives is serving God, submitting to His plan for us and for this world, then most of our decisions are made for us. What job will we work? Where do we go to school? How do we educate our children? Where will we live? How should we respond in this particular troublesome situation? All of these decisions will be affected by your life's priority. And if your chief priority is glorifying God and enjoying Him, then every decision you make will be toward that end. It will be more important to you that your children learn what they are to believe concerning God and what duty He requires of them than that they have heads crammed full of facts about all kinds of subjects. It will be more important to you that they are being taught by someone who believes true things about God and about his creation. It will be more important that they learn how to submit to his rule than that they learn how to do specific tasks the world values. It will be more important to you that your children go on to live a life that honors God and honors His order than whether or not a degree they earn will give them a boost in the job market It will be more important for yourself that you honor God with your money than that you have all the things you ever wanted to buy. I hope this is starting to sink in. As it says in Proverbs 3, verses 5 through 6, trust in the Lord with all your heart. And lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways, acknowledge him. And what will he do? He shall direct your paths In all your decision-making, let God be God. Trust Him. Lean on Him. Seek Him. Now it's important that we recognize that the world is full of a rotten message. It says that for us to be fulfilled, we must follow our own dreams. We must let it go. There are plenty of books and movies and TV shows with people allowing everything in their life to collapse so they can achieve the one thing. That they've always wanted. This is a dangerous way to live. It causes people to abandon their children, sometimes before they're even born. It causes people to abandon their marriages. It causes people to abandon their responsibilities with little or no regard. to the pain and suffering that they cause. It can cause people to abandon their morals and their values. in order to succeed at achieving that one thing. Christian, this is not what your king wants for you. Your king wants you to abandon everything else and follow him You have to lose your life if you want to find it. You have to live for Christ if you want to have any kind of life at all. So, brothers and sisters, make this the priority of every day of your life. Make it the priority of every choice or decision you face. Make it the sole subject. Of every thought that you have. Jesus is your king, and he commands you to let him be the king. Let him be the king that he is. Have the same view of reality that he has. Think his thoughts after him Hold His word as the standard of all truth and judge any claims to truth against what he has said. Order your life unto his glory first and foremost. Recognize that he knows what you need and he has not abandoned you to find out how you're going to provide it for yourself Know that he has given you and will give you all that you could need. And if God has chosen not to give it to you, guess what? You don't need it. This may be the hardest lesson we learn in all of our lives. Sometimes we find ourselves in difficult circumstances dealing with the disordered choices that we've made. It's never too late to turn away from trying to be God over your own life. Turn to the true God. Pray to him. Cry out to him and lay it all at his feet. You may have to live without things you couldn't imagine living without. Your life may have to change in ways you never thought possible. You may have to humble yourself. You may have to look for help You may have to seek help from people that you never ever thought you would go to for help. You may have to endure a long period of not knowing what God is doing, and you just have to keep putting one foot in front of the other. Just trying to make it through another day. But Christian If your life is centered on Christ and submitting to His order and to His rule, submitting to His sovereignty, you will not have to worry. You will make it. Isaiah 41, 10 tells us, Fear not, for I am with you. Be not dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you. Yes, I will help you. I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. Beloved Christian, the King of the universe tells you that you must not worry because he is God and you are not. If you are struggling with this and you don't know how to let God be God, I encourage you, I exhort you, reach out to your elders. Let us help you order your life unto God's glory. Submitting with all your heart to his plan and his rule over your life. Please pray with me