Matthew chapter six. We're going to look together at verses twenty-four through thirty-four, but if you get your Bibles there. And I also encourage you to keep them open. We're going to be doing a lot of flipping around in this general area, and it'll just be helpful to keep your eyes there and watch as we follow along in what the scripture says. I wonder if if you would mind standing. Do you mind standing for the Word of God? Starting together in verse twenty four of Matthew chapter six. No one can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. Therefore, I say to you, do not worry about your life What you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air, for they neither sow nor reap, nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they? And which of you, by worrying, can add one cubit to his stature? So why do you worry about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin, and yet I say to you that even Solomon, in all his glory, was not arrayed like one of these Now, if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you? O you of little faith. Therefore, do not worry, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For after all these things the Gentiles seek. For your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you. Therefore do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will worry about its own things. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. The flowers fade, the grass withers away, but the word of our God abides forever. Please be seated. I don't think it's news to any of you that our world is a broken, broken place. North Korea. Just a couple weeks ago it was Charlottesville. It seems like ISIS has been out of the news, but it's not as though they've just disappeared. And who can forget those heinous, heinous criminals in the NFL? The world is a terrible place. And there's much hardship. And given the terrible state of affairs that is constantly surrounding us, it is understandable that we would suffer from some form of anxiety or another. But our Lord Jesus Christ, in his word, by his Holy Spirit, demonstrates just how well he knows our hearts. He does not leave us to make solutions for ourselves about how to deal with this world. He does not leave us to figure out How to make life work, but instead he teaches us a different, a far better way of going through this life Now the teaching we're looking at here in at the end of Matthew chapter six is part of a larger teaching that we're m most of us are familiar with. It's called the Sermon on the Mount. And if you have your Bibles open, if you just want to flip over there, you can see right there, starting in chapter 5, that this sermon, this first major teaching section in Jesus' ministry recorded for us in the Gospel of Matthew. He teaches first the blessedness of God's elect. He teaches the blessing that the elect of God are to the world. And then he teaches that the Christ, the one who does the electing and the justifying of the elect, that his purpose in coming is to fulfill the law. And right after that section, in verse 21 of chapter 5, we see our Lord begin to expound on the old law, which is still the law. The Ten Commandments. And he begins by expounding on the second table of the law. We remember the first table is love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. And the second table, love your neighbor as yourselves. And so he begins to teach about the sixth commandment. He begins to teach that the prohibig prohibition against murder is not just in terms of the unlawful taking of life. But that it also has to do with the internal thoughts, the mental attitudes toward our fellow man. He addresses the seventh commandment as he talks to us about adultery, and that it is not just the act of cheating. But again, it is the mental attitude toward those who are not our spouses. He teaches us about the sanctity of marriage, which also has to do with the seventh commandment. And that we are to have a specific mental attitude toward uh the sanctity, and we should not violate the sanctity of that marriage. He forbids oaths and swearings, which could be applicable to the ninth commandment. And he describes the way that his followers, the followers of the living God, are going to love their neighbors as themselves. In chapter 6, our Lord then teaches that God cares about true motives rather than perfunctory religious activities. He is a God of goodness and he is real and he sees all that is done, especially that which is done in secret He then teaches his followers how they should pray. And in so teaching, he gives a great theology about the Father in heaven. He teaches us much about him. He teaches us that God is holy. He teaches us that our Father is sovereign. He teaches that our Father provides and he protects. He teaches that our God is glorified and that he is just and fair. He teaches that God have despises hypocrisy and piety for the sake of social recognition. And he teaches that the visible, tangible, physical world around us is not all that there is, not all that there will be, and that what we do in this life has a translation into the next. Now, we've come to our passage. And here at our passage, we see Jesus begin to expound on the first table of the law. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. The first commandment, have no other gods before Jehovah God. Worship him alone. And so here, starting in verse 24, he begins to expand on this. Who do you serve? Who gives existence to creation and sustains it? Who gives life and sustains it? Who sets the standard by which all things are judged? Who answers those who ask? Who opens those who knock, who reveals to those who seek. This is addressing the first commandment. And v if for the rest of the of the Sermon on the Mount we see the second commandment addressed in the narrow way. There is only one way to God, it is his way. It is not any ritual or method or idol manufactured by many of the same thing. The third commandment, identifying those who take upon themselves the name of Jehovah or the name of Christ. How to identify those who do not take that name in vain. But he also gives us a powerful reminder that there will be those who take the Lord's name in vain, take it upon themselves when it is not there. And then the Sermon on the Mount ends with a view to the fourth commandment. The great rock, which is the foundation of our lives, the complete and holy Sabbath of God provided in Jesus Christ. So if we look at the passage we're addressing tonight, in the context of this retelling of the law from the great lawgiver, the one greater than Moses. We see that Jesus is teaching us about his Father. He's teaching us about God, the creator of all the universe. But more specifically, he's teaching us about the relationship that God has to us and how that should affect our lives. This passage quite obviously deals with worry. You can see it there several times, and several times there is a command even: do not worry. It's repeated. The passage addresses the reality of serving God and how that should affect our thoughts and how we perceive the world around us. Brothers and sisters, this passage from Matthew 6, 24 through 34, shows us that God's children are liberated from worry by a proper perspective on life and providence. Which enables us to live with proper priorities. God's children are liberated from worry by a proper perspective on life and providence Which enables us to live with proper priorities. We're going to look at this in three major divisions. We'll see first from verses 24 through 25, the perspective. on life and providence. We'll look further at providence in verses 26 through 30, and then we will explore the idea of priorities, which comes from verses 31 through So we'll have the perspective, the providence, and the priorities. Let's begin now by looking at verses 24 through 25 together. The first aspect of the perspective that we must have is the perspective on our service. For whom do we use our lives? And we see here in verse 24 that he says, No one can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. Our perspective on our service is that our service is singular. You can only serve one. One master. You cannot serve more than one master. And this is makes sense to us because it's logical, it's reasonable. In our society we have things called non-competition agreements, right? Or we have we have judges or lawyers that must recuse themselves from serving a case because it may seem that there's some kind of impropriety. We understand that someone can have a conflict of interest. It makes sense to us. And so we trust what our God is saying because it fits it fits very clearly with the reality. But Jesus is not just telling us that our service is singular, he tells us that our service is specific. It is specific. You cannot serve God and Mammon. Now most of you are probably familiar that Mammon is the term, uh it's a transliteration into Greek of a an Aramaic word, and it most likely stands for a regional idol. That represented wealth and money. We could call this the health and wealth prosperity gospel. Right? We could just call that mammon, or we could say, you can't serve God and you can't serve yourself. You can't serve God and you can't serve riches and wealth. So we must understand that by putting these two things against each other, Jesus is showing us that to serve God our single point of service, our specific, the specific God we serve. To serve him will not look like it does to serve any other worldly idol. But we must also have a specific perspective, not only on our service, but on our sustenance. We have to have a very proper perspective on the one from whom we have our lives. God sustains our lives. Therefore, I say to you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat, or what you will drink. Worry. What does it mean to worry? Obviously, worrying is not simply giving a single thought to a thing, it's actually giving an inordinate amount of thought to something We are not to give inordinate amount of thought and worry to our physical subsistence. We are not just physical beings. We are more than the summon substance of the food and beverage we put into our bodies. Right? I don't feel bad disagreeing with Carl Sagan. We are not simply star stuff. Though it is amazing that we are made up of the same elements and materials as the rest of the universe, that is not the miracle of life. The miracle of life is that that star stuff is put together and God has breathed into it, his Ruach, his spirit, and it is now a living being. Now, because of this component, life cannot be sustained by bread alone. It isn't as if God hates the physical body. Right? We have to we have to keep this in mind because there are many systems of thought out there that think that our physical bodies are evil simply because they are physical and not spiritual. But we cannot think that from God because the Lord entered into that physical creation, didn't he? He entered into it and thus redeemed and showed that God sustains our physical bodies. He says, don't worry about your body, what you'll put on. We aren't just eating machines, right? We aren't just wearing machines. We don't just wear clothing, and that's just the only purpose that we have. Clothing is a necessity. We have to have clothes, at least some of us more than others. You're welcome. But it is not the necessity of clothing that Jesus is addressing. What he's addressing is an inordinate amount of thought given to that clothing. And we're all concerned, maybe in differing degrees, but each of us is concerned a little more than we ought to be with what we wear. If you don't believe me, I'm sure each and every one of you can ask your spouse, what would you like me to get rid of? And I bet they would have at least one item of your wardrobe that they would be more than happy to get rid of. Uh I have this really disgusting hat that Ashley really wants me to just throw away. But I bought the hat on a date with her and she doesn't seem to realize that that's Why it's so special to me. But it is ripped apart, it's all beat up, it's disgusting. It really is. And uh I'll show it to you the next workday I wear it every church workday. But I will not get rid of it. Because I have put and I'm admitting this to you an inordinate amount of emotional investment into a hat. I worry about the hat sometimes that it might come to life and take us all out. We all have something like this. The body is more than just what we put on it. Right? Our lives are more than just what we ingest to sustain it, to keep it going, to keep the furnace burning. And yet we are tempted to give inordinate thought to these things. Now, we know that we're going to be tempted because Jesus addresses it. He wouldn't address this if we weren't going to be tempted to worry. And because he addresses it, we understand that we will be tempted. Now, knowing that we will be tempted Knowing that we could give an inordinate amount of thought to these things, our Lord addresses it in this next section. Right? He knows why. Do you know why we're tempted to worry about these things? Well you're tempted to worry about it because if you don't eat, you die. So it is an important part of life. But w it is not the most important part of life, and we'll come around to that in a little bit. But now Jesus moves on to give us examples. Clear illustrations of his Father's most holy, wise, and powerful, preserving and governing all of his creatures and all their actions. He gives us great illustrations for God's providence. God provides for life in the giving of life. He says, Look at the birds of the air in verse 26. For they neither sow nor reap, nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Jesus wants us to consider a very specific part of bird life: that they do not sow, that they do not reap, that they do not gather and store. Now he's not saying that birds don't do anything at all. He's saying that just by their actions, by their living in their nature, they do all that is necessary to sustain their lives. That's a gift from God. Instinct and design. The Lord gave a a very similar argument when he was talking to Job in chapters 38 and 39. He said that he he has made the beasts and other living creatures and in his wisdom to do his will. He made the ostrich with wings, but it's not wings like a dove's or a stork's The ostrich lays eggs, but she doesn't treat them like the chicken. She doesn't sit on them and wait for them to hatch. She leaves them in the ground, as it says in Job, and where they could be trampled. The eagle is different. The eagle gives birth way up in the sky. Very different from other animals. But this is all because of God's providential ordering of the universe. The birds are fed by your heavenly Father, yet I ask you, have has anyone in this room ever seen it rain worms? No? You ever seen uh Ellie, have you seen birdseed just fall from the sky? But there was a group of crees creatures that had food fall from the sky, wasn't there? Our God provides. He gives life. He provides for life. He sustains it. Now Jesus wants us to see the argument. He wants us to see this argument from the lesser to the greater. And he says, Are you not of more value than they? Is it reasonable for us to believe that God would care more about birds than he does for his own children? That he would give birds all that they need, that he would bring them up with the ability to feed themselves, that he would create them with the instincts to know how to acquire food and to sustain their families and all that. But he wouldn't do the same for people? That doesn't quite make sense, does it? That God would love the lesser creatures more than He has this creature that we read is made just a little lower than the angels. God provides also for our bodies. He doesn't just provide for our lives, he provides for our bodies in the same way by giving us our bodies. Look at verse 27. Which of you, by worrying, can add one cubit to his stature? Can worrying add anything to your body Uh a qubit is generally accepted as it's the length from your elbow to the tips of your fingers. One qubit. So when we look at this we have to think, okay, if Jesus is literally talking about how much we grow, he would probably be talking about children. Uh children can grow that much in about a day, right? But if he's talking about someone like Keith Thomas is what, six nine or something, if he grew a cubit, we would be it would just be a giant. So he may not be speaking literally about that. A lot of translations call it lifespan. But what we really need to take from it is we need to see that our Lord Is um he doesn't leave it on us to grow ourselves. He grows us. He gives it to us. There's nothing that you can do, nothing that you can worry about that will add even one second to your whole life. Do you guys remember a man named James Fix? He was a health guru back in the 80s, in the 70s. And he wrote a book, The Complete Guide to Running. A lot of them think that he kicked off the the jogging craze in America. Well, um you would think that he was very, very, very healthy. He was very conscious of all that he ate. He was a runner of ten miles a day. I mean, if you looked at him, he looked like he was in the best shape that any person could be in Do you know what happened when he was fifty-two years old? He died of a heart attack. And do you know what he was doing when he had the heart attack? He was running. You can do all that's within your power to try to extend your lifespan. And it's not within your power. Not one bit. So why worry about it? Jesus is drawing attention to the fact that not a single one of us has made ourselves grow. Not a single one of you remembers how you stitch yourself together in the womb. Well then he moves on to say, can worrying affect your appearance? Can worrying make you more worthy of receiving honor? He says, so why do you worry about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin, and yet I say to you That even Solomon, in all his glory, was not arrayed like one of these. Worrying about clothing is just a waste of time. It's a waste of precious mental energy. The message is not ditch wearing clothes altogether. Again, I'm not saying that to anyone, so I'd rather not see that at the pig roast or something like that. What we want you to get is that though it may seem important Don't worry about it. Don't give it undue concern. Don't spend undue effort so that this these things that have no bearing on the fate of your life. Do not end up taking control of your life. The lilies don't toil, they don't spin, yet there's not a single garment uh garment that Solomon ever wore that could compare itself to the magnificence of the living being that is a flower. They're alive. They're given life. They're given this great gift from God. And yet they are more beautiful than anything we can create. And again he's pointing out this argument from the lesser to the greater. Again, Jesus is saying That if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is and tomorrow is is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you? Oh you of little faith. The lilies, these flowers were fuel for man's fires. Now uh the the the oven here that he's referring to is a little brick furnace that in Palestine they used to use in order to cook cakes of bread. And what they would do is they would build a big fire outside of this pottery oven and it would create all this heat and there would be no fire and then they'd throw it in there and it would be the heat that would just cook the bread. Well sometimes if it was cold out or if they really wanted to get the heat going fast, they would take a little handful of these grasses and flowers that are around and they just toss it in. This is fuel. This is coal. This is gasoline. And yet our Lord is saying that this fuel is clothed and made more magnificent in appearance than any king that has ever lived. So should we spend any time worrying about how we clothe ourselves if God clothes fuel in such a wonderful way? Oh we of little faith, every single one of us waste a little bit of time and worry on these things, at least a little bit. Food is important. Proper clothing is important, but importance does not necessitate precedence. Just because something is important does not mean that it should take priority. And the problem that Jesus is addressing is the wrong priority that we give to these rightly important things. So our Lord finishes his teaching in this section by giving us the only solution. We must have the proper priorities. All the things he's addressed so far are secondary priorities W he says uh and he he just recasts it all for us in thirty one, verse thirty one. Therefore do not worry, saying what shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? These secondary concerns are of the carnal nature. But because they are universally shared among all people of all nations and faiths, we can be mistaken in thinking that they are um first place priorities It's universally important that people eat food or else they'll die. And so we can have this problem, we can make it seem as though it's a first priority. He even tells us, for all these things, after all these things the Gentiles seek. The Gentiles could be any person who does not have a mind for the higher spiritual thing. Who is not putting their mind on things above. All those people seek food and clothing. Now, if there is no God and all is chance, uh there's no way not to worry about this stuff. What is of more importance than the basic necessities of life? And what can you do if you're dead? So if there is uh anyone you know who has bought into the secular atheist worldview They are not capable of not worrying about these things. These things to them are of first-tier importance and priority. But Christian, you can put these concerns of the flesh in their proper priority, in their proper place as secondary. Our God is not ignorant of the bird's needs or of yours. He grows and clothes lilies and he'll grow and he'll clothe you. He will sustain you and bring glory unto himself by blessing you. And the Lord never allows his glory to be diminished, so you can take this to the bank. You can trust him without reservation that he will provide for your every single need. Why? Why can you trust this? Because God loves you. And He's proven His love for you by sending His only Son that He would die? And he would make a way back to reconciliation with the Father that we can dwell with him forever. With all confidence, we can embrace the primary priority of life. And it's right there for us in verse 33. Seek first the kingdom of heaven or the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you He uses a but here. It says but, which indicates uh contrast. Instead of worry, do this other thing. So what are we to do instead of worrying? We are to seek God first as the first and most important priority of our lives We are to see God glorified in our obedience to Him as we seek His kingdom over the worldly kingdom. Therefore, do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will worry about its own things. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. Each day has its own trouble without us adding unnecessary troubles to it. The Lord will feed you. The Lord will clothe you. You no longer need to worry about any of those things. Brothers and sisters, every day is a hard day. Some days are harder than others, but every day is a hard day, and I'm sure each and every one of you know this. And when tomorrow arrives, it becomes today. And it's just another hard day. Until we're glorified. And the only the only joy we have in this life is by God's grace and by his mercy. And if you spend your time imagining just how terrible and how hard every other day that comes is going to be. Boy, you're gonna find yourself having a real predicament. You're gonna end up worrying about how much you need to worry. And it doesn't help us to do that. So I hope you see, brothers and sisters, I hope you see the futility of worrying about these things. What use is there in worrying about what you'll eat tomorrow if you die tonight? What use is there in worrying about what you're going to put on tomorrow If when you wake up tomorrow you're in one of those fancy gowns that has no back because something happened at night and you were taken to the hospital, you had no idea, what use is there of worrying what you're going to put on? What use is there of worrying about these things that God already has taken care of? We all know that we need to eat, but our Father knows that we need to eat also, and he knows it far better than we. Keep a proper perspective on this. He is not ignorant of your situation. He starved. He thirsted. He suffered. He bled. He knows exactly what the most awful day you could ever experience will be. And he will provide all that you need to get through it. Now please don't think that I'm saying this is easy. I'm not saying look at these verses telling you not to worry, so I expect you not to worry. Life is infinitely more complex than that. Some people endure trials that I can't imagine, physical suffering, mental suffering. Others are enduring the shock. The shock that the Kangas family is enduring. I can't imagine that. I can't imagine that. I'm enduring similar trials myself with my father-in-law passing, but I cannot imagine what it's like to have your child Be taken that way. Well, brothers and sisters, all of you, all of us, every Christian has only one way. One hope to be free of worry, and that is to seek God first. Exactly as Jesus says. Seek him first. It's his kingdom that you're to seek, not your own, his righteousness, not your own righteousness. Seek him. Evaluate how you look at life Seek him by diligently consuming his word. See his providence displayed. Recognize him as being the one who gives life and sustains it. Read in your word, in the word of God. See the promises that He's made and see Him fulfill those promises. And you will be strengthened in your trust of His perfect provision. Seek God as the first and most important priority of your life, and you will find yourself able to kill the idea of worry. You will be able to be liberated from worry. Brothers and sisters, you serve the living God, the God who created all things. From nothing. There is no need that he cannot fulfill. Seek him first, his kingdom and his righteousness, and you will be liberated from worrying about all those things he'll add to you. Let us pray. Our gracious God in heaven, you have given to us your word. Your word in many places. Seeks to instill in us the knowledge and the confidence of your power as God. You are God, you are our God, and we are your people. How can we think that you do not care for us after all that you have done to make us your people? After all that you have done and endured that we would be capable of existing in your presence. Remind us, Lord, daily, that it is you to whom we are dependent and on whom we are dependent. Is you alone that we trust for the provision of all the important things that we need