Please turn your Bibles to Philippians. And we are looking at chapter one. I'll ask you to stand please. We're looking at chapter one, twelve through twenty-six. And um we're gonna stand through the whole sermon today. I'm just kidding. That'd be a good way to leave, wouldn't it? Yeah. It's verses twelve through twenty-six. Here is God's word. But I want you to know, brethren, that the things which happened to me have actually turned out for the furtherance of the gospel. So that it has become evident to the whole palace guard and to all the rest that my chains are in Christ. And most of the brethren in the Lord, having become confident by my chains, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Some indeed preach Christ even from envy and strife, and some also from goodwill. The former preach Christ from selfish ambition, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is priest, and in this I rejoice, yes and with But with all boldness as always, so now also Christ will be magnified in my body, whether by life or death. For to me, to live is Christ, and to die is gay. But if I live on in the flesh, this will mean fruit from my labor. What I shall choose I cannot tell, for I am hard pressed between the two Of faith, that your rejoicing from me may be more abundant in Jesus Christ by my coming to you again. Let's pray. Father, these words are sweet to us. They are demanding of us. And we are not nervous about that because of the spirit that you have given to us. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Please be seated. I know that the word partnership is being used in different ways in the context of marriage, and I or seeming marriage. I'm using it in the Christ typical historical Christian sense of partnership. I think it's uh a normal sense of wisdom that when you want to choose your partner for love life that you want to choose wisely. And so I think that's probably why the whole engagement period was present in order for you to well maybe well the courting was present uh in order for you to find out who this person really is and whether or not you want to hitch up with them with With all of your adventures in life. This same kind of mentality is what we're seeing here in the Philippians. In the letter to the Philippians. Last week we're we started series on partnership and we're realizing that if we are Christians, we are called, it is in fact our destiny to partner with the Apostles. Even though they're dead in their bodies anyway, they've been now are now with Christ. Even though they are dead, they continue on as a foundation and we are to partner with them. And in partnering with them we are partnering with Jesus. Christ. We saw specifically last week that the partnership can be not that exciting, or we might think that it's just a hobby for us to be. Christians, but we were learning particularly through the final illustration of the acorn and the marble slab, I hope you remember that. The seed of faith is present and it will grow up and it will be the most consuming thing within your life. That partnership therefore is who you are in your identity. to the rest of this book. And today we're starting with the first main theme in being Paul's partner, the apostle. You know, his concern here in writing this whole next section in 12 through 26 really goes back to the initial illustration in considering the right person for marriage. We see within the first couple lines here that Paul's in prison. And you've got to ask yourself the question when you're this church or if you're now, if you really want to marry someone who's in prison. prison. I mean don't you have to ask that question. I think that's what Paul the whole purpose of Paul writing this section here is he's trying to help them to avoid discouragement and disillusionment with what's happening with him I mean think for instance the analogy I gave last week was becoming partners in business with my father where I no longer had the mindset of an employee, but was on I was on uh all in as a as a partner. Would you want to partner with him in business if you found out that he was in jail? Uh and and to complicate And everything around him seems to be unsta He causes trouble whenever whatever town he goes into. He's always beat up or stoned or do you really want to associate with him and be business partners? I mean just do a little ri That's what the Apostle Paul is doing. And and what he what he says this morning here in this passage is he says, if you want to partner with me, then you're going to have to have a mature understanding of what life is all about. You've got to be able to see, you've got to have a correct philosophy of life. And that's what we're going to see here. It's the great theme, although we titled the sermon last week, Will the Acorn Wheel win that was a last re resort. Uh I would have tit now in hindsight I would title it The Destiny of Partnership and today will be the life of it How should we look at life in order to not be discouraged or disillusioned in becoming partners in the gospel with this apostle and with Jesus Christ? I want to look at this under the suffering of life, the chemistry of life, and the end of life. So we begin with suffering. It's just in the very first part of verse 12. But I want you to know, brethren, that the things which happen He's speaking there particularly of prison at this point. If you were to jump down to some of the other, there's little sprinklings throughout the passage. For instance, in thirst thirteen, he says that uh he is with the palace guard and that my chains are in Christ. In this situation, he would have been chained to a palace guard. That means chained when he eats, chained when he goes to the bathroom, chained when he sleeps, chained. So there is an element of suffering here beyond what you would experience. If you go down to verse 20 in this passage, you can see according to my earnest expectation and hope that in nothing I shall be ashamed, he goes on to talk about Uh how he really, uh whether he's gonna live or what he's gonna whether he's gonna die, and he's speaking about whether or not he's gonna get the death sentence. Um uh the electric ch So to speak. We know outside of this passage that suffering was at a level in Paul's life that you've never experienced. And this is the premier apostle. This is God's uh main man. For instance, Paul ends up being concerned about these things also. In Second Corinthians 11 Christians. Bragging rights there for him. But he goes on and he says that he's been whipped times without number, and he's faced death again and again, and five different times the Jewish leaders gave him thirty-nine Once I spent a whole night and a day adrift at sea. He has traveled on many long journeys. He has faced dangers from river rivers and from robbers. Jews as well as from the danger the Gentiles. He has faced danger in the cities. He's faced danger in the desert. He has worked hard and long and during many sleepless nights. He has been hungry and thirsty, and he's gone without food. And besides all this, he has a daily burden of concern for all of the churches that he has planted. This is God's man. This is what it means to work with God. The examples don't change throughout the rest of history when we leave the Apostle Paul into extra biblical examples. Has anyone read Elizabeth Elliott's No Graven Image? Image. It's a novel. No, you might want to pick that up. Elizabeth Elliott wrote a novel, No Graven Image. And the book reviews were horrible. Because They said that it was basically a non-Christian way of viewing life. And this is why. The story is based on Margaret Sparhawk, and she's a young, unmarried missionary to South American Indians. You can see the resemblances between Elizabeth Elliott's own work and this novel. She goes to the South American Indians to translate the Bible into a rare Indian dialect, and this could literally Literally, literally affect millions of people in being able to have the Word of God finally spoken to them. Exactly what God would like. And so she finds a translator who can take the scriptures and help her to put them into the language and his name is Pedro. Pedro, when they were supposed to meet one day, he ends up not showing up and so she searches him out. Pedro ends up getting a leg sore and an infection And she has had to have medical training in order to even be able to be in South America. And she has a medical kit, which included penicillin. So she goes, she sees that he has an infection, and she administers penicillin to him. He goes into anaphylactic shock and dies. Only translator. On the way to giving the penicillin, she was praising God that all the translation work would finally be able to be done here and that million and that these millions people would Would be able to be saved. And that's how the book ends. Not exactly, but I mean there's no glamour after that. And the book reviews came back saying that's not the Christian life. Well, you know what? I mean I would like to see Paul do the book review and say, Woman, that's nothing. Anaph I wish I would have had anaphylactic shock. Her mission ends up ending, and it really presents us as Christians with the with a real problem here. And I think I'm still thinking through this a little bit. Uh having come to Christianity late in life and also dealing with a family that is has a a number of atheists or agnostics in it, I'm I'm thinking that Christians actually have it Rougher in this regard in terms of suffering than the non Christian. Sometimes my family members saying something like, I don't believe in God because of suffering. But the problem I have with that, which was brought up by C. S. Lewis a long time ago Is that if there is no God, then if you're truly honest, then there is no such thing as suffering. In other words, if there is no God and you remove a moral absolute, how do you determine by your value judgment? which actions were right to do to a person or not to do to a person. The closest thing that I've seen come up is a is a Darwinism to try to try to develop some kind of epic for human life. But if we turn to the animal world, don't we just see the strong consuming the weak? And so why would it be wrong for me to consume you if I'm stronger? And why would you call that suffering? Isn't that just a rhetorical device and power play at the this point. So I think the Christian ends up having this a little bit more, a little bit more of a difficult situation because if they in fact admit that there is a God, they have to figure out Why in the world is there suffering? We actually have suffering, whereas the non-Christian would not, at least in the way that I'm thinking thinking right now. And it becomes even more complicated because God is supposed to be on our side. You see, I'm not just saying Christians are aware of suffering in the world. All of the examples that I've given to you so far is that there's suffering among Christians. That's worse because they are supposed to be God's people. If you, as a father or as a mother, or as a friend, you always allowed your friends and your family to suffer Wouldn't you be criticized at s in some sense? Uh so I I think that the problem is real and it ends up becoming more difficult. The tragedy for us is that w it we're actually Christians and we're supposed to to be his people. I think he that I think you see the point that I'm bringing. But that's what's here. So it's a fact. Not just anecdotal. It's universal enough for you to How is it that when he trying to bring his word to South American Indians, he could kill the one guy who could translate or permit it to happen. So suffering becomes a profound question for us, and it really brings us to the next point within the past And that's I've titled under the chemistry of life. Now this is actually fascinating to me, the way that Paul is unfolding things here in order for us to be able to partner with him. him in the midst of suffering as a Christian. He says, I want you to know, brethren, that the things which happened to me, now listen to this, have actually turned out for the furtherance of the gospel. He's already moving on the positive end of the spectrum here and saying that there's some kind of purpose for the suffering, and he's going to make sense of it. The reason why I want to call this whole section the chemistry of life is because I was reading a commentary. by Matthew Henry. He's an 18th century Presbyterian minister. You probably have that commentary, Matthew Henry's commentaries. You've probably heard of it. And he says the strangest phrase. It just goes by real quickly. He says, this verse that we see here, verse 12, Paul in prison is a strange chemistry of providence. Isn't that interesting? Paul in prison is a strange chemistry of providence. And what he's referring to, particularly in his day, is alchemy. Alchemy is is this science or pseudoscience that was around for a while where they would seek to take what was a valueless and worthless metal and try to turn it into something that could strengthen the wealth of a nation. So you would have lots of lead. And if we could just figure out the chemical makeup in order to be able to add a new whatever and to be able to turn it into gold, then you'd have alchemists changing one work. And essentially here, this strange chemistry of providence, Matthew Henry is saying, God is the great alchemist. It ends up being the first lesson that we have to learn for life and thinking about Christian suffering is that he's the great alchemist. I think this is a universal understanding. understanding or desire among humanity is that we all want an alchemist, don't we? Don't we all want an alchemist to take that which is valueless or worthless in our lives and turn it into gold. I was just listening to a song by uh two uh women. They have a band called First Aid Kit. They're pretty interesting. You can find them in like a folk music section, modern folk, and they have this in their in their uh chorus. What if our hard work ends in despair? What if the road won't take me there? Oh, I wish for once we could stay gold. What if to love and to be loved is not enough? What if I fall and I can't bear to get up? Oh, I wish for once we could stay gold. I wish that we could stay gold. I think it's everybody's desire that we would have an alchemist, and that's the first thing that we're presented with here from the Apostle Paul is the strange chemistry of providence is that God is the great alchemist. You actually end up seeing a couple examples here for God taking goal, taking that which is worthless and turning into something that Is worthy. You see, number one, that it worked toward the furtherance of the gospel. Number two, it has become evident to the whole palace guard and to all the rest that my chains are in Christ. Who would have thought, I mean Paul can walk into a city and he can speak to the general populace, but how would he ever gain the ear of the soldiers themselves? And now think of the gospel opportunity that Paul would have with a soldier that is literally chained to him night and day. Do you know how bad that soldier wanted to be released from that? Paul speaking about the whole council of God to him and the other guards. You could just see the opportunity and how these things would lead where he would speak. So that it has become evident to the whole palace guard, and then down in fourteen, not only has there been that kind of benefit, but even those who are Christians in the And saying, and most of the brethren in the Lord, having become confident by my chains, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. It doesn't matter if it seems like I will die. God will take a seeming death and turn it into the ultimate life. He takes that which is worthless because he's the great alchemist. You can think that the of the time in which this has happened throughout all biblical revelation. For example, the story of Joseph is the story of God's alchemy, his brother selling him. into slavery, thrown into the pit, unjustly arrested because of unjust accusations by Potiphar's wife. And then becoming the prime minister and then saving an entire nation. And from that nation throughout history, having the Messiah born. God certainly is the alchemist. And think of Jesus Christ Himself. With an instrument of execution and seeming defeat. Everyone disillusioned, not knowing what's going on, but then raising on the third day. The very instrument of execution becoming the defeat of Satan. You even you can even see this further in Paul thinking about his personal life in verse 19. Take a look there. I need to interpret this a little bit for you, for I know that this will turn out for my deliverance through your prayer and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ. The reason why I have to is because The word deliverance here, there's a little bit of a debate. Does this mean he's just going to be delivered from prison, or is there something else going on here? It's the word that's used for salvation. And I'm of the mind that he's speaking not just of being released from prison, although I think that will happen. But he's speaking of his own mortification or sanctification or being able to grow as a person through the suffering and become even greater into the image of Jesus Christ. There are three tenses basically to salvation. There's the past, which always refers to our one-time salvation. Through Christ's obedience. There's future where we'll be saved on the actual day of judgment. You'll hear the words, good and faithful servant. And then there's the present after we have entered into the family. family where through the Spirit we're putting to death the old sinful person. And I believe that that's what Paul is talking about here. That Paul is saying that through these experiences He is going to be not ashamed, but he'll be the kind of person who is now even able to magnify Christ in his body. I'm being sanctified to where even if I'm executed, Christ will be magnified in my faithfulness in him. him because of Christ's work in me in suffering because he's the great alchemist. And that promise is to us also. I have heard over the past week more of you tell me I appreciate Because I think that you're beginning to realize that's the only way that God has determined for you to grow. It is the way in which He allows you to become more wise. All the prayers that you pray, to be able to love more, to be wise, to know what to do, to know what God's will is, it all comes through the crucible of suffering, of carrying the cross. And I think we're beginning to see that God is in fact the great alchemist. This ends up helping us to partner with Him when we're called in to a line of work, a partnership that must necessarily involve suffering. To know our sufferings have purpose, give us purpose and hope to continue. And to know, at least to have a glimpse of the purpose. We sometimes just get a little tiny glimpse. Sometimes we don't. But even in the areas that we don't, we know that there's a purpose because of what he's communicated to us in his word. But I think perhaps the most important thing that this helps us with, besides just seeing that there's a purpose for our suffering, is it helps us to get to know God. God in the way that humans were always meant to know Him and to partner with Him. In that same novel, No Graven Image, this is actually how the book ends. God, when this happens, the missionary, she says this. God, if he were merely my accomplice when Pedro died, He betrayed me. If, on the other hand, he was my God, he had freed me. Now, how could that be true? What does she mean by that? He had freed me. She she was free to no longer think about God as just one of the guys or another human being or created in the image that she was Wanted. She had to deal with him as God, who is relentless and holy and can do whatever he wants. And she knew him as that. On and one uh woman quoted another quote uh in the book review of No Graven Image, and she says this, which is basically litigating the same idea. If God were small enough to be understood, he wouldn't be big enough. And that's what suffering teaches us. God's gold, however, Still, we have the worst of situations because we're God's partner and yet we seem to suffer the most. We can gain some kind of relief if we can see our suffering having purpose, and one of those purposes being that we would be able to truly know God as God, as our holy God. But there's one more part that if you do not have it, everything else is down the drain. And let me put it this way. God may make gold, but God's gold may be your trash. Or let me put it this way: God's treasure may be your trash. And that's why you have to see the last point, which is the end of life. Paul truly believes that God turns his suffering into gold. And he sees those things as gold, the ability to speak to the guards, the boldness of those Christians to be able to speak the gospel. He sees all those things as gold. But the reason why he's able to see them as gold is because Jesus Christ has become the ultimate purpose for his life. The will of Jesus Christ is all that Paul wants. If that's not your end of life, then those things would not be gold that Jesus chooses. They're just obstacles that get in the way of what you want. Paul says this in verse 21, most profoundly, for me, for to me to live is Christ and to die is gain. Christ will be magnified in my body, whether by life or by death. That is all that Jesus, that's all that Paul thinks about. I love how a one Scottish theologian, he was around in 1884, His name is John Edy. He has these excellent commentaries. Listen to how he wraps up this whole section in Paul's life. For me to live is Christ. The preaching of Christ, the business of my life. The presence of Christ, the cheer of my life. The image of Christ, the crown of my life The Spirit of Christ, the life of my life. The love of Christ, the power of my life. The will of Christ, the law of my life. And the glory of Christ, the end of my life Christ was the absorbing element of Paul's life. If he traveled, it was on Christ's errand. If he suffered, it was in Christ's service. When he spoke, his theme was Christ. And when he wrote, Christ filled his letters. That's what it means for me to live is Christ. Throughout history, you end up seeing different statements than this among philosophers. Epicureans, for instance, they would say, for me to live is pleasure, for me to live is recreation. We have many Epicureans within our our society, you're tempted by it every day to sacrifice things to your comfort and to your recreation and not to Christ. Stoicism For me to live is to be a good person on my own terms and my own etched out morality. Or it could be simpler than that, because, you know, not all of us were full of philosophy majors. But it still happens. Today it could be family. Family's my life. Work is my life. Career is my life. Friendship is my life And here is really where the rubber ends up meeting the road and why it matters in relation to the suffering. Because if anything but Jesus Christ is your life, then when God changes things to gold, they're not going to be what you truly desire. Because he changes everything into for Jesus Christ. And you're going to collapse. You ever had the wind knocked out of you? You won't be able to recover because Jesus isn't your breath. He's not your life. You're going to lose your family, and you won't make it You're going to lose your work. Win knocked out of you. You don't recover. You're going to lose your friendships. Win knocked out of you. You're not going to recover. You will be able to no longer breathe. And the whole reason will be is because you didn't have the life of your real life. If God says that you will suffer, and then he says, In your suffering I will turn it to gold, sometimes in the long term. And if God is your glory, if God is your life, then you do not get the wind knocked out of you for too long, anyway. For too long. You will recover. Because all that matters, as you work through the fog of the death of perhaps a child, when you work through it, and the Spirit's working with you, you come out at the other end. And you say, what the Lord has taken, the Lord can give and he can take. But glory be to the Lord. I've seen people say that. Because Jesus Christ is their life. In summary, you need to know that in order to join this partnership, there is a cost that you need to count. I'm not saying that you need to be the most advanced right now. That's Paul. Paul's in prison. Paul's the ultimate apostle. Of course, he's going to have an advanced view of life. But this is the ideal for you. To be moving towards this in order to partner with God is to understand understand the suffering that will necessarily be a part of your life, perhaps more than those who are non-Christians. And for you to be able to handle that by seeing that God is the great alchemist. But only because Jesus Christ is the center of your life and therefore what God turns to gold really is gold for you. That's the whole point here. Your view of life determines the maturity of your partnership. Do you see the suffering of life? Of course you do. Do you see the great alchemist turning your suffering into gold? Do you see that? You won't unless Jesus is the end of your life. Even just a little bit. Let's just start. That these are the end of our life and work up to where for you to live is Jesus. I want to turn the tables in just this final moment. And I want to ask the question. Here's the problem with Western culture. I'm saying all these things to you And you could have this moral motivation among you to just say, Yeah, I'm gonna live I'm gonna live for Jesus now. He's gonna be the the all my life. And you can could do so out of so many different wrong motivations. And so I want to ask this question. What if I asked Jesus Christ, what is your life, Jesus? What allows you to breathe? How would he answer that question? You know that he would say, God the Father, and we have specific Passages, I'm thinking uh particularly of John 17. Father, I desire he goes on for a while about his love for the Father and that he's willing to go to the cross in obedience to the Father. But do you know who else is in the story who is mixed up in John 17? It is his people. He says, for instance, Father, I desire that they also whom you gave me may be with you. with me where I am, that they may behold my glory which you have given me, for you loved me before the foundation of the world. O righteous Father, the world has not known known you, but I have known you, and these have known you that you sent me, and I have declared to them your name, and will declare it, that the love which you loved me may be in them, and I in them Do you see the love that Jesus Christ has not only for the Father but for his people? For you? And so, of course, we have to answer when we say Jesus. To whom do you live for? He would say, for me to live is the Father. And he would also say, for me to live is you. He would say that. Now that is almost unbelievable and requires a large amount of faith for you to really believe that. He would say, for me to live is you You. That is the level of devotion that I have for you. And here's the question then. If Jesus is going to live for you, could you live for him? Could you live for him? Let's pray.