And I will read that aloud and then we'll have a prayer of illumination. It's first John chapter three, and we'll be looking at verses eleven and twelve. For this is the message that you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another, not as Cain, who was of the wicked one, and murdered his brother. And why did he murder him? Because his works were evil. Illuminate your will for us. We will exist amongst a dark generation and we need your light. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. Please be seated. When I first started attending Greenville Presbyterian Theological Seminary, we had Our first class was in uh a tour of different churches in both Columbia, South Carolina and Charleston, South Carolina. And we went to Charleston, South Carolina to see some of the church plants of uh the original Presbyterian churches there that had a huge uh revival amongst the slaves. Uh that was uh miraculous Stories and and wonderful things that were going on there. One of the neat things that had happened was the church had become so integrated with the society that the churches were a a part of the normal health of the city. For instance, one of the things that I thought was the neatest is that those churches were the which were the highest had had the highest steeples had uh lights put in the steeples to help the ships that were coming into the Charleston harbor navigate uh straight down and uh submerged objects and that kind of thing. Well that's a perfect picture of what the Apostle John is doing here. For us. The Apostle John understands our humanity and that we are surrounded by darkness and we need light in order to be able to navigate within life. I mean, just think about your human condition for a second. You cannot tell me that at least part of your human condition that you struggle with is confusing Confusion. Confusion as to what is true, confusion as to what is real. What is the light and what is the dark. is that masterminds and geniuses have put all their efforts in to make everything seem blurry and everything seem gray and for there to be no stark contrasts or bright lights And so what John is doing for his congregation and what he is providing for us are three main lights that go throughout this letter. And there are three lights for Christians to follow to become great followers of Jesus Christ. The first light that we have to seen in the letter is the doctrinal light. John has been emphasizing that Jesus is the Christ and that Jesus is the incarnate second person of the Trinity. There were those during that day that were saying that Jesus was not the second person of the Trinity, and that Jesus never did take on flesh. And so he's teaching them that if you want to be a true follower of Christ, here is a light for you to follow and to navigate your life by. And it's the doctrinal light of knowing who Jesus is. Jesus Christ is. A second uh light that we saw in this letter is the moral light. The moral light was saying that true Christians have an essential quality about them where they yearn to be like Christ in his righteousness. They learn to do good works. In fact, they feel like they've been reborn And so as we learn what it means to be a follower of Jesus Christ against those who tell us that good works don't matter and that it's just grace alone, we see John here instead, in the midst of that darkness and confusion. Giving a stark contrast and telling us what it really means to exist as a Christian. That's been where we have been so far. And now we move into chapter 3. Verse 11 with a transition into the final test, which is called the social test. We will look at from verse 11 all the way until chapter 5, I believe, verse 12, about loving one another. Loving one another is really about righteousness applied to our neighbor. It's about loving those who are our brethren. Now, brethren is a term that includes both woman and man. And it has to do with the household of God. It's about Christian love for one another. And so what we see here is a truth that all of us recognize, but John develops it in a way that is very helpful for us. What we see in eleven and twelve is that the children of God are known by their love for one another. That is a message that you hear throughout all of the gospels. It's not a a new Christian test, but during this time things had become gray and they were confused. About this, and believe it or not, we can be confused as well about what we're supposed to be in relationship to one another. And I'll uh we'll go through that with John. True Christians love one another. True children of God, those who have been born of God and of the Spirit, and not just by uh by human flesh love one another. And I want to look at it in two parts. First, I want to look at an unalterable obligation An inalterable obligation, and then a terrible sequence. We see the inalterable obligation in verse 11. Take a look at it with me. Please follow along. For this is the message that you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another. There's a little section in this verse that you could pass over pretty quickly. But it's really important in being able to understand what John is trying to communicate to his congregation and what the Holy Spirit is communicating to us. It is this. For this is the message that you heard from the beginning. The beginning. Now, what he's trying to point out here, and the contrast that he's trying to give, is the beginning versus that which is new. New doctrines, and we even heard this morning about false prophets bringing in new doctrines that were not taught by Jesus Christ and his apostles, were a regular thing that arose during this time period. period and of course they are still arising today. There's a new thing every day. But here you can see throughout the text of the scriptures the difficulties that I'm sure that you remember the Areophagus with Paul. Paul becomes concerned about the city, and he goes in to meet with the philosophers, and it's There's a little editorial note there in Romans. And it says they sat around all day talking about new things. And that's the same struggle that you see continued throughout the rest of the New Testament when you see Peter uh in in his uh second letter, and we just read it in the in the uh back of the hymn. When Peter has to say we did not come up with this message ourselves, these are not cleverly devised fables. And he had to say that because that was a problem. People were coming up with new stuff all the time. And what John is trying to say in that same kind of situation Is that what I am presenting to you and what I presented to you from the beginning is an inalterable obligation that we have. It has always been present ever since it left the lips of Jesus Christ. And even before that, that we would love one another as Christians. This is the original apostolic doctrine. It's the real, genuine, and authentic thing, not this new stuff, not this uh these novelties that people have been coming up with as of late You know, when I was also in South Carolina, one of the grand moments of my life was being introduced to great southern cooking. On the very first day in Columbia, South Carolina, I reached new heights when I had mustard-based barbecue. And then when we finally got into Charleston, I went into this restaurant that uh the their claim to fame was that of of course during uh a different time within the South there was slavery. And And the uh those who were slaves were would oftentimes be the caretakers for the young children, and the young children would grow up with those slaves teaching them um how to be Good Christians, how to cook, how to clean. And one of the little girls who grew up cooking uh with a slave kept the recipes from her, and all of those recipes are now being cooked. in this one restaurant and you can have the authentic recipe. And I have never had better fried okra in my life. I didn't even know what fried okra was. But it was good. It was good. And people flocked there to receive those original recipes. They didn't want something new or for them to invent something. They wanted the original, and that's kind of a metaphor or an analogy for us to understand the importance of this. We're talking about the original apostolic message that has been passed down. And that is being kept by the apostles at this time, but has been enscripturated for you and I, written down to be preserved, so that we wouldn't lose the light in the midst of all of the darkness, so that we still have truth and reality and authenticity The inalterable obligation to love one another has always been there present. It is origin finds itself from God Himself. self, and therefore it may be trusted as a sound doctrine and a bright light in the midst of so much darkness and so much confusion. When things become confusing for you, you can always remember love the brethren. Never stray from that. It is an anchor But he develops this because we need a development as people. He develops this by moving now into verse 12. We can see what the inalterable obligation is. That it's the apostolic message about how we are supposed to treat those who are our brethren, and that we're supposed to Supposed to love one another. But how are we supposed to do that? What does love look like? But for now he gives us a negative picture, which is the picture of Take a look at verse 12 as he unfolds what it means for us to live out the inalterable obligation of loving one another. He says, verse 12, not as Cain, who was of the wicked one and murdered his brother. And he'll go on to explain why he did by saying, and why did he murder him? Because his works were evil and his brothers righteous. Now I think the best thing to do if we're going to talk about Cain, and he's used as a classic example throughout this time period. But if we're going to talk about Cain, we might as well just go ahead to chapter four to find out a little bit about this negative example. And what we're going to see is that there is a terrible sequence that we must be warned about. Now Adam and Eve knew his wife. Now Adam knew his wife, and she conceived and bore Cain and said, I have acquired a man from the Lord. Then she bore again, this time his brother, and now this time his brother I'm sorry. Now Abel was a keeper of sheep, the Cain was a tiller of the ground, and in the process of time it came to pass that Cain brought an offering of fruit of the ground to the Lord. And the Lord respected Abel and his offering. The Lord respected Abel and his offering, but he did not respect him and his offering And Cain was very angry and his countenance fell. One has to presume here because all of a sudden we see offerings being offered to God. That God had communicated to Adam, or some communication had taken place, that this is what you were supposed to offer me in worship, and this is not acceptable with Adam. And we see one of the brothers offering the acceptable sacrifice in faith in worship. That's why we uh we gain that from Hebrews as well, and one who is not. life. Cain becomes angry, his countenance falls. And there's a moment. Do you see the the moment in the rest of the text here? God isn't immediately saying Saying, okay, you you you didn't offer to me what you want, you're out of here. God speaks to him and gives him the opportunity to change his ways and to repent. And he warns him here as we continue, and he says, And so the Lord said to Cain, Why are you angry, and why has your countenance fallen? If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin lies at the door and its desire is for you, but you should rule over it. Do you see the progression here? We know that the next step is that Cain will go out and he will murder his brother and the Lord will show up and he will say, What has happened to your brother? Am I my brother's keeper? Your brother's blood cries from the ground to me Of the murderous intents and executions of your heart. Do you see the process that led, the terrible sequence that is present within the human the the prototype of the world, the prototype of humanity in its natural self within Cain. Cain moves forward in unrighteousness. He is rejected and he becomes angry and his countenance falls due to his jealousy as an older brother towards the younger, I suspect. Which then moves from just a jealousy to a hatred, to the expression of the hatred, which is murder. And I think that what John is presenting here for us is that we must be warned about the same sequence within our own hearts. When I drive on the Eastern Shore, when we I had the tr they had they have now built Kent Island High School, which is only 20 minutes from my house. I had to drive 45 minutes to high school, to Queen Anne's County High School. And along the way, there are many soybean fields off of Route 50. If there were a cold front moving in, unexpectedly gusts of wind would pick up, and if you were driving a pickup truck like I was, all of a sudden the wind would hit the side of the truck and you would be shoved off on the side And I think what John is communicating to us and to his congregation and to us is that the gusts of the terrible sequence of the human being. The human heart must be guarded against as we seek to love one another. Bitterness gives birth to hatred, and hatred gives birth to murder. Whether it be murdering a person with your tongue, as James says, which we often do. Let me ask you, if there's bitterness residing within your heart right now towards A brethren. One who is a member of the community of God. Do you find yourself on the commute to work, having a conversation inside your head where you eventually tell one of your fellow Christians off? Or when you are at the island cutting onions or tomatoes, you're having a conversation inside of your head where you're you are finally telling the person what they really need to hear. Because the bitterness has grown and is is crouching at the door, seeking for you to grow into a hate, have a hate that grows within your heart. Oh everybody knows when you're upset This is the warning that he gives us in the terrible sequence. We have, as Christians, an unalterable obligation To adhere strenuously to the apostolic teaching on who Jesus Christ is, and that we are made to be righteous, and especially towards those who are members of the household of the faith. faith that we are to love one another. But it comes with a warning because the gusts of human nature come upon us suddenly like the gusts off a soybean field during a cold front. And before we can know it, we arrive home and and we're just not the same. Bitterness is already rooted within the heart, and it's growing into hatred, and now we find ourselves speaking and stabbing a person. Or sharing a prayer request just so that we can gossip about a person and tear them down. These are the warnings of Cain, which you still have some remnant of within your heart. And it is for us to take hold of this warning as we seek to live out the inalterable obligation. So let me close with one last thing. I actually wanted to go into thirteen. I should have announced that. And looking at the whole message that he's teaching us and seeing the obligation that we have to love one another. another and then the warning. That's the internal warning that he gives us. But he also gives us an external warning in the final application I want to give this. Verse 13. He says, Do not marvel, my brethren, if the world hates you. Do you see what he's doing here? At first, he's saying, don't be like Cain And if you're not like Cain, then you're like Abel. So if you're like Abel, you better watch out for Cain. And don't be surprised when he comes after you. And so we already have present within this passage that you are to be warned about your own flesh and that you are also to be warned warned about the world. You have internally a war going on where you are tempted to do that which you do not want to do. And then when you finally do act in righteousness, there will be the world right there rejecting you and hating you for doing so. You see, it's not just about the psychological states that were going on within Cain and the Genesis Genesis story. Really, the basis underneath of all of that is there is a general antif antipathy between the seed from the woman and the seed from the And that takes place in the drama of history in all of our lives. And so we must be warned not only about what is happening inside of our flesh, but also what will come at us from the world. world. When we seek to be righteous, we will be rejected. It doesn't mean you're going to be rejected by every coworker. It just means that there is A general rejection. And so there's a couple questions that you need to ask yourself. Are you being rejected at all? Is there any antipathy towards you from the world? Or towards you From the world. If not, that may be a problem. You may be too accommodating. The world may look at you and they may think, meh, not much different. Not much righteousness going on there. I knew the Christians were hypocrites. I knew that you were all just playing a game this whole time, and now I can see that it's true because you are no different in your speech and your actions than any one of my fraternity friends. I use Frat Boy as a prototype of Crassness. It's a question you have to ask yourself if you're too accommodating. And then the second thing is this: when you are in the world and you are seeking to be righteous, And you are being rejected, you will seek to have a conversation with those people that they might no longer be ignorant of true Christianity and that they might approach you with understanding. And this is what you may find out is that they are not interested in an intellectual conversation, and that the intellect and the brain is not interested in But that there is an irrational rejection of you and your righteousness that goes as deep as the origin of the human heart And there I would encourage you not to become smarter, but to become more courageous. Courage is what is needed within That area of our lives. And then finally, you ask the question, well, am I supposed to just pull myself up by my own bootstraps? Am I just supposed to find all of this courage? Because here's the the The matter of fact is that when we are rejected, we're rejected by those that we most want to be loved by. I'm rejected by my father. You're rejected by your father. You're rejected by your son. You're reje Rejected by your daughter. You're rejected by your close friend. And that hurts devastatingly. And you can't even catch your breath in order to even begin to be crying. Courageous, and what should you do? We know that we have a helper who is with us, and I would encourage you to remind yourself of the Holy Spirit's ministry among you as we had looked at Jesus Christ has come to destroy the work of the devil, and he has given you his Holy Spirit to comfort you and to give you boldness and courage in the midst of a world that rejects you. you. Blessed are you when you are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for yours is the kingdom of God. And the Holy Spirit will work in you with boldness, like he did within those New Testament saints that prayed to Elohim, to speak boldly after Peter's arrest. I'd ask for you to cry out to the Spirit to work within you as you seek to be righteous in this life by expressing your love to those who are of the household of faith In the name of Jesus Christ, let's pray