God's holy word for God's holy people. No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. Therefore I say to you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat, or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air, for they neither sow, nor reek, nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly Father feeds them Are you not of more value than they? Which of you, by worrying, can add one cubit to his stature? So why do you worry about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin. And yet I say to you, that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these Now, if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you? O you of little faith Therefore, do not worry, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For after all these things the Gentiles seek. For your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you Therefore, do not worry about tomorrow. For tomorrow will worry about its own things. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. Please pray with me. We come to you, our Father, whose word this is, that you have given to your people. That we would know what is expected of us. Lord, you expect us not to worry. Yet even thinking that thought Produces some anxiety. We know we cannot do this on our own. And we know we cannot understand this word on our own. And so we beg you. Our great God, that you would lead us into the truth, that you would show us yourself here in your word, and that you would transform us and make us more like Christ. And Father, I pray that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight. O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer. It's in Christ's name that we pray. Amen. Please be seated. As Elder Joe was leading us in the confession of sin, I noticed it's it's kind of fun to be up here and to see everybody's faces while that's happening. And what I noticed in looking out at the congregation was that uh I think ninety-eight percent of you agree with him. I saw that some of you were arguing with him, that maybe you could worry a little bit better than Joe does. But the reality is every single one of us in this room will experience anxiety and worry. I wonder if you've ever really thought about what worry is. The dictionary defines it as a feeling of uneasiness, often described as fear. I've come to start thinking about my own personal anxiety as a fear of life. I'm actually afraid of the life that God has planned for me. I do want to make sure that uh I'm not unclear about this. I'm not saying that anxiety or worry is not real. I do agree with uh Elder Joe. Anxiety and worry It's something that we as Christians should avoid, not the least of which is because the Lord Christ has commanded us to. But we must recognize that when we are worried, when we are afraid, our body has been designed by God to have a very real response to fear. Have you ever experienced that? You've ever heard of the fight or flight? When we are afraid, we will automatically go into one of those places. But I asked you is because that's our design, because that's where we go automatically, does that mean that worry and anxiety, this is just something we have to deal with? We just have to live with it It's going to keep coming and we have no way of curing it. I believe our passage has something to say about that this morning. And it's a crucial, vital passage for every one of you, everyone here in this room, because sooner or later, no matter how old you are. Even you 10-year-olds, you 9-year-olds, you 11-year-olds, maybe you haven't experienced it yet, but I promise you, I promise you, at some point in your life, things are going to go wrong And by wrong, I mean what all the adults in this room have already learned, which is that means things are gonna not go your way. Things won't happen as you want them to happen. Perhaps the life that you Had been dreaming of collapses around you. Perhaps the car that you wanted to buy is not possible. Perhaps you have to watch somebody else buy the car that you wanted. Perhaps you have to go to the doctor and find out that things on you are broken or that things in you no longer function. And so now you have to engage in a long and arduous struggle every single day just to get out of bed and just to keep moving. Life is full of unknowns. To you and to me, are there any unknowns with God our Father? There are not. Our Lord Jesus Christ knows that we will suffer this kind of misery, the misery of anxiety, the misery of worrying about our loved ones and about ourselves and about our life and about our future. We will worry. But let us rejoice this morning that He, in His great knowledge of us, His infinite wisdom, He has incorporated this passage. A passage from Jesus Christ's own mouth. He knows us. Jesus knows you. And Jesus knows the cause of your worry and anxiety. But hallelujah, he knows the cure. And he shares it with us. And so this morning, brothers and sisters, I hope that all of us will see. Through examining this passage from the Sermon on the Mount, that the cure for your worry is to live for your Lord. The cure for your worries is to live for your Lord. We're going to look at this in two ways this morning. We're going to look first at verses 24 through verse 30, and we'll see the cause of worry And then we'll examine together verses 31 to 34 the cure for worry. The cause for worry. Right there in 24. No one can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. The cause of our worry, brothers and sisters, is a disordered understanding of life. And it starts right here. It starts right here with a disordered understanding of who you are, of your identity. Who do you belong to? Who's your master? Is your master God Almighty? If it is, then you will love him, and you will despise all other masters. Ask yourself, does that describe you? Do you serve yourself? Do you work for your will? Or are you serving the Lord Almighty? Who are you? Whose are you? Do you belong to him? Think about the first chapter of John, when we're being told that the word has taken on flesh and he's come among us. That he's come to his people, but his own people rejected him. And then we get this beautiful verse. What did he do? He came. He came so that those who have been called by God to receive him are given the right to become something Given the right to become children of God. Given the right to be in his home, in his household. So the beginning of all every one of our anxieties and worries will start with: whose are you? Is your life yours to lead as you want it to be? To go as you've planned? Or does your life belong to Christ? And is he allowed to do with you whatever he's pleased to do That's the first disordered understanding that will cause our anxieties. But there's more if you keep looking with me. Look at verse 25. God bless you. Verse 25, he says, Therefore I say to you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat, what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? We are prompted to worry because we have a disordered understanding of what we need. You think you know what you need. You need those basics of life, right? Food, clothing, shelter. A certain amount of money in the bank. Certain amount of free time to do what you want. I uh you need your alone time to decompress from the day. You need fill in the blank. What is it that you tell yourself you need to have in order to be a person who can serve God But you and I don't really understand what we really need, do we? God bless you. If you worry about how you're going to survive the day, I would put forward to you that you don't even know what you should worry about. There's so much happening in this universe that keeps you alive beyond you having breakfast, or beyond you putting on the right outfit You don't even know what to worry about. You have to just leave it to faith that God is going to have enough air on this planet for you to breathe. You have to take it on faith that gravity will not all of a sudden change and every one of us will just fly off the face of this spinning globe. You and I don't know enough to know what we should worry about. And so if we're worrying about how we're gonna make it through the day, we don't even know how we'll make it through another second. We don't even know If at the end of my sentence the Lord Jesus Christ will return and we will be called to him, to be with him in glory forever. You just don't know. And so there's no reason to worry. And yet that's what we do. We're led into anxiety and worry because, as Elder Joe led us to understand, we actually think we do get it We know what would be best for us. We know what we need. And then we are disappointed when we find out that what we have needed or said to ourselves we've needed so long, the Lord says Nope. You actually don't need that. I will give you what you need. And how does God provide us with what we need? Well, that's the next verse here for us. And it shows us that a cause of your worry is that you have a disordered understanding of providence, of how God takes care of your needs. Look at verse 27. Or 26, sorry. Look at the birds of the air. For they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly father feeds them. Birds aren't lazy. You ever watch birds? Especially in the winter time. They're very active. But they don't work the way you and I do. They don't worry the way that you and I do. They go about doing bird things in their bird nature, flitting around, looking for seeds, looking for bugs, looking for what they can find. And they work hard. You ever notice that about birds? If you have chickens, you know, they they're hard workers. But Jesus teaches us here, it's not the birds providing for themselves, is it? No matter how hard they work. It's the Father in heaven, God Almighty, who is providing for the birds. Think about how he's shown himself providing for his people throughout scriptures. He provided for Adam and Eve, didn't he? In a miraculous and marvelous way. And even after their tremendous failure, he didn't leave them to themselves and provided for them. Still, the earth still made food for them. He even provided for their protection in putting the flaming swords across the garden so that they wouldn't go and eat from the tree of life and be forever in sin. Think about the Israelites in the wilderness. It's an easy way to see God's providence. Sometimes we say to ourselves, to feel better, you know, it's not just going to fall out of the sky. That is exactly what happened to them. Or blew in on an on an eastern wind, more quail than they knew what to do with, quail coming out of their nostrils. Don't allow this disordered understanding of how God provides To give you license to worry that you must provide everything that's required for you and for your family. If you and your family are gods, if He owns you and He is your master, It's on him to provide. It's on you to do what he's put before you, like the birds. Do the work he's put before you and leave the worry to him. Another area of our lives that causes us to worry is a disordered understanding of your value. Look at the rest of verse 26 there. Jesus asks the question, are you not of more value than they? Aren't you worth more than birds? Aren't you more spectacular and special to him than any of the other creatures on this planet? You are so valuable that he sent his only son to die for you. You are so valuable to him that he doesn't want you. To be apart from him for the rest of ever. If you think he would take care of that, that desperate need that you have, but he won't take care of how you're going to feed your family What are you really thinking about God? What are you really thinking about yourself? Let's look at verse 27 and see that another cause of your worry that Jesus teaches us is a disordered understanding of your power. Which of you, by worrying, can add one cubit to his stature? I won't ask for so a show of hands, but I know there's some people here who wish they were taller. I know there's at least one person here who wishes they were thinner, more healthy. Sometimes I wish I had four arms so I could be doing four different things at once Worrying about it, being anxious about it, isn't going to add two arms to my body so I can take care of more stuff. Worrying about it is not going to make you taller. It's not going to add another minute to your life worrying about your life and how you'll survive If you think you have that kind of power, that you can tease an idea in your mind, like Joe was telling us. And you can figure out how to make it not so bad. If you can figure out how to make your wife's tragic heart attack and then telling her family all about it, if you can figure out how to make it not so bad You have a wrong understanding of your power. You must rely on God's power. He's the one who's given you life, he's the one who sustains your life If we look at verses 28 and 29, I think we'll all see that there's a another cause to our worry, which is a disordered understanding of your purpose. Verse 28 he says, So why do you worry about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin. And yet I say to you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Solomon and his glory. It can be a little confusing to us because it's talking about clothes, what you're going to wear, but this isn't really about clothing. The words here, the verbs here that are used for the lilies is labor. It's hard work. Do flowers work really hard to make themselves as beautiful as they are? No. If you've ever seen wildflowers, do they ever get up in front of you and walk to a better spot that has more sunlight? Or fewer deer, or whatever it is. God's planted those flowers where he wants them. God's made them as glorious as he wants them to be. God made Solomon as glorious as he wanted Solomon to be. When Solomon got it in his head that he needed to work harder at making his life better, what did he end up doing He ended up making a real mess of things, taking on concubines and wives, building palaces and temples to the gods, false gods of these wives. He made such a mess of it that the Lord had to take tribes of Israel away from David. Create the northern kingdom. You need to understand your purpose is to do what God has put you here for. Solomon was here to be The builder of the temple. And when he's tried to take more on for his purpose, he messed it up tremendously. And so if you are unclear about your purpose, that can be a big cause for your worry, isn't it? If you don't quite know what you're supposed to be or do. And yet, as we'll see in just a moment, Jesus doesn't leave us there. And he doesn't leave you there to wonder. He tells you what your purpose is. Verse thirty, as Joe rightly pointed out, shows us exactly the true and ultimate cause of worry. Now, if God so clothed the grass of the field, which today is and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, there's that value thing again. If God cares that much about something that only lives for a few months out of the year, how much more does he care about you? And he says, Will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith? I know it's hard to hear this. And I know that for some of you it'll be easier to get mad at me, as though I'm the one telling you that the cause of your anxiety is Little faith. But I'm not saying it. This is Jesus, your Lord, your King, is telling you that the cause of your worry is a lack of faith Do you remember in after the Mount of Transfiguration, they came down to heal a child? Who was possessed by unclean spirits and demons that threw him into the fires and did terrible things, caused a very terrible life for this This child and the father he begs Jesus. Do you remember? He begs him. Jesus tells him that If you believe all things are possible, do you remember what his response is? Maybe it's a response that you have every morning when you look in the mirror. I believe, Lord. Help my unbelief. If you are prone to worry and anxiety, cry out in that same way. Beg your Father in heaven to increase your faith, to strengthen your faith, that you would look only unto him. For the fulfillment of your needs, looking only unto him, for the fulfillment of your purpose. Looking only unto him. Let him define who you are and how valuable you are to him. Beg God to give you great faith that your worries will melt away, knowing that the King who has created all the cosmos is on your side. Or rather that he has made you on his through Christ. And so the Lord Jesus gives us the cure for our worries in the rest of this passage, verses 31 to 34. Verses 31 and 32 he says, Therefore do not worry. Again, a command from the Lord Jesus. Do not worry, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For after all these things The Gentiles seek. He's speaking to his people. He's speaking to you, Christian He's speaking to you, warrior. He's speaking to you, who are anxious for many things. He is your king. He is your master. And he's telling you, do not worry, because you belong to him. The Gentiles, which we know, those are the unbelievers. Right? There's only two kinds of people in this world. In the Old Testament, it was Jew and Gentile. In the New Testament, we find out that those two kinds of people are covenant keepers or covenant breakers. You are either a believer resting in Christ, living in Christ. Or you are bucking against what God wants as an unbeliever. The Gentiles are the unbelievers. I will put it to you this way. For those who do not believe in God and do not serve Jehovah Almighty, they should worry. There's a lot of good reasons to worry if you don't believe in God. Because if you don't believe in God, who's it on to take care of you and your family? If you don't believe in God, then It's all just an accident, anyhow. All just random chance. There is no one to cry out to. There is no hope of sustenance or strengthening if you don't believe in God. But your God commands you do not worry, because you are his people. You who were not his people have been made his people in the blood of Jesus Christ. You have been adopted. Do not mistake what that means God chose you to be part of his household and his family. He chose you, not because of anything in you, but only because of his great love for you. As we confess together in Heidelberg Catechism 1, you are not your own. You don't have to keep every hair from falling off your head. Praise God. Hallelujah. You need to trust him that he will deliver you from whatever you're facing, that he will give you whatever you need, that he will change you in the way you must be changed. that you will be valuable in serving him as his child. This is the cure for anxiety. Know who you belong to Know who has made you, know who has given you the very circumstances you're worried about. He is the one who has put you in the position where the thing you're not sure of. Is ever before you. He is your father, and he knows what you need. And he knows it more than you know. He knows that you need the things you wouldn't give yourself. He knows you need to suffer the things you would never voluntarily suffer. He knows you need to be tested. You need to be tried in ways that you wouldn't do it to yourself. You need to be confronted by people who love you in ways that you wouldn't want to be confronted. Because he loves you so much that he would give his only son That he would have his son take on flesh, that you could be his flesh. His son pours out his blood, that you can become his blood. That you can be a true Christian living for Him, loving Him, serving Him. The final thing we see here in verses 33 and 34 is that to be cured of worry and anxiety. You must have a reordered, proper understanding of your purpose. Look at verse thirty-three. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you. Seek it first. That's what you've been made for. You've been made to live with him forever Let that be what you put your mind on at all times. Even when the worry comes. Set your mind on things above. When you're worried about your loved ones, set your mind on things above. Know that God who has saved you can save them. When you're worried about your children and the choices that they've made, remind yourself of all the terrible choices you've made, and yet has God not brought you here Where you are now to worship and to praise Him and to love Him, to serve Him. It's His kingdom that you've been made for. For the Christian, this is all of our end. This is our purpose. I'm so excited about the Pilgrim's Progress, Sunday School. Because the end of pilgrim's progress is where? It's the celestial city. You don't end up back in the slough of the spond, you don't end up back in the town of wickedness. With a little bit more understanding and knowledge to help you do a little bit better this time. We're not gonna be reincarnated. You're not going to come back. You don't get a second life to live. This is it. And the life that you have been given is for one purpose: that you will be with Christ forever and ever. Amen. It's the only way. And so worrying about this and everything going on down here, as though you can somehow change it. Why do you even want to change it? What's to change? What would you have? More channels? More monthly subscriptions to stuff? Cheaper milk? Alright, I'll be honest with you. Yeah, cheaper milk would be great. Cheaper gas would be better. But what's the sense of worrying about it? He says all these things will be added to you because it's worth it. It's worth it to give up this kind of control and independence in your life and to be this dependent on God. It's worth it to make the sacrifices that you make in order To serve him and to serve those he loves. Because with it, with those sacrifices, with this proper understanding of your purpose comes stability and constancy. Though you will face more trials. That's what this next verse is all about, right? You need to live with a proper understanding of the future. The future is going to be much like today. There will be difficulties. No matter who you are, you can win the lottery And have all the money you've ever dreamed of, and yet your life tomorrow will still have worry. You will still have challenges. You will still have trials No matter how things change today, even if it happens according to what you want, tomorrow you will still throw a tantrum at God. Because it's not going to be exactly the way you think it should be. And if you don't want that, then focus on him and on his word and on his kingdom. Remind yourself when you come to these moments of anxiety that God is for you. He is not working against you. He's on your side. The deepest desire of your heart, you want a stronger relationship with your wife? He's on your side. He wants that for you too. You want to have the right words to say to your child. You want to know how to show them that you love them despite disagreeing with their choices. He is with you. He will not forsake you. You don't need to worry about it. You don't need to write out a dissertation. You just need to trust Him and serve Him. God is your Master And if he's the master, if he's the only master, and he's the one you really serve, do you think he's going to put things in your way that will keep you from serving him? He's your master. He wants your service. He wants you to live for him. He wants you to live for him every second of every day. And he is not putting in your life things that get in the way. He is not putting it there to get in the way of your service. He's putting it there because you need it. You need the joyful strengthening of overcoming that sin. And if you needed that in order to be the man that you're supposed to be, or the woman you're supposed to be, then you had to go through that. Sometimes you have to mess up so that you can understand what it really means. To belong to Christ, to be in his household. Sometimes you have to act a fool for a couple years. Some of us it's a little bit more than a couple. Sometimes you have to act like there is no God to get that divine two by four upside the head that proves to you, without a shadow of a doubt, that He is taking care of you. And that He has you. Don't worry, brothers and sisters. No matter what is coming, do not worry, do not be anxious, because you're God Who loves you so much that he gave his son for you? He is for you. And he is working all things for good for you who are called according to his purpose. Hallelujah. Praise Jehovah. Please pray with me.