Colossians chapter one, we'll be looking at verses nine through fourteen this evening. And uh please follow along as I read chapter one, verses nine through fourteen. For this reason, we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you, and to ask that you may be filled with the knowledge of His will and all wisdom and spiritual understanding. That you may walk worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing him, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. strengthened with all might according to his glorious power, for all patience and long suffering with joy, giving thanks to the Father who has qualified us to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints and the Lord He has delivered us from the power of darkness, and conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of His love, in whom we have redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of sins. I have a question for you this evening. If you're to look at the person to your left, you don't have to, it might freak them out. Or to your right. And you could ask anything for them, what would you ask? Don't tell them. But if you could ask anything for them, what would you ask? Now, if the Apostle Paul were sitting here and he looked to the left and to the right, and based on this passage, what would he have asked? Maybe you would have asked the same thing, or maybe you would have asked something different. Maybe it would have been in the same ballpark. We know from our review last week of Colossians that the Apostle Paul's main focus At the heart of this letter, in chapter 2, verses 6 and 7, and in chapter 1, verse 28, the Apostle Paul, his overarching ministry is focusing on Christian Becoming mature. Now, last week in the beginning of chapter one, he was focusing on helping them to grow in their maturity through being re- Reassured that they really did receive the Holy Spirit. How did they know? How did they know that they received the Holy Spirit? It was because they had faith in Christ Jesus, which is a work of God. They had love for all the saints. And they had hope which is laid up for them in heaven. Well, another uh difficulty that they were running into was is Epaphras really giving us the full message? Is he a trustworthy messenger? And the Apostle Paul to contribute to their maturity, he ensures that reassures them of that. That also, saying that Paphras is a faithful servant. He's my co-worker, a servant of Christ Jesus. This week he continues with the maturity. If he would have looked to the left or to the right, he would have said, I want them to mature. And we know that. But how specifically would Would he have done so? And we can see the answer to that beginning in verse 9 when we start to look at the prayers of Paul. Paul tells us in these prayers tonight what he would want to the person to his right or to the person to His left. And we have a lot to learn from him because he gives us an apostolic example. He's not just another human being that does what they do and we do what we do The Apostle Paul, when he does something, we have to pay attention because he is the Lord's apostle, a bondservant of Christ Jesus. And we'll hear more about that in a minute. But this is what we learned from him, from watching him and listening to him. That Christian, you should pray that your fellow Christians would be filled with knowledge and walk worthy of their Lord. When you look to the left or you look to the right, you should be praying and asking for them that they would be filled with knowledge and walk worthy of their Lord. Lord. That's what Paul would say. That's how he would have answered the question. And so let's look at this in this passage under three parts: ongoing prayer, increasing knowledge, and worthy walking. Let's begin now with ongoing prayer that we see here in this passage, beginning in verse 9. For this reason, we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you And to ask that you may be filled, and then he continues. Now, I think some of us could initially be saying, shouldn't we be praying for all people? Well, of course that's true, and we're just focused on this particular path. The apostle here is focused on fellow Christians, as you can see there. Since we since the day we heard it, we do not cease to pray for you. As verse 9 says, it's Something that he's heard about with them, and what he's referring to is back there in verse 3. The Apostle Paul and his co-workers, such as Timothy and Epaphoros, heard of the Colossians' conversion to Christianity as it's summarized in verses 3. We give thanks to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of your love for all the saints because of the hope which is laid up for you in heaven And so its fellow Christians, their faith in Christ Jesus and love and hope. It is for a Christian group of people, therefore that since Paul prays that we should pray. That's the focus here, that we would be praying for our fellow Christians. We all know, as Christians, at least I hope that we do, that prayer is assumed of us as a general obligation. However, it's also our duty, as I was mentioning in the introduction, to follow the example of the apostle when it is appropriate. And we do have to be careful. About that, but it is appropriate here. The general principle that we follow, or where this comes from, is 1 Corinthians 11, verse 1. Be imitators of me, the Apostle Paul says, as I am of Christ. And insofar as he is an imitator of Christ, we are to be imitators of Paul. And let me just remind you that from John chapter 17, verse 20, Christ prayed for Christians. He says this, I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their apostolic word. Epaphras, in fact, took this seriously. Take a look at Colossians chapter 4, verses 11 and 12. The Paphrist, who is one of you, a bondservant of Christ, greets you always, laboring fervently for you in prayers, that you may stand mature or perfect and complete In all the will of God. Colossians 4. 12. You see, anyone that's involved with this church plan is praying for each other. Because they know that's what the Lord's will is, is that Christians would pray regularly for fellow Christians. Of course, since all true obedience flows from true love, Charles Spurgeon had it right when he said this concerning prayer for each other. We are not sent into the world to live unto ourselves, but we are members of one body, and each member is expected to contribute to the health and comfort of the whole. Can all pray. We cannot all distribute money from our substance, but we can all offer prayers from our hearts. In temporal things, we may not be able to enrich the church because of our lack of money. But if we fail to bless the church by our prayers, it will be for a lack of grace. Whatever you fail in, dearly beloved, and I pray that you may in nothing come behind. Yet do not fail in prayer for all the saints, that every blessing may abound towards them all. It would do us well, therefore, to heed Paul's example of prayer for the fellow Christian, wouldn't it? What stimulates you to pray? That could be part of the problem here, as you think about praying for your fellow Christian. Oftentimes, we're stimulated to pray when there's a crisis. Or when things are going wrong. But you notice that there's no loss or crisis here? The stimulation in verse 9 is: since the day we heard it. It's the testimony of the works of God in the life of fellow Christians. And that moved him to begin to pray for them that they would mature more and more. Maybe if we have a a slight change in vantage point like that. Where we didn't just pray for crisis or loss or devastation, but because of the good testimony of God in our lives, maybe then we could begin to start praying for our fellow Christians. The fires of the apostles' prayer were fanned by the news of the Spirit's conversion. Let us at Severn Run not quench the work of the Spirit. But let us join him by prayer for our fellow Christians. That's the first thing we see in the example that's set by the Apostle Paul. And assuming that we'll all begin praying, the question then becomes, as you look to the left or the right, for what should I pray? And he gives a surprising answer. The Apostle Paul supplies us with instruction from his authoritative example, and he says: pray that they would increase in the knowledge of the will of God. You should pray, therefore, that your fellow Christians increase in the knowledge of the will of God. Prayer for knowledge makes sense here when you look at the It can be difficult to see, but take a look at this. It's still in verse 9. That you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding. It can just go right by us. But when he says that you may be filled with the knowledge, it is passive. It means that someone else must do the filling. Not even Paul himself can fill him in the way that he wants them to be. The passes passive voice is often a way that the authors of Scripture allude to the divine work of God in the life of His people. That's why I say it makes sense to pray. If it's God that can only give the knowledge, then we must turn to God in prayer to give the knowledge. It's common sense at this point once you start to accept the underlying premises that Paul lays down or assumes. Interestingly, the prayer, as we continue to look closely here, is for a special kind of knowledge. It says that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will, but the normal Greek word for knowledge is gnosis. Have you ever heard that? Before? Gnosis. If you've ever heard of the heresy called Gnosticism, that's what it's from. Here the author places a prefix in front of the word gnosis and it's epignosis. The prefix epi strengthens and intensifies the word, and thus epignosis means not just knowledge But real knowledge. And I think he might be playing with a little bit of what's going on in the church at this time. He's saying you want real knowledge, you want full knowledge? That's what I want, and only God can give it to you. And you could think of this perhaps as the difference between knowledge and acknowledging. There's a pretty big difference between those two words if you actually think about it. This is a special kind of prayer that he's asking, that there be a knowledge, an epignosis, or acknowledgement of the will of God. We see that in verse 9 also. That you may be filled with the knowledge of his will and all wisdom and spiritual understanding. Now, if you continue, take a look at the scriptures there, by the time you get to verse ten, if you really want to read this closely and in context, it says that you may walk worthy of the Lord. When we talk about the will of God, and you look throughout the scriptures as to what What the will of God is, you could think that when he says, Let us pray for each other, that we would grow in the knowledge of God's will, that he's essentially saying, Let us pray for each other that we would know how to behave as Christians. That's not exactly what's going on at this point in the passage. It misses the mark. In 2, 6, and 7, which is the heart of this letter, take a look at that. I believe these are all synonymous statements with what we're reading here. As you therefore have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him. Notice how verse 9 and verse 10 are summarized here. In chapter 2, verses 6 and 7. Receive Christ Jesus, walk in him. And so I think this first part is again still focused on a knowledge of his will, not the practice of it, but still just the knowledge of it. That brings us back to verse 3, where they, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus, or in verse 6, which has come to you as it has in all the world, as it is also That you would know the grace of God in truth, which speaks again to knowledge. You know, uh uh Ephesians is known as a very closely related book to Colossians. Did you know Know that? There's a lot of similar themes and motifs that run through both of the letters. And very interestingly, if you turn to Ephesians in the beginning of Ephesians, it speaks also of the will of God. And it doesn't speak of it as a walking worthy of the Lord just yet. It speaks about a summary of God's will for the redemption of his people. Particularly in verses 3 through 10 in chapter 1 of Ephesians. Listen for his will and what it is. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ, just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. having predestined us to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will. You could almost substitute the word decree there, couldn't you? To the praise of the glory of his grace by which he has made us accepted in the beloved. No walking worthy of the Lord here. So far, we're just talking about the redemptive work of God through his son. Not even talking about redemption applied yet. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. according to the riches of his grace, which he made to abound toward us in all wisdom and prudence, having made known to us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in in him. You see, the will of God here is not walking worthy of the Lord just yet. This is the redemptive plan of God and his decree to gather and to perfect his people, as we see in Ephesians 1, 3 through 10. You know, that's a lot of a lot to hold on to. Everything that I just read to you there. You know what an easily accessible summary of God's will is? Actually, on the night of my graduation from seminary, one wise man stood, and I totally was not expecting this, but he said, Men, I charge you. To know the table of contents to the Westminster Confession of Faith. And he gave an argument for why we should. He said the reason being is because you have all the right categories in your mind that you should have. Those categories are derived from Scripture that speak about the work of Christ all the way to end things. Now you may find difficulty in understanding those same things from the confession. I encourage you to start with the shorter catechism and have someone work through it with you. But even still, even if that's not the road that you take, take those topics that are seen within that the confession and explore them yourself in the scripture to get a summary of the will of God. That was important that he said that to us. Shows us the main and the basic topics of the will of God. I hope that you're beginning to get the picture of what Paul paints here for us to grow in the knowledge of God. Does it surprise you that the Apostle Paul says that Did you expect him to say, well, you know, it doesn't really matter what you believe as long as you said something nice about Jesus at BBS? Or it doesn't really matter what you believe, it matters how you feel. That's not the picture that we get from the Apostle Paul. He prays to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ that they wouldn't just have knowledge, but that they would acknowledge the redemptive will of God the Father, Jesus Christ the Son, and the Holy Spirit. spirit, that they would be Trinitarian in their knowledge. And I hope you can begin to get that picture. It is God alone who could grant someone Not some academic awareness of his will, but the certainty and the reality of his will. And therefore Paul went to them in prayer. I think he did it as an act of humility, too. If he just taught them, he'd be teaching, and there wouldn't be any overtones in his language of his total dependence upon God. But he knew as the apostle that he was totally dependent upon God for anything good to happen within these congregations. And so he sets an example for us again. It's necessary. We want people to have true knowledge of God, to pray to God, to give the knowledge. Let me put this in further context. There are lots of people who can read the words, Jesus is Lord. But there are only a few for which that is a life-transforming reality and certainty, and you know that that does not come solely from a classroom education. And so we must go to God in prayer for our fellow Christians that they would grow in the knowledge of God. Truly acknowledging? You ever seen the difference in a person? You know, I've told you this before, but and this analogy is now officially lost on fifty percent of you in this room. But back in the day when we played at the community pool, we would put that quarter and that fifty cents. Fifty cents. Fifty cents. Or thirty-five cents if it was Safeway brand soda. We put those coins in and there was this moment where you put the money in and nothing happened but and you had to wait for the soda to drop. And you know the difference when a person all their life has heard Jesus is Lord, and all you see on their face is and then one day, clackwink. drops and everything changes for them. You know where that comes from? God. And you know how you can participate in that? Prayer for your fellow Christians. That's what's being said here. I know those who have grown up in the church like to hear about this difference. We were talking about this at the youth group last week. The difficulty of growing up in the church and hearing all of this information, having data around you all of your life, and longing for the certainty and the reality of the information to finally come home. And our youth were truly pleading out that they would have that. And I ask you, as their fellow Christians, to pray for them. Pray for the youth of the church that the soda would drop. Don't leave it up just to their mother and their father. God knows they pray. Pray for them also. It's a gift of the Spirit, and therefore we must pray for the youth of this church. You should pray that your fellow Christians would be filled with the epignosis of God's will. I said a Greek word, and that got away with that That was good. So that's ongoing prayer, and that's increasing knowledge. And of course, the next point is already rearing its head. I mentioned it a couple times, walking worthy in the Lord. True knowledge leads to worthy walking. And so here's our last point. You should pray, Christian, as you look to the left and to the right, that your fellow Christian walks worthy of the Lord. This is brought out first by the words spiritual wisdom and understanding. You can see there still in verse 9, he ends it with, in all wisdom and spiritual understanding. I think the understanding of these words is best taken from the Old Testament. These two words conjoined together are repeated throughout the Old Testament. Let me just give you one example. Exodus 31, verse 3. through five. And I have filled him with the Spirit of God in wisdom, in understanding, in knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship. To design artistic works, to work in gold, in silver, in bronze, in cutting jewels for setting, in carving wood, and to work in all manner of workmanship. Isn't it surprising to see those words there? All the ingredients that are present here in this Colossians passage were present there as these artisans are preparing the instruments for the tabernacle, the spirit, wisdom, and understanding. The point is that their knowledge, wisdom, would issue forth in practical and observable workmanship. That's what true Wisdom is. It's the skill of living, as we learned in the book of Proverbs. Workmanship that is worthy of the Lord. Notice how he he builds on this. He says That you may walk worthy of the Lord. And this is a beautiful phrase, fully pleasing him, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. Worthy of the Lord and fully pleasing him. I saw a picture that presented this well. I love this picture because it's the perfect picture for the Christian Christian life as opposed to those who tell us that we should all be uh solving all the crises in Africa. What about the mundane activities of our regular life? When we think about working for the Lord and walking worthy of Him. Well, there's a picture that my wife had frame. It's a laundry basket. And there's clothes hanging out of the laundry basket. And there's laundry folded on the left, and there's laundry folded on the right. And it's very minimalistic, and this is what it says. Whatever you do, do it as unto the Lord. Isn't that lovely? What a picture of Christian life. Laundry baskets will show up in Colossians in chapter three. But now Paul gives us some examples of what is pleasing to the Lord. I mentioned already, bearing fruit in every good work. Now I want you to notice, take a look closely at this section. That you may walk worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing Him, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. Did you catch that? Notice how as you give yourself over and acknowledge It then issues forth in walking worthy, and then it doubles back on itself and you increase in the knowledge. Isn't that great? You know it's not circular. It's Spiral. With a circle, you come back to the same place. That's not maturing. With a spiral, you go deeper. And that's what he's saying here. It's like a trade. For example, you could study cosmetology books all month long, but your knowledge will be frail and thin and you won't cut my hair until you work on some models of with hair that That's involved until you cut some hair and get some practical knowledge. He also mentions here that you would be strengthened for endurance and patience with joy, and we'll talk about that later in the letter. And lastly, He mentions thankfulness. Let me just point out the structure to you, and then I want to focus on thankfulness tonight. He says that you would walk worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing him, and then he lists the different ways that he wants you to walk worthy. He wants you to be fruitful. He wants you to increase in the knowledge of God. He wants you to be strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, for all patience and long-suffering. And lastly, he wants you to give thanks. These are actually, if you were to study this passage and its grammar, these stick out like sore thumbs as this is in fact what he wants you to do. To do to walk worthy of the Lord. And let's focus on thanksfulness. Thanksfulness has a special place in the list coming at the end. If you notice at verse 3, take a look at verse 3, he already had a thanksgiving Sabbath. We give thanks to God the Father. This is a letter. It follows certain forms to have a thanksgiving, to leave off of the Thanksgiving, and to come back to the Thanksgiving. The thanksgiving is to break the form. So I think there's an emphasis here. Verse 3 begins with the thanksgiving and then unfolds the work of God for which we should be thankful: faith, love, hopefully. Verse 14 lists thanksgiving. And then notice again the work of God. He delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of His love, in whom we have reached. Redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. I believe the first and the last Thanksgiving sections are meant to frame and shape this whole section. In other words, The reality of the knowledge of God's will is truly known when you will live a life of thanksgiving. You are walking worthy of the Lord in a special way when it is permeated with thankfulness. Can you imagine telling someone that you knew about the redemption of Jesus? Christ, that you knew about moving from a kingdom of darkness and into a kingdom of light of the beloved Son and not being thankful? That's knowledge. That's not acknowledgement. If you know God's will but are not thankful for it, not only will you not walk worthy in any of those ways, and not only will you not be fruitful, you really don't know his will to begin with. With. And so we must deepen in our reality. This is pretty serious, right? What do we want to do? Let's just at dinner tell people you need to start doing this. That's not the point here. The point is that God creates this within people. Thankfulness is a grace from God through his Son. By the Holy Spirit. And so it goes to the point again. We can't escape it. We have got to pray for each other. That's the main point that, with like a drill, I've been trying to screw into our soul. The whole service. Christian, you must pray that your fellow Christians would be filled with knowledge and walk worthy of their Lord. Do you see the necessity in that? You see why Paul did it? He didn't do it just to show off. He did it because it was the only thing to do. Paul prayed for the Colossians because he heard a report from the church planner of Paphras. Maybe we don't pray for each other because we don't really know what's going on in each other's lives. So here's the final question to you. How can you start to hear a report of the grace of God in each other's life? Is it through a small group? Is it through just having some dinner? with each other? Is it through instead of asking inane and commonplace questions, instead asking, what's God doing in your life? How did you get here How did you come to know Jesus Christ? Ask those kind of questions. Not because you're nosy, but because you want to hear about the work of the Holy Spirit. Spirit, creating in them a faith in Christ Jesus, love for all the saints, and hope which is laid up in for heaven. And because you want to pray for their further maturity That they would grow in all of these other ways, especially in their thankfulness. In fact, when you close your dinner with them, maybe you guys could just thanks together for everything that the Lord is doing in our lives. Let's pray for each other. Let's pray now. Please join me. Oh Father, we thank you for your teaching, not only in words, but in the actions of your authoritative leaders that you have given. your spirit in a special way to. We thank you for guiding not only their words but their lives, that their examples would be normative to us. We thank you for teaching us the necessity of praying for one another, but it's not enough. We ask that you would give us an epignosis of the reality of this sermon truth. That it would be real to us, that we would acknowledge and not just have knowledge. In other words, that we would walk worthy of you by praying for each other. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. Let's stand and give praise to our God who has given so much to us and hears all our prayers It's him number one in your bulletin. Do not be no window change may race tomorrow at your side And for your dress, the fires of unexpected sorrow God you are And I will trust in you and not reshape that peace with him