Pardon? Yeah. And our text this evening will be verses 22 through 25. So please follow along in your scriptures. Since you have purified your souls in obeying the truth of the Spirit and sincere love of the brethren, Love one another fervently with a pure heart, having been born again, not of corruptible seed, but incorruptible, through the Word of God which lives and abides forever, because all flesh is as forever And all the glory of man is the flower of the grass. The grass withers and its flower falls away. But the word of the Lord endures forever. Now this is the word which is preached by the gos the by the gospel was preached. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for these words. We pray that we would see your great redemptive plan in them and how we are to wait well. In the name of Christ, Amen. Please be seated. Geppetto is a woodworker who specializes in clocks, but he can also, I'm sure you know this, make wooden puppets. Yes, Pinocchio. His latest creation was a little wooden boy named Pinocchio. While settling into bed at night, Geppetto requested Figaro, his cat, to open the window for fresh breeze. As the window opened, what shall appear but the wishing star It's interesting to me when you see stories like this and the overlap that they have with the Christian story. Geppetto then, with arms folded and on his knees on his bed, says starlight, star bright. First star I see tonight. I wish I may, I wish I might, have the wish I make tonight. And we all know his wish. He wishes that that Pinocchio would be a real boy It's in stories like this, and there are many other stories where it seems like they're beating around the bush of what we know to be the truth from the scriptures. Do you see any similarities just in this one moment with Geppetto and Figaro before the wishing star? Peter did not wish upon a star Here in this passage that we have today. And people are not exactly made of wood as they are in Pinocchio. But the similarity would be this: heaven. And turning to heaven, that we would become like real boys and girls. Christ did send his spirit from heaven, and he is making people who were in fact dead in sins and trespasses Alive. And that's our emphasis this evening. And that's the emphasis of the passage this morning. It's all about what the Spirit is doing. Spirit is like the foundation of a house who causes all of the activities that would eventually be on that foundation on the first floor to also happen. He's our foundation and he is our life. And so let's look at that this evening, the Spirit and the life of the Spirit. It begins in verses 22 and 23. Since you have purified your souls in obeying the truth, and then 23 having been born again. Both of these are foundational statements. The cart is not before the horse. The horse is before the cart, referring to a sermon in the past. You could miss that in verse 22 that is talking about the Spirit, because listen to it again. Since you have purified your souls in obeying the truth. There's a real human choice stressed here. Having purified your souls. Seems like we're not talking about the spirit, but rather human action. Well, what he's referring to there, I hope you recognize it, takes us back to verse 12 of the first chapter, where they heard that gospel preached on that day of Pentecost. Peter and the other apostles preached the gospel on that day. They preached the truth, and many obeyed, and thus purified, were purified from their anti Christian attitudes and the Notions. You can even think about the sermon this morning. What shall we do? Well, be purified from the attitudes that led to the crucifixion of Jesus. But if you continue reading, you'll see that the emphasis in 1 Peter in our verse verse 22 is not really on human choice so much as it is on the spirit underneath. If you continue reading, this is what it says. Having purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit. You see, he's still underneath, making everything happen. The Spirit still hovers back behind all human action, giving belief or faith as a gift. And Christ poured out the Spirit like purifying water, giving them repentance and faith and forgiveness. That's verse 22. That's the first foundational statement about the Spirit. But there's another repeated foundational statement about the Spirit in verse 23. It's really, I think he's saying the same thing in Different words. 22 is about the Spirit. Twenty-three, I think he's saying the same things about the Spirit. He starts off by saying, having been born again. Well, that's reference to the Spirit again We know from Jesus' conversation with Nicodemus that it is the Spirit which gives the second birth, or the birth from above. Just as in the first example, so too in this second, the example of the Spirit is given here to show that he used the preaching of the word as his instrument. In doing a very special people with God's people, even you. If you are a Christian, I'm getting ready to tell you your story. There's a very special word that applies to you: the Spirit regenerated you. Now I know you've heard that language before, but have you stopped to to parse it out a little bit to see what's what composes the word and what it's made up of? Think about the word regeneration. Can you think of how you could break it down into smaller words? It has two parts, right? Re and Genesis. A new beginning, a re-creation, a new creation. And that makes us think of the original creation. God spoke in the beginning, and through the word of his power, heaven and earth were created. But now, as we look in Peter, we see that there was another speaking. God spoke in these last days through his son, and through that speaking, the Spirit hovered over us and recreated us. The Spirit from heaven. This recreation is different than the first creation, isn't it? The first creation under Adam is corruptible, but this new creation by the Spirit leads to corruption. That's the way the scriptures speak of it. And actually, Peter wants to bring that aspect of regeneration out with this long quote from Isaiah chapter 40, verses 6 through 8. Do you see that in your scriptures? In verse 24. We also read it in our bulletin from the actual Isaiah passage. The key to understanding this quotation is to see that Peter is contrasting two very different modes of existence. And he's doing so through a plant analogy. You'll want to take a look at your scriptures there so that you can see exactly what I'm talking about. So for example, notice that in verse 23, he uses the plant analogy of seed. The word is in fact spora. That's the Greek word that's used. It's from spores. A term used in botany. It is where we get our words spore or plant seed. It is a word that is used often in the scriptures for a grain of wheat. And now, if you realize that, that there's a plant analogy going on, now notice the contrast in the Isaiah passage between the plant life and what God Himself plants. There is a contrast between corruptible seeds, is there not? Of this earth and the seed from heaven. The earthly seed grows up into grass, it says, and it grows up into flowers, but since it's an earthly seed, the grass withers and the flower falls. But did you notice in the Isaiah passage that it's not so with the seed from heaven? The seed, which is the word, planted by the Spirit. Take a look at verse 25 on how it was. It lasts forever. And that word, that seed, was the gospel that was preached to them, and it is the gospel that is preached to us. We have inherited an eternal life from the Spirit. You know, that creates a bit of a tension. That's the first thing that came to my mind when I realized what Peter was teaching here is wow, that That's a bit of attention. As I'm growing older, I wake up and I look at myself in the mirror, and all I see each day are more wrinkles But it says here that the Spirit has given me a life where the future is not wrinkles, that it will endure forever. The tension will be resolved, we learn, in other scriptures, because on the day of the Lord that Jeremiah was talking about, come quickly, Lord Jesus. The Spirit will complete our regenesis and not only have planted the seed of eternal life with regeneration, but he will give us new bodies, which are incorruptible. We are today, in other words, like Pinocchio. We are made of wood, so to speak, corruptible and eventually burned in the fire. But the new life has begun, not by wishing upon the star, but by the Spirit sent from heaven. us an incorruptible and eternal existence. Now we could continue with the Pinocchio imagery. I really don't want to. I mean enough is enough. Geppetto's wish was granted and Pinocchio was made in part a real boy, but Pinocchio had a lot to learn about his new life. I've I've been re-watching segments of it, and it's very interesting What happens to Bernokey? The fox leads him astray into a false kind of existence. There's overlaps just keep happening. And so Pinocchio, like us, has a lot to learn about his new life on what it means to be a real boy. And actually so do we. Even after regeneration from the Spirit, we have a lot to learn about what the incorruptible spirit looks like. About what the incorruptible life looks like. And so that's what Peter teaches us. Having given us that foundation, he now says, well, what is the kind of life that you would expect from such a re-genesis? And that's what we'll see here in this these verses again. Really, if you were to ask the question, what is the life that the Spirit gives to us? We understand that he has transformed our life through a recreation. But what does it look like to be recreated when we actually go live our lives? We've been answering that question in chapter one almost from the beginning of the chapter. So look at verse 13, for example, before we get to the answer in our passage tonight. Let's remember the answer already. It's very important. A few weeks ago, someone said in their prayer, Lord, teach us to live faithfully. Well, what does faithful living look like? Here's what Peter teaches us. In verse 13 The new life is a life that is lived in hope of the coming kingdom. Hope is a major part of the Christian life. It's what we are to do while we wait: to hope And then if you were to continue in verse 13, it also says that while we wait, the life of the Spirit is a life of holiness, and it is not a life that relapses into a former rel life and mode of existence. And then in verse 17 it says, it is a life of godly fear. Now, do you notice? I wonder if you see it already, and I'm sure you've read this passage before this sermon tonight. What is added in our passage for the life of the Spirit? What life does he bring to us? Can you see it? You see it here in verse 22. Since you have purified your souls in obeying the truth of the Spirit, in sincere love of the brethren, and here is the commandment. Here is the life of the Spirit. Love one another fervently and with a pure heart. That's it. Love of the brethren. Later we'll see that it's love even of those who are not the brethren, but the focus here is love of the brethren. And yet it is not just love, but a fervent or a sincere love. Christian life is supposed to look like the same word used in Acts chapter twelve verse five, it is very helpful and corresponds very well with this same context in Peter. Acts 12 5 actually has a lot to do with Peter. Listen to this. This is the verse from Acts. Peter was therefore kept in prison, but constant prayer was offered to God for him by the church. Constant is how it's translated. And that constancy fits perfect within this passage from Peter. Peter. And it seems to be the same sense that he intends here. Over and over, as we've read in the first chapter, the theme from Peter is for them to persevere in hope until the end. Do not give up. As pilgrims, he says, and calls them, and he calls us to live a spirit-led life as we conduct the rest of our stay here, he says. That's how he puts it. And this now, besides hope, besides holiness, besides not relapsing into a former mode of existence, he says Love. If you want to know what it means to be a faithful Christian while you wait, it means not only love, it means love fervently. And what that means, if we understand it from Acts chapter 12, verse 5, is that we are to have a constancy to our love. That our love is to be known in That it is longstanding. Now, this is not the only person who has said this. The Apostle Paul, under the inspiration of the Spirit, says the same thing in 1 Corinthians chapter 13. He says, love suffers long. And again, in verse 8 of that same chapter, Paul says, love never fails. That's what we do while we wait. Constant love. Geppetto had a wooden corruptible puppet. And he wanted a real boy. He looked to heaven and his wish came true. Through Adam, we are kind of similar. We too are made of corruptible material. But Christ in heaven sent his Spirit to us, His people. The Spirit regenerated you, purifying you into a new life. It's not a life like the grass. And it's not a life like a flower, but it in fact will endure forever, the true life of the Spirit This life is characterized, according to Peter, by love. And it is a love that is fervent in its constancy. Love that suffers long. Love that never fails. Love that is constant. And longstanding. That's the teaching of the passage. And it leads to this kind of question. Are you ready? Have you taken on attitudes and actions And thoughts towards your fellow Christians that have stopped your love? Has your love ceased to be constant. As I was sitting at my computer and I typed out that question, I was looking out at the sunrise And I had three or four names immediately pop into my head when I typed the question. It's as if the Spirit himself told me who I I stopped loving that were my brethren. I wonder if there are people that pop into your mind Has a fellow Christian been too annoying? You know we can be pretty annoying Has a fellow Christian been too controlling? Has a fellow Christian been just too obnoxious for too long? Peter says that even still we must find some way in Christian wisdom to still love. I believe what Peter designed for these words and more importantly what the Spirit himself designed for these words Teachings from Peter tonight is that we would again be purified. Picture the waters of baptism from this morning But think of it as the Word of God going out and doing a purification. What are the attitudes and the thoughts that have kept you from loving? From what do you need to be purified? It is my prayer that the Spirit, through the words tonight, that these words would wash over you, Christian, as they have washed over me and are doing And that you would be purified of your impatience towards one another, maybe not even in this room, or your poor attitude toward your fellow Christian that you May he wash you through these words tonight in reminding you of constant love of your bitterness towards them. How it has grown up in your heart over the years. Maybe it's even a parent that comes to mind. And that you would be cleansed. And that you would in some wise way, because each relationship requires that. different things. There are some people it takes a great deal of wisdom to figure out exactly what that love looks like because they are a a unique kind of Person. But may you be cleansed in whatever God teaches you tonight through the Spirit to start to love again in the way that He shows you how to love. And in the spirit of Peter, and really in the Holy Spirit, may your love be constant while you wait. Please pray with me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, these are words that are not complicated. Lord, we see the profundity of the Spirit being sent by Christ, the wisdom that we do not comprehend in your redemptive plan. But the command is simple that we are to keep loving. It is simple to understand with our minds, but it is so hard for our hearts, Lord. There are so many things that can get in the way. And we in our own are not able to become people that do these things. We ask, Lord Jesus Christ, for the power of your spirit that you have Given to us, that we would be able to overcome the flesh and live in the life of the Spirit. We ask these things in your name. Amen.