Now it happened that he went through the grain fields on the Sabbath, and as they went, his disciples began to pluck the heads of grain. And the Pharisees said to him, Look, why do they do what is not lawful on the Sabbath? But he said to them, Have you never read what David did when he was in need and hungry, he and those with him? How he went into the house of God in the days of Abiathar, the high priest And to ate the show bread, which is not lawful to eat, except for the priests, and also gave some to those who were with him. And he said to them, The Sabbath was made for man Not man for the Sabbath. Therefore the Son of Man is also Lord of the Sabbath. And he entered the synagogue again, and a man was there who had a withered hand So they watched him closely, whether he would heal him on the Sabbath, so that they might accuse him. And he said to the man who had the withered hand, Step forward. And he said to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil, to save life or to kill? But they kept silent. And when he had looked around at them with anger, being grieved by the hardness of their hearts, he said to the man, Stretch out your hand and he stretched it out, and his hand was restored, as whole as the other Then the Pharisees went out, and immediately plotted with the Herodians against him how they might destroy him. God's holy word for God's holy people. Let us pray. Gracious Lord, please bless us with the Comforter, with the Helper, who will lead us into all truth. That He will help us see the truth of this, your Holy Word, and how it applies to our lives. And I pray, God, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength. and my Redeemer. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Please be seated. A few weeks ago we were looking at Mark chapter 2, verses 18 through 22. Passage that was dealing with fasting, and I started off by asking if anyone knew what the Puritans called fasting. And I wonder if any of you remember the Puritan term for fasting. Do you remember? It was soul fattening, that's right. Soul fattening. They understood why Christians fast. And they understood the end result of proper Christian fasting. Well tonight I want to ask you if you've ever heard of how the Puritans refer to Sunday or the Lord's Day. Do you know the Puritan term for the Lord's Day? Anybody? They called it the Market Day of the Soul. It's a special day. A day to be used for acquiring and enjoying the things that God has given us for our soul's benefit We gather, we pray, we sing, we hear God's word, we rest from our worldly cares and concerns, and we are fed and strengthened by our great and gracious God. And we come tonight to an incident in the ministry of our Lord Jesus, which highlights for us how God's people are to understand this special day, this market day of the soul. Mark has recorded this gospel to show us that Jesus is the Son of God, the perfect Son of Man. He is the spotless Lamb come to take away the sin of the world. He has come to reorder what sin has disordered. He proved his power to deal with sin when he forgave the paralyzed man's sins and then healed his body. In Mark 2, verses 13 to 17, Jesus showed that no sinner, no sin, no disorder Is beyond the reach of the gospel when he called Levi out of a life of sin and greed as a tax collector and into a life of discipleship and following after Jesus. The critical and self-righteous scribes and Pharisees, they thought there was no hope for that kind of disorder, the disorder of a tax collector. And in the passage previous to this one, we saw that Jesus reorders how God's people express their faith in the new reality of the gospel. And in our passage tonight, Christ uses the misunderstanding of the Pharisees again to teach his disciples, to teach us That in order to live in a way that pleases God, we must trust the Son and his understanding of what his Father wants. Brothers and sisters, for you to live in a way that pleases God, you must trust Jesus, the Son, and his understanding of what God the Father wants. And we're going to look at this passage in two divisions tonight. We're going to first look at the law, verses 23 and 24, and then we'll look at the lesson in verses 25. So let's look first now at this section, verses 23 to 24, in which we'll briefly look at the law. Starting in verse 23. Now it happened that he went through the grain fields on the Sabbath, and as they went, his disciples began to pluck the heads of grain, and the Pharisees said to him, Look, why do they do what is not lawful on the Sabbath? So I want to start by looking at what the Pharisees get right. I know a lot of the times we look at the Pharisees and we just see all wrong, but let's be charitable. And let's see what the Pharisees get right. They care a great deal about God's honor. They do not want to see God disobeyed or disrespected or dishonored. They recognize that God has told his people how they are to live. He's given them the law. He's given his holy word. And they cared so much about people keeping God's law. They really did. They really wanted people to keep God's law. They cared so much about it. that they made up laws about the law, regulations about how God's law is to be kept. They had come up with their own set of rules, a system of six hundred and thirteen laws, which were intended to help the people. Keep God's law. But their rules, their laws, did not match the spirit of God's law. This is what the Pharisees got wrong They made rules so that the people of God could keep the letter of the law. For example, they wanted to be sure That God's people were keeping the fourth commandment. Right? What's the fourth commandment? Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy And so they made a list of extra rules which, according to their understanding, would ensure a person was obeying the fourth commandment. They have thirty-nine general categories of things forbidden on the Sabbath, things which in their understanding fit. into that category labor from which we're to rest. You know what they got wrong when they did this? They did not understand God's word because they actually used the Bible to support these extra rules. One rule was no reaping on the Sabbath day. And the rabbinic literature from that time says that this means no cutting or plucking of any growing thing And to support this rule, they went to Exodus 34, verse 21, which says, Six days you shall work, but on the seventh day you shall rest. In ploughing time and in harvest you shall rest. They thought that that meant you could never pluck any living thing on the Lord's Day. And they use that same verse to support other rules, such as no threshing, one cannot remove food from its container. On the Lord's Day, on the Sabbath. So that means there's no milking. You can't get any milk from its container on the Sabbath day. No shelling of peanuts. No No cracking open pistachios, no shucking corn. They also said that there was no winnowing. You cannot separate food from its inedible parts using the wind. They also said there was no selecting. One cannot separate unwanted portions of food by hand. So if you had grapes that were already picked on the day before the Sabbath and you wanted to eat those grapes, I hope you like mushy grapes Because you can't pick the mushy ones out. You couldn't select. Well, let's be as charitable as possible. They really wanted God's law, the fourth commandment, to be kept with reverence. They wanted all of God's law kept. So they thought that this was a way that they could live that would please Jehovah. And when they witnessed the disciples doing what they would call threshing and plucking and widowing and selecting, they had a problem with it. In Luke's account, in chapter 6, verses 1 through 5, it's the same incident. We're told that they were rubbing the heads of grain in their hands. To remove the husk to get at the fruit. Matthew says that they were eating this grain. They were obviously not going to eat rotten heads of grain. They were selecting. They were doing What the Pharisees thought they were doing. And so what we can take from this Is that the Pharisees, in a way, were right. They were right. Jesus' disciples were doing those things. But what they were wrong about was whether or not it was unlawful. So they go to Jesus and they ask why his disciples do this unlawful thing. In Luke's account, they're not that passive-aggressive. They go right to the disciples and they ask them directly. But in all of the accounts, it's not the disciples who make an answer, it's Jesus who responds. He answers them, and in so doing, he teaches them. So now we turn our attention to the lesson Looking at verses 25 through 28. And the first thing that we see is that the Lord Jesus once again uses his amazing logic. But he said to them, Have you never read what David did when he was in need and hungry, he and those with him? How he went into the house of God in the days of Abiah, the high priest, and ate the showbread, which is not lawful to eat except for the priests. And also gave some to those who were with him? By saying, Have you never read essentially Jesus is asking them, or saying to them Have you forgotten how you're supposed to use God's word? Have you forgotten to use the whole counsel of God? The scriptures must be used in the right way. They must be used as God intended. And by directing them to this incident from David's life, Jesus is pointing out that they are not understanding the spirit of God's law. If you've got your Bible, you might want to just turn to 1 Samuel 21, verses 1 through 6. We're going to look briefly at this section which Jesus refers to. 1 Samuel 21, verses 1 through 6. Just to give you some context, this is right after Jonathan, Saul's son and David's best friend, had let David know that he cannot return because Saul will kill him. And so with great sadness, he and his companions they leave the area. They are fleeing for their lives And they come to Nob, where the tabernacle has been set up, and where the priests are ministering according to God's law, according to his commands. Here's this passage. Now David came to Nob to Ahimelech the priest, and Ahimelech was afraid when he met David and said to him, Why are you alone? And no one is with you. So David said to Ahimelech the priest, The king has ordered me on some business, and said to me, Do not let anyone know anything about the business on which I send you. or what I have commanded you. And I've directed my young men to such and such a place. Now therefore, what have you on hand? Give me five loaves of bread in my hand, or whatever can be found And the priest answered David and said, There is no common bread on hand, but there is holy bread If the young men have at least kept themselves from women. Then David answered the priest and said to him, Truly, women have been kept from us about three days since I came out. And the vessels of the young men are holy, and the bread is in effect common, even though it was consecrated in the vessel this day. So the priest gave him holy bread. For there was no bread there but the show bread, which had been taken from before the Lord, in order to put hot bread in its place on the day when it was taken away. This is the event that Jesus is referring to. And so David goes in alone. He goes into the tabernacle. He's looking for food for himself and for his men. Which scares the priest, Ahimelech. Now the Ahimelech versus the Bathar, we could have a conversation over dinner about why Jesus is not wrong in saying a different name than what's here. We can go into that. It's not very important right now. David answers the priest's fear. He says they're on a secret mission from the king. And I want you to notice something just quickly. David's not lying there. David is the anointed king. He is on a secret mission to survive the wrath of the king that he's replacing. I want you also to notice that it's the priest who willingly gives the bread to David. It's not like David bursts into the tabernacle and stole the bread from the table. And that's the last thing I want you to notice. It wasn't the active showbread. And in case you're not familiar with the showbread, these were twelve loaves of bread which were on a special table. made that would always be there in the presence of God. Every Sabbath it was replaced with fresh loaves of bread, and each loaf represented a tribe of Israel. It was literally called the bread of the faces Because it was God's face. And they represented that the twelve tribes of Israel were always living before God. He was always watching them and watching over them. We're told in Leviticus 24, verses 5-9 a little bit more about this showbread, and then we're told that it was only for the priests to eat. It was actually a portion of their inheritance as priests. So why does Jesus direct the Pharisees to this passage? It's because it shows that God is not an arbitrary lawgiver. He's wise and he's generous and he's loving in the giving of his laws. Yes, the bread was only for the priests to eat. But look at what Jesus says about David and his men. They were in need. They were hungry. We have to ask ourselves would God have been more pleased with Ahimelech? If he had caused the anointed king of Israel to die from hunger? Is that what would have pleased God? That would not have pleased God. That isn't what God wanted. In Matthew's account, Jesus makes a statement which clearly shows us what is going on. He says, but if you had known what this means, I desire mercy and not sacrifice, you would not have condemned the guiltless. And this is the lesson for the Pharisees and for us. We need to understand the law as God Himself does. We need to have a heart after God's own heart as David did. We need to understand what God is expecting of his people. And so Jesus, to demonstrate the lesson, reveals the heart of God toward man. His reference to the event in David's life shows his logic, but then in this last few verses, Jesus shows his light. And we see this in verses 27-28. And he said to them, The Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath. Therefore, the Son of Man is also Lord of the Sabbath. Jesus reveals that the Sabbath was made for us. We weren't made for the Sabbath This is a very different way of understanding the Sabbath, the Lord's day, than what the Pharisees had understood. Brothers and sisters, the Sabbath was not a test. It's not an exam God didn't give the Sabbath day to his people so that he could test them and how well they could keep the rules of that day. It was a blessing It was given to them to be a blessing. Think about that passage from Isaiah that we read. We turn away from doing our own pleasure on the Sabbath to honor God because it is a delight to us. It makes the day of God a delight. Brothers and sisters, there is nothing outside of the Lordship of Christ. All that exists, all that is, is his and is made by him. And for him, for his glory, for his pleasure. And that includes the Sabbath. And so he tells us the Son of Man is also Lord of the Sabbath. Who better to reveal the true means of keeping the Sabbath than he who created it? Remember, the Sabbath is not instituted with Moses. It didn't come about in the fourth commandment. The fourth commandment itself gives us the reasoning of God. And it says that He made all things in six days, and on the seventh day he rested. It is the reason why we rest on the Sabbath day. And who made all things? Who was with God in the beginning and was God? It's the Word. The Son of God Himself, the Lord here, who is the Lord of the Sabbath, who made all things, including the Sabbath. Jesus Christ is the Lord of rest. He is the Lord of worship. He is the Lord of our fellowship and the Lord of our gladness, the Lord of delight. He is the Lord of the Sabbath. So, brothers and sisters, for you to live in a way that pleases God, you must trust Jesus, the Son, the Lord Himself. You must trust His understanding of what God the Father wants. Well, what does God want from you regarding the Sabbath? He wants you to delight in him. He wants you to delight in him in the way that you live out the Lord's day. And so the first thing we have to understand is that the Lord's Day, the Sabbath, still exists. There are a lot of people who would like to just ignore the fourth commandment. But if we're going to ignore the fourth commandment Should we also ignore the first? It would be from the same reason. We cannot ignore it. We cannot just do whatever we want The Son of Man is the Lord of the Sabbath. Not he was the Lord of the Sabbath. There is still a Sabbath rest over which Christ is still the Lord. And though it has changed in many, many ways, the Christian Sabbath or the Christian observance of the Sabbath is very closely related to the old Jewish Sabbath. There's a lot of great books out there. I don't have time to go into all the reasons for why the Sabbath day was changed. I could have a great conversation. We could point you to some of those books and figure those things out. But at the very least, I can point out that it was the first day of the week that God chose to make very special. Do you remember what happened on the first day of the week? That's the day that the Lord resurrected from the dead. It's the day that he revealed himself to his apostles. He revealed himself on that very evening, and Thomas wasn't with them. And then it says that a full week later, eight days later, that's when Jesus comes again to then reveal himself to the apostles, and Thomas was there. We have the Lord's day being the day in which John tells us that that's when he was caught off in a vision and gives us the revelation. The Lord's Day was seen as the first day of the week, now in light of what Christ the Messiah has done. He has accomplished the redemption of God's people. In the old covenant, in the old way, the people of God were always looking forward to the rest which was to come. The rest which was to come, and they understood it was to come through the Messiah. But now the Messiah has come and has accomplished what he was going to do, what he had planned to do, and so we who are united In Christ, who live our life in the Lord of the Sabbath, we live in that rest We live in Christ. We do all of our life, all of our labor in Him And as I said, there's all those books you can read. I can point you to at least one really good one that will answer a bunch of questions. But the important takeaway for us tonight. Is that no matter what we end up learning about the Sabbath in those books, we must not make the mistake of the Pharisees. We cannot assume that we have the right idea about what pleases God simply because it's the tradition in which we've been raised. Or because it's what makes the most sense to us, if we want to know what truly will please God, then we must go to Christ. And heed how he explains these things. We cannot be like the Pharisees and go around and force our expectations or our standards onto everyone else. The Sabbath was instituted for all mankind, for all of creation. That's why the fourth commandment gives us that reason And that's what it tells us. This is what made it special. This is how God made the seventh day sacred. And we are, therefore, by the mercy of God, given a day of rest. There is a day that He has made to be set aside in which we can rest from our labor. As Christ, as God rested from his. Now, when we see resting in the creation, it doesn't mean that God is asleep. Right? He's not taking a nap What it means is that he ceased from that particular labor of creation. Right? The Bible tells us elsewhere: God is not done working, is he? He sustains all things. At all times. He is upholding the entire universe. He is doing work even now. And so do we rest entirely from everything on the Lord's day? Should we make rules like the Pharisees did? Right? Should everybody have a pair of slip on shoes for Sunday so that you never have to bend over to tie shoes? Well some of us do that on purpose because it's a lot easier than bending over and tying shoes. And you're free to do that. There is no command that says you must have slip-ons so you don't bend over. And one one day I'd love to go through all of these 39 categories of the Sabbath. It's it's exciting to me to see how people tried to think these things through and it could actually help us figure out, have we done the same thing? Are we doing that? Some may ask us, is having an evening worship service doing the same thing Of course it's not. Because there is no command. We are not commanding folks to come here and to worship. This is a delight. We get the opportunity again to sing God's praises. We get the opportunity again to pray. We get the opportunity again on this special day to fellowship with God's people. The rest for us is a ceasing. It's a ceasing from ourselves. We get a rest from ourselves A rest from our own labor, arrest from our goals, and perhaps even harder, a rest from all of our cares and our concerns. That's the thing about problems. They're always there. No matter how much time you take away from them, they're always there when you come back. But what God gives us in this special day is we get to cease from our worry about those things. To be given that spiritual refreshing from God, that in the week to come, the week in which all of our labor is directed toward Christ. and toward God and toward this rest that we're in. We are given this great blessing that we can delight in our God. Brothers and sisters, let us not turn the Lord's day into a day of rules And regulations as the Pharisees did. The Lord's day is not a day of stress and madness. It is a day of rest and gladness. In a few weeks, we're going to take a look at the rest of this from chapter 3, verses 1 through 6. We'll look at a little bit more about the Sabbath and how Jesus subverts the expectations of the religious elite But until then, may our gracious God bless us to trust Jesus Christ and his revelation of the Father that we can live as pleases him, especially on the Lord's Day. Please pray with me