The first ten verses. There shall come forth a rod from the stem of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of his roots. The spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge, and of the fear of the Lord. His delight is in the fear of the Lord, and he shall not judge by the sight of his eyes, nor decide by the hearing of his ears. But with righteousness he shall judge the poor, and decide with equity for the meek of the earth. He shall strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips he shall slay the wicked. Righteousness shall be the belt of his loins, and faithfulness the belt of his waist. The wolf also shall dwell with the lamb. The leopard shall lie down with the young goat, the calf and the young lion and the fatling together, and a little child shall lead them. The cow and the bear shall graze, the young ones shall lie down together, and the lion shall eat straw like the ox. The nursing child shall play by the curvas hole. And the wean child shall put his hand in the viper's den. They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain, for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. And in that day there shall be a root of Jesse, who shall stand as a banner to the people, for the Gentiles shall seek him, and his resting place shall be glorious. Amen. Let us pray. O God and Father, this is a time where we are celebrating, and our festivities and thoughts are set on the great work that you have done in the giving of your Son. Lord Jesus Christ, our hearts and thoughts are set on you. Lord, you are often misunderstood even by your church, and we pray that We would be clear as to who you are and what you're accomplishing in this world and what you require of us today. In other words, Lord, we ask that your word would go out. That it would have wings, so to speak, and fly into our very souls. That we would not just be hearers, but doers. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Did anyone get the chance? to look up the painting or the engraving that I had mentioned two weeks ago Somebody here who's not in my contacts, you know me and you sent me the picture. I don't know who you are, but Your number came up. Sorry, I know who you are in person, I'm sure. You're just wearing my contact, so I don't know who that was. It was you. Okay, very good. Yeah. So the so there's if you look it up, I left you with a picture of a traveler sticking his head out from the confines and limits of this earthly experience over into the heavens itself to see divine realities And this was meant to be a kind of symbol or a way for us to understand what is going on when we're reading these passages during the Advent season. In Isaiah. It's in fact an illustration of what Isaiah is doing. Isaiah has gained entrance into heaven to witness conversations between the Father and the Son. Here in our passage this morning, we're going to find that Isaiah relays to us more divine counsels and plans. So let's take. Notice of a few things here in this poem that has been put together for us so masterfully. The first thing I want you to notice is verse number one. Verse number one, when he says, There shall come forth a rod from the stem of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of his roots. The picture here is meant to be of the Davidic dynasty. Just think of a royal line and a dynasty. That uh embodies that royal line, and that they are supposed to be a full-grown tree offering shade and food and a place for the birds to perch across the whole world. Bringing a kind of salvation. But instead they have become a tree that has been locked off or chopped down. That's the picture we have of the Davidic Kingdom, and one of the questions that would then arise is, is this the end? By the promises that God made on what He would accomplish in this world and how He would vindicate His creation through the Davidic line, would those things come to an end? Has hope been extinguished And the answer is no. That's what the first verse is doing. It's saying, though the tree has been chopped down, out of the roots springs a little sapling. I just visited someone's home where a tree, a large oak tree, cracked in half. I guess it was from lightning or something, and so they had it chopped down, but they had it chopped down at just the right height where they could put a tabletop on it. entertain people in the backyard. It happened right in the midst of their stone patio area. And he told me that uh though it looks dead because they chopped the thing down He assures me it's still alive because every year, before he can entertain, he has to print it. Little branches keep growing out of the side of it. And out of the roots themselves. And that's the same picture that we have here is of a little sapling growing up out of a rootstock. Now, this sapling is a person. It is in fact the great king that was promised. And this is a development from what we've seen in Isaiah chapter 9. In Isaiah 9, Isaiah heard the conversation between the Father and the Son, that the Father would send the Son, that there would be a child that was born. And here we're not dealing with a child. We're not dealing with a twig coming off of the rootstock. We're dealing with a Hebrew word that talks more of a sapling, something that is full of vigor and young young adulthood and entering out into mission. Here the child has grown and is ready to begin his work. That's verse number one. And so I want us to keep noticing a few things, though, in the rest of the verses. And this brings us to a description of this new king in the Davidic line. We see this in verse 2. He is at this point in the poem described in terms of how he is the unction that he receives from the Father. He is one who is filled with the Spirit. Now, this is significant. The way the language is playing out here reminds us of so many different times in which the Spirit has been poured out on people, but nothing like this. Uh but there's still some similarities that we can get our heads around what's going on with this particular king. If you remember in the past, when that tabernacle was going to be built Where the temple was going to be built, where craftsmanship was needed. The spirit was poured out that each person would be able to exercise a kind of master craftsmanship. It was the spirit who was the cause and the agent behind this secondary cause of the actual formation of the bronze labor, for example, or uh whatever other pieces of furniture we found within the temple. And that same spirit is here in full measure being given to this king that he might be able to exercise his kingship. in perfection and all that is needed in the task that has been set before him by the Father to be able to accomplish. Here the Spirit is poured out on him so that he's not just making a single piece of furniture He's not just making a single temple even, but he is reordering as a king the temple of the entire cosmos. We've seen that in other parts of Isaiah that we've already looked at. But we can see it here too Because of the language that it's not just uh the furniture or a temple, but the whole cosmos comes out of the language where you notice in verse two it says Not only that the Spirit shall rest upon him, but the Spirit of wisdom and understanding. I'd encourage you in your own time to take a look at that language of wisdom and understanding being coupled together In Proverbs chapter 3, Proverbs chapter 8, Proverbs chapter 24, and you can find it in several other places. It is always the picture of someone who will exercise a complete master craftsmanship over an entire estate or household, or in this case, over the household of the human race and of the earth. It's really a picture of what will happen in Psalm 8, when Jesus is given all authority in heaven and earth to order all of life on earth. And he does so by the power of the spirit of wisdom and understanding, by the power of the spirit of counsel and might, and the spirit of the knowledge and the fear of the Lord. That's the first thing we see about our saddling. That king. But Isaiah's poem doesn't stop there. He then moves into what will it look like for this king full of the Spirit to exercise his kingship? And this is This is our next thing that we need to notice in verses 3 through 5 is that there's a continuation of the description of this king and of this Savior. It says here, his delight is in the fear of the Lord. The word delight here is actually talks about smelling. He savors He picks up on a sense of anything that is good, that is the will of the Father. That's the kind of king that he is. He's so attuned and attentive to what the father wants that that has become his sole occupation. And then look at how it's described as he goes on. This king savors the fear of the Lord, which is often another way to talk about the commands of God and about God and his character and about his order. And then you see how this plays out. He doesn't just judge by the sight of his eyes. He doesn't do what's right in his own eyes. He doesn't just judge by the sight of his ears. He goes below the surface. Like that time when Solomon was able to, when he said, Well, let's just cut the baby in half, and then the the real mother showed herself That kind of wisdom that the Spirit gave Solomon is in full measure in this cage where he's able to judge beyond just mere appearances. And he puts his judgment, verse 4, into place in exercise for the poor, often those who are overlooked in terms of justice. The Savior, in other words, will judge perfectly. Now, if you had to, if you had to, if you had to represent this in terms of showing the kind of righteousness that he will bring to the world, The way in which he will judge matters, the way in which he will decree and proclaim and make things happen. If you had to do that in terms of clothing. You can see that at the end of this section of the poem in verse five, then you would have to symbolize it. Every action for the poor, every action for the rich, every action for the ordering of all societies on earth, then righteousness, verse five And faithfulness would be the belt that holds the entire outfit together. Everything that he does, all that he is closed with, and everywhere that he is manifest and appears. It is righteousness and his faithfulness. That's the kind of thing that you have on your hands. And that brings us into this next section. You can see the progression. The sapling is coming up, though the tree looked like it was dead. It's not. The Davidic dynasty will continue as promised even to Abraham and his seed. And here is the seed, full of the Spirit, who savors and delights in righteousness, and will enact that in all human societies. And then when we get to verse number six, we begin to see In symbolic fashion, what the whole earth is going to look like. How the order will come to be. What will the results look like of this king? I don't mean to repeat all of the lines. I read all the lines about the animals. But I will bring to your attention that the list of animals that we received beginning in verse 6. And then in verse seven, that they that those lists end both times with little children. A little child shall lead them. The nursing child shall play by the coversole, and the weaned child shall put his hand in the viper's den. This is the kind of world that he will create. The Savior, the King, in other words, will reorder all things in such a way that humanity will be resituated in their proper place of dominion to where even a child Could tame what today is by definition untamable. All will become what was always meant to be under this king. Now we've gone all the way up through nine. And but it ends with verse number 10, this poem does you can see that there is a book end here. Notice in the beginning in 11 chapter verse 1. the stem of Jesse, and then we get to verse 10, the root of Jesse. We have a kind of book ends here showing you the beginning and the end of the poem. And then everything in between has to do with the king. Verse 10 ends our poem, and Isaiah returns to the initial image of the root stock of Jesse, emphasizing that everything written here is about the new king and the promises of the Davidic royal line. But what may be surprising, surely was surprising when this was first revealed, is that it is not just a revelation for the nation of Israel. Verse 10 extends the kingship of this king to the whole world. He will stand as a banner to the people, even the Gentiles Shall seek him, and his resting place shall be glorious. Well, there is a picture of the king. Isaiah has received a vision. I wonder if just in this description I never actually used his name. I wonder if he recognized him, nevertheless. It is Jesus, who you know personally. Now, before I wrap all this up into a single sentence for especially the kids to write down, Let's just go over a brief summary of what we've seen in these Isaiah passages. Let's gather up the counsels which Isaiah heard in the chambers of heaven. In chapter 9, Isaiah revealed that a child will be born, and this child is the Son of God incarnate, whom the Father gives as a gift to the world. Then in Isaiah 49, the son embraces his calling, giving us an autobiography of how the father pulls him out of his quiver and shoots him like an arrow into the world to accomplish his purposes. And finally, here, Isaiah adds that the Father will make this God-man king of both heaven and earth, king of Jew and Gentile. And the most prominent feature that we see here within this poem is that this king will be a king of judgment. The results of his judgment are, in fact, the restoration of the earth. And that brings us to a main statement that we have this morning, or a main teaching. And it is this: the Father establishes the Son. As the king of heaven and earth, in order to renew the world in love. What we have just done in this doctrine, sometimes we can view doctrine as just uh dry. You would call it a proposition and make fun of me for giving a proposition this morning. But what we're summarizing here are the very revelations of God Himself to humanity and what his eternal plans are. The Father establishes the Son as the King of heaven and earth in order to renew the world to love. Now, I'd like to develop this under two main points. Christmas as judgment That sounds exciting. And judgment as love. Christmas as Judgment and Judgment as Love. I'm on the verge of it seeming like Die Hard is a Christmas movie with that title. Christmas as Judgment and Judgment as Love. To speak about the Father sending us a king, I wonder if that's news to you during the Christmas time. During Christmas time. I'm imagining that it's not, that one major feature of the Christmas stories, especially when you read in Luke, is that there is a king who has come. Think for example of the wise men. Behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem saying, Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east and have come to worship him. Now that's Matthew 2, 1 through 2 The idea of kingship and Christmas go together. Think of those gifts that were given to him. We often at this time see crowns. And yet we often miss that judgment and this king standing in judgment on this world is likewise also a Christmas theme. In the exact same Christmas stories. Listen to Mary, for example, as she visits Elizabeth. Speaking of the Lord, he has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts He has put down the mighty from their thrones and exalted the lowly. Doesn't that sound very similar to the poem from Isaiah and what he the kind of what he's getting at there? Here she is on the brink of Christmas, and she has this come off of her lips. Not only his kingship, but his judgment as king. Or again, if you were to go to Luke chapter 2, verse 34, Simeon's prophecy. Then Simeon blessed them and said to Mary, his mother, Behold, this child is destined for the fall and rise of many in Israel. This small child will actually be likened just a bit later as a sword Seeing judgment as a theme of Christmas ends up giving us a good opportunity to understand judgment as Christians Putting them both next to each other during the season can help us to make sure that we're more accurate. In fact, let me just ask you a question When you hear about the judgment of the King or of the Christ or of Jesus Christ, what does come to mind? If we played a game and I brought a whiteboard up here and then I gave you some markers and said, draw the judgment of Christ. What would you put up there? I'm not sure of what your answer would be, but at least when I was coming up in Christianity, which was later in my life, I joined in the a long history of a certain picture that has been given to America. It would be God the Father as the judge. Sitting in his judge seat in a courtroom with a gabble, and I'm over in the seat where I'm being convicted of something. And then Satan shows up in a devil costume, and he is going to prosecute me, showing me that I am evil. But then, right before the gavel hits, Jesus steps out, wearing his crown of thorns, and he says, Whatever he has done, put it on me Whatever he deserves, place that dessert on me. The court scene has been played out on many stages in the church, literally And although it is containing some truth, I just want to ask you the question as you look at the poem here within Isaiah: is that play a depiction of what we are discovering? That the painting of the divine plan shows. Is Jesus stopping the wrathful Father? What's going on here? Where is Jesus even located within this? Is he just the Kind of moping lamb entering into the courtroom, ready to throw his own life. In place of yours? Well, like I said, it does contain some truth if we were to get into the priesthood of Jesus Christ, for example. And surely in this Isaiah passage, wouldn't we all admit there's a kind of judicial setting But it's not exactly held in a modern courtroom. It looks a bit different than that. In fact If you were to look at this and start connecting it with the larger picture, it is a larger picture of a king who arrives in a town which we would call the world, which is being destroyed by rebels and troublemakers. Is being destroyed and overrun by disease and evil. Those who were the mightiest took control, but they were not the most righteous. They were just stronger than everybody else. They had more guns and they had more bombs. These troublemakers have become the leaders of the town because of their power. They are members of the Senate. One has become the president of the town, they own the businesses, they determine what events the library will hold They shape and they form the school's curriculums and they make laws to support all of their schemes so that everything that they do is considered by definition lawful. This is how they've structured all of society. But we know that they were never meant to rule and they were never meant to order the town that way. Anyone can recognize that just kind of natively. You look at something and you're like, that's not the way it's supposed to be. And it gets worse than that because you get in pinch points where you can feel that they're taking more money than they should from you, that they're doing things to your children and leading your children in ways that they should not be led. That they're affecting your family to where you begin to lose hope. It was never meant to be this way. But then finally, the great king arrives. According to Isaiah, he does not fall for their deceptions He has the power to enforce his own order, it doesn't matter what power they think they might have. And he is dressed in righteousness and faithfulness, and he is committed, so committed to the fear of the Lord that nothing will sway him. Away from the righteous path. He removes injustice from the town by banishing the unjust. And once the evil is washed from the town, he restores it so that they all may flourish. That is the picture of judgment. It's not just a matter of uh a kind of hearing that you would have momentarily that takes an hour and then you hear some kind of statement about your status, not just that. Judgment, you can even see it in the poem, is about what the king will do to finally put away all of the tears from the human race. Especially from those who cry the most, because of the cruelty that is resident within the heart of mankind. When we look at the prophecies of the birth of Messiah, when we look at the Christmas accounts in the Gospels, that is the picture of Christmas hope which everyone is celebrating. Sometimes it seems like as Christians we're embarrassed to celebrate the judgment. But here, when we get the opportunity to take this poem. Locate it within our time of Christmas festivities, and to be attentive enough to notice that the poem is talking about judgment. We can see that the judgment of Christ is one of the main reasons of our festivities. That the troublemakers and the evildoers will finally be removed from the town. So that life can go on the way that God and the King have always intended for life to be Surely there are elements of truth in the courtroom seen, but isn't it too narrow when we begin to see the full scope of what God is trying to communicate when He speaks about judgment? In fact, I bet you if you visited that town after that would happen and they understood exactly the meaning of Christmas, I bet you you would hear them say, Merry Christmas. The promised king has arrived. He has removed evil. He has restored our world. Well, that's the judgment of Christmas. It wasn't that bad, right? It's actually good news. But I hope that helps you to see judgment more accurately and the hope that we have in it. You can see now how we would begin to make sense of Peter when he says to us, we've got to be patient. The reason why the judgment has not happened is because Christ is still gathering in his mercy folks to himself Now, back up for a second and say, well, why would I have to be patient? You'd have to be patient in the most fundamental sense because you're longing for this judgment to happen. You want the evil and the pain to stop. Do you see how all these things start to come together when we begin to see the full picture? Judgment is truly the judgment of Christmas, and it makes our Christmas merry. Now that's the judgment of Christmas, but there's also the judgment as love. This is our second main development. King Jesus is not just removing evil And then heading out so that evil may be restored. He does not just wipe the slate, he also builds. And when he builds, it is a restoration of our world. And a way that you may summarize this is that he restores all things to love. Now, love is a popular word these days. I see it all over the place. It's in many different Christmas cards. No matter what walk of life you are in, you are using the word love to describe your actions. And this is especially true during Christmas. I wonder if you've taken the time to figure out what do people mean when they use the word love? What exactly are they getting at? And here's the main question for you this morning, and I think it just becomes super clear when you put it this way. What is the way that the king, the promised sapling, full of the Spirit? Delighting in the fear of the Lord, how does he understand the word love? And is it the same or is it different than the way you use it and other people in our culture use it? Because in the end, guess who truly knows what love is? It is the king. That has been shown over and over again just by the details of the passage, him being full of the Spirit is a great evidence that he knows love. Now I want you to imagine that town again. I want you to imagine that those same evil rulers, the Senate, the Library Committee, the President, the the school board, all of them, in order to be able to shape and form their society and their own image. I want you to imagine that they're really trying to hold on the way that the world should go. Let me ask you what would they do As a kind of defense and a way to be able to keep going. I want you to imagine that one way that they would keep deceiving the town members and perpetuating their evil was to take all of their actions and no matter what they did, all of their plans and all of their ideas, all of their philosophies and all of the published books All of the seminars and the conferences that they hold, they would put everything under the category of love. And I just want to ask you, be so we don't have to get into some complicated conversation about about uh culture. And philosophy and that kind of stuff, we can boil it down here when we start to look at judgment as love, connecting it to the judgment of Christmas. Let me just ask you, what do you think the key the king will say when he arrives? Because, if you look at our passage, it says, and with the breath of his lips he will slay the wicked. What that means by way of inference is that nothing Else will matter except for what he thinks and what he says. That's it. What he thinks and what he says is the only thing that will stand. If anything contradicts what he thinks or what he says, it shall be removed. Isaiah tells us that he will not judge by the sight of his eyes. He will not judge by what he hears in his ears. You will say, or people will say, but this is love. Look at what we're doing at the local library. This is love. And he'll say, I don't judge the matter just by what you're saying to me in my ears. I see below the surface. I know the reality of things. And how will he judge this matter? How will the king determine if something really is love? Now let me ask you that really. Just I I want us to take one more step here in the depth of what we're dealing with with this particular king. Who is God having taken upon himself human nature? It's good for us to have to wrestle with him like Jacob Let me ask you, in all seriousness, how will the king the king, this particular king, how will he determine if something is love? To answer this, I want you to imagine a very old piece of artwork. Very old carving, actually. It's from the ancient Near East. This carving is found on the top of a monument called the Walls of Hammurabi. Has anyone heard of the Walls of Hammurabi? Yes? Those of you who love the Discovery Channel, you've probably seen this. This steel of Hammurabi is a, imagine with me, a seven foot tall piece of basalt. Looks as black as Onyx. That was inscribed. If you were to look at it closely with a magnifying glass, it was inscribed with the code of the Babylonian king Hemerabi. And it is presented to his people to always see. There's all these different laws on there. Now if you were to all of us are kind of short, but if we were to get on a stepladder and look at the top, We would see that on the top of this seven-foot tall black monument is a carving of a god. Like this, touching his mouth, and then over sitting in the throne is the king of the land holding his mitre. And what the God is doing is, he is bringing the words to the king that the king may take what has been decreed among the gods in the heavens. And bring the divine order into its place in human society on earth. And that's what the laws memorialize and represent: one who is authorized to do so. The main point ends up being that King Hammurabi had been authorized to implement the divine order on earth just as it was decreed in heaven. And of course, you can hear that I'm describing that monument in a way which is familiar to us as Christians and actually starts to capture the Lord's Prayer. But this is what answers the question. This is how this is us taking another step, again going to the back of a wardrobe, like we talked about before, just to see what's going on here. Is we do not have a king. who is just willy-nilly and impulsively putting into place arbitrary commands that he thinks should be done. He's not just entering into with you into an arbitrary social contract, and you say, Well, where do you get the laws of this contract? And he says, I don't know, I just made these up and you can't do anything about it because I'm powerful. That's not what's going on here When we step through the back of the wardrobe, we're seeing that this king is bringing about on earth what has been decreed and designed and planned and decided in the councils of heaven itself. Which score correspond with how God has created all things and how He continues to maintain it in His providence. The king would evaluate the town, to be more full in our answer, to stay with our hypothetical scenario. The king would evaluate the town by way of what he knows of God's decrees. And the intent and the plan for his creation. And knowing now who this king is, who is better suited to know the decrees and the counsels and the plans of God the Father than God the Son? And who is more equipped to carry them out than the one who has taken upon himself human flesh and is full of the spirit of wisdom and understanding? Now, how is it this law that is in accordance with the character of our God and in accordance with his eternal decrees on how he would create and and maintain his creation? What does how does he summarize those laws? He says that they are love. He says that we are existing in the order of harmony when we exist in love. But it is not the love that is defined by just any human imagination. It is a love that has been defined from eternity according to the character of God and the decrees and counsels of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit of His. Wishes and good pleasure for this creation. And it is this king who knows how to carry these things out. It is love defined by the eternal decrees of God Himself. Now that we just stepped outside of the wardrobe for a second. That's how deep it gets that quickly. But that is the judgment as love. Let me just ask you. I'm starting to see some faces that are showing back up from college break. Some of you are starting to look relaxed. I've never seen you relax before. It must mean you're off work, which is nice. And we're all off work and we're all back from school for some reason. We all have a little bit of joy in our heart, and we're already starting to hear Brad talk about brisket on the grill for 16 hours. Something's happening around here. We're all looking forward to the special food tomorrow, but let me ask you, why in the world are you celebrating? Why are you celebrating Christmas? What will be the reason for all of your festivities? What is the basis for spending the money that you have on your special food? Now I'm sure that there are a lot of answers to that. But we better make sure that we are celebrating the promise that our King will in fact judge this world. And he will not only remove the evil, he will establish us all in love. A love in line with the character and the creative intentions of God Himself. Why are you celebrating Christmas tomorrow morning? Because the Father has established the Son, Jesus Christ, as the King of heaven And the King of earth. And Jesus Christ is renewing this world in love. Amen. Let us pray.