Pleasure to welcome you to worship here at Seven Run Evangelical Presbyterian Church. I see some faces that I haven't seen before. Welcome. My name is Bradley Schwastik. I'm a ruling elder here. We are in the midst, well, at the tail end, of our Advent recognition here. And in so doing, we have used the tradition of the Advent candles. You'll notice that these candles are not constituting a part of worship. This is simply a way of helping us remember what it is that Christ has accomplished And so in using these candles we remember that Christ is our hope. We have remembered that Christ is our peace. We rejoice because Christ is our joy. And this morning, before I light the candle of love, I'd like to read a very well-known passage, so well known that most of us probably have it memorized. But it's never a problem to repeat the truth of God's word. For God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved We celebrate the love of God that is shown to us in Christ Jesus, and we remember that this love has come into the world not to destroy it, but to save it. And we praise him for he has saved us in Christ. Please remain seating as the choir helps us begin our worship service. Hail meater Down from the reason, the glory Shirt over ship the baby. Right and then No, no, no, dart, and let us try So I wear it demeris. Cold on his face, all the two signings. No I display with the Angel Adore him is longer refining They shall be divorced Orders of Gentle mountain and girl of the ocean Mur from the forest and go from the mind. Baby we all eat time for nation. Maybe we go with his favor. Rature my power is a horse and donation. Long is being humble contration There we see his department consolation. And now we'll begin our service proper with a prayer of invocation, begging the Holy Spirit to be here in our worship. Please pray with me. Most awesome God, Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, we know that we can do no good apart from you. We cannot even do the good of this worship service if not for your sovereign hand guiding us and empowering us. And so here now we pray, O Holy Ghost. Holy Spirit, fill us this morning. Fill us and in enable us to set aside all the parts of our life that could distract us this morning. All of our desires and wants and fears and all of our anxieties and worries. By your power may we set them aside. May they be gone from our minds and made the cloud and fog of the world around us. Be sent away from our hearts. May we focus on you, Lord. In your word, may we hear your voice. In the songs, may we truly engage ourselves in that communal prayer. And in the prayers that are offered for your people on behalf of your saints, Father, help us to engage in them. that we would truly take the prayers of our elders and make them our own. Lord, this is a a mystical and a mysterious thing that is happening this morning. People made of flesh. will be joined together with spiritual beings, with angels, with creatures of unimaginable strength, and together we will declare your glory. We will sing your praises. Father, this is a universal truth here on your day. The cosmos worship you, and we are gathered here to worship you as well. Please, Lord, enable this worship that it would be pleasing to you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I hope everyone has a bulletin. Please, if you don't mind, stand with me as I call us to worship from Psalm 118. Verses twenty-one through twenty-nine. We stand because of our reverence and our respect for our God whose word this is. Psalm 118, 21 through 29. I will praise you, for you have answered me, and have become my salvation. The stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. This was the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes This is the day the Lord has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. Save now, I pray, O Lord. O Lord, I pray, send now prosperity. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. We have blessed you from the house of the Lord. God is the Lord, and He has given us light. Bind the sacrifice with cords to the horns of the altar. You are my God, and I will praise you. You are my God, and I will exalt you. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. for his mercy endures forever. Let us respond to the everlasting mercy of our great God and Lord by singing together, Come thou long-expected Jesus. Come thou long expect me for to set thy evil free From our fears and says release us by Israel train and consolation home beer thou art Joy of every morning heart Joy to those who long to see the taste of high up here Come, thou promest rock yes, of thy birth belong to thee Or not creation singing new deciding Go to him your brain from the Lord has come to work Come to take our sad destiny whose glory By bring the glad our reverse friend We wish as with the number born with me the gas Everlessing wonder price for the born of For thy before through the labor, for not all For to reign in us forever. Now my racious king comes rain I don't need turno be By thine law submission, battery to thy glory. God be praised. If you're able, please remain standing as we read our confessing Christ passage from Malachi chapter four. For behold, the day is coming, burning like an oven, and all the proud, yes, all who do wickedly, will be stubble And the day which is coming shall burn them up, says the Lord of hosts, that will leave them neither root nor branch. But to you who fear my name, the Son of righteousness shall arise with healing in his wings, and you shall go out and grow fat like saw-fed calves. You shall trample the wicked, for they shall be ashes under the soles of your feet on the day that I do this, says the Lord of hosts. Remember the law of Moses, my servant, which I commanded him in Horeb for all Israel With the statutes and judgments, behold, I will send you Elijah, the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. And he will turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers, lest I come and strike the earth with a curse. Please pray with me. Lord, you have said many things to your people throughout the ages. This was the last thing that you said before the new covenant dawned. There are parts in here that are hard for us, Lord, hard to hear. And yet, Lord, we do need to hear them. We do need to hear that you will trample the wicked. We do need to hear that your victory will be extended to your people, and that we will conquer our enemies. Lord, we need to hear that our hearts are not near you, and that we need our hearts to be turned. Unto you and to the faith of our fathers. We ask, Lord, that at this time of our worship service, this time set aside for confessing our sin, turning from our sin, and turning to you. That it would please you by your Spirit to show us in our hearts and minds how we have failed you. Use your servant, our elder, to guide us in this confession of sin. And Father, as we confess, May we do so still with hope for what you have told us in this passage we've read. The Son of righteousness shall arise. There is healing in his wings. Lord, may we experience that healing now by your grace and mercy. We pray in Jesus' name. Good morning, brothers and sisters. At this time, uh as our brother Bradley mentioned, that we are In a season right now to where we are going to consider where our hearts truly lie in areas of sin, so that we may properly confess and repent and turn. It is likely it is likely that each one of us uses this device that's in our pocket, a cell phone. It's also likely that it eventually does not work quite the way we expect it to. What do we do when it acts up? Well We do what IT tells us to do. We power it down and we power it back up. It's like a reset. This morning, consider the subject of our affections, those things we love, and consider them in terms of where it is that our hearts are being guided. Because our hearts tend to guide us down pathways that we and God do not desire. James Chapter 4, verse 14 guides us rightly into a reset. You do not know what will happen tomorrow. For what is your life? It is even a vapor that appears for a little time and then vanishes away. Is that not a reset? The true reason for our existence is to what? Glorify God and enjoy Him forever. The fullest expression of this is to love Him. And to love those who He places around us, our neighbor. However, we choose to live for a thousand other things. We can build our lives around entertainment, not being disturbed in our quiet place. Or fame, fortune, or anything else that drives us down this pathway of choice. We need, brothers and sisters, to repent of the fact that we are bored or downright hateful of the true ends of our existence For we are here to glorify God and enjoy Him forever. Keeping God's law, remembering Him, depending on Him. These are the features of a powerful and content life. We must, brothers and sisters, repent of trying to achieve our peace and prosperity by any means other than by his name, and his name alone Now, brothers and sisters, we have the privilege of being able to go before our very God in prayer of confession and repentance. Join me, brothers, as we bow brothers and sisters, as we bow our heads and do just that. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, our love for peace and prosperity is often elevated and worshipped above our love for you. We suppress our love for you and neighbor by keeping busy and not properly resting. We choose to live for countless other things rather than for your purposes and precepts. We strive for entertainment formed by the darkness. What fleshly desire Are we serving when we align with the darkness? Lord, we are without excuse as we as you have commanded. That our new affections are not to abide with that of the world which is darkness, but our future heavenly kingdom and the light. Lord, forgive us. Forgive us for our religious affections being for personal peace and prosperity rather than affections for you and neighbor. We are often so frustrated with ourselves in that we wrestle and fight against the flesh. We pray, Lord, that you would, through your Spirit, bind us to submit to your will and strengthen us to turn from our trying to achieve our peace and prosperity by means of Other than your means. Brothers and sisters, turn now in the silence of your own hearts and confess how We, how you, have transgressed the Lord's will and seeked out ways to find peace and prosperity by your own standard and not his. You have taught us to be anxious for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving. And to let our requests be made known to you. And your peace, which surpasses all understanding, will guard our hearts and minds through you, Christ Jesus. Amen. Lift your eyes, brothers and sisters. As you hear this assurance of pardon These words of blessing from Micah 7, 18 through 20. Who is a God like you? Pardoning iniquity and passing over the transgression of the remnant of his heritage. He does not retain his anger forever, because he delights in mercy. He will again have compassion on us, praise God, and will subdue our iniquities. You will cast all our sins into the depths of the sea. You will give truth to Jacob and mercy to Abraham. Which you have sworn to our fathers from days of old. Praise be to God. Let us rejoice and praise him in thanksgiving with this next hymn. What child is this? Please. Firing first. What I will make to rest on every time it's me. It's day to bring him on the big glass of me. Why such me as it were and pass for me? For me, for you. So bringing gold and bursting to him. Joy joy for rise in cool. Born indeed. Let us continue to worship our Heavenly Father as the usher brings forth our tithes and offerings, and we sing the doxology, the words of praise. For a God from all Praise him all creatures giving the low, praise him all the host. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, this portion of our worship of you is expressed in the faith and trust that Our generosity is a gift from you. If you have placed within us your spirit, we rightly know That these tithes and offerings were never ours to begin with, but yours. Heavenly Father, use them and multiply them For the building up of your kingdom here on earth till you return. For it is in Christ's name that we pray. Amen. Glory me to the father and to last and to the Thank you. You may be seated. Thank you, she wants to have beard. We have a very special time. this morning in this worship service. I'll ask the officers of our church to please come down. Those of you who are taking your children to uh the nursery, that's perfectly acceptable, but you may want to keep them here so that they can witness what's about to happen. It's a very special, special moment. So I'll have the elders and the deacons please come down up front and I'll ask the Russell family to please join us. Today is a very special day of rejoicing for our church, several none, for our Almighty God has heard and answered our prayers in giving saving faith to one of our covenant children. I encourage each of you to remember your own journey to faith and the great significance that your public profession had on your own life. Remember this as you bear witness To this young man Jacob's confession of our Lord. And children, I want you to pay special attention, for this is our prayer, that each and every one of you Will by God's good pleasure and in his timing be led to believe in him with all your heart and to confess him as your God and Savior, as Jacob is doing this morning. As one baptized in infancy and a member of the Church of God by birthright, as an heir of the covenant promises, the session has examined and approved Jacob Earl Russell. who comes now to assume for himself the full privileges and responsibilities of his inheritance and the household of faith. Jacob, you are here to make a prof public profession of your faith I will ask you to give your assent to the five declarations and promises by which you enter into a solemn covenant with God and with his church. You can answer each of these questions with, by God's grace, I do. And be sure to speak up. This is a public profession, so that means it has to be heard. You ready? Jacob Earl Russell, do you acknowledge yourself to be a sinner in the sight of God, justly deserving his displeasure and without hope save in his sovereign mercy? Do you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ as the Son of God and Savior of sinners? And do you receive and rest upon Him alone for salvation as He is offered in the Gospel? Do you now resolve and promise, in humble reliance upon the grace of the Holy Spirit, that you will endeavor to live as becomes the followers of Christ? Do you promise to support the Church in its worship and work to the best of your ability? By God's grace on you And do you submit yourself to the government and discipline of the church and promise to study its purity and peace? This is a marvelous and a miraculous thing that God has done. Brother Maccus, would you mind praying for our brother Jacob here? Our Lord God, we uh we praise your holy name for the sincere and true faith that you have given Jacob here. It was a pleasure to listen to his testimony. to see how you are working in his life. I pray, Father, that your spirit will continue to build him up in the fear and admonition I thank you, Lord, that you have given him an evangelist heart, a warning, a desire to share you with others. I pray that we we will, as a church, fan this flame, Lord, that he may continue to grow in grace and knowledge of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Holy Spirit. And I thank you, Lord, for his parents and setting an example and training him and bringing him up in the Lord. May you protect him and glorify glorify your son through his life all of his days. We ask this in Jesus' name. We rejoice and we welcome you as a brother in Christ. Glad you're here At the end of the service, I know that there's lots of sniffles going around, but please feel free to welcome Jacob. as your brother in the Lord. And uh it should be noted that even though we're forced not to have communion this morning, we wanted to make sure that he could take his vows so that when he's away with his family, he is admitted to the sealing ordinance of the Lord's Supper. and is free to partake in it as one for whom Christ has died. Thank you. Go ahead and take your seats. I do want to call a simple audible for us this morning since we don't have the Lord's Supper. And uh as the Russells rejoined their place, I would ask if all of you would stand and together we're going to sing praise to our God by singing song number three, that was going to be our invitation to the table, but since the table is not set this morning, we'll go ahead and sing praise instead. Song number three, lovely child, holy child. Please praise God with me. Love beach God, beach God, Jess Hombie. In the risk, it's well brilliant and unseen. Charlotte or two night are being like Jesus may the word be out of To his joy, our rejoice, we employ him Charles over now declaring everywhere All Luluya, Are we If you're able, please remain standing and open up your copies of God's Word. Our passage for study and reflection this morning comes from Luke chapter 1. We're continuing on in the The narrative of our Lord's birth Luke chapter one I'll be reading verses fifty seven through eighty Now Elizabeth's full time came for her to be delivered, and she brought forth a son. When her neighbors and relatives heard how the Lord had shown great mercy to her, they rejoiced with her And so it was on the eighth day that they came to circumcise the child, and they would have called him by the name of his father, Zacharias. His mother answered and said, No, he shall be called John But they said to her, There is no one among your relatives who is called by this name. So they made signs to his father what he would have him called And he asked for a writing tablet and wrote, saying, His name is John. So they all marveled. Immediately his mouth was opened and his tongue loosed, and he spoke, praising God. Then fear came on all who dwelt around them, and all these sayings were discussed throughout all the hill country of Judea. And all those who heard them kept them in their hearts, saying, What kind of child will this be? And the hand of the Lord was with him. Now his father, Zacharias, was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying Blessed is the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people, and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. And he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets, who have been since the world began, that we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us. to perform the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant, the oath which he swore to our father Abraham, to grant us that we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies, might serve him without fear in holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our life. And you, child, will be called the prophet of the highest For you will go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways, to give knowledge of salvation to his people, by the remission of their sins. Through the tender mercy of our God, with which the dayspring from on high has visited us, to give light to those who sit in darkness and the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace. So the child grew and became strong in spirit and was in the deserts till the day of his manifestation to Israel. Please pray with me. Our great God in heaven, Father, you have given us this word that we would know your truth. Your word teaches us what we are to believe concerning you and what duty you require of us. We pray that you will show us that this morning. Show us what this passage has for us. We know that our hearts are stubborn and that our minds are slow. And so, Father, we beg you. That you will open our eyes that we may see you clearly this morning. That you will open our ears that we will hear your word and that which your Spirit has intended for us to know. Father, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight. O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. Brother Mark has already mentioned to us something that I believe is very prominent in this passage. He's mentioned expectations. And with each passing year, I am more and more convinced that human beings are creatures of expectation. What that means is that we are constantly looking forward to something's probable occurrence. In other words, we recognize how things typically go, and we expect that it will happen that way in the future. This expectation is usually based on past experience because every single thing has a track record For example, and this is what our elder Mark already brought to our attention. For example, my phone's track record is pretty good. Whenever I put an address into the GPS application, it tells me how to get where I'm trying to go. And when it doesn't work, there's usually a response. And usually that response is an emotional one. Sometimes it's anger. Sometimes it's panic. I have an expectation that my phone will work as it has many, many times in the past. And sometimes we do the same with people and institutions. We have a certain expectation. of those well-dressed, well paid people who have fancy hairdo's and sit in front of cameras and tell us what's happening in the world. We expect that they will tell us the news, unbiased and true. And that's why we have such an emotional response when we find out that that is not what is going on. After these Five or six years, perhaps a new expectation has been set, which is the result of a new track record of their behavior Or if you're a parent, this will be very apparent to you. How many times do you have to remind your child over and over and over and over? the very same thing. Why do we do this? It's because there's a track record that has set an expectation for us. And we expect that those shoes will never, ever, by themselves, end up where they belong. We know what it's like to have expectations which are based on track records, expectations which are based on our past experience. Well, our passage this morning, as I've already said, is full of expectation. Think about it. For 400 years, for four centuries, God had not sent a prophet to his people The previous prophets spoke with great expectation. They spoke of one who would come to judge God's enemies and to save his people. One who would sit on the throne of David and rule as the king of all the peoples of the earth. The very last bit of prophecy that the people had received is what we read earlier in the service, Malachi chapter 4, and talk about expectation. A prophet would come before the great and dreadful day of the Lord. The people were on the lookout for that prophet. They were expecting him. And yet, in four centuries. Not a single prophet had come. And here we arrive at our passage, as if out of nowhere. And this is to remind you of what we have already seen earlier in chapter one, a priest. Exercising his duty and his service in the temple of Yahweh is struck mute. He'd been told by an angel that in his old age he and his wife, who was barren, would have a child A child was definitely not what they were expecting. And the way that they respond to this unexpected news should serve as a powerful lesson to us. About what we should be expecting from our God. In this passage before us, in the example of Zacharias and Elizabeth, we learn that Christians must trust in the Lord, for he has proven himself true to his word Christians, you must trust in the Lord, for he has proven himself true to his word And we're going to look at this in the two sections that are fairly clear and obvious for us from the Scripture. We have verses 57 through 66, where we will see that God proved his word to Zacharias and Elizabeth. And we'll look at verses 67 to 80, where we see that God proves his word to all of his covenant people. So first let's look at how God proved his word was true to Zacharias and Elizabeth. We're looking at verses 57 through 66 now. A baby boy was promised. That was earlier in chapter 1, verses 13 through 20. And this boy was not only promised to Zacharias and Elizabeth. Not that her barren womb being opened wasn't blessing enough, but based on Gabriel's message in verse 17, this boy Is the promised prophet who marks the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord, as we had already seen in Malachi 4. Here it is recorded for us that the miracle baby boy is delivered. Turn your attention to verse 57. Now Elizabeth's full time came for her to be delivered, and she brought forth a son. Despite all of the challenges that could present themselves in an elderly woman's pregnancy, her time was fulfilled. Her time was full. And it's interesting because the Greek word that's used there for full is the very same word that's used in verse 67 that describes Zacharias being full and filled by the Holy Spirit. You see, when a pregnant woman's time is full, no matter what she might want, that baby's coming out. And the same is true of prophetic utterance. Even if Zacharias had wanted to keep it inside, he could not. But we'll get to him in a minute. So the boy is born, and the word of the Lord given by the angel Gabriel is fulfilled. Look at verse 58. It says, When her neighbors and relatives heard how the Lord had shown great mercy to her They rejoiced with her. If you were to just look at chapter 1, verse 14, you'd see what the angel Gabriel said. And you will have joy and gladness. That's pretty clear. And many will rejoice at his birth. Here we have it: the fulfillment. God's people recognize that when he blesses one in the covenant community, he is blessing all of his covenant community. God's blessing any one of us is cause for rejoicing. And we probably all have in our hearts or in our minds right now that passage from Romans 12: Rejoice with those who rejoice, and weep with those who weep. The baby boy was promised, and that promise was believed. And we're going to see in verses 59 through 63. how this promise was believed. First we see in verses 59 to 61 that Elizabeth proves her faith. She proved that she believed. Look at what it says. So it was on the eighth day that they came to circumcise the child, and they would have called him by the name of his father, Zacharias. His mother answered and said, No, he shall be called John. But they said to her, There is no one among your relatives who is called by this name. If you've ever looked into it, you'll know names are important to the Israelites. Zacharias's name means Yahweh remembers me. Do you know what Elizabeth means? Elizabeth means, my God is my oath. Some very appropriate names for this event, right? The family of Elizabeth and Zacharias expected a family name. They expected a very meaningful name that would come uh from the tribe of the Levite. Zacharias is a Levite, perhaps a really good Levite name, Aaron or Moses or something like that. But Elizabeth is not willing to risk it. Now we can presume that her husband shared with her all which was said by the angel Gabriel. Writing tablets don't just work when the family's trying to get around an unpopular decision. She shows that she believed the Lord by submitting to the angel's message, regardless of anyone's expectations. She doesn't have any other name to give him, even if she wanted to. Even if she wanted to take advantage of that rare occurrence where her husband would not be able to argue at all. Even if she wanted to do that, there was no name that she wanted to give him. Now this would not satisfy the family And that's good. It's a good thing it didn't satisfy the family because it gives Zacharias an opportunity to prove his faith, to prove that he believes what Gabriel had said. Look at verses 62 and 63 with me So they made signs to his father, what he would have him called, and he asked for a writing tablet and wrote, saying, His name is John. So they all marveled. And Zacharias will clarify in his prophecy John, which is from the Greek Yohanes, which is a transliteration of a Hebrew name, Yohanan, which means whom Yahweh has graciously given. Again, another fitting name for this scenario. This boy, this John, this one who was graciously given, is the prophet of the highest. And it is him, it is the highest who has named him. It is God alone who has the right to name this special one. Zacharias doesn't have the right to change the name of this child. This boy is more than just Zacharias's son. And the prophecy that we will see in a minute proves that. So Zacharias and Elizabeth believed, and we see for us clearly in the scriptures the results of their belief in verses 64 and 66. Zacharias is blessed. Look at verse 64. Immediately his mouth was opened and his tongue loosed, and he spoke, praising God. His affliction, muteness, and likely deafness as well. The term there can mean both, and we can assume deafness because of the way that the The Spirit communicates that the relatives had to communicate to Zacharias. They had to make signs in order to communicate with him. That affliction was the result of his unbelief. Verse 20 of chapter 1. And after showing his belief, showing his faith by obeying what he was told, that affliction is immediately removed. What a miraculous blessing for Zacharias. And I want you to note, this is exactly what Gabriel had said. He said, You will be mute and not able to speak until the day these things take place. Zacharias is to be commended. We're told here that after nine months of silence, the first thing that he does with his voice is what? He praises the Lord. If only we were like this, right? Often in my own experience When I'm suffering trouble or trial or affliction, and that affliction or trial or trouble is removed, sometimes very early on in my processing, my thoughts can be a lot like this. Well, why did that have to be so hard in the first place? Instead, we should take the example of the faithful Zacharias. We should be so focused on our God that we do not dwell in the past trial, but rather we embrace the present, the present blessing into which He has delivered us. Well not only is Zacharias blessed, but we'll see in verses sixty five and sixty six that God's covenant people are blessed. They're blessed to bear witness to the mighty working of the Lord God. And they seem to understand this because they have a proper response. to seeing the Almighty working directly in the world. Look at verse sixty five. Then fear came on all who dwelt around them, and all these things were discussed throughout all the hill country of Judea There's a deep reverence and a godly fear that is instilled in those who were present. They cannot keep these events to themselves, nor will they soon forget them, but instead they discuss it. They ponder it. They keep it. They are blessed not only to understand and to have this godly fear. But they are blessed to have their minds made ready to see what more God will do through this extraordinary child. Look at verse sixty six And all those who heard them kept them in their hearts, saying, What kind of child will this be? And the hand of the Lord was with him. God has done something mighty in having a child born to the elderly couple of Zacharias and Elizabeth But who, who then, at that time, could have expected that it would be remembered half a world away and more than 2,000 years later? This is precisely that child's purpose: to bring into God's people a new expectation and a new hope for what's coming next So God has proved his word true in an unmistakable way to Zacharias and Elizabeth. He gave them a child just as he promised in his words through the angel Gabriel. But that's not the end of it. What Gabriel said about this boy should excite us. It certainly excited those who were there. Those who were able to watch the hand of the Lord guiding this young man. This boy was not merely the fulfillment of God's word to one couple. His birth points to so much more than that. And our gracious Lord does not leave us to guess at the significance of this boy. Instead, he speaks explicitly to it. And he shows us that his word is true to all his covenant people. And this is what we'll see in verses 67 through 80. The Holy Spirit speaks, as he has to his people since the beginning, by filling a man with his spirit. and giving him the utterance, the words of Yahweh. Verse 67. Look at it together. Now his father Zacharias was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying, This man who had not spoken for nine months. This until minutes ago mute, Zacharias, is going to deliver to all present and to all of us for whom the Spirit has uh has preserved this scripture the exact way that we're to interpret this boy's birth and his life. He speaks the very words of Jehovah. He speaks prophecy. And it stands the test of prophecy. It in no way contradicts what God has said in his scriptures. And the other test of prophecy also happened. It comes true. So let's look now at this prophecy itself. Let's examine this prophecy. So first, we see that God is thanked and praised for keeping his word. And we're going to see this in 68 through 75. Blessed is the Lord God of Israel. In church history, this prophecy is known as the Benedictus. It's called that. Because Benedictus is the Latin translation of the first word of the prophecy, which is eulogatos, which is the Greek word for blessed. It's a biblical statement. It's a statement of praise and thanksgiving, and this kind of statement has been used many other places in Scripture. For example, Psalm 72, 18 through 19, though it's in Hebrew and not in Greek. It says, Blessed be the Lord God, the God of Israel, who only does wondrous things, and blessed be his glorious name forever, and let the whole earth be filled with his glory. Amen and Amen. The Lord Jehovah is to be blessed. He's to be thanked and praised. Why? Because the one who has been promised The Messiah is come. Look at verses, the second part of verse 68 and verse through verse 71 with me. This one who has come, he is the one. He is the only redeemer of God's elect. It is he who is the manifestation to us of God's loving care. Look what he says in the rest of 68. For he has visited and redeemed his people. Visited could confuse us slightly, because we think visiting, oh I'm just gonna go and hey, hey there, how are you? But visiting instead, in the way that it's used in this particular term in the Greek, is more for showing loving kindness, showing care, showing favor to one who is in need. We see this in the first chapter of the book of James, verse 27, when he is, and James is describing how Christians are to treat widows and orphans. And if you were to look there, it says visit, but we understand what that means. It means that we're to show care and favor to those who are in need. And literally, here, what has been translated redeemed, it's literally, and he has made ransom. He has made redemption for his people. This one who is promised has done it. Now it's interesting. We have to note this. The Messiah is not yet born. That's coming up. Chapter 2. And he has not yet performed the saving work that is the Father's love and favor. Yet this prophecy, the Spirit, speaks of all of this as a done deal. It's more than a mere eventuality, it is a surety. It can be dependent upon absolutely. The birth of the forerunner of the Messiah by this prophecy. Is to be understood as the sure and dependable fulfillment of all that which God has promised to his people. That this prophet has been born Shows that that promise is fulfilled. And what is that promise? The Messiah is here. He has come. John's significance is only in relation to the one that he goes before. He is only special because of this Messiah about whom Zacharias is prophesying. Because of who John is, there is a new expectation. No longer will the people be expecting a prophet. The prophet has come. So who should they be expecting now? They are expecting the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. They are expecting the promised Messiah. We see in verse 69 that this is the mighty one of David's house. This is the one who has promised to David, the long-awaited Savior. It says, and Uh he, God, has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. The word here translated horn is the word keros. It's fr The word from which we get keratin, which is what our fingernails are made of, what horns are made of. And in the history of the world, think about this. Think for yourselves. What creatures have horns? Rams, bulls. Think about a bull moose. Think of the horns on that creature. What do those creatures do with those horns? You ever thought about that? What does a ram do with his horns? He fights. He defends his family. They didn't just use them for fighting each other. They used them to defend their families from predators. Horn is a sign of strength. And that's why it's used here. And it's not a new concept to the Israelites. In 2 Samuel 22 or in Psalm 18, you can find this. The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, the God of my strength, in whom I will trust, my shield and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold and my refuge, my Savior. You save me from violence. I will call upon the Lord who is worthy to be praised. So shall I be saved from my enemies The horn of salvation, the strength and strong salvation, this is the one who John goes before. He is the great and powerful king of all the cosmos. He's the conqueror of God's enemies. He's the conqueror of our enemies. And his salvation is mighty. It cannot be undone. We know that God has made a covenant with David. In 2 Samuel 7, we read of God's promise that one of David's seed would sit on the throne of Israel forever. This one of whom Zacharias is prophesying is that promised seed. But it's no longer a future act. It's no longer God will raise up a horn of salvation. It is an accomplished act. It's done. God has raised him up. He is at this time in the womb of Elizabeth's relative, Mary. He is the one who was promised and foretold from of old. Verse 70, look at it together. As he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets, who have been since the world began. God's word has been pointing his people to his Messiah. Maybe you noticed at the end of our assurance of pardon that Micah says something very similar. He says, which you have sworn to our fathers from days of old. God's promise has been the same promise since the beginning. God's word has always been pointing his people to that promise, to the promise, the Messiah. Right after Adam's fall, there's a promise of a divine redeemer that would come from the seed of the woman. That's in Genesis 3. 15. We call it the Proto-Evangelion, the first gospel. In Genesis 22, when Abraham is on Mount Moriah to sacrifice Isaac, the Lord reminds him of the promise which was given in Genesis 12, that through his seed All the families of the earth, all the nations of the earth will be blessed. I'm sure in this time you may have listened to the Messiah, and so fresh in your mind might be Isaiah chapter nine, verses six through seven. For unto us a child is born. Unto us the Son is given, and the government will be upon his shoulder, and his name will be called Wonderful, Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace Of the increase of his government and peace there will be no end, upon the throne of David, and over his kingdom, to order it and establish it with judgment and justice, from that time forward even forever The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. Zacharias is prophesying now, and he is telling everyone who is there. And to us here and now, that all those prophets were talking about that time. They were all talking about the time Of the birth of this foretold prophet and the birth of the promised Messiah. Isaiah Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, they were all pointing forward to the one who was surely to be given, the horn of salvation of David's house. And all of God's special revelation to mankind centers around this special one. It all centers around the Messiah. And here, Zecharias continues in his prophecy and shows us that that one, that promised Messiah, is our victorious liberator and defender. Verse 71, he says that we should be saved from our enemies, and from the hand of all who hate us The Messiah would not simply arrive and rule God's people like some human ruler or some human king. Rather, he would lead them, lead his people into an eternal victory. We're saved from our enemies. And we're not only saved from our physical enemies, those other humans who hate us and would see us suffer. Rather, we are saved from our true enemies. We're saved from ourselves. We are liberated from the sin of Adam that dominates us We are remade in the image of the true and second Adam, the Lord Jesus Christ, the one who is prophesied about here. We are saved from death and hell, and no matter what happens to us in this life, here and now, our enemies, both physical and spiritual, can no longer inflict any lasting harm upon us. Our end is secure. Our future is sure, and it is made so in the Christ of the Almighty God. This one is the one who has come to do his father's will. Look at verses 72 through 75. He fulfills God's covenant promises. That's what we see in verses 72 and 73. He has come to perform the mercy promised to our fathers. And to remember his holy covenant, the oath which he swore to our father Abraham. The Christ, the Messiah, is the mercy. He is the loving kindness of God, which has always been promised. He is the fulfillment of the covenant of grace, the perfect embodiment of every word of promise that God has ever given to his people. He is the one who empowers and transforms his people that we might fulfill our life's purpose. Look at 74 and 75. To grant us that we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies, might serve him without fear in holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our life. God saves us not so that we can simply sit around being saved. It's not so that we can luxuriously laze about in our salvation. He has saved us to serve him, to worship him, and to live out our chief end. And what is the chief end of man? It is to glorify him and enjoy him forever. And this is only possible because of what Christ has done. It is only possible that this one who is being prophesied as having come That He would deliver us from the fear of death. He delivers us not only from the fear of death, but from the dread of God's judgment. Because through the work of Christ, God has put on us the righteousness which we need in order to have everlasting life. The righteousness that we need in order to be with God forever, to serve and worship and love Him forever. Is accomplished in Jesus Christ. In summary, in this part of the prophecy, Zacharias is prophesying that God has kept his end of the deal. God has kept his end of the covenant. He has done everything that he had promised. His people can trust him The expectation of God's people is that you can trust your God. He does what he says. Well, now in the second part of the prophecy, the Holy Spirit turns Zacharias into speaking about his son. His son who was promised to God's people as the forerunner of the Messiah. Look at verses 76 through 79. We already read Malachi chapter 4. We saw what was said. We are probably familiar with Isaiah 40, and I'll read that in a moment. We see that this one who was prophesied, this prophet who would come, would come and he would prepare the way of the Christ. It says in verse 76, and you, child, will be called the prophet of the highest, for you will go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways. This is exactly what the angel Gabriel said. It's exactly what he said this child would do. And it's completely in line with what we read in Malachi chapter four, and with what it says in Isaiah forty. The voice of one crying in the wilderness Prepare the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill brought low. The crooked places shall be made straight, and the rough places smooth. The glory of the Lord shall be revealed. And all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. If you look at John 1, verse 23 The miracle child identifies himself as the one that Isaiah had prophesied about. And this is what we're to understand from Zacharias's prophecy here. The Holy Spirit, through Zacharias, has told us that this is the prophet who has promised to come, and that means, with his coming, that the day of the Lord is dawned. The Holy Spirit then goes on to further describe exactly what this forerunner, this prophet, will do. Verses 77 through 79, he will prepare his people. It says, to give knowledge of salvation to his people by the remission of their sins, through the tender mercy of our God, with which the dayspring from on high has visited us. To give light to those who sit in darkness and the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace. He will be the beginning of a major paradigm shift for the people of God. Their previous understanding, their previous expectations of what God was doing will need to change. And this is what John will do. He will show God's people that what God requires of them is different than what they'd thought. And this will first happen by John, but then we'll see, it will be taken up and carried through to its conclusion by the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. This prophecy begins to clarify for us the salvation that has always been promised is not political. It's not a civil salvation, as many Israelites had thought. It's not a final liberation from Rome or any other power. It's not the final establishment of a Jewish superpower. as many people had expected. Instead, it's far, far better. What God is doing, the expectation that the people of God can have for what he will do is the remission of sin. It's the forgiveness and the blotting out of our sins. This is the chesed of God, the covenantal loving-kindness. Chesed is often translated mercy. It is the mercy of God, and it's the deepest kind of love that can be shown. All of this is accomplished by a person. And that person is here called the dayspring from on high. That word translated dayspring is literally the word rising And it's used many, many times to describe the rising of the sun. It describes the dawn. And it's likely that Malachi 4. 2 is still in mind Wherein the Messiah is called what? The Son of righteousness. It is He whose dawning and whose rising changes the whole world. It didn't just change Israel, remember It didn't just change the covenant people of God. The birth of Christ, the life of Christ, and the establishment of his church has changed the entire world. Finally, we see that this prophet of the highest, this special boy, this gift of graciousness given. Would lead and guide the people into the way of peace. Like a light in the darkness, he will shine a light showing God's people. The path of reconciliation with God the Father. And the very last thing we have in this passage, as it ends, it ends with the prophet himself being prepared in verse 80. So the child grew and became strong in spirit, and was in the deserts till the day of his manifestation to Israel. It would be decades before this boy would return to the public attention Even then, he would not seek any glory for himself, but only point to the Christ and declare for all to hear, behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. This is he of whom I said, After me comes a man who is preferred before me, for he was before me. I did not know him, but that he should be revealed to Israel, therefore I came baptizing with water Brothers and sisters, if you don't already expect wonderful and mighty things from God, you must change your expectations. You must trust in the Lord, for he has proven himself true to his word. God has sent the proof of his great love for us, his love from on high. The dayspring, he who is the word, the light and the life of men, has come, just as God has always promised. He always has promised that one would come and would save us. As exciting as this must have been for all those present to witness Zacharias's prophecy concerning the Messiah and John How much more exciting must it be for us? We live on this side of the cross. We know everything that has been accomplished by the one who was promised. What then can we expect of our life in this one, in the Christ? Can we allow ourselves to doubt? Can we allow ourselves to despair when our own life's circumstances seem less than ideal, less than pleasant? The very fact that the Messiah has come means that we are delivered from the hand of our enemies. It means that we are enabled that we might serve him without fear, in holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our life. The victory is already won, despite how it may appear to us in our limited perspective. The enemies of God cannot win. Period. They cannot win. And this is hard for us in 2021, moving into 2022, and what we see happening. So I ask you, do you look around at the world right now and think, there's no way to come back from this? Does it seem to you, because of the great wickedness in the world around us, that we have been left, that we've been abandoned to fend for ourselves against this insurmountable evil? That just isn't the reality in which we live. The love from on high has come. God's favor Has come. His blessing and his loving kindness and his mercy has been shown to us. According to this prophecy, we as God's people can know Our salvation. If you are in Christ, your sins are forgiven. They are remitted. They are blotted out. They are pardoned. And all of this is not for anything you have done. But only, as it says in this prophecy, because of the tendercy of our God. Only because of the love from on high Our eyes are opened. The light of God has dawned upon us in Jesus Christ. We no longer dwell in darkness There may be billions of people in the world currently dwelling in darkness, but you, brothers and sisters, saved by God in Jesus Christ, you no longer dwell in darkness You can see through the lives of Satan, who would have you believe that God no longer cares for you. He would have you believe. That the Lord Jesus Christ had left you, left you vulnerable and weak, left you fragile. Left you susceptible to being conquered. But this is not true. We know that through Christ we have been made the dwelling place of the Holy Spirit. So we can now, by the power of the Spirit, resist the temptation to believe that we are worthless. We can resist the temptation to believe that because of our sin, God cannot love us. We can resist because we know that God is true to his word. When he says a child will be born, do you know what you can expect? There's going to be a child born. When God's word says, He who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ, do you know what you can expect? You can expect that it will happen. When the Lord Himself tells us, let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to myself. That where I am, there you may be also. John 14. Do you know what you can expect when you hear those words of Jesus Christ? There is a place for you with God forever because of Jesus Christ. When his word tells us that the Son of God was wounded for your transgressions and that he received the punishment that you deserved, you can believe that God's wrath has been absolutely satisfied. And he no longer counts your sin against you. As far as the East is from the West, that's how far he's removed your sins from you. It's in his word. You can trust it. He has proven himself true to his word. The Lord Jehovah has sent his love from on high. That love is the Lord Jesus Christ who was promised. And he is the one who has saved us from our all of our sin. Whenever you find yourself tempted to doubt God, remember The love from on high has come. The day spring from on high has arisen, just as he promised. Whenever you find yourself tempted to hopelessness, given to expecting God will reject you, because you know how terrible your sin is. Because you know what no one else here knows. You know what you've done in your life and in your mind and in your heart, and you know that there is nothing that should spare you from what you deserve. Yet you can go to God's word. You can be reminded by Romans chapter 5, verse 8. But God demonstrates his own love toward us, and that while we were still sinners. Christ died for us. Whenever you find yourself tempted to despair and depression because you think you're left alone to deal with life all on your own. Would you please remember Jesus' final words in the Gospel of Matthew? For this is a true promise, and the God who proves his word true always has said this. I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Boy, is it good that we set aside a time each year. To remember and be reminded of what we can expect from our God. We can trust in Him. For he has proven himself true to his word in sending to us his only begotten Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. As you gather with your families on Christmas Day, as you remember why there is such a celebration called Christmas. As you celebrate what God has done, remember that the very fact that there is Christmas is proof to you that God is true to His Word And that he loves you. The very fact that Christmas is a thing is proof to you that God loves you. His love from on high has come. I pray that this will be your unchanging and your unending expectation of God. That he loves you, that he's proven his love to you, and that you can trust him because he's true to his word. Please pray with me. God, what can we say? What can we do? That you have done this is marvelous in our eyes. We praise you, that we can celebrate you, that we can focus on you, that we can concentrate with all of our attention and effort and energy. To understanding what you are doing. Lord, you have given us hope. You have given us peace. You've given us joy. And this morning we have seen your love from on high, sent to us, rising with healing in his wings. May we never forget it, especially as we celebrate this most wondrous of holidays. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Brothers and sisters, please rise and join me in praising our God as we sing together our closing hymn, Love Has Come. Love has come online in the joint. Love explodes in the valley sky. The Open has come to proclaim it how that song of joy, right, and love Love born unto you a savior love. Love glory to God on God Love is born comes sharing the wonder. Love is God's own son becomes See the Lord take the form of a servant almost himself and man of hearing love. Love live by your brain for him, God love. Love Ji body van you well love me never believe us Love is life everlasting and free. Love is Jesus obeying his father even unto the cross of the world. Living love, love Christ lived and die through love. Love. Pray to you God. And all God's people say, Amen. Please pray with me as we close our service. Our gracious God, what can we do but fall to our knees, humble and prostrate before you? Weeping because of what you have done. Love has come. God is with us. It has been done. Oh, our good Lord. Thank you. Thank you for this worship. Thank you for this morning. And we ask, Lord, that you will be with those whom we love, those many who have been forced to keep themselves away from our fellowship here. We pray most especially for Pastor Crutchley and his family that you would give them clean bills of health, that he will be able to join us on Christmas Eve. That our celebration would not be hindered by the lack of those we love so dearly. We thank you, God, for bringing us through another year. Bringing us to another celebration of the Advent. We thank you for the many wonderful gifts that we have received and that we will receive. Lord, may every gift we get remind us of the best gift, the true gift, the gift that was promised, the gift of the Messiah, our Lord Jesus Christ. We pray, Lord, for all who will be traveling, that you will bless them with safety. Bless them with boring travels that are uneventful and are simply a matter of getting from point A to point B. As they arrive at their destination and spend time with loved ones, Lord, may you give all of us boldness. To declare our joy, our hope, our peace, our love in you. And Father As we trust your word, because you have proven yourself true to it. We trust your word given to us in 2 Thessalonians 3:16. Now may the Lord of peace himself give you peace always in every way. The Lord be with you all. Amen. You are dismissed. So see you all on Friday.