First Peter chapter one twenty-two through two three. Brad, can you grab my sermon out of the printer? That'd be great. I'd appreciate that. If not, we'll be winging it. This is verses 22 through 2. 3, and I will be reading at a rate of Brad's footsteps to hear Since you have purified your souls in obeying the truth of the Spirit, in sincere love of the brethren, love one another fervently with a pure heart, having been born again not of corruptible seed, but incorruptible through the Word of God which lives and abides forever, because all flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man as the flower of the grass. The grass withers and its flower falls away, but the word of the Lord endures forever. Now this is the word which by the gospel was preached to you. Therefore, laying aside all malice, all deceit, hypocrisy, envy, and all evil speaking. As newborn babes, desire the pure milk of the word that you may grow thereby, if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is gracious. Let's pray Father, we thank you for these words that you have given to us, for all words that you have given to us. And we pray that we would not just be hearers, that we would be doers. And that we would celebrate you, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, for the work in our lives and in the lives of all your people. In Christ's name. Amen. Sometimes people take the Bible as a bunch of words that don't make any sense. You can read a sentence of the scripture. In 2 Peter, towards the end, even Peter says that some of Paul's stuff is exceptionally difficult to understand. And it feels that way sometimes when you're honest. Sometimes it can feel like a mere abstraction. And when I say a mere abstraction, I mean not connected with reality. People often have those thoughts. And yet we know that be that even behind the most abstract sayings of the scriptures, and at the heart of the scriptures we find a real story based in history, and that real story, just like any other real story, is not difficult to grasp. You may have missed it, but ever since the beginning of 1 Peter, we have been hearing that story. It really has been on repeat. As a story, we would expect for there to be characters, and so it would be fruitful for you, even on your own time, to look at the characters that are present in the story that Peter is relating, the historically true, factual story story. We find as characters the Father, we find the Son, we find the Holy Spirit. You can even see in verse 1 of chapter 1 of 1 Peter that all three characters, all three main characters of the story are mentioned. God the Father, the Spirit, and the Son in human nature, Jesus the Christ. God the Father, furthermore, is mentioned in verse 3. You can see his major work here that is mentioned. That's really the story that lies behind the God the Father has, it says, been merciful by making us born again or begotten again, and giving us a hopeful future through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Christ. There are real historic events that he's talking about there of what the God the Father has done, the resurrection of Jesus Christ and the significance of what that means. This being born again cannot be separated from being born again into a family, a further development of what God the Father has done. Abstract statements. Who were once not a people, but are now the people of God who had not obtained you see this mercy. But they now have obtained mercy. We have obtained mercy. Part of what God the Father has done Besides the being begotten again and setting for us a firm future that cannot fade away, an inheritance that is imperishable, we have been not just born, but born into a new family. That's the mercy. When we see that being reborn is not just about an individual experience but a family adoption, we realize that our stories really mimic the Exodus story. And therefore, we not only have God the Father as a main character, but we have the Son, as we saw in 1-1. But later we'll see Jesus Christ as given the title, the Lamb of God. Because Jesus redeemed all of his family from darkness with his precious blood. That was the plan of the Father, that he would send his only begotten Son. And here we see the particulars in verse of chapter one, verse 19, that it was by the precious blood of Jesus, not by the lamb smeared on the lintels of the door. in Exodus, but Jesus. God raised Jesus, chapter 1, verse 21, from the dead, and he gave glory to Jesus to rule his Church. You see all of the stories that are back behind all of it? All of the history that are back behind all of the statements. You can tie it to you can always tie it to a place. The question really is, though, is how? How will God through Christ rule? And the answer, of course, is through his Spirit, and that's why again we see the Spirit being present as a main character. The Spirit is applying and making historical what God decreed and what Jesus accomplished. And this falls within the realm of sanctification. It falls in the realm of, in that sense, in two ways, and I'll talk about this later. There's a definitive sanctified sanctification and a progressive sanctification. We can talk about that later. But don't be fooled by that fancy word sanctification. In the Greek, the word is hagiasmo. And the word is all over the place in 1 Peter, at least the root and different expressions of it. And it means holy or different forms of holy. So for example, you can see the same root in chapter 2, verse 9. If you want to take a look at that with me. with me. But you are a chosen generation, a royal plea priesthood, a holy nation. It's the same thing. Trinity, but in a special way it is the work of the Holy Spirit Himself. That's His name. He has the same root for His name And this introduces a new character. After you have seen the Trinity, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, and the story that they have created, the new creation that they have created, you now see the new creation itself, which is The church. And that's really what 1 Peter is about. It's the work of the Trinity and the establishment of the church. That's what 1 Peter is. The church has been the main focus since chapter 1, verse 13. Because of the work of the Father, because of the work of the Son, and because of the work of the Holy Spirit. In other words, since we have been made the Church, we must therefore live in accordance with this identity. In verse 14, I want to show you how after he shows us Father, Son, and Holy Spirit and His work, take a look at the focus on the church in verse 14. Really starts in 13. But because of all the work the Trinity has done in creating you, the new creation, in other words, the church Verse 14, be obedient children. Verse 14, do not return to your former ignorance. Verse 15, be holy as your God is holy. Now that is a statement across the Old Testament that we Sent to Israel. And so we see once again that Christ has gathered in his people through his spirit, and there is the true church, and they are to be holy as God. Holy, again, mimicking the Exodus event. If you are part of the church, verse 17, then conduct your stay here in fear. Verse 17 is particularly interesting to me because it says if you call on the Father, which is a mark of the church, but then it says who without partiality judges according to each one's work. Gentiles and Acts when they were ushered into the family. Do you see the story behind the words? It's the story of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit beginning his new creation and the establishment of the church. That is what has happened. But let me ask you. You've seen some of the things on the list here. If someone asked you what it means to be a member of God's people, to be a member of the church, what would you say? You can perhaps tell me afterward what your answer would be. If someone asked you what it means to be holy, what would you say? Here's one further question, because all three questions should get the same answer Answer. If someone asked you who you are, what would you say? It's at the core of our identity. Would you give them the answers that I've already given from those verses about being obedient children? Returning to your former lusts, etc. You could, or you could also look at tonight's verses. We see once again the fundament the fundamental marks of God's people in our passage This evening, beginning in verse 22, that we are to show our marks as the people of God in sincere love Of the brethren. We are to love those who are in the church with us. Now I think he divides this up into basically three parts: the entrance and the instrument of the church. Church, the activity of the church, and the development or growth of the church. The entrance and instrument of the church, the activity of the church And the development of the church. So let's look at those three parts as we learn again what it means to be the church in love of the brethren. The entrance and the instrument of the church. Look in verse 22. And we see people entering the church, or he recalls the time when they did in fact enter into the kingdom of God. In verse 22, we see the story picking back up with a main character, the Holy Spirit. Since you have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit, in sincere love of the brethren love one another fervently. You can see the Spirit showing up here again. So the work of the Trinity is continuing. The spirit, Peter says, the verb that he uses is, since you have purified your souls Spirit has been a part of the purification of our souls, he says. And interestingly, you may not have guessed this, but the word here, purify, is hagnizo, again, with the root hagio. or holy. It's the same root. So now we have uh another example of holiness and holy showing up. in this word purify, and of course, because it's associated with the Holy Spirit. This is just another word based off of that root, holy. And thus the Spirit made certain people holy or he purified them And I wonder if he's thinking of that moment when he recognized that the Spirit was being given to the Gentiles in Acts, when Peter had to come to grips with what God has made clean. When the sheet came down and then he had to go to Cornelius' house. I wonder if that's the story behind these formulaic words of theology. But there's not just the entrance into the faith. There is this instrument in verse 22 that the Spirit uses as a means. It says in verse 22 that the Spirit made them holy or purified through their obeying the truth. Now you've got to get the story straight at this point. Let me ask you, is this the story? Is it that some people Obeyed the word of God, and since they obeyed, they became a little more perfect or holy than they were the day before. And every time they went to the Word of God, and then they obeyed the Word of God more, they became holier, and each day they became holier and holier and holier. Is that what's being said here within the passage, that that's how the spirit worked? In other words, were they like a dirty window and the spirit cleaned up part of that window, and then he goes back each day and he cleans up a little bit more of the window, and hopefully one day all the window will be be clean. Is that the story that Peter is giving here in the first part of 22? The answer is no. The word purify is in the perfect tense. It therefore refers to an event that happened and was completed in the past but has lasting effects into the present. So this is the story. The story is Very different. The Holy Spirit worked faith in these people, and they obeyed the message of the apostles by repenting and believing on the Lord Jesus Christ for salvation, and they were granted eternal life. life. One-time act. That's what's being referred to here. In other words, if you know your confession, question 76 talks about repentance unto life. Exactly what's going on here. In fact, the Westminster Confession cites this as a Bible verse for the proof of the repentance onto life, and so too does the Synod of Dort. Repentance unto life is a saving grace wrought in the heart of a sinner by the Spirit and Word of God, whereby out of the sight and sense not only of the danger but also of the filthiness and odiousness of his sins. And upon the apprehension of God's mercy in Christ to such as our penitent, he so grieves for and hates his sin. as that he turns from them all to God, purposing and endeavoring constantly to walk with him in all the ways of new obedience. And the Synod of Dort says something similar. Did you catch that first part? Repentance unto life is a saving grace wrought in the heart of a sinner by the Spirit and the Word. It's exactly what we have here in this passage. So regeneration. Regeneration is our entrance. Repentance unto life is our entrance into the new creation. In other words, the church. the people of God. But we don't stop at the entrance. We naturally, just like you do at most entrances, you move. You move past the entrance, and the second point here is the activity. We move from an entrance into an activity. The activity of the church then obviously follows from that definition of And again I wonder if he's reflecting on that visit to Cornelius' house and watching the Gentiles. Since you have purified your souls in obeying the truth of the Spirit, now we see that Activity. In sincere love of the brethren, love one another fervently with a pure heart. That's the activity. That's the new obedience. Verse 22: Sincere love of the brethren. The love is to be sincere. The word here actually is do not love hypocritically. So we have a real love. It's not fake. It's not pretend. It's not you loving another person so that you can love yourself But it also says, besides the love being sincere and not hypocritical, you not putting on a mask pretending that you love, but that you actually love. It says that the love is to be fervent, which makes me happy. It makes me happy that he said that the he did not say that the love is to be reckless. Once again proving that song wrong. Instead of Reckless Love, if there's any musicians out there, could you create a song called Fervent Love? Sincere and Fervent Love? The love is to be fervent and not just sincere. Fervency it uh has an interesting flavor to it in this context. In one sense, it's talking about being eager. It's about being about eagerly loving. I think when it when I think about being eager and trying to stay within history and not state things abstractly. I think a good picture of eagerness is if you were to take children On Christmas morning, and make them sit on the floor around the Christmas tree and tell them that they cannot touch the presence. Their eyes turn kind of wild. They start to scoot their butts closer and closer as they see the twinkling of the lights. There's an eagerness within them. Something alive inside of them that wants to reach out and rip the paper, especially if they see the box in the back that might be a Red Rider BB gun. You can see the energy building to explosive proportions, and that's eagerness. But that's I don't know exactly what that would look like in a church context in loving one another, tackling one another. I don't know. But that's not the full sense of fervency. There is that sense of eagerness, of posturing yourself that way to where you would love sincerely But it's more than just uh a childish excitement for Christmas presents. It adds here, when you look at the other context of the way this word is used, there's a sense in here where there's a long Suffering commitment to the people that are around you. And not just a long-suffering commitment, but a long-suffering commitment in the face of the details of relating to you. to those other people. I mean the day-to-day stuff. In two one, I I believe because of the way that he's developing this In 2. 1, we see a list of ways in which a person could be unloving within the community and not love the brethren. He says, therefore, laying aside all malice, all deceit, hypocrisy, envy, and all evil speaking. I think if you were to engage in those activities, you would be away from fervent love, and so you should resist them. It's really more examples of helping us to locate what fervent love is. You are so committed. Do you see the details in that passage, the story that would underlie all of those different examples? You were so committed to your calling as a member of God's people. You were so So influenced by that particular identity as to who you are and what your purpose is in life, that you would stay in step with the Spirit, fighting for holiness, by laying aside all malice. All hostile feelings, wanting to avoid people toward the brethren. That you would lay aside all deceit and lying. Notice it doesn't say some deceit, it says all deceit. And that you would lay aside envy. And here it just means anger or hatred towards someone for getting something when you didn't get it. And all evil speaking, which refers again to slander and gossip. None of those things are loving. And interestingly, all of these are particular applications of the Ten Commandments, especially the Second Table. So once again, we see a mimicking of us and the Exodus people. That's fervent love. That's commitment. That's eagerness. As members of the people of God, do you encourage love of the brethren in yourself and your children? Let me ask you. I seriously want you to consider this, and I'll be very interested with the very first thing that pops into your head. Are there any outstanding conflicts in you or in your children between you or your child? Is there peace as God intends there to be peace between you and other members of the church of this church. Because if not, you do not have a sincere and fervent love of the brethren, which is opposite of your very being. Created by the Holy Spirit. If you want to stay in step with the Spirit, then you need to move forward in resolving those conflicts. And sometimes that takes help. And there's lots of people here that have the ability. To do that. May it never be said amongst us. May we be fervent to love. But if Peter has to say these things, that means that we don't always love fervently We may be purified and adopted into the family, but how can we grow up and be productive members of that family? And that's the last point, the development of the church that we see within these main verse that's unfolded in the rest. You can see in 22 that we are to love one another fervently with a pure heart. Having been born again, not of corruptible seed, but incorruptible, through the word of God which lives and abides forever. And this word is that which was preached. It's a repetition of what he said in the first chapter. He then went forward in two one to show us what this love is not, this fervent love is not malice. It is not deceit. It is not hypocrisy. It's not envy, it's not evil speaking, it's laying all that aside in a robust commitment of fervent love. Then he says that as newborn babes And how we are to accomplish this and to grow and develop as those who love the brethren is that as newborn babes, we are to desire the pure milk of the Word that you may grow thereof. He gives you the means that the Spirit will use in the development of you growing in love of the brethren 2-2, as newborn babes, we desire the pure milk of the Word that we may grow thereby. And here's the truth: the Holy Spirit used the word to bring you into the kingdom. And the Holy Spirit uses the word for you to grow in the kingdom. That's how it works. In many ways, it is the same dynamic through the Christian life from the very first moment From the very first moment it was repent and believe, and it was repentance unto life. And every day thereafter it will continue to be repent and believe. Believe his word, as in Scripture. Repentance until life happens once when we are born again. But every day thereafter there is still repentance and belief, is there not? Is there not sure supposed to be. In repentance unto life, true, sin is pardoned. But in everyday repentance and belief, sin is Is subdued. And so there is a development. In repentance on the life, God imputes the righteousness of Christ for our justification. And in everyday repentance and belief, God through his Spirit infuses grace for your sanctification, specifically in love of the brethren. You claim to be a spirit-led people. You want to be spiritual. Well, guess what the Spirit's doing? He's working within you through his word as he always has from the beginning for you to love those who are sitting right now. Next to you, and those who are absent. Love of the brethren. Through the Spirit and the Word, we enter the church. We become the holy people of God. Through the Spirit and the Word, we are active as the people of God in sincere and fervent love of the brethren. Through the Spirit and the milk of the Word, we develop and grow in our love of the brethren. So if someone asks you, Christian, who you are, you can respond most profoundly, I am a member of the church. It says everything, if you understand Peter's message. And in that answer, we also learn our specific purposes, don't we? We learn that we must be holy as our God is holy. And this week, that means the holiness of sincere and fervent love of our fellow Christians. We have time of about five or so minutes for us to go into a time of prayer. And of course you can pray as the Lord has instructed you But I'd ask that you'd please keep in mind the purposes of this passage and what it means to be the church and how we are to love So let's go before Him now as a time of open prayer for all of us. Father, we thank you for these words. It is easy for us to forget who we are. We have some kind of spiritual amnesia, but you remind us through your servant Peter that we are the church. And we are reminded of the history behind that. The work of you, the Father, the work of you, the Son. And you, the Holy Spirit, and how you did not just begin a work, but that you are finishing it through the Spirit and the Word. We pray, Lord, now that we may come to you And obtain our privileges in being the temple and the household of God, lifting up our voice to our Father