O God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, may your congregation's restless hearts find their rest in your only begotten Son, our Lord Jesus Christ. May their hearts burn within them. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. When I was a young boy Right about thirteen years old, we lived enough in the countryside that when it would snow. I had the freedom to just grab a shotgun out of the gun closet, head off into the woods, and follow the deer tracks seeking to take a whitetail. That's never really the way to do it on a flat ground like where I was on the eastern shore, but it was beautiful. I remember one year the snow was still falling. There was about a bed of a foot and a half of snow, and I could see the snow and the pine trees And the nice crisp air. I was following these deer tracks until this one set of tracks took me way back into the forest. And then it came into a clearing where there seemed like there were millions of deer tracks. And as I looked around, there were tracks converging on this one spot from all over the forest. It was a sight to see. It's very similar to what is happening in our passage here this morning and what's been happening really since we began our series. within Matthew is that we have been following a different set of tracks. And they've all, all of the tracks have been converging, not in a central location, but on a central person. who is Jesus Christ of Nazareth. We followed tracks over the last couple weeks seeing that the tracks are coming from Adam and Eve, promises that were given to them in Genesis 3. 15. There was a trail that led from Abraham all the way to the Christ in the genealogy in the beginning of Matthew. There were even a set of tracts, especially from David and the Davidic dynasty, all converging on Jesus who is the Christ. And Matthew here again has more tracks for you centering in Christ Jesus If you just take a look down at your passage this morning, you could see that quite easily you could divide this up into three main parts based on three main prophecies. Verse number 15 is a prophecy from Hosea 11:1, saying that in this Christ that we see here These things, this is where the tracks have led from a Hosea. In verse number 18, there's another quotation from another set of promises or tracts from the Old Testament, Jeremiah 31, 15. And the voice of Rachel weeping. And then in verse 23, we have a theme that's gathered up from many different prophets. About the Christ in verse 23 of our passage. That's three different trails, all leading to a center person, that we may better understand who this is. That we call our Lord Jesus the King. I want to look at each one of these promises or these prophecies and their fulfillment in Christ We'll just take one at a time to learn about who this Christ is. The first one is that, if children, if you're taking notes, you could write down the word Exodus, because that's the main theme in this first prophecy. Jesus Christ will bring about a new exodus for his people. You can begin to see this if you have eyes to see, starting in verse number 13, when Joseph is told to depart by an angel. He appears to Joseph in the dream, if you look down in verse number 13. And he says that he's to arise and he's to take this young child and his mother and flee to Egypt. The fact that we're talking about Egypt here has several different reasons, but theologically this is important. If you were to then go on and add to the word Egypt, if you keep reading and stay there until I bring you word, for Herod will seek the young child to destroy him, you now have someone who's seeking to destroy young children. And you now have Egypt. We've run into these kinds of things before. A few weeks ago, when we were looking at Joseph being awakened from a dream and then taking to himself a wife. We asked the important question, where else have we seen that? And we said, Adam. Adam awoke and took to himself a wife. And so we see Mary and Joseph. As a figure of Adam and Eve, and it connects us again to an important promise in Genesis 3. 15, that there will be one who comes who is the Christ that will crush the head of the serpent. And likewise, we're seeing a pattern here, but it doesn't take us back to Adam and Eve. It obviously takes us back to Egypt. And it doesn't just take us to Herod in Egypt, it takes us back to Pharaoh in Egypt, for Pharaoh himself sought the death of the male Hebrew children when he was in power. What you end up seeing here are echoes from that time of the Exodus that we might better understand who this Jesus Christ is and what he has come to accomplish Why should we give Jesus Christ our attention? Well, it's because we're starting to see the story form. Do you see the characters? Herod is the Pharaoh. Jesus now becomes a new kind of Moses because Pharaoh was seeking to kill him But instead of being placed in that basket and sent off on the Nile, instead he flees in a different way. And then it's confirmed for us by that set of tracts that Matthew lays down from Hosea 11. 1, and he connects it again to Egypt, saying, When Israel was a child, I loved him. And out of Egypt I called my son. Out of Egypt I called my son is another way of talking about the Exodus. Now there's multiple theological themes here. There's also a theme of Jesus Christ being the Son and being our federal representative, but I'm going to focus especially because of the emphasis on the children dying here. I want to focus on Jesus as the new Moses. Jesus as the new Moses ends up pulling these pieces together and establishes what I said from the beginning. that Jesus Christ is bringing about a new exodus for his people. The funny thing about Hosea 11, 1, if you were to take a look at that at another time, you will see that it says, when Israel was a child, I love him, and out of Egypt I call him my son. You will notice right away. That that was talking about something that took place in the past. And yet Matthew is saying this is talking about something that is taking place in his present. Which was far after the Exodus. But authoritative readers of the scriptures, namely the apostles, do this all the time. You can think of the sacrificial system, for example, bulls and goats as a part of this Levitical system, and then we have these New Testament apostles picking it up under the inspiration and the authority of the Holy Spirit, picking it up and saying All of those things were just tracks pointing to a fulfillment in someone that was going to make all these things take place. And the same thing you may now say, brothers and sisters, about the Exodus. It was but a shadow of what God would be doing, not through Moses of old, but through his son Jesus Christ, a new Moses. That whatever he is taking us through will be like a kind of exodus for us. That although in the Old Testament it was concealed, now in the New Testament it is revealed. Jesus Christ will take us all through a great exodus as his people. Now in the context, if you were to look in Hosea back at Hosea as to why Matthew would quote such a thing, in verse number one, it clearly attaches Jesus to being the new Moses, taking us one in Exodus, but you have to ask the question. An exodus from what? It's not going to be the same thing as making it removing us from one nation and then bringing us over into a wilderness and then establishing us in the promised land. It's not quite literal that way. If you turned back to Hosea and just began in verse number two, you'd see that God begins a sort of lament. And that although he exodised his people, his people remained in heart as Egyptians. It says in Hosea 11, 2, as they called them, so they went from them. But then they sacrificed to the Baals, and they burned incense to carve images. And then if you were to go to Isaiah 11. 7 for more information, God says, My people are bent on backsliding from me. Though they call to the Most High, none at all exalt him. So we end up getting this fuller picture of the kind of exodus that we really need. Jesus exoduses his people and all nations who trust in him from a kind of spiritual slavery. Which the New Testament talks about. When I first became a Christian, there was one song that I fell in love with. Because it was a song that I thought captured in perfect words what I was experiencing and what I was going through as I was being exodus by Jesus Christ. And I wonder if this song connects with you also. It goes like this. Long my imprisoned spirit lay, fast bound in sin and nature's night. Thine eye diffused a quickening ray. I woke, the dungeon flamed with light. My chains fell off, my heart was free. I rose, went forth. And followed thee. Has that song ever moved you? I remember when sometimes the pianist here or when I was a Over at Severta Parky P, the pianist there at a certain time in the song would stop playing the piano the piano Everything would uh there would be no more sound but the congregation's voice as soon as we started singing, Long My Imprisoned Spirit Lay. It was a kind of dirge of lament that we were giving, and it wasn't time for the piano, it wasn't time for the celebration. And we'd go on and fastbound in sin in nature's night. But then that's the piano would come back in, but my eye diffused a quickening ray, and I woke, and the dungeon flamed with light. And now the pianos and and the pianist is she's going for it. Or he's going for it. And I don't remember the music team ever talking about the pianist that being planned. It's like a little notation in the margin of his or her uh piano music. Now it's time for you to, you know, it's like a big act or a play. It was natural to the pianist to realize, no, I'm going to wait because there's a kind of building here And I wonder if that captures something for you, as it would have caught captured it in the musician, realizing there's something going on here that taps into the reality of human existence and what we need so deeply. Then I can begin to form myself to it even as a musician. Or for me, it was, this is capturing perfectly what Christ is doing for me. And I wonder if that's true for you. I bet you it is. That now you could say in many ways that your heart is free and you have risen and you've gone forth and you are following Jesus Christ. That, my friends, is just another way of saying that Jesus Christ has exodus you. That's what Matthew is pointing out here, something that you know by experience. You rose and you went forth and you followed him, because he led you in your exodus away from the slavery to sin. Well, that's the first prophecy in the first set of tracts if you're walking through the woods with me this morning. But there's a second set of tracks which I would, children, I would categorize this as under the name enemy. Enemy. So we have Exodus. Enemy. And don't expect too much from me because I do not have a third E. I'm just going to switch letters. For the third point, but here's the enemy. And here's the main point of this part. Jesus Christ faces the serpent who always seeks to destroy God's work. Jesus Christ faces the serpent who always seeks to destroy God's work. And we see that clearly in verse number 16. Once we I've seen the Hosea passage. We now go into 16. And then Herod, when he saw that he was deceived by wise men, was exceedingly angry. And he sent forth and he put to death all the male children. And I heard some of you gasp when I read that. And I read it pretty much every year, and we still gasp. And boy, when we read last week in Revelation chapter twelve, that Herod is figured as a dragon that is waiting for the woman to give birth that he might Swallow the child right up. Boy, is that a picture and a piece of artwork that captures well what is going on here with Herod. That the dark forces of darkness are always right there present to seek what God is doing through Christ and His church. And here we see it again. And it shouldn't be a surprise. I've read a little bit with Herod, and I won't go into all of the people that he killed. It would take me a while to enumerate them. Well, one of his last acts was that when he was on his breath deathbred deathbed it is said that so that people would show sorrow for his dying, he gathered up the prestigious man of the city and he had them all killed so that people would be crying at his death. That's the kind of person that he was. But this is not the first time that we've seen this kind of spirit among us. We've already connected Herod to Pharaoh. You could easily connect both of them to Cain. And you could go through a list just within the scriptures to see all of those who had been set against God and his work through the Christ. And I bet you you could come up with some names today that are still in opposition to Christ. Well, God takes that very seriously. And you can see that in the quote that's given to us here in this section from Jeremiah chapter 31. It is a section that captures, though Rachel is long dead by the time that Jesus is escaping to Egypt She's a kind of matriarch and a representative of mothers losing their children. And so Matthew quite aptly picks that theme up and talks. By way of her, I believe, of the sympathy that is stirred within God Himself as He sees His church persecuted, as He sees even His Son persecuted. Hosea 11. 8, I'll remind you, going back to the story that we're still a part of. We're a part of the story of Hosea. And Jeremiah is another part of that story. But in Hosea 11. 8 it says God speaking to his people, how can I hand you over, Israel, even though they've done all these things? And then he says, my heart churns within me. And my sympathy for you is stirred. And that, my friends, comes out in Rachel's sympathy for her children And it comes out for God's sympathy of those two years and younger who were slain by Herod. As he wasn't seeking any of them. He was seeking the Christ. He was seeking to kill Jesus. Boy, is that relevant for us today. The enemy, the serpent, is still striking at the work of Jesus Christ. And I'll remind you that you are his work. Which means that he's striking at you. But boy do we gain a great deal of comfort when we see the providence of God always protecting The enemy, the serpent, nevertheless, is still striking at the work of Jesus Christ. And God is not indifferent to our pain. This is picked up well in another Christmas Carol or another song. And I'll tell you in a minute where I first heard this song, actually read the song. Most of I haven't heard most things, I've read things Which is why I mispronounced just about everything. But there's a Christmas carol that goes like this. It says, Unto us is born a son. King of choirs supernal. Does anyone know this? See on earth his life begun of lords the Lord Eternal. Christ from heaven descending low comes on earth a stranger. Ox and ass their owner know, now cradled in a manger. Then did Herod sore afray, and did him bewilder. So he gave the word to slay and slew the little children children. The first place I saw this was in a famous book by C. S. Lewis. It's in the very front, as the very first quote of the book, The Abolition of Man. It's so interesting if you were to read this account of Herod and then read Adolesh and Aman through that lens And if he were, if he were, if you were to do that, you would see that it's he would be saying to you, C. S. Lewis, the same thing that we're learning here this morning. That Jesus Christ and His Church are always facing an opposition from darkness to destroy the work of God through Christ C. S. Lewis was just pointing it out that even teachers, education itself becomes a way in which the serpent misleads and destroys C. S. Lewis was pointing out how everything had been turned around and there was no objective truth any longer, just subjective. Everything was how you felt about something. And C. S. Lewis sought the saw those philosophies and how they were being taught by Gaius and Titius in the little green book. as a way in which Herod was still destroying children, taking their humanity away. And I wonder what experiences you have with this opposition. Whatever they are, let us not be surprised at the opposition against Christ's work in you Instead, I encourage you to walk carefully and to know this, that God understands that there is great pain in following him. And his sympathy for you is stirred, as it says in Hosea 11. 8. Our last set of tracks taking us into the center of the forest. I would entitle lowly. There is a lot of work on this section of our passage and there's a lot of work on this section of our passage because of the way in which The final verse, number 23, that conclusion is found out. There's a lot of work because of the way the conclusion is found out. Here's the conclusion. The other prophecy is he shall be called a Nazarene. So here's the question to you. As we consider the lowliness of Christ, or that Jesus Christ was a man of lowliness, and I'll show you why we say that in a moment, what Bible verse does it say that he shall be a Nazarene? That he shall be born in Nazareth. Now some of you will say, well, it doesn't say that right, I know And then you say it plays on a word like the Nazarite. And that's where we start to get into different options as to why is it that that Matthew is is quoting this. Now notice that Matthew doesn't even quote a verse. He doesn't even reference a single author. If you look in verse number 23 again, he says, which was spoken by the prophets, plural. So it looks to me, and this is of great value, especially as we read our Bibles, it looks to me like he has gathered a theme from the prophetic witness that he would be able to understand who the Christ is and why it would be fitting for him to be born in Nazareth. And one of the ways, therefore, that we can begin to explain this is that it was fitting for Christ, our Christ, to be born in Nazareth, because the prophetic testimony was that our Christ Will be born and persist in his work in humiliation. Do you remember what is said about Nazareth in the scriptures? In John chapter 1, 45 through 46, Philip found Nathaniel and said to him, We found him of whom Moses and the law and also the prophets wrote: Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. And Nathaniel said to him, Can anything good come out of Nazareth? Is there anything? I mean, how how would you put that today? Is there anyone that graduated high school from Dundalk? You could pick any place you want. You could pick Saverna Park. You could say, is there anyone that doesn't have their nose so far up in the air in Saverna Park that they could actually see reality? Whatever it is. I'm just trying to be fair, I'm trying to balance. We're from a lot of different places. I'm ready to talk about people from Subverta Park, but if I get jumped from people from Glenburnie or Lynthicum or Dundalk, I'm done. I can handle people from Subverta Park. Severn's I can't handle people from Severn. Prince George's County, no sir. But you get what he's saying here is that even in the in the place that he was born, and this is what commentators often point out, is that you can gather up from the prophets that Right from the beginning, there's a lowliness and a hu humiliation about the way that this king is going to enter in and the way that he's going to conduct himself. And it's not just that he uh he lets you have his seat at the table. Oh boy, when we start to look at the prophets and what's gathered up about the the theme of his humiliation, we of course turn to passages like Isaiah 53. He is despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, and we did not esteem him. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement for our peace was upon him. And by his stripes are we healed. Because we have all like sheep gone astray and have turned everyone to his own way. And why is it that he's so low? Why is it that he's in such a state of humiliation? Why is he the one that is flogged and crucified? Well, that's the final word here in this Isaiah 53, because the Lord has laid on him. The iniquity of us all. That's why. But picking up that theme, Matthew brings it here and he says, even the place he was born. is in accordance with that theme. Can anything good come out of there? And now we can begin to start to put the pieces together a little bit and see that this passage is a unified whole Because we can see from the beginning that Jesus Christ is the one who will exodus you. But then you have got to ask the question, how is he going to accomplish that And it will need to be more, apparently, according to the scriptures, than him being a motivational speaker that taps into your aspirations so that you can then, on your own, in your own humanism. accomplished salvation. There's way more going on than that. And I want to talk about that just for a moment. All of us here are aware of our consciences, are we not? We're aware of this little thing inside of us that says, that's the right thing to do, and you shouldn't have done that. Now some of your consciences might be seared on certain things. You might have really wanted something that you shouldn't be doing and you've been suppressing it for a long time. But there are other things that maybe you haven't suppressed. So I think you still understand this. And a lot of the times, especially in today's culture, people will are starting to tap into this conscience that we have Christian or secular, they're starting to talk about the conscience more, but they're only talking about the conscience in the sense of it shows you that which you should be striving for Listen to Jiminy Cricket, and you will become a real boy and girl. Now there is actually quite a bit of truth to that, especially if you're seeking to be a good civic person. But I have a question that keeps popping up in my mind when people tell me to only about the aspirational aspects and the motivational aspects of the conscience. And this question keeps coming up for me, and I wonder if it would come up for you. What about all the times that you didn't do what your conscience told you you should do? What do you do with those times? Let me ask you a question. Are you guilty? Oh. And if you do have guilt, I don't mean just guilt feelings. I mean that you are guilty objectively with someone out there who can hold you accountable. Not just your feelings. I don't care if you have the feelings or not. You could be guilty even without the feelings. And if you are guilty of violating your conscience Then what are you supposed to do with your guilt? That's an answer I would love to hear. And I'm telling you right now, the world does not have a legitimate answer to that question. But we do. Jesus Christ tells you what you are to do with his guilt. I've already read it in Isaiah 53. And we're beginning to see that we're seeing it here not just in Isaiah 53 but in Matthew because we need an exodus not just from our sin, but we need an exodus from our guilt. And that is what Jesus Christ provides for us. Francis Schaeffer said this in a book said, basically the book is about what should the church be doing in the the latter the very end of the 20th century, and it's still very relevant for our century. He says this, he says, of course we know as we look across mankind and as we look in our own hearts That man is not what he was originally made to be, man as in human. And I must acknowledge that individually, I have deliberately sinned. Deliberately done what I know to be wrong. And if I am to be in the place for which I was made, that is, in a personal relationship with God who exists. Something is needed in order to remove this true moral guilt which I have. And Matthew is saying to all of you All the trails, all the deer tracks, take you to the center of the forest. And there you will find one who is named Jesus, who is the Christ. And he shall take away your sins. All you who repent, believe, and put your trust in him. Now that's a unification of this whole section within Matthew and the message that will be unfolded in the rest of his gospel. The Exodus, the enemy, and now we see a great answer to our guilt. I imagine that what I just said reminded you of another passage, the idea of these tracks all converging on Christ. Does that remind you of any other passage in the scriptures? You're exactly right. Luke 24. Exactly right. I'm so proud of all of you. Luke 24, the disciples there, and this is how we started off the service in my prayer, the disciples there ended up having uh several meetings with Christ continuously and at the end of it they say to each other Did not our hearts burn within us? It's my favorite Bible verse, just so you know. Did not our hearts burn within us? Why did they say that? Why did their hearts burn within them? Well, it was because of what Jesus had said in verse number twenty-seven of Luke 24. Or really what is summarized there of what Jesus had done for them. It says this, and beginning at Moses and all of the prophets, he expanded to them in all the scriptures. The things concerning himself. And they say, Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked with us on the road? And while he opened the scriptures to us. And the scriptures are being opened to you this morning. And you are having the same experience because all of Moses and the prophets, all of the tracts, all of the promises. are leading to the center who is Jesus Christ, just as he said in Luke 24. As I followed the deer tracks on that snowy day, to a place where all the tracks converged, so too Matthew shows us the tracks of God's promises meeting in Jesus Christ. Although the serpent strikes at his heel, Jesus Christ crushes his head, and he exoduses his people from sin and guilt and misery through his own humiliation. And now he's exalted and vindicated for the work he has done. I think there's one last song, just one little lyric that I want to share with you of the song other songs that I've shared already this morning. And it is this. Hearing all that, shouldn't we then say that this is love so amazing? It is love so divine. That it demands my soul, it demands my life, and it demands my all. Amen. Let us pray together.