13 through 23. Now when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise. Take the young child and his mother, flee to Egypt, and stay there until I bring you word, for Herod will seek the young child to destroy him. When he arose, he took the young child and his mother by night, and departed for Egypt, and was there until the death of Herod, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophets, saying, Out of Egypt I called my son. Then Herod, when he saw that he was deceived by the wise men, was exceedingly angry, and he sent forth and put to death all the male children who were in Bethlehem and in all its districts. From two years old and under, according to the time which he had determined from the wise men. A voice was heard in Ramah, lamentation, weeping, and great mourning. Rachel weeping for her children, refusing to be comforted, because they are no more. Now when Herod was dead, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, saying, Arise, take the young child and his mother, and go to the land of Israel, for those who sought the young child's life are dead. Then he arose, took the young child and his mother, and came into the land of Israel. But when he heard that Archeleus was reigning over Judea instead of his father Herod, He was afraid to go there. And being warned by God in a dream, he turned aside into the region of Galilee. And he came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth. that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophets, he shall be called a Nazarene. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I pray for your congregation here this morning that you would reveal to them your glory by your Son. I pray, Lord, that those who have not confessed your son would repent and turn to him today. Those who are your congregation, I pray, Lord, that their hearts would go out even more to him in love. And that this also would be reflected in their love for each other. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. You can turn this mic down a little bit if you're able to do that. I wonder if can you turn the mic down just a little bit? Can you tap the sound guy? Can you turn the mic down just a little? Thanks. I wonder if um you I think we all have this experience. There's a couple different experiences here. I usually hear people say The book is better than the movie. Is that usually your experience? And then the other experience I hear is that part two is worse than part one They really should have never created like a franchise just going on and if it goes past part two, we're in a lot of trouble. Like if you end up it with a part six. Like Ernest goes to, I don't know, wherever it's going to be, part six, Ernest goes to camp, we know that it's not going to be as good as Ernest Part 1. Although I was just reminded by someone that that's only true with movies that weren't planned very well. For example, if they were just going to do a part one and didn't know they were going to do a part two, it usually doesn't turn out well. But what about the ones that they always knew and had planned that there would be a Lord of the Rings trilogy for example. We all pour out to movie theaters when people used to do that, and uh we end up seeing those trilogies. And that second example that we have is a good example for what we're facing here within the passage this morning. We don't have a situation where The New Testament is showing us a plan B that God had to come up with because plan A failed. Instead, what we're seeing is that God had planned all along that everything would be fulfilled in his son, who is God in the flesh. That's what we end up seeing here, and actually it's what we've been seeing uh ever since we began our time here in the beginning of Matthew. It continues in our Sermon on the Mount series, but as we backed up and we're looking through each Passage here in the beginning of Matthew, we see the same thing being the case, that if we started off with the genealogy and we arrived at the seventh seven, I'm not saying the other thing, even though the middle schoolers want me to. The seventh seven, we have arrived at the fulfillment of all of time, and Jesus is right there at the center that he is the fulfillment. We then went on to note different prophecies that were given to us. For example, if you were to back up a little bit and look at Matthew 1, verse 23, we have a prophecy from Isaiah 7. 14 saying that that which happened in the past was really just a type of what was yet to come. And that continued when we looked in Matthew chapter 2 verse 6 Which was a prophecy from Micah 5. 2. But you, Bethlehem, and the land of Judah are not the least among the rulers of Judah, for out of you shall come the ruler who will shepherd my people Israel, that that which was spoken in in Micah 5. 2, though did happen in the past in a way, was but a token or a type of that which would be fulfilled in Jesus who is the Christ. Again, it's not a part plan B because plan A failed. It's not a poor version of the first movie. This was always planned. That everything would be fulfilled in Christ, and that is what we find, the continued pattern, in our passage here this morning In fact, you could. What we're going to do is we're going to look at this passage in three, just basically three main points. And each of the points is easier to remember because it's Prophecy 1. Prophecy 2 and Prophecy 3. If you just take a glance down at the scriptures, you'll see that, for example, at the tail end of each one of these uh historical accounts of what's going on with the birth of Jesus, there is reference to an Old Testament prophecy. And we can remember what St. Augustine had said, for example, though in the Old Testament it was concealed Or lied hidden in the New Testament, it is revealed. What the full meaning of what God plans to do. And that so that's how we'll proceed here this morning. I just want to look at prophecy number one. Prophecy number two and prophecy number three. Now prophecy number one begins in Matthew 2, 13 through 15. And in verse number 13, it starts off with just a command that is given to Joseph. You can see, now when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream. Just as the angel had been appearing to Joseph all of this time within this birth account, and then he's given a command. He says, arise. Take the young child and his mother, flee to Egypt, and stay there until I bring you word. Now we quickly move when we move into verse number At the tail end of verse number thirteen and we move into fourteen, we we very quickly move from a command given to a threat that is pictured. And we want to pay close attention to the details of this picture because they're really important. For example, when we look at the tail end of verse 13, it says that Herod will seek the young child to destroy him. Now it doesn't take much. If you've done just a little bit of Bible reading, you should be connecting some dots here. If I said the word Egypt, and then I said um murdering young children, doesn't that bring up a story immediately in your mind? It does, if you're even have the slightest familiarity with the basic Bible stories, we know that the death of young children reminds us of a terrible slaughter that happened at another time of redemption or exodus. And that's really the main point here with this first prophecy, which we'll get to in a second. But we're but the but we're being by the Holy Spirit we're being eased into the point that He wants to make here about this prophecy by first describing to us in this picture of this great threat that has arisen within Herod. It's not just the word Egypt and it's not just the word child. The description of the painting continues going on when we move into verse number 14, for example. Take a look at verse 14. When he arose, he took the young child and his mother. by night and departed for Egypt. If you were to go back to Exodus and read that story, they departed in the Exodus by night. All of these things are meant to create a kind of consolation for you to see a picture that is forming these illusions that are so and that are supposed to arise within your imagination to where one story of the Exodus would inform you of Another story. And of course, who is Herod therefore in the story? He's the Pharaoh. And if he's the Pharaoh and he has all of these people around his courts, most commentators say that those who were with him and a part of his council were like the magicians who Pharaoh had in the Exodus. And that's uh just to point out uh uh not only uh the command that is given in the threat picture, but do you see the irony of all that before we even get to the prophecy? Is that there he's the Joseph and Mary and the Christ child will go to Egypt. to flee from the one who is being pictured as the Pharaoh from Egypt. And this ends up being a major theme which we can't get into this morning, but there is a kind of lawsuit that's going against Jerusalem at this time by God. pointing out just how abhorrent they had become and there's really no mincing of words here that Jerusalem had become like Egypt It would go in there just as a witness that you have become instead of my people you've become more like Pharaoh. And now we must flee here. What is meant to be a refuge has no longer is no longer a refuge. And so we'll now need to flee to Egypt. That's just the irony of it. So you have the command, you have the threat that's pictured, so that you can see which stories are supposed to be informing your reading of this. And then we finally get right there at the end The prophecy, the prophecy number one, so that we can understand who Jesus is. It says right there at the end, out of Egypt, or by by the Lord through the prophet saying, out of Egypt. I called my son. Now, that's a reference to Hosea 11. And it's a prophecy of specifically For the nation of Israel being called out of an Exodus. But here we see that the Holy Spirit wants us to read that text and that understanding. of what happened at that time as that that event was really just a foreshadowing of a picture of what he will be doing through Jesus Christ in the fulfillment of all time And I would say the simplest way you could put that is that Jesus Christ will be bringing in a new Exodus as your head. Jesus Christ will be bringing in a new Exodus. Of course that reminds us of the Transfiguration where Jesus is speaking with Moses and if you ask, well, what were they talking about? Go ahead and read the account when you get home. He says they were talking about the Exodus. That Jesus would bring about. That Jesus is bringing in a new exodus. He is the one who will lead us through the Red Sea, so to speak, that we would be out from underneath of the captivity of the devil. And even the captivity of ourselves. You know, this shouldn't be too unusual to you to see that everything is fulfilled in Jesus Christ. Let's think of just a couple obvious examples. Is not the Passover fulfilled in Christ and His work? Do not the scriptures clearly teach that the tabernacle was but a picture of Jesus Christ and His work? And you could go on and on with that. What you would basically find is that all things lead to Jesus Christ. If you were to go through the artwork of Western and Eastern civilization. Among Christians, you would see just in the composition and the lighting of the paintings that everything leads to Jesus Christ We just had a snowfall, which is why we weren't all together here last week. I had one attender last week who sat in the back and listened to the sermon We just had a snowfall and when I was growing up, uh children, I wonder if you have this same experience. When I was growing up, uh when I had time to do this kind of thing After a snowfall, I would immediately go out into the woods in order to see what kind of animal tracks I could find. And I wonder if you've done that. And if so, you have to tell me what kind of animal tracks you've found in your local woods or trails. I would find deer tracks. I would find raccoon tracks. I would find and I couldn't distinguish raccoon from possum. Some of you would have to help me out with that. I also would find rabbit tracks and fox. And some others. And depending on where I was, one of the interesting things was to follow those tracks. And if I were in a set of woods that had a pond in the center of the woods, I would follow those tracks, whether deer, raccoon, whatever it was, and they would all lead to a place where they could get some water And that is a nice picture of what we find when we read the scriptures and what's revealed to us in the scriptures is that the track of the scriptures All lead to a center who is Jesus Christ, who gives us the water of our life If you want to know how to read the scriptures well, always read in light of Jesus and what it teaches us about him. Now that's the first prophecy. These other prophecies are all moving us towards their tracks that are taking us towards Jesus again. But the second prophecy is found in Matthew 2, 16 through 18. The threat is continued in verse number 16. It says here that then Herod, when he saw that he was deceived by the wise men, was exceedingly angry. And he sent forth and put to death all of the male children who were in Bethlehem and in all of its districts, who were two years old and under. Now this is referred to as the slaughter of the innocents. This is a a a horrible and famous scene. It's not outside of Herod's character. He had killed a lot of people, murdered a lot of people at this time. If you ever want to pick up some time to look at his b his background and his biography to see this is completely within care his own character. He had uh many wives, he had a favorite one and he had her killed too And here you see in his anger the threat continues. And more importantly, what continues is the painting that was pictured or that we were able to see in the first point of the first prophecy. we see more evidence that we're really on the right track here. Because we see these signal words that let us know that we really are supposed to be understanding this by the story of the Exodus. He was deceived by the wise men, he was exceedingly angry, and he didn't just put to death children, but male children. Same thing that we would read within the Exodus, which I'll read here in just a moment. And it continues on that the male children were put to death from two years old and under. In fact, in Exodus 1. 16, it says When you do the duties of a midwife for the Hebrew women and see them on the birthstools, if it is a son that you shall kill him, but if it is a daughter, then she shall live. You can't help but to understand this birth narrative by way of the Exodus story. And of course, John would go on to write about this dragon of a man named Herod from Revelation 12, 3 through 4. He says, And another sign appeared in heaven. Behold, a great fiery red dragon having seven heads and ten horns and seven diadems on his head. His tail drew a third of the stars of heaven and threw them to earth And the dragon stood before the woman who was ready to give birth to devour her child as soon as it was born. Well, that's a continuation of that threat. But we not only establish that we got the story right in looking at Exodus and seeing Herod as Pharaoh, we can establish here too that the theme of exile is the main theme we should be learning about. That Jesus is the one who will lead his people out of their exile. That is given further evidence in this prophecy. When we see it from Jeremiah 31, 16 through 17. You can see at the end of Matthew 2, 18, it says, A voice was heard in Ramah, lamentation, weeping, and great mourning. Rachel weeping for her children, refusing to be comforted because they are no more. Now that's from Jeremiah, as I just mentioned, 31, 16 through 17. Now, when I read that to you, if you were to take a look at it more closely, just staring down at your scriptures, I'm not sure that you would get the idea that we're still talking about the exile. But the Holy Spirit intends for us not to just look at the passage quoted in Matthew, but the larger context. So please listen attentively when I read to you the next set of verses from Jeremiah. It says, and another sign appeared in heaven. I'm sorry. Then it said, Thus says the Lord, refrain your voice from weeping, and your eyes from tears. For your work shall be rewarded, says the Lord, and they shall come back from the land of the enemy. There is hope in your future, says the Lord, that your children shall come back to their own border. Again, there's a continuation of looking as to what is God doing through his son, who is Jesus the Christ? And the way that we can talk about it here, because of the teaching of the Holy Spirit, is that he's leading his people on a new exodus out from exile, though at this point in the story, what we have just had is the murder of two-year-olds. And boy should that wake us up. Sometimes we'll see Jeremiah passages or other inspiring passages on the biography of athletes saying I can do all things through Jesus Christ or perhaps you could use this passage that we we had there is hope in your future says the Lord And that could give you a picture that the Christian life and what it means to be with Christ as He leads us on this new Exodus, that it's just a cakewalk and there's really no hardships. But that would be to forget That even this, whether it's the Jeremiah passage or if it's the Matthew passage, both are placed within the context of the murder of two-year-olds or the stripping of parents, taking their children away. That's what happens first. Yes, there is a the promise of the exodus. There is the promise of the release from slavery and captivity to the devil, but in order to be released from the captivity, the captivity would have to take place first. And that's good for us to remember in order to have a clear picture of what's going on here. I was reading one author uh from the 17th century, and he said The gospel is a rose that cannot be plucked without prickles. The legacy Christ has given is the cross. While there is a devil and wicked man in the world, never expect an exemption from trouble. I thought that's wise. And that's one of the lessons that we have here in this second prophecy. We have the good news of the first prophecy that yes, Jesus is Christ is leading us into this new exodus, out from Spiritual slavery, which we'll talk about in a moment. But boy, does it happen in the midst of suffering and trouble. The gospel is a rose, and roses have thorns. Another thing I read that I thought was helpful in this as we think about, well, sometimes it just seems like too much trouble. And it will be a life of trouble. How am I supposed to go through a life of trouble? Another author wrote, it is not our holding to God, but his holding to us that preserves us. A little boat tied fast to a rock is safe, and so are we when we are tied to the rock of ages. Now, we've seen the first prophecy. Jesus Christ will be leading us in this Exodus and has already begun. We see the prophecy of the great troubles that will come during that time. That's the second prophecy, and now we come to the third prophecy. And the third prophecy is given to us in Matthew 2, 19 through 23. This one has a lot of speculation around it. I heard one author actually uh uh write within his book a question which I think is uh an interesting question and and that is in this last prophecy, take a look at your scriptures. In verse number 23, it says, And he came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophets, he shall be called a Nazarene. Did everybody see that? And this one author had tested his audience and asked, where, those of you who are really versed in your scriptures, where do you find this prophecy And he points out there it's not written. And that one of the ways that we have to work with this is that there's something going on with the location. And that's brought out in other Gospels. It's not brought out here, so I won't talk about it, but the location has to do with Christ's humility and him coming from basically no place, the boondocks. But here we're just given the word, and if we were to look at the word, this word is connected, at least linguistically, with the idea of Jesus Christ being the branch. The Hebrew word for branch is connected to Nazarene. And this is the name for the Davidic Messiah. Which I prefer to go in this direction because of all that has been said about the Davidic Messiah all the way up to this point. And then if you look at the descriptions of the branch and the scriptures, for example, listen to Isaiah 11, where it is mentioned that there shall come forth a rod from the stem of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of his roots. The Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord. And then in Jeremiah 23, 5, continuing with the idea of a branch, behold the days are coming, says the Lord, that I will raise to David a branch of righteousness A king shall reign and prosper and execute judgment and righteousness in the earth. This goes along quite well with a group of people that have lost any semblance of leadership. This goes quite well with who God is raising up in order to complete this exodus, that God's people would be out of the exile of their ignorance, the exile of their confusion. The exile of their spiritual death, all of these things are being accomplished by the Davidic Messiah, who is the branch of righteousness. And so when you look at this total passage of the Prophecy 1, Prophecy 2, Prophecy 3, what we end up seeing in the dead center As we see a group of people struggling, living under the tyranny of an exile. In the literal words, Herod, When we see what the description around Herod is doing by way of the Holy Spirit, we see that this is at least referring to Pharaoh. By the time we get to the book of Revelation, he is equated with Satan himself. There are layers of meaning that are going on here within the scriptures that inform us that humanity is under a great travail. Being in an exile that is way deeper than just a physical slavery. That there is something spiritual going on here. to where humanity has descended into a kind of spiritual death. No longer, if we were to continue to read the scriptures, no longer inclined to the love of God and the love of neighbor More attracted to the world than to heaven, as Bill was bringing up here in the confession, that all of these things are a part of the sickness of humanity. That's the center of the prophecy. That's prophecy number two. Is that look at the kind of weight that sin And mis the kind of sin and misery that is on the human race. Look at prophecy number two with Rachel weeping. Aren't you weeping with her? But then we see the other two prophecies where there's a kind of sandwich forms. And on the top end is that Jesus shall lead us out of this exile, and on the bottom end is that Jesus, who is the Davidic Messiah, shall lead us. out of this exile in the great Exodus. He is our hope. He is our joy. He is our peace. And of course, here this morning we also need to talk about how he is our love, but we'll do that in a moment. When you think about Jesus restoring not just his people from the past, but you here today, I wonder if you have a favorite song that captures that, do you? When I first became a Christian, I didn't know any of the Christian songs. I was not raised that way. My children to this day still know more of the hymns than I do because I was older when they were introduced to me and I wasn't able to be formed as when you're young you seem to memorize everything. And I was past that. And they know more than I do in in so many ways But when I finally started to sing hymns with the church after I was 16 years old, there was one hymn that really captured my heart every time. And the way that the pianist would do it is that we'd she would she or he, whoever was playing, depending on the church I was at, they'd be playing the piano the piano and then they would stop and the congregation would sing. And then when this other verse came in, they would start playing the piano again, and it just accentuated for me this hymn. That helped me in my life, and it and here are some of the lyrics. I wonder if you hold fast to this hymn too. Long my imprisoned spirit lay. Fast bound in sin and nature's night. Thine eye disfused a quickening ray, and here comes the piano back in. I woke, the dungeon flamed with light My chains fell off, my heart was free, I rose, went forth, and followed thee. Now, if you're a part of Christ's congregation, that's your story. And that is the story of Jesus Christ, the one performing the new Exodus. The one taking his people out of that exile. Did you hear the exile there? My chains fell off But it wasn't the literal chains. They weren't real prisoners in the literal sense because the hymn goes on and says, my heart was free. The exodus that Jesus is bringing to his people, it was seen in a picture of what happened historically with Israel in that exodus. But then as we moved into this state of grace, with Jew and Gentile united in Jesus Christ, we see that there is this spiritual exodus from all of the nations for them to be released from the k the sin and misery that had been inherited by Adam and all their own actual transgressions. And then there's still another stage left where we talk about moving into glory, which is another Exodus. Your loved ones that you missed this year, who were in the Lord, who have gone to be with the Lord, they have moved into that third exodus of you would. No longer suffering from the maladies that they had when they were here with you. No longer having cancer. And all of that is by way of Jesus. All the tracks lead to him. Prophecy number one, Jesus Christ. Prophecy number two, Jesus Christ. Prophecy number three, Jesus Christ. You see what the Christmas story is really about. Christ, who is God in the flesh Christ, who is God in the flesh, it is to him that all tracks lead. And here Matthew points out, there are many things that could be pointed out and will be in the scriptures, but Matthew points out that One of the reasons all the tracks lead to him is because he is the chosen one who will lead us out of our sin and our misery. Now I think in our own experiences, though we could acknowledge theoretically that all of the tracks lead to Jesus. I think experientially we sometimes think that's what people say, but it doesn't really seem like Anything is solved by knowing that. In other words, I receive a lot of trouble in my life And isn't the trouble that I receive just more and more evidence that actually God, through Jesus Christ, isn't leading me out of any kind of slavery whatsoever? You said that he would deliver me from my sin and my misery, but I'm still miserable And I admit that that will take a longer conversation for each one of you individually, but I just want to point out very quickly, and then we'll close That if you in order for the if you're saying these things aren't true because I have trouble in my life, even trouble to a great degree, then I'll just point out to you That's not a good argument. If you were to look down at each one of the prophecies and the birth narrative, let me just ask you, who had the greatest trouble of them all? It was Jesus. Are you telling me that you want to go down the path of ha of the logic to where you would say that God the Father does not love His son, because his son had the most trouble. I would be willing to bet if I were a betting man. That none of you had somebody searching for you to kill you when you were born. You haven't seen that kind of trouble. So we have to be careful about that. Just because you have trouble and difficulties within your life is not necessarily a commentary that God does not love you. It actually could be the reverse. In fact, we know from the scriptures that that is not the case. He says over and over again, even in the prophecies, if I had the opportunity to read to you Micah or Jeremiah. or the other prophecies from Isaiah you would see that he is talking about his love for his people. We remember from Ephesians chapter 5 that there is a command to husbands to love your wives, but it's a command for the husband to look to love that is even greater than his own, which he is meant to imitate, and it says Christ also loved the church and he gave himself for her. We oftentimes think of the love of God, perhaps connecting it with him being crucified. But would you see that his love began when he was a child? All of the threats that he was under, all of the humiliation began in the beginning, being born in a manger. I'll end with this with one author speaking of God's love through Christ who says, Christ has suffered more for his spouse than ever any husband did for a wife. He suffered poverty. He who crowned the heavens with stars was himself crowned with thorns. He was called a companion of sinners so that we might be made companions of angels. He was regardless of his own life. In fact, he leaped into the sea of his father's wrath to save his spouse from drowning. And what you see within this birth narrative is that began in the beginning. And it is all a part of him releasing you from exile in this new exodus. Here's the question that you have to ask. Does God love me? What is the answer, Christian, by way of the Son? Look at his love and the trouble that he was willing to go through for you. From his birth onward, it was a life of trouble. Trouble, trouble, trouble. And it is in that way, in fact, that it was prophesied that he would display his love to you, his bride, that he would leap into the sea of his father's wrath. To save you, his spouse, from drowning. Let us pray