Turn together to Lamin T Lamentations chapter four this morning. And I'll I'll start in verse eighteen. I'll read through twenty and then I'll read twenty two A. They tracked our steps so that we could not walk in our streets. Our end was near. Our days were over, for our end had come. Our pursuers were swifter than the eagles of the heavens. They pursued us on the mountains and lay in wait for us in the wilderness. The breath of our nostrils, the anointed, or the Christ of the Lord, was caught in their pits, of whom we said, under his shadow we shall live among the nations. And then twenty-two. The punishment of your iniquity is accomplished, O daughter of Zion. He will no longer send you into captivity. Let's pray. O Lord Christ, we ask that you would reveal yourself through your word and by your spirit. That we would humble ourselves before you and your word. We ask that we would not just be hearers, but that we would be doers. In your name, Amen. May be seated. As noticed within the candles, we are in Advent season. And in each Lord's day, we are acknowledging a fundamental aspect to the kingdom of God. We have heard of our hope. We have heard of our peace. Last week we heard of our joy and what joy is. We summarized the message of joy, at least from the integrity of lamentations, in a prayer. May the fame of the church go out among the nations because of her beauty. And may all know that our beauty is what God's splendor bestowed on us. That's from Ezekiel 16. And the larger message that tied into that is that the church is the joy of the world, that is her responsibility. And because of that, it is because of that that it is because of her glory that she becomes that joy. Because joy is one response to her glory, not in and of herself, but as she is the body of the glorious one, the Christ. Now, this week we acknowledge love. And I want to begin by just having a survey of chapter four. And we have a few questions to ask as we start to get into that. Chapter 4 is much like chapter 2, which we looked at last week. Last week, if you remember, it was just a going down and down and down and down and down into the dirt. It was a demise, it was a demolition, it was an undoing. And the lowest point, I'm sure you remember from last week was the starving children falling in the streets, like those who are wounded, swooning and collapsing. Well, this week we see a demise again. And I ask you to turn your attention to the verses that I sound off here. There is a demolition of the temple in verse 1. And then that same temple language of stones and infrastructure, the The bones that make up the body are slowly broken and crumble and fade into pieces as we go through the rest of the verses. It moves to the young men who are kinds of stones that tumble down in verse 2. It moves then from young men and young women to the cruelty of starving mothers in their starvation. They Do not feed their infants because there's not enough food for everyone, so they feed themselves. And that leads to verse 4 where the infants die. We ascend in some way, at least within a social hierarchy, in verse 5 and turn ourselves to the rich, but we see that they are no better off. Just as the poor, naked they came into the world, and naked they will return when all of their belongings are stripped from them. It will be the same thing with the priesthood, those who are in the upper echelon of society. Those who are perhaps cleaned with a lather of riches They are now black with soot from fires in verses seven and eight. And then we turn to verse ten. And in verse 10, we find a startling image that because of the starvation, they have had to cook their own children There is a cannibalism and it seems like this should be the lowest point of the demolition of the city. And yet the verses continue, and we're going to need to account for that. If you or I were writing this and we wanted the last thing to be said, the most the the consummate thing of the collapse, the lowest you could get in a city, you and I would have put that as the final example. But that is not the final example here. We end up having, if you keep going along, you will discover verse 20, and it is my argument that this is in fact the lowest point. The collapse of the king is the lowest point. When we correctly understand the significance Of the phrasing here and who the king represents, we can see that this is in fact the lowest point. I started the event for you in verse 19. Because it helps you to clue in to some of what is happening historically. In verse 19, it mentions our pursuers were swifter than the eagles of the heavens. They pursued us on the mountains and lay in wait for us in the wilderness And then we move into verse twenty and we see that there's this anointed one, the Christ of the Lord, the one who is the breath of their nostrils allows them to stay alive. Their animating being is caught in somebody's pits. Well if you want to see what I think they're talking about You could turn to 2 Kings 25, 4-7, Jeremiah 39, 1-10, or Jeremiah 52, 1 through 11, and we have here before us the life of Zedekiah Let me read for you one account. But the army of the Chaldeans pursued the king, and they overtook him in the plains of Jericho. All his army was scattered from him. So they took the king and brought him up to the king of Babylon at Riblah, and they pronounced judgment on him. Then they killed the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes Put out the eyes of Zedekiah, bound him with bronze feathers, and took him to Babylon. And you could read in Jeremiah how he dies in prison. And though I give you that account as a historical coloring of what you see here in poetic form and lamentation. And though it does speak about him having his sons killed right before his eyes, and his eyes then taken out, notice the repetition of eyes there. I know that you are still asking, is that worse than cannibalism of your own children? Why do you say that this is the consummation, consummate demolition of the city? How could you think the capture and imprisonment of Zedekiah is a lower point than what we see in verse 10? And I acknowledge that the cannibalism is surely the most horrific, but I want you to look at how the Holy Spirit himself characterizes the events in 20. He says, the breath of our nostrils, the Christ of the Lord, was called in their pits, of whom we said, under his shadow we shall live among the nations. What you have to do here is you have to see that if you have arrived at the historical meaning of this text, if you were able to see that it is Zedekiah. If you know the names of his children, if you know where he was killed and the weapon with which he was killed, if you had archaeological artifacts Within your home or you visited them in the museum, you have still not arrived at the meaning that the Holy Spirit intends for you to glean from verse 20. It is when we glean that meaning that you are able to see that this is the consummate demolition of the city. If you were, in fact, to look up this king, you would find that he is not a good king. He is no one's breath. He is actually a breath of death leading his people to idolatry. He was no wing to shelter them. He was no shadow to take them out of the heat. But notice that it doesn't use the word Zedekiah in our account in Lamentations. And the Holy Spirit wants you to look at this in its own integrity. It uses a general title that you would move from the man up into the office And that you would move past the office to see that this is but a symbolic rendering leading us to the eternal Christ. Zedekiah was the ongoing symbol that the eternal Christ was with his people. As long as you could see A Davidic Messiah. You knew that God was with you. In other words, let me put it this way: is it really appropriate to say, in the ultimate sense, that in and of himself Zedekiah is the breath of his people? That he is their life? Would it be true to say that the kings, any of them, are in and of themselves the shield and the wing and the shadow of the nations, in the ultimate sense? It would be idolatry if you understood this in one way. But it is not idolatry if you understand it in the real way. You may only say that about this or that king as a figure of speech. The reality is that the king represents the true breath of God's people, and that is Christ's eternal spirit. The reality is that the king represents the true umbrage and shadow, who is the eternal Christ. And now you can begin to see why this is the lowest point. You may say to yourself, it is the lowest point when we lose our children by acts of cannibalism. But here it is quite clear that actually it would be the lowest point if you lose the eternal Christ in your presence. That is the ultimate demolition, is to have God Himself withdraw from you Because we all know that He is the true life and the true shadow In this sense, this is the lowest part of the scripture of Lament. That's exactly how the author lines it up. And so we could, if we wanted to put voice from another witness at another time to this, we could say that these people are exclaiming, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? The death of the king was the great symbol that the eternal Christ Himself had removed his protection from his people. It is the ultimate collapse. And we may say with an unnerving reality that their breath or animating spirit, capital S, had truly withdrawn. And it was symbolized by the fall of the king. We do have to ask whether that is the main lesson we are to gather from this passage. In other words, do we just stay in the dirt? Do we just keep grinding our teeth? The point of seeing the collapse of the city is not that we would remain low. It was not that they would remain low. It is not that Christ removes his protection forever from this group of people or from his people in any generation. In the face of this, this is why we read together 22A, take a look at this verse. Look at how quickly it switches. The punishment of your iniquity is accomplished, O daughter of Zion, he will no longer send you into captivity. And it reminds us and it sends us back. Into the promise from chapter 3. Do you remember that promise from chapter 3? We need to keep going back to the center of the center of the poem of lamentations to hear these words in the face of seeing the king collapse and all that that means. The Lord is good to those who wait for him. To the soul who seeks him. It is good that one should hope and wait quietly for the salvation of the Lord. Let him sit alone and keep silent, because God has laid it on him. For the Lord will not cast off forever, however, though he causes grief, yet he will show compassion according to the multitude of his mercies For he does not afflict willingly, nor grieve the children of men. You remember all of this from the sermon before? It must be read in light of this too, with the collapse of the king. Even with that, and all of its meaning that we've unearthed here and what it means with the with withdraw with the with the withdrawal of the eternal Christ. With the withdrawal of the eternal Christ, we still do not grieve, not without hope. Now you have this reality that is before you. You have a reality that is quite serious. You could go to this Like a professor at Yale University, and you could see all of the history that is right there But we have moved beyond that by way of the spirits, and we see to which these things point, or to whom. That it is the eternal Christ over his church. And the Holy Spirit, as we have moved into that, He wants us to take away lessons. He wants us to take away a main point. And he wants every generation to see the same thing. And that is something that has already been laid out for you. It is important for you to see here in Lamentation the Eternal Christ. It is the first step. You must see here, even though you call this the Old Testament, you must see that this is the eternal Christ who is working with his people. And here is why. Here's the first lesson and why. Because with earlier heretics, and I try to say this, I'm trying to say this generously, I'm not saying this applies to everybody, but there is a kind of large-scale movement. Or inclination that with earlier heretics, the church today seems to confess that the God of the Old Testament was unrelenting and cruel wrath in the name of justice, but that today God is different. But that today we have Christ Jesus, who is compassionate, he's full of overlooking merciful love, full of grace. It's okay. It's okay is the attitude we think that he he would have towards us as opposed to this God over here in this other testament. And remember, this is the lesson. It is important for you to see that this in Lamentations chapter 4 is the eternal Christ. It is not different. He is not different than the Christ that you are celebrating this Christmas. The same Christ who took upon himself human nature is the same Christ who handed the saints of lamentations the cup of his anger. It is the same Christ. In other words, and this really, if you've been waiting for Jesse, when are you going to get to love? Here it is. I had to do all of that background work so that we could get to this moment of love. It is the eternal Christ. He acts with his saints as the same person in all generations. And what that means is that since we think that in some sense God is different today than he was then, we miss how God has stayed the same throughout every generation and how he exercises his love. We look at Lamentation and we see something strange and we don't recognize Him. But then, when we realize that it is the eternal Christ, that He has been the same throughout all generations. We realize that we have forgotten the fuller message of the eternal Christ and what his love actually looks like with his church, and it is this: Have you forgotten the exhortation which speaks to you as sons? My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor be discouraged when you are rebuked by him. And this is it: for whom the Lord loves, he chastens. And he scourges every son whom he receives. And I'm telling you that this makes all of the difference in the world. It is the same Christ through time. It is the same chastening love and lamentations as it is in your life today. Because it is the same Christ. Now, this is very serious to see this kind of love of God And it makes me want to change the language that we originally began with, which was, okay, well what lessons can we pull from this passage? And I want to move away from the language of learning lessons to the language of confrontation. Because here you come face to face with the eternal Christ, who was witnessed both in Lamentations and in the book of Hebrews, as it is the same Christ. You do not so much sit here quietly receiving a lesson, but rather you are confronted with who He is. Even to you now. The same God that you see here. I love when people start to speak this way about confrontation because it turns things on its head, and I've heard some folks say We have made a great mistake as a church in saying that we read the scriptures. Because it is actually the scriptures that read us. We talk about how we interpret the scriptures, when it is really the scriptures that interpret us. And what they're getting at when they say that is we are coming into a confrontation with Christ and His Word by way of His Spirit. And he will read you. The eternal Christ, therefore, in the confrontation, as we come face to face with him Whether it is in the witness of Lamentation or the Witness of Hebrews, the eternal Christ faces you with at least three questions from our scripture this morning. And the very first one is this, especially during this Christmas time, who do you say that Jesus is? He poses that question in the middle of Mark, who do you say that I am? Who do people say that I am? Who do you say that Jesus is when you begin to see him spanning all generations and times and acting amongst his people? Do you believe that Jesus Christ is the eternal Christ that was even present as the breath of his people in lamentations? That's the second confrontation. The first is, who do you say Jesus is? We go deeper when we ask the second question, and that is, can you confess that Jesus Christ is the eternal Son of God, the eternal Christ that was even present? as the breath of his people and as the shadow and wing of those people in lamentations. In other words, we have to ask this question during this season. Is the Jesus Christ of Christmas the eternal Christ of lamentations? If he is, and he is, then you may perhaps need to begin relating to him far differently than you have. If the eternal Son, here is the last question, number three, if the Eternal Son has made himself present to you even in chastening, And that chastening is in fact love, then what does that mean for you? You see what happens. When you see that it is the eternal Christ throughout the entire witness of the scriptures, both old and new, your picture of who Christ is expands. And you must realize, particularly from Lamentation, that if there is any chastisement in your life, and if that chastisement is in fact from the eternal Christ, then it is done in love. And you have to ask the question, does love change the way that you look at everything? In other words, the question is this: if it is love, then what? If it is the love of the Son, then what? How does that change everything for you? If the tough things in your life are his love, then how does that change things for you? If the pain in your life is his love, then how does that change how you deal with that pain If your current confusion is love, that you might be brought into understanding and wisdom In other words, that it is his love, then what? What will that mean for you? How will you have to change your posture in this world? How will you look different? How will you be formed by the reality of Christ coming to you and saying, the misery in your life is my love? How will that change you? You would have to start to say to yourself and you would have to start to believe that you are not a victim of random political actions. Or cosmic pain. You are not a pinball bouncing around in some irrational machine You are a responsible agent who can take responsibility for the things you think, the things that you do, the things that you don't do. You can take responsibility for your repentance and for growing in wisdom. Because you know that the God of the universe underlies all of your actions, forming you into wisdom. You know that you are a son and a daughter of the living God and that you were being made wise. You can say at every point of pain that though you suffer in this moment, it is not comparable to the glory which awaits us as his bride. That these are necessary birth pains until we are formed into the express image of Jesus Christ. Or the exact image. We can begin to say all of those things as opposed to feeling like we are just victims being pushed around by whatever somebody with power wants us to do. Realizing that it is love, even in the midst of our misery, changes everything for humanity, for his people. It would have to. How could you cook your children and still be a disciple of the Christ? That is an ultimate question for every human to consider. How can you not lose your faith? How can you not lose your hope? And how can you not lose your love When you have to eat your children. There is something in faith that overcomes even that Because they are able to see even in that pain and that anguish who Christ really is in his love Now that is a great mystery. That is something that we have not had to face in that exact form. And yet you see that that reality is present. It is present in the same life that you live. It is present before you just as the eternal Christ is present. What we've done then In this chapter of Lamentations, chapter 4, is that we have seen through the historical reality of Jerusalem's demolition We have seen the king's crown go to the dirt. Yet this was but a figure for him who is eternal, and it is a figure for his chastening love on his people. We have moved from discovering a historical name of Zedekiah to discovering him who is outside of history and spans all time, who is the eternal Christ, always with his saints. We have discovered the greatest truth for Christmas, and that is this. Jesus the Christ, the Son of God, He is the same yesterday. He is the same today. He will be the same at Christmas. And he will be the same forever in his love. Let us pray