And this I pray, that your love may abound still more and more in knowledge and all discernment, that you may approve the things that are excellent, that you may be sincere and without offense to the day of Christ. Being filled with the fruit of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God. Amen. Please pray with me O Christ, we thank you for your presence now by your Spirit, and we ask that you would act through your word. We ask that you would be our teacher. In Christ's name, Amen. You may be seated. Two weeks ago, we started this new series, and it was pointed out that in the latter chapters of this letter That Paul encouraged the original congregation to whom this letter was written, and that the Spirit encourages us now to see Paul as an example. As Paul follows Christ, we follow Paul. That's another way in which this is put. The first example that he set for us was his thankfulness. He is thankful to God for the great work that he is doing among that congregation. But the second thing was that he was thankful for the work of God in the actual congregation. He did not, therefore, neglect to give thanks out loud to God for what God is doing in that group of people, that they would be encouraged to continue on the path that they were on. If you remember the path, they had chosen to even their own sacrifice to give to Paul while Paul was in prison. They even sent one of their beloved members to go and to be with Paul. His name was Epaphroditus. And it teaches us that we need to be thankful to God and to share our thanks of what God is doing in each other. that we could be encouraged. Especially within the reformed world, we can have an over-emphasis on total depravity only criticizing each other and acknowledging that we're sinners in the core of our beings. And when babies are born and they're crying, we say, oh, what a nice little sinner We say all these things among ourselves, and there's a place for that in acknowledging who we are as human beings, recognizing our condition, but there's also a place where we need to give credit where credit is due And credit is due to Christ as he works through his people. And so as we cooperate with him, we should be giving thanks to Christ and to each other for the great love and good deeds that we see being done in our midst. Now that was two weeks ago. Last week we got a chance to look or begin to look at the Apostle Paul's prayer. In verse number nine It says, In this I pray. And we noticed a couple different things about his prayer, that it was all about love, that the Christian community is to abound more and more in love. This love, real love, is divine. It's given by God. God sends us this love. This love is in knowledge as you if you were to keep reading in verse 9, that you would abound still more and more in knowledge. And by this we learn that real love is governed by knowledge. It's governed by knowledge of who God is and what his plans are and his design. for human beings. And then finally, real love is insightful. You could have God's will declared to you, but and it is oftentimes in general principle But then it still needs to be applied appropriately depending on the person and the place and the time and the circumstances and the situation if they're two years old or four years old, if they're lazy or if they're a perfectionist All of these considerations must be taken into mind if we are going to have real love that is insightful. That is to say, if we are going to have real love in applying the will of God competently Not like a blunt instrument. And I do pray, and we prayed even last week, that all of you would be growing specifically in this kind of love. Now there's a question before us this week. This week we are to take the next step. And we're going to take this step by step in this paragraph. Next week we're going to be in the same paragraph. I really don't like to do that very often. I like to do larger sections. But here the words are so meaningful and they are defining what he's doing in the rest of the letter. I'm kind of deciding to camp out on individual words here so that we're not lost in the future. That's why I focused on a single verse last week, and I'm going to focus on half a verse this week, but I promise this is not a habit. We'll get back to the normal speed here in a bit, but this is appropriate at this point. The next step that we have to take is that we have to observe verse number 10. You can take a look in your scriptures there, and you can see that he says, that you may approve the things that are excellent. Now here's the main question that we have to have before us as we get on a roll here. Why does Paul pray for the love of the Philippians to abound more and more in knowledge and discernment, as we read in verse number nine? Why does the Holy Spirit encourage us to pray for each other and to endeavor after a love that abounds more and more in knowledge and in discernment? Why? Well, verse number 10 is giving us the answer. It's so that you may approve the things That are excellent. Now it's not the only answer. There's another verse coming up where it's so that you may be pure and blameless. And then there's another verse, so that you may glorify God. There's all these stages that we are to be going through as Christians, and we're just in the first parts of this process. But this is the first answer. Why are you to be growing in a love that is characterized or featured by knowledge and discernment? It's so number one, you may approve the things that are excellent. Why is it so important? Really, you could think about it communally. It is in order that you as a congregation, you as a community, you as the city of God would approve the things that are excellent. Now, that's the question. Why do we need to grow in this love? It's so that you can approve the things that are excellent. That's the answer. But another question immediately arises because that phrase that we would approve the things that are excellent is not easy to understand on the face of it. What does that mean? Do you approve the things that are excellent? Are we as a community approving the things that is excellent? I bet you have something in your mind as to what it could mean. But what does it exactly mean? That's the very first thing I want to do here this morning, is I just want us to know what Paul means by that first phrase. So that we can understand this next step of what our love is to lead to as a congregation. So take a look at verse number 10. We're going to break this down. He says in verse 9, in this I pray that your love would still abound more and more in knowledge and all discernment. Why? So that, or in order that you may approve the things that are excellent. The first thing you see there is a transition with the so that. In verse number ten, that you may approve. And that's a great translation because Paul is showing us the purpose of why he would want This congregation and why the Spirit wants us to grow in love. We grow in love in order to accomplish a further purpose. We don't just know God's will. We don't just know how to apply God's will In discernment, it moves even further that we would be the kind of people that can accomplish a specific purpose. So then what is the purpose? The purpose is that we would be able to approve the things that are excellent. Now that's a funny way of putting it. Do you know what that word approve there means? It is used throughout literature in the ancient world in the classical Greek, it was used specifically for evaluating metals to determine the properties and the purity. If you were to perhaps go today to a a shop where you needed to sell a gold necklace for whatever reason, and in the movies, if they're doing that, or if it's a diamond, they get out a little glass and they look And they're evaluating and they're assessing, they're approving as to whether or not this is a certain number of carats or if this is a real diamond, or if this is counterfeit or whatever. And that's how the word is used, not only in classical Greek, but in the Greek of the Bible. It was used for testing money to be sure that it wasn't counterfeit. If you wanted to at another time, you could look at Luke 14, 19, and it is used of testing the quality of animals, in that case, namely oxen. And in Luke 12, 56, it is used of sort of assessing the state of the sky or analyzing the weather. And so it has to do with testing to verify or to prove or to determine something. And what he is saying here What the Apostle Paul is saying when he reveals his prayer, and what the Spirit is revealing to us this morning, is that the Spirit is working in you as Christians. That you would have the capability to evaluate and to determine the things that are the best, the things that are excellent. That's how he is equipping you as a Christian. And all of those pieces before are leading to this first purpose. The things which are excellent. You could say it this way. The idea then is to be able to set proper value on things. To know what is valuable, to know what is not valuable, to know what is more valuable, to know what is most valuable. To know what is worthwhile, to know what is vital, to know what is excellent. What is the thing that really, really, really matters? That is what the Holy Spirit is doing inside of you as Christians who are abounding more and more in love, knowledge, and discernment. You are becoming a group of people. that may approve the things which are excellent. You may you are developing judgment So if you end up putting all of this together, Christ is teaching you that as Christians you should grow in love, governed by God's will, and competently applied So that personally and as people you assess and evaluate and choose the superior way. You will have that particular capability. Now that's going to make a really big difference next week when we can see. how how this plays out in the bigger picture of what Christ is accomplishing on the day of Christ Jesus and how it's all contributing to you being a a field full of the fruits of righteousness unto the glory of God. That's all to come in the weeks to come. But the main thing that Paul wants you to see here, that the Spirit wants you to see here, is that you are meant. As Christians to assess and to choose the best way That is the kind of creature that Christ is making you by way of his word. that you are going to be the kind of creature, and it has already begun, that you are able to assess your lives morally, know, and choose the most excellent way. Now, this is a little surprising, I imagine, uh, and it sounds pretty philosophical for me to talk about assessment. And evaluation, all these abstract nouns, that can feel a little impersonal. Some of you may have trouble getting your head around this because you thought life with Christ was primarily an emotional surge. And um you just like the emotions or the feelings of it. I'm not sure if that's you or not. Feelings have a place. But here I'm talking about an act of the mind. Talking about a act of judgment and of evaluation and of assessing things, of being able to see how parts fit together, which can be surprising to hear that that is a part of what the Holy Spirit is doing in us, that we are becoming those who are able to deliberate and determine the most excellent way to live. So I want to point out a couple other places in Scripture where the Apostle Paul says the exact same thing but in different words. I think it could be really helpful for us to understand what the Holy Spirit is doing in you as a Christian. And so, if you'd like, you're welcome to turn to Ephesians 5, or you can just listen to me read it, and I'll emphasize the portion that is the most important here. It uh begins in uh like this. He says, walk as children of light, learning to what is learning what is pleasing to the Lord. And then down in verse 15 of verse 5, he says this: be careful how you walk, not as unwise men, but as wise Making the most of your time, because the days are evil, so then do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. Here there is an evaluation and an assessment that has to go on in the midst of a particular circumstance or situation for you to be able to know what is the best thing or what is the will of the Lord in this particular situation. That is what Christ is bringing you to. Or in 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 21. This one is even more explicit. He says, examine everything carefully. This life of the mind can be very surprising to realize this is a part of what Christ is doing in us. But we are to examine everything carefully, and you are to only hold fast those things which are the best. It's the same thought we see throughout Paul's writings. as to what Christ is doing in you as a human being as you abound more and more in love in the way that we have specifically defined it. Now, why don't we come down out of the clouds a little bit? Why don't we put our feet on the ground? And why don't we look at a couple different instances in the letter where the Philippians are encouraged to choose the best way? Where they would have had to evaluate and they would have had to deliberate and they would have to exercise themselves as mature Christians and choosing the most excellent way. If you wanted to, you could take a look at 1 Corinthians 13. You could see Paul says there is a more excellent way, and then he gives his love chapter. That would give you some examples. But here in Philippians, we have some examples. of the Apostle Paul showing us what it would look like to examine everything carefully and only to hold fast what is best. So take a look at Philippians chapter 2. This is kind of the heartbeat of this letter. And here the apostle is concerned that they would, in fact, evaluate and choose, assess, what is the most excellent way. So you'll see contrast. Let's begin in chapter 2, verse 1. Therefore, if there is any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit If any affection and mercy fulfill my joy by being like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. And here's the contrast in verse number three. If you're not carefully examining, if you're not assessing of what is the greatest worth in a particular situation, it is quite possible due to your natural human impulses, you will go ahead down the path of verse number three. Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit. But in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than himself. Let each of you look out not only for his own interests, but also the interests of others. And then verse number five. is at the heart of it. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Now that's obviously Paul taking you through a deliberative process of assessing how it should how is it that I should function in community? And to answer that, he points you to Jesus Christ and how Jesus Christ functioned in community as the most excellent way. It is approved of that thing which is most excellent. But the alternative here that you could do on an impulse is to think that your interests, your ambitions, your concerns are of ultimate importance. And instead, like instead of what Jesus Christ does, building up the community, You can take all of those things to an elevated level and you can destroy the community that is around you. But instead, the Apostle Paul is encouraging right here in chapter 2 the Philippians to not take that path, but to always assess and choose the more excellent way, which tends to be the more difficult way. Because you have to give up things and sacrifice. It's not unusual. I I wonder if you've heard stories like this yourself. It's not unusual to hear that a church is doing very, very well, and so well that they had many members attending, or there's a thriving different forms of ministry. And so they decided to have a building uh plan. And they built the building for there to be room for everybody And then in order for them to be able to finish that building plan, they decided to put together a decorating committee. And the decorating committee consisted of ten different people. And five of them wanted the sanctuary painted this color, and five of them wanted the sanctuary painted this color. And over paint color of the sanctuary, each side begins to gather to themselves influence by recruiting different members in the congregation. And now there becomes strong enough sides and a strong enough argument, and it goes beyond colors to what is this church really about? And before you know it, they don't need a new sanctuary Because the church has split in half and now they have plenty of room in the old one. That is not an unusual story That's a story about selfish ambition and conceit and looking at your own interests above others. But that's what Paul is saying. Paul is saying that as you, as a Christian body, as you have been called by Jesus Christ, To have love that abounds more and more in knowledge and discernment, that it would lead to you being a group of people who are able to see that there is a more excellent way. And that somebody is going to eventually say, I don't care about the color. Let us just worship God. Or the five that wanted fuchsia. Realize that fuchsia's never a good idea. And they give over to the other five and whatever color they wanted. As long as it's not black, that would be terrible. Well you get the or that's good for fishing. That's a practical example of how this plays out and the kind of people that Jesus Christ is making you. Now Paul gives that example. Paul is concerned that they would follow a more excellent way that is followed by Jesus Christ Himself, that truly leads to glory. But it will require sacrifice. Another one is is Philippians chapter 4, verse 2. And I've brought this up before. Uh I'll begin in verse number one, for one, therefore, my beloved and longed for brethren, my joy and crown So stand fast in the Lord, beloved. I implore Euodia, and I implore Syntici. Now notice the same language as chapter 2, to be of the same mind. Remember that phrase? Have the same mind as Christ. Have the same mind as each other. Here the same phrase is being used as a practical example of what it's going to look like to choose the most excellent way. He implores these two women to be of the same mind in the Lord. Because they're in a conflict. And I've brought that up to you before. And now if you go down to verse number eight, here's the more excellent way. This is how Christians evaluate particular situations and instead they will focus on things that are true. They will seek nobility. They will seek what is just and what is pure and what is lovely and what is of good report. And if there's any virtue, if there's anything praiseworthy, that's the thing they're going to meditate on. Which is not normal human nature. Normal human nature is that you have your radio on, but you don't even hear the songs because you're running through your mind all of the terrible things about the person. Who slighted you at church that morning? Or all of the terrible attributes of your husband or your wife or your sister or your brother or your friend. But Paul is saying, if we have the Word of God, if we're able to apply it with discernment, we then move into a diff into being a different kind of people who are to obey who have a different option, a Christian alternative, that we're able to meditate on these things, these things which we learned and received and heard and saw and Paul himself. And it is then that the God of peace is with us. Those are two practical examples of us becoming what Christ is making us, of being the kind of people that examine everything carefully. And we hold fast to that which is best. We are those people who approve of those things which are excellent. I hope that you can see this. Christians, by God's grace, you are to grow in love grounded in God's will with competent application. In order to be a people who knows what is excellent. To know what is excellent. That's where it begins. There's other steps, which we'll get into next week. But you are to be a group of people who knows what is excellent. Now do you know how rare that is? You know how rare it is for a person, not just to know the difference between good and bad, But to know the difference between good, bad, and best? Can you think of different examples where Christ has to continually teach people, not because they don't know good and bad, but because they don't know good, bad, and best? Think of the Pharisees who strained a gnat but swallowed a camel. Think uh they knew what was good and was bad, but they elevated something to be the best that really should not have been the best Or think about where Christ had to confront the Pharisees, where they confronted him for plucking grains of wheat on the Sabbath. where they thought this is a kind of working. And then he points out, well you know what's better than what you're pointing out is that we wouldn't starve. And you know what's better than what you're pointing out is that I would heal this man's withered hand. And you know what's better than what you're pointing out is that I would help my brother get his ox out of the ditch. That's the whole point. Is that Jesus Christ knew how to approve that which was excellent, not just good, bad, but he knew always what was best. And you were being created in the image of Christ To be able to do those same things. That is quite rare and it is quite unnatural. But you are filled with the supernatural. You are new creations being made into something different. You are the new Israel that shall be the light of the world. And these are the basic steps to you being that light. We'll get into that next week. Now the other day I was speaking with one of the children. I think um some of my family were going out and so it was just me and a um maybe one of the children. And when that happens, usually we can do something that's a little bit more exciting because I don't have a food bill for f six or whatever. It's just a food bill for two. And so I'll say, well, why don't we just get pizza? Or they'll say, Why don't we do a movie night? And they said that. They said, Well, why don't we do a movie night? And it can be just you and me. I said, okay, that sounds great. That sounds so exciting. I would love to do a movie night. And then they gave the caveat. They said, but Dad We can have a movie night, but we are not please don't make me watch another horse movie Now the reason why they said that, uh and I think you probably know because you know me a little bit, the reason why they said that is because I really enjoy inspiring horse movies. I don't know what it is. I mean everybody has their weird thing, I guess. And if you know me, then my inspiring horse movie that I must see is Sea Biscuit. Holly says the book is better, but I have, you know, I have trouble reading those kind of books. And there are two lines that get me every time in that movie. We didn't watch a horse movie just to close that story up. We watched something else. But there are two lines that get me every time in that movie. And here's the first line. They're speaking, the horse trainer is speaking about a horse. And the horse looks like it's no good. Maybe it should be shot in the head. Maybe we should just uh it should train for other horses or something like that. It could be a nice pet for one of you. But he says this, he says, this is and this always catches me. The trainer says, just because a horse is a little beat up doesn't mean that you throw his whole life away. And that always catches me. And then he follows that up and he says, He's good for something. Now we all know when we're watching the movie, if you everyone watch this with me, this is the moment when I cry in the movie, because it's so human, and we all feel that he's not really just talking about a horse, he's talking about himself He was pretty banged up himself, and he was losing his place within society. But his point stands that just because a horse is a little beat up, it doesn't mean you throw his whole life away. He is good for something. So that's what they did in that movie. They looked for what was good in Sea Biscuit. They took him to a racetrack. And if you remember the movie, he's all over the racetrack. He doesn't know what he's doing. He probably has the worst time possible. So then the trainer just kind of trying to puzzle through this and figure this out and make it work The trainer decided that he would take him to the countryside. Do you remember this? The trainer decided that he would take Seabiscuit to the countryside and he had a a jockey hop up on The on C biscuit and he said, I just want you to take this horse. They're having a private conversation without the owner of the horse, standing next to him, holding the saddle before they take off. And the trainer looks up at the jockey and he says I want you to take this horse and I just want you to run. He's all tied up in his head, and he's forgotten what it means to be a horse. horse. He just needs to remember what it means to be a horse again. And there's this beautiful scene where the horse is all over the place, but then Just as he comes outside of these woods and there's this huge pasture, getting back to the nature of what it means to be a horse, he hits the rocket jets and the jockey goes, woo-woo! And they're off. He remember what it meant to be a horse. He just needed to learn what it meant again. Now I love those scenes and I love those quotes because they capture immediately when I'm thinking about this, I think of myself and I think about you. Those things capture what Christ is doing with you, his people. Just because you were a little beat up Doesn't mean that you should have your whole life thrown away. You could imagine, I imagine this sometimes, of Christ saying those words to me. I know, Jesse, that you're a little beat up, but I'm not going to throw your whole life away. I hope that you can imagine him saying those same things to you, because that's really what's underneath of this passage. That's the tenderness and the love. Your God has determined that you were good for something, that you didn't need to be put out to pasture. He knew that you're all tied up in your head and that you have forgotten what it means to be a human being. He knows you And so he progressively is making you into the greatest creature he's ever made. He did not leave you in your sin and your misery, but he has sent you a redeemer, that you would be saved. And do you know the whole message this morning, even though it sounds a bit abstract, Sounds like a little bit of a philosophical lecture. When we start to talk about it this way, we can realize that there's a lot of heart here. That the Lord Jesus Christ in restoring you to your full humanity, one of the steps is this That you are becoming the kind of people who are able to evaluate and deliberate and acknowledge what are the things that are most excellent. It happens to be a place wherein you find your nobility and your dignity. That you, above all the other creatures, are able to know what God's eternal will is. The Dauphin does not do that. Not in the way that we do. And neither do any of the other creatures, except perhaps other rational creatures like the angels. But we're said to even be in a position where we shall judge them. I hope that you can begin to see the kind of preacher that you are. And that Paul is tapping into this in this particular letter. He's saying that you are going to be a group of people where your love is going to abound more and more It's going to be the kind of love that is governed by the will of God that has been revealed. He's going to make you into the group of people who know how to apply that will in a way that brings life and not death And therefore, you will be known and marked and demarcated and have a badge as a nation and as a community and as a congregation of those who know how to judge what is best. The Old Testament puts this in terms of you will be the envy of the world. How is your assessment these days? Have you, as Bill brought up earlier, have you forgotten what it means to be a human being? Are you a little tied up in your head? Do you need to get out into the open spaces of Christ again and just run? 1 Thessalonians 5. 21 captures well the same message here in Philippians. You are to be a group of people that evaluate and you hold fast what is best. So what is best in your family relationships right now? And what are the things that aren't the best that you keep choosing? What are the things that aren't the best that you keep thinking about yourself? And what is the way of excellence that Christ Christ calls you to, not only on how you think about yourself, but how do you relate to your sisters or your brothers or your husbands or your wives? What is that excellent way to which he calls you in your church relationships? What are ways in which you really haven't considered the interests of others greater than your own? Where you haven't yet taken on the mind of Jesus Christ. And what about in your relationship with your surrounding community? I wonder if we sometimes as human beings get lost, like Bill said in the lies of the devil. And sometimes those lies come through real strong because they are emotional impulses that we think are true. Emotional bouts of anger which blind us and create tunnel vision as to what is the best thing. You know when you're angry you can't determine what's best? Anyone learned that lesson yet? And the same thing is true when you're melancholy. These can tip you and they can distort you. Is your evaluation distorted? Because that is not where it will that's not where it will stay, and it is not where it belongs. If there is anything that's going on here in this message this morning, and there is, it is a call for you You to recognize, as Bill pointed out to us earlier, who you are. Remember the story from Seabiscuit that God has not thrown you away, even though you're a little banged up And that he's showing you what it means to be a human being again. And that begins with love, a very specific kind of love based on his will. And it ultimately goes to the point where you are a group of people that understands what the will of the Lord is, his most excellent and perfect will. As Paul prayed in the past, so too, I'll pray for you here in a moment, in the present, that you would be careful how you walk, not as unwise, but as wise. Making the most of your time because the days are evil. So then you would not be foolish, but you would understand what the will of the Lord is, what is best. Please pray with me.