We'll hear now Paul's prayer that he mentioned last week. And this I pray that your love may abound still more and more in knowledge and all discernment. That you may approve the things that are excellent, that you may be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ, being filled with the fruits of righteousness which are by Jesus Christ. To the glory and praise of God. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Christ, we ask that by your Spirit you would Work through your word this morning. Help us to discover what it means to be a new creation and what you are doing and the pouring out of your spirit on us. And I pray, Lord, that through your preached word, you would have us to bear fruit, especially the fruit of love. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Maybe see them. If you were to imagine that last week we were all sitting around a table together. As if we were going to uh eat a delicious and robust dinner. What I had uh done in us feasting upon the word together Was I placed right in the center of a table an image for you to contrast and compare your life and the thoughts of this passage? It was an image of a single mother Who finally had some money to buy herself some nice shoes. But then when she woke up in the morning, a puppy chewed them up, and she said, just very humanly, Can I have anything nice? And we related that to what can happen in the church, that people can chew us up. And that is not meant to be that way. We're not meant to be chewed up by each other. But what can happen is we can start to view each other as competition. And if our desires become large enough, and and this always happens to us at one time or another, where our desires become so large that we just begin to see each other as obstacles Or as just tools to use. And the Apostle Paul is bringing to us A consideration where we would not fall or give in to the temptation of living like that as a community. He's actually not Accusing anybody of anything here in the Philippian letter, and I haven't accused you of anything. But we all know that there are temptations that arise to where we could chew each other up I bet you it's already happened this morning in some degree, and for some of us. And so last week we were looking at how the Apostle Paul addresses this, and he did so by his example. His example was that he had a thankful heart. His heart was thankful to God, because God is the source of all things that are good. But Paul didn't just leave his thankfulness before him and our triune God. The Apostle Paul is exemplary for us in that he shared his thankfulness to God About this specific congregation, and we are encouraged to do the same thing with each other, is that as you see God working through those who are around you, you would give thanks. You would do so to give true thanks, not in hypocrisy, but sincere thanks to God. But you would let those whom got through whom God is working, you'd let them hear it too, so that they have the opportunity to be encouraged. Life is difficult enough. It doesn't need to be more difficult by us not being an encouraging people. So that was the first step. It was thankfulness. It was thankfulness. It was thankfulness. This week we're going to take another step, and it is love, love, love. We're actually going to take um This week and at least next week, just to get through these uh 9 through 11 because everything is so condensed, it'll really set us up. to be able to understand the principles that Paul is using for the rest of the letter. So we're just going to be looking uh at part of this passage this morning. But the part we're looking at has love right there in the center. That's actually the larger picture to which Paul is appealing. You could think of thankfulness as as a one part under a larger umbrella of a life of love. Now you can see that right away. You can see I'm not off my rocker here this morning by taking a look at Philippians chapter 1 And you could begin in verse 8, actually, because here we see, it's very important for us to see the kind of person the apostle had become through Christ's ministry. He says in verse 8, for God is my witness how greatly I long for you all with the affection of Jesus Christ. Here we see a man who loves. And is in love with God and with this congregation. And then in verse 9, we see him coming out with a specific principle in his prayer. This is what the Apostle Paul, when he is by his bedside, these are the things that he says to God for this particular congregation that he loves. And it gives us insight into what our desire should be, our resolves, what we should want for each other, what we should pray for each other. He says in verse 9, and this I pray That your love may abound still more and more in knowledge and all discernment. And that's the only verse we'll deal with here this morning. Now saying that as Christians you should have a life of love. Anybody ever heard that? Hey Christians, you should have a life of love. It's pretty obvious. I think there's no Christian upon the face of the planet. It's hard to say no, but most Christians because there's weird people out there. But there there are most Christians, if not all, would be willing to say, yeah, my life should definitely be a life of love. It's obvious. And you could actually take a step forward beyond that Whether you're a Christian or not, it seems to me that everyone aspires to live a life of love, at least in what they say. So, if you looked at every movement, let's say activists' movement, that uh they have a cause that they want you to get behind, eventually they're going to come out with a sign, and you know what word it's going to have on it? Love. They're going to say love wins. They're going to say love is love. They're going to say something about love as a kind of final appeal that lets you know you should get on board because we all want love, right? We all love love. You can look at people seeking to justify their actions. It could be the most reprehensible actions, but if they really want to get off the hook, they're going to at some point in the conversation say to you something about love. But I loved her. I loved her too much So that we should live a life of love is actually quite obvious, and it would be quite boring for me to keep going on about it in that way. What is obvious also is that as Christians, you know that the love to which God calls you is not the same love that other people call love. I know that's obvious to you also. When you see the yard signs and it says love is love, I know you think inside your head, I think love is different than what they think love is. We're all on the same page with that. But there is a question that we could raise that we've never really gotten to talk about explicitly, and that is: well, what is the difference then? If I had a sign in my yard and it said love, and this person over here has a sign in their yard and it says love is love, what's the difference between what I'm saying with my sign and what they're saying with their sign? And that's what we need to consider here this morning: that we might have Christian love. That you might have Christian love. And it's going to come in three parts in this passage. It's basically here's your message. Your love is divine, the love that you have from Christ. Your love, Christian, is divine. Christian, your love is based on the truth. And Christian, your love is discerning. We're going to go on more in the next couple weeks, but this is a good start. Christian, your love is divine. Christian, your love is based on the truth. Christian, your love is discerning. Let's begin with your love is divine. This is inferred from the passage. I wonder if you could make the inference yourself. If you had to build a case On that this passage teaches that Christian love is divine, how would you build that case I believe that you could build the case this way. That the Philippian congregation, if you remember, fellowship with Paul in his ministry. And that word fellowship has a very specific meaning The way that it looked with boots on the ground was that they fellowshipped with him and that they became fellow workers. And fellow servants with him of Jesus Christ by sending to him specifically Apaphroditus that his needs would be met While he was in prison. Maybe he brought some food, maybe he brought some clothing, maybe he brought just some money. And Paul sees this as love that they are showing him. And so when you look at verse 9, Paul is not rebuking them for not having love. He's not saying, you don't have any love, you need a lot more love. That doesn't even make sense when you put it that way. To have a lot more means there is some. So he's not rebuking them. He's appealing to them, knowing what happens within their particular congregation, if you look at these other chapters, that yes, you have demonstrated love. But I want you to abound in love. I want you to have love and love and love. It's like, you see that kind of love? How it overflows, it is abounding. It would be like y you ordering an ice cream and you have a waffle cone and they just put a single scoop in there. That would be ice cream. But if you put scoop on the side and scoop on the side, that's ice cream, ice cream, ice cream. That's abounding in ice cream. And I think Paul even goes beyond that and he really just wants there to just be a lot of ice cream everywhere, just like me. But you get the picture. You didn't even need that picture. But you get the idea, and that's what he's saying to this congregation. And to make the case that this is divine love You just have to see the Apostle Paul wants these people to keep growing in love. Now, how is he going to get it for them? He prays and asks God to grant it. That means that this kind of love that the Apostle Paul is talking about is divine. That it is poured out on you as a congregation from Christ as a ministry to you. Did any of you get a chance? Uh maybe you didn't see over here, but when I was doing the baptism just a moment ago and I said their name and then I said and I baptized you in the name of the Father and the Holy Spirit. Did you see the water dripping? It signifies Christ sending his Holy Spirit to us. And that Spirit brings to us this kind of love A love that just keeps building and building and building. And so it is divine love. So the love you have as Christians is not natural to you. It is not a love that you are born with from those who are connected to the old Adam. It is a love that must be sent to you from above. It is a love that is given to you by the Holy Spirit, and therefore it is divine. That is the love that you have. And it is a love that is particularly a love that goes beyond just being civil with one another or toward religions. It finds its most consummate place and that you have now the capability, the ability. To love God and to love your neighbor for God's sake. That, my friends, doesn't come just from the right education or being brought up by the right family. That kind of love comes from Christ and it is divine. And so that's the love that Paul asks for. That's the first thing that I want you to see here, is that you Christians have a divine love. And let us, when you get a chance, would you just give thanks to God for that? Would you sing a hymn of thanks to Him? That you have that kind of love, that you're a new creation? Well, the second thing that we need to learn as Christians is that your love is based on the truth. Now this really blows everything out of the water in terms of how your culture talks about love. Not only is your love divine, but your love is based on the foundation of truth. You know where we get that. You can look again at verse 9. He says, And this I pray that your love may abound still more and more And then he adds and he says, it's not just abounding more and more, but it's abounding more and more surprised in knowledge. We don't usually see those two words lined up together and connecting. Usually we hear, well I had to, I finally learned, once I had grown up enough, to start setting my mind aside and follow my heart. I'm sure you've heard things like that. We don't usually see these things connected, but here in this passage it is connected. As you keep reading the passage, you can see that it is love in knowledge. You are already set apart in love because your love is sent by God. But that is not all. Your love as Christians is different because it is regulated and it is governed by knowledge. Now, knowledge of what? Well, when we look at this particular word that is used here, we can see that this word is primarily associated with God and His kingdom, knowledge of God and His kingdom, knowledge of what God, how He wants us to conduct ourselves. It can get pretty specific about God and about His kingdom Where do you find that knowledge? You find that knowledge, we've already gone through 2 Timothy, and that deposit that's been handed down to us from the prophets and the apostles. Him speaking to us in these latter days through his son, which have all been inscripturated or written down and preserved for us under the superintendence of the Holy Spirit. So to say that your love is Christian based on the truth is another way of saying that this is the truth, not a truth. And that your love is governed and regulated by what God has revealed within his holy word and his scriptures And this really changes things, doesn't it? Can you think of the ways that this changes how we think about love? What a demarcation between love in your front yard on the sign, and love is love in somebody else's Do you remember that time when Christ confronted the leaders who were teaching the scriptures wrongly? And he would say, You have heard that it was said. You wonder if the Pharisees and the Sadducees were standing right there and he was saying, You have heard that it was said, but I tell you the truth that You can do that same kind of thing with this section. You have heard that it was said that love was this, but I tell you the truth: that it is governed and regulated by the word, and so it is this. We could do that with just a couple remarks. I'd love to hear which ones you come up with. People say things like, or you have heard, I had to divorce my husband or my wife and be with this other person because we love each other. But the problem is that that can't be true. Because real love is regulated by the scripture, and let's just say in this particular case, what God has put together may not be torn apart. for any reason. There are specific reasons where it could be an act of love, but I'm saying in this case it wouldn't be No matter what they felt. I've heard people say in a same line like this, in considering divorce, well, if God didn't really want me to be with this man or this woman, then why did he grant us the gift of love when they're already married? Well, I'll tell you right now, you have heard that it was said, but I tell you the truth: that when our love is regulated and governed by the Word of God, that's not real love. That's not real love. That's childish impulse. It's like not being able to get through the grocery store line without buying something on one of those racks. Now I'm meddling, sorry. I mean how many of you really need those sunflower seeds? You don't even enjoy them. You like the thought of them You hear our culture seek to justify sodomy, or men thinking they are women, or women saying they are men, and they say this under the umbrella of love. Now there's a complex conversation that can happen there depending on each individual, but just speaking generally, that can't be real love Because real love is based on the knowledge that God made man and woman as two distinct sexes, and the story goes on about who belongs with who and what your identity is Love is regulated by the Word. The world says, or you have heard it was said, this person makes me feel a certain way, so I love them. You have the kind of love that says, even though this we, however, as uh Christians can't just accept that. We can't say this person makes me feel a certain way, and so I love them. This person makes me feel great, so I know that I really love them. That may or may not be true, but I don't have enough information yet. And actually, when we look at the scriptures and we allow the scriptures to regulate or govern our love We actually hear statements like this. Love your enemy. Pray for those who persecute you So it's far different than just an emotional high. And you thinking now that you really love. You would have to say, even though this kind of person treated me poorly, I will seek to bless them. That is Christian love. And it wouldn't come to you naturally. All of your feelings would reject the idea that the person who just did this to you, you're now going to bless them? It wouldn't even feel like love has how we define love within our culture, but because your love is governed or regulated by the scriptures, you would know that even if it felt like someone was pulling out your teeth while you were blessing the person and praying for them, you would know that you're actually a part of a genuine act of love. Love for God and love for your neighbor. We seek the good of those who persecute us. Now we've already read in the scriptures where we can see that Jesus explicitly gives and makes these connections between love and obedience. He says in John 15, 9 through 10, As the Father loved me, I also loved you. Abide in my love. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love. Wow. If you keep my commandments, you abide in my love. Our love is connected to the truth as Christians. So your love as Christians must be rooted in the truth of the scriptures. Now, if you take a step a bit deeper, we can begin to see our next point. Not only is your love divine, and not only is your love based upon the truth of the scriptures, but your love is meant to be discerning. Does everybody here know that the Apostle Paul didn't write this in English? He wasn't an English speaker. He didn't go to ESL at like a local Baptist church. This is a translation of Paul's letters. They were written in the Greek. The Greek word here that you see, I'm going to point out to you. Take a look at verse 9 again. And this I pray. Of course, that points out that your love is divine. That your love may abound still more and more in knowledge. It needs to be based on the truth. And then we have this last phrase for our sermon today. And all discernment. That word discernment there is uh survives in the English language and it uh has taken on different denotations and connotations in our language But it has survived and it is a word that we use where if you were to say, I had an aesthetic aesthetic experience, or they're very aesthetically minded. Does anybody know what that means? If we were to use it today in our culture, it means uh that we ha are inclined to things that are beautiful. If you want to just get back to specifically what this Greek word is trying to do here, you would say it's good looking. And that's the point here is that this Greek word is based on this idea of seeing something, of a sight, a perception. Or I think the closest you could get besides the word discernment, as you see here, is that you would have insight into things. Insight. In dash sight. And Paul's point here is that Christian love is discerning and insightful. Now what does that mean? It means this. Your love sees what is the particular will of God for the particular people that are around you. You are not a blunt object. You cut with precision. You're able to read a person and what their true good is. You know what God's will is specifically, and you don't over-generalize And then people just feel like they're stomped on by you instead of you being actually helpful. When you love this way, you peer Into the circumstances and know how to bring God's goodness into that specific situation for that specific person. That is how Christian love is worked out and displayed. We'll have those some other attributes that we can look at where this will build into a kind of knowing always the excellent thing to do or the best thing to do among many things to do. We'll get to that next week. But here, generally speaking, you peer into the circumstances and you know how to bring God's goodness into that specific situation for that specific person. If you want to see Paul working this out himself in the scriptures, I'd encourage you to discuss over lunch or over at the meet and greet, 1 Thessalonians 5. 14. Listen to the discernment that Paul has in this verse. Now we exhort you, brethren, warn those who are unruly, comfort the faint-hearted. Uphold the weak, and be patient with all of them. Paul, because he has a discerning kind of love, reading circumstances and situations, and the persons to whom he is ministering encourages these brethren to take up the way that he ministers and to minister to these different people in these different circumstances and situations in different ways. Sometimes People need you, because of who they are and what they're doing. You need to admonish or exhort them or confront them because they're unruly Sometimes you do not need to confront, because they're not unruly, you need to strengthen those who are faint-hearted. And if you were to confront the faint-hearted, That begins to show that Christian wisdom has not begun to blossom in you, and you're missing an aspect of the love that he talks about here that is Christian love. Because Christian love is discerning. And you could say the same thing with the last example. These aren't a a total list, but you would be upholding the weak and being patient with them all. Now I've spoken about this before from the pulpit. But it is the kind of love that Jesus Christ gives to us by way of his Holy Spirit when we begin to read his word, and our love is regulated and ruled by those scriptures. Then over time, Christ makes us into a congregation that knows exactly the right word and the right kind of love to say, or the right kind of love to give. There's a million examples that I could give to you of this, of how to be discerning in our love. But let me give you a couple and My son Jack it now has uh a strong enough will where I can say things about him from the pulpit. And there, you know, it's just when he was a baby, so whatever. Many of you remember here that Jack when he was a baby had a real problem. Whenever we served him spaghetti on Mark's spaghetti night, he would pick up the spaghetti in the meatballs and he would throw it across the room. Or he would rub it on his face and in his hair. Well that didn't just happen here at the church. We weren't, you know, just his public face. That's what he did in the house. Whenever he ate anything. And I use the dinner time as the head of the house to try to have Christian instruction, conversation. How is our time together? And at the other end of the table, the other man in the house, in his plastic little booster thing, he is just taking his food and rubbing it on his face. And I would say to him, Now Jack, you don't do that. And now and w and as soon as I say, Jackie don't do that, and then he picks up the meatball and he looks at me and then he goes Like that, I go down to the other end of the table and I smack his hand. And then he looks at his hand. And then you see his hand go down for the next weekball. He weighed the cost. But in the end I would win and I would keep exhorting that unruly little boy. And now if you were to sit down at a meal with him He won't have any food in his hair. He won't throw it at you. And you can thank me today if you're sitting at the picnic table with him. Especially if you have chili or something. So that would be an example of trying to discern. I read his face, I read his body language, when he looked down at that hand, and then he tightened his jaw, and I saw that he was going to move into a different mode, that he was the king I knew what I was dealing with and there needed to be a s certain kind of love and it would have been sinful for me to just go over and kind of, oh, it's okay. You just do what you want with your meatballs, Jackie But you can have another example where we were sitting at the dinner table again. A lot of things happen at the dinner table. And this is another story of baby Jack. We're on vacation. This is supposed to be relaxing. We're really supposed to be connecting as a family. I mean that's why we went on vacation. And Jack starts to scream at the dinner table. Blood curdling scream. And the question for you is, did I walk down to the other side of the table? Because this is heightened. This is more aggravated because it's on vacation. Did I walk over and smack both of his hands? No, I didn't. Because when I looked at his face, he wasn't being unruly. He was scared to death. When we were at the beach, we went on the sound side and we collected a large shell with a hermit crab. We just thought it was a hermit crab shell But right when dinner was starting and everyone was preoccupied talking to each other, lo and behold, the hermit crab had not left the shell. And this giant thing with these legs starts coming out of this shell and it's right in front of Jack. And I just heard screaming, but Holly told me later he was saying It's coming out. It's coming out. And knowing that, there was no exhortation whatsoever. I comforted the faint-hearted And I went and I took that hermit crab away and I said, I'm so sorry, buddy, I didn't realize what was going on. Now that's kind of silly, but it gives you Some examples of the kind of discernment that is necessary in the specifics of our life, and that's what Christian love is like. Let me ask you: are you known as just being a hammer? That's you got one you got one mode. You're just a hammer. That's not Christian love. Sometimes it is important for us to be able to drive home and nail. And other times you can see just from 1 Thessalonians 5, you should have other modes than that. And Paul brings this up: do not exasperate your children. Because why? What's underneath all of that? Paul is still in those conversations when he's talking about not exasperating your children, he's trying to reveal to you love. He's trying really to reveal to you God, because God is love. And God's not just a hammer. God knows how to comfort the faint-hearted. We're going to see by the time we get to chapter 2 that what Paul is really talking about here is that Jesus Christ has sent us his Spirit, that we become like Jesus Christ. That's really what it looks like to walk in love is to be Christ. Saying that your Christian life should be a life of love does in fact seem obvious. We hear it from every denomination. And yet, when we start to define Christian love, it is not obvious at all, but it is instructive. It is instructive for us to learn from this passage this morning that your love is from God. It is divine, it's not natural. Your love is based on truth, the truth of God's word. It is regulated and governed by the truth. And your love, my friends, is insightful. You know God's will for each situation and circumstance. Now, just as the same with Paul, I look around here this morning and I'm not tempted to rebuke anybody here. We have such a lovely Christian congregation. I learned so much from you as being examples to me. But we still need to beware and to be warned of the temptations that can confront us. It's the same thing that Paul is doing here. So let me encourage you by just a couple questions. Paul starts off the whole thing saying that he prays that your love would abound more and more. What are the ways in which your love needs to grow? Did you know that by definition you are a growing Christian? It's part of what it means to be a Christian is you're progressing. What are the ways that you need to add to the love that Christ has already sent to you? Are they some of the things that are here? Is some of your love unregulated? Are you just impulsive and you go with your emotions? Emotions are very important. Don't get me wrong, but you can see what I'm saying here. It's not just emotions. It's regulated by the word. Do you need to have a love like that? Do you need to grow in a love like that? Do you need to grow in your discernment? Do you only have one mode of love? And so you're not great with all different kinds of people. That means there's growth ahead of you. Jesus Christ sent you his Holy Spirit, and there was a seed planted in your heart. Over time, he has watered it through the Word. Through different circumstances, all of this providence pulling everything together. And that seed has grown up, and there's this a stem. And I bet you there's some leaves that are starting to fall out. Here, when we're looking at this passage. I'm really asking you, isn't it time for you to start seeing that bud and that flower? And if so, some of those petals are going to be That you're going to be thankful because you realize, wow, this kind of love is not from me. This is divine love. You're going to realize that I really need to grow because my love needs to be more regulated by the word. Even if the people around me are not saying that. And you're going to be saying, I really need to figure out how to love in a more discerning way. So that I only not only know how to work with those who are unruly. But I know how to comfort the faint-hearted and all of the other different kinds and ages and stages. What are some ways that you could have this love more and more as a Christian and as a Christian congregation? Let me, like Paul did, let me go ahead and pray for this love for you. Please join me.