Now Elizabeth's full time came for her to be delivered, and she brought forth a son. When her neighbors and relatives heard how the Lord had shown great mercy to her, they rejoiced with her So it was on the eighth day that they came to circumcise the child, and they would have called him by the name of his father Zacharias. His mother answered and said, No, he shall be called John. But they said to her, There is no one among your relatives who is called by this name. So they made signs to his father what he would have him called. And he asked for a writing tablet and wrote, saying, His name is John. So they all marveled. Immediately his mouth was open, and his tongue was loose, and he spoke praising God Then fear came on all who dwelt around them, and all these sayings were discussed throughout all the hill country of Judea, and all those who heard them kept them in their hearts, saying, What kind of child will this be? And the hand of the Lord was with him. Let us pray. Oh Christ, all of your word is good It is a feast that you have laid out before us. We pray, Lord, that we would take up and eat today. Pray, Lord, that we would be healthy from what we eat, and that we would make others healthy. Pray, Lord, that in love you would give us hope. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. I hope that you're still applying last week's sermon and that you're singing hymns. Not only singing hymns, but singing them in faith, taking the general descriptions that are in the hymns and making them specific. to those things which you face. It was all a part of our main doctrine last week, which was that Christians are called to great joy. Why? How could we have great joy? Because God is faithful to his promises. As short as you could perhaps put this, is that God keeps his word. Now, I'd like to make a few observations in hopes that my voice will stop breaking up as if I were in puberty. So let's make a few observations while I still have my voice, and then I have an application for us this morning We've moved into a different episode here, but you can see there's this continuity running all the way through this Christmas story. The story of the incarnation. The first thing I'd like you to notice is that Mary stayed until Elizabeth gave birth. That leaves off with the three months that she stayed there. It's the reason why she was there with Elizabeth, is to help along with these things. And that is where our passage picks up this morning. And you can see in verse 7 where our passage picks up that Elizabeth brings forth a son. As any pious family during that time would do, they circumcise their child on the eighth day, and there's a little bit of um It could go a couple different ways, but one of the days in which you would name your child is the day of that ceremony, and that's what we see present here within this family that is pious and seeking to follow God. Well, there is a bunch of dialogue that surrounds this ceremony. The parents would give this child a name. During the ceremony, and there's quite a bit of dialogue around the name to bring out the significance of what we should be taking from this passage and why Luke records it for Theopolis. Notice that there are neighbors and relatives in attendance. This is going to create an interesting tension in the story by the time we get to the end. In fact, They expect the sund, did you notice, to be named after Zacharias Jr. Naming after the father was more than sentimental. It was a symbol of a continued family religious inheriting line. There's a great deal of effort that went into it, and it was really a sign of hope. So, in shock, all the neighbors and relatives turn And they ask Elizabeth what the name shall be, and she says that the name will not be the name of the Father, but it will be the name John. Well, you can see their shock in verse 61. They're taking this very seriously. I'm sure that they all looked at each other and said, Is she lightheaded? Uh what's going on with this woman? Uh maybe we should give her a minute Uh but she was perfectly fine, but they uh would not doubt if they were not looking at if they were looking at each other as if a public scandal was before their faces, and one of real disrespect. So thinking of Elizabeth that way, at least I imagine that's what they're doing, that explains what's going on here, they end up in verse 362 turning to the Father. Well, he's responsible of keeping order. Let's turn to him. What will you call your son? And that ends that first observation. Now we can start to answer that question as we keep going through the story, noticing a few more things. We have arrived for observation two at the key moment in the story. We return to Zacharias and he's on center stage. We have already seen this. He had been on center stage before. He had been told the name before. He had been punished or disciplined, I should say, in his disbelief. Well, here he is again showing up, and the question comes to him in light of what had happened in the past with the angel. Will he have learned his disciplinary lesson? Will Zacharias demonstrate repentance from his unbelief earlier in the chapter? Well, you know the story, they hand him the writing tablets. And he writes, I like to imagine in all capital letters, his name is John. And so that the crowd, the relative, and the neighbors did not look at him like he was crazy, too Immediately his tongue is loosed and he's able to speak, and everyone in the room is able to witness: this is a doing of God. What kind of child will this be? And they talk about it throughout the whole countryside, about what's going on. There's uh whispers across the land now. of something happening, something stirring of what God is doing. Well, the next thing I want you to notice Is that when we see Zacharias repenting, we see something quite significant. You'll remember that he is a priest. In the beginning, Gabriel gave this priest the words of God, but Zacharias, as I've mentioned, did not receive them. Now that is a terrible thing to do as a priest. Let me just put it this way. Can you imagine a pastor rejecting the words of God? That would disqualify him. And that's sort of what we see here, but as a priest should be the one who holds the words of God and speaks the words of God And that is what the discipline here has led to. Zacharias repents, and his repentance is demonstrated in this. He just repeats what God said to him. His name is John. There's no invention here. There's no originality. His name is John. And the last thing I'll say here, at least for observations, is that Zachariah speaks the words of God, and this is where that interesting tension forms. Because remember, before his tongue is loosed, he chooses to say his name is John. And so he was under a great deal of tension with all of his neighbors and his relatives staring at him And yet, despite the opinions of those neighbors and relatives, he goes against the grain of society and says it anyway. And so here we are again. And we have to ask, as human beings, as Christians really, what should we do with such divine realities and plans? Should I just be philosophical about these things? Well, maybe, but that's not what we have here with Luke We are taught what we are to do with such divine realities by looking at these realities by way of human beings like Mary. Mary has had a lot to teach us. Blessed is she among women. And we have learned a lot from Elizabeth and her joy and her rejoicing and how she viewed the incarnation. And now we are being taught by Zacharias himself when he is in the presence of the divine reality and what God is doing. And we at least learn this: that Christians must hold to the Word of God even when our neighbors and relatives do not. That is at least one of our doctrines and lessons this morning. Christians must hold to the Word of God, even when our neighbors and our relatives do not. Sometimes you will be called to go against the grain. Of your own family, your own society. Now, I have two main points where I want to develop this this morning. And so if you're taking notes, you can list this as the beginning and the continuation. Two main ways of working this out is the beginning and the continuation. And that we are to hold the Word of God even when our neighbors and relatives don't. Boy, is that tough Well, let's begin with the beginning. When you witnessed Zacharias, you witnessed something bigger than just one man's repentance in this passage. It is bigger than all of us having courage to stand for God before our relatives and our neighbors. It goes way beyond the individual. To see what is bigger, you need to consider Zacharias as typifying, really, or showing you as a kind of sign what has happened across the world and what was happening across the world at that moment in the beginning. In other words, I want you to think about that time and think especially about the time before the angel and before Zacharias. What was going on in the world? Well, you know, millions of things, right? But we're brought to especially focus on this time called the intertestamental period. Has anybody ever heard that before? Some of you have. I figure uh you should know what that is, Skip. Yeah. The intertestamental period. This is the time between the Old Testament and the New Testament And do you know what the primary mark of the intertestamental period was? There was lots of activity during that time, Second Temple Judaism. And but in one important sense, we characterize that time as a time of dark silence Zacharias gives us a good picture of this. If you were we'll look at this next or this coming Saturday, but if you look at verse 74 of his song You can see some of the agony and the darkness and the silence that they had been experienced. In verse 74 of his song of this same chapter, there is a clear echo of exile But of especially the kind of exile that the Israelites experienced when they were enslaved under Pharaoh in Egypt. This is a kind of lens by which they make sense of their various experiences. Egypt was a time of darkness. Reread the chapters. It was a time of silence and suffering. If there was a noise, you know what the noise was? It was the noise of slaves stacking stones. It was the noise of groans of slaves asking God to please do something. Help us. And can you imagine what the groans were like when the work was made more difficult and impossible? Well, that's the intertestamental period. It's kind of like that. In fact, if you think of it, if you look at your scriptures at the Old Testament and then the New Testament, there's this gap. Now, in a certain way, we can say that gap is not just between Malachi and the Gospels, but we can say it's also between 2 Chronicles and the Gospels. They're both doing some of the same things. But if you look, you'll see that last time there was a prophetic word spoken, a word of hope, a word of movement, a word of progress, a word of reformation, a word of keeping the promises. There wasn't a word since Malachi. There wasn't hope declared since 2 Chronicles. There we find, if we turn to those books, we find a prophecies of a new era that would be like the sun rising. Be like the sun rising in the morning or like clouds parting and finally seeing a blue sky. But what we're seeing here is that there hadn't been a blue sky for a long time. The whole world was in a long waiting intertestamental period of silence. And that is the background. This is the point of me telling you this. That is the background to when we come to an episode like Zacharias, and it helps us to bring out the significance of his continued silence, but then his speech. The background brings out the importance of actually all the speeches in Luke If you didn't know that things had been quiet and painful for a long time, you can't appreciate the pleasure and the hope that we're beginning to see when a word from God is showing up again. And I wonder if some of you have experiences like that. Long periods of waiting for God to move. And then he Does and you remember those days. He gives the answer, he gives the relief That's what's going on here with Zacharias. It's what's going on with all of the speeches. Think of all the times that the silence has now been broken over hundreds of years And then finally, the breaking with a word. The angel speaks. Elizabeth speaks. Mary sings a song. Finally, there's a song in our midst. Every once in a while I will experience for very brief periods of time silence in my home. Every once in a while I will experience prolonged times of silence in my home because the kids will be away for whatever. And I've never shared this because I I I I enjoyed the silence in a sense, and I don't want to spoil this. But I've never shared this, that there comes a point in time though that the silence is too much. And I start to no longer be annoyed at the continual humming that goes on in the home. And I wish it were there again. Because it's always of uh little hymns or little songs And that's what's going on here is that all of a sudden, even though the house had been silent for so long, Mary erupts and she has a song. It's like having um the kids home again. I'm so glad to see faces coming home for Christmas. That's kind of what it must have felt like for these people. But there's one more person that's speaking now, and it's Zacharias. And the significance of that is that I believe he is representative for the whole priesthood. And this means that God is speaking to us again. That what he said in the past, whether in 2 Chronicles or Malachi, It is here. It has begun. There's no holding it back. And As it should be, a man of God shall now proclaim the praises of God. And we will get into that praise on Saturday So I woke this morning and it was still dark. I sat praying and I sat meditating in my office. Looking out the window, and when I looked out the window into the darkness, all I could see were the faint outlines of the world, and it was just still in its night. There were no birds flitting. I couldn't see the details of the trees. But it was not too long until the sun began to rise again, and my office faces the east. And that sun, not really even reaching the horizon yet, was already filling the sky. And it started to give definition and color to the oaks and the maples in the neighboring yard. And I thought to myself, quite literally, a new day has arisen. And here we are together. And that, my friends, is what we see with Zacharias It's what we see in Zechariah's silence, and that is what we see in the dawning of his speech. His speech is the sun in the east. It is quite literally the dawning of a new day. And the relatives, and here's where you really got to catch the real thick part of the real tension that's going on. Is that the relatives and the neighbors thought it was just time as it marches on? And Zacharias and Elizabeth were saying, no. His name is John. Everything has changed. We will not continue the regular drum beat of the intertestamental period. The silence is over Angels have spoken. The forerunner is here. Elijah is here to turn the hearts of the children back to the fathers. And guess what his name is? His name is John. Do you see the significance of that statement now? Just a little bit. Those words were the sun rising on what used to be a darkened earth. But that was just the beginning. The second part that I really would like you to pick up on here in terms of our use and moving this out, trying to to need this into our souls is that there is not just a beginning, there is a continuation. You misperceive our gospel readings this morning. If you look back at this story of Zacharias and you don't see that it stretches forward into your own time. It is not casting a shadow. It is casting the bright rays of the sun as they reach your own face. In other words, just as Zacharias and Elizabeth needed to disrupt their neighbors and relatives with a new viewpoint, the old drum can't keep banging. We will need to do the same. And that raises a question for us, and we hear this uh all the time. I am officially now talking about Christians being disruptive. And in one sense, I'm so tired of hearing about Christians being disruptive. There's a lot of disruption talk right now. But that is nonetheless what has been going on here with Zachariah and Elizabeth is they disrupted all their neighbors and their relatives. They had to stop and be attentive to a new thing. And we are are required by the Lord to do the same. And I have one example for you this morning, though I'm sure you can think of thousands. One concern I have, and therefore I hope to enter in and disrupt you, neighbors and relatives. Is that we as Christians have taken upon ourselves a continual disappointment and dis and depression. About the state of the world and about our own lives. And that concerns me, and I hope to disrupt it a little bit by even just bringing it up. I actually thought, strangely enough, as I was still sitting then in that office, I actually thought of the disappointment and depression of Mr. Tumnus from Narnia. I mean, go figure. Mr. Tumnus says this. I think it captures sometimes our own the way our own heart can be. Mr. Tumnes says, It is winter in Narnia, said Mr. Tumness. And has been forever so long. Always winter, but never Christmas. That does capture a cry of the heart. It captures human experience. And it makes you want to raise the question of: has that become your mode of living these days? That it always feels like winter, but never Christmas Now I don't as I'm walking around the halls of this church or visiting you in your homes I don't exactly hear you say that. I don't hear you say it feels like winter, but never Christmas. You don't put it in those words, but if I sit in silence long enough and I let you just talk What I will discover, and what you will discover, is that simmering on the back burner, the final thing you think about before you go to sleep, Is sometimes, the words of Mr. Tumnus, it is always winter, but never Christmas. Now, I lit the candle up here before the service started, and the very first one I lit so I didn't light my jacket on fire like I almost did last week was love And out of love for you, I am hoping to disrupt the disappointment and the depression I'd like you to be happy. Zacharias and Elizabeth interrupted their relatives and their neighbors by saying his name is John. And I just have a simple message for you here this morning based upon the scriptures, and that is Christmas is here. I understand that it feels like there is an unending winter and there is no Christmas, but those feelings are an illusion and a lie because Christmas is here. I'm not degrading your pain or your suffering. That's not a lie. But you can't just say that and not also admit the reality that Christmas is in fact here. Remember last week's message. We said that we looked out at the world in faith and not by sight. And we create songs to capture our faith that we might see the world as it really is and what God is doing. Well, you know one song that keeps people in remembrance of what God is actually doing. One song that I have noticed that has encouraged so many of you in the midst of what seems like a continual lament. It is this old hymn. Ye fearful saints, fresh courage take. The clouds that you much dread. Are big with mercy and will break in blessings on your head. Judge not the Lord by feeble sense, but trust him for his grace Behind a frowning providence, he hides a smiling face. His purposes will ripen fast. Unfolding every hour. And boy, is this true. The bud may have a bitter taste, but sweet will be the flesh. Blind unbelief, oh, it is sure to err. And scan his work in vain. God is his own interpreter. And he will make it plain. If you could slow down and if you could hit the reset button for a moment. I wonder if you could stop and you could disrupt the anxiety and the swirling worry. And sing these songs with belief. That that really is the case Brothers and sisters, we must hold to the Word of God even when our neighbors and relatives do not. Sometimes our neighbors and relatives that surround us are having trouble, rejoicing, and having hope And out of love, we need to disrupt the disappointment and the depression and remind them of the great thing that is present before all of us, and that is that Christmas is in fact here He sits at the right hand of the Father. All authority has been given to him in heaven and earth. And it is only a matter of time before every knee shall bow before his good and beautiful will. It is my hope that we can, in joyful anticipation of the future, have some of the present feelings of joy even now. Elizabeth and Zacharias interrupted by saying his name is John. I am interrupting this morning by saying Christmas is here. And I am not discounting your deep pain and your concern. I am simply telling you that Christ is that good. And that Christ is here. Now, while we're talking about Narnia, I do have a final quote that I just find lovely. And it should help us with the Christmas spirit. This is not from Mr. Tumnus, this is from Mr. Bieber. Wrong will be right when Aslan comes in sight. At the sound of his roar, sorrows will be no more. When he bears his teeth, winter meets its death. And when he shakes his mane, we shall have spring again. You could really summarize my message to you this morning like this. Oh, Christian, by faith I see the teeth of Jesus Christ. And I'm telling you right now, he is shaking his mane. Amen. Let us pray.