Well turn, if you will, to Matthew 10. Uh we're going to be looking at verses 24 through 42 today. This is the third sermon on this particular chapter. It's such a pivotal chapter in the Gospel of Matthew. There's much more that can be said about it, and uh today um all three of these sermons have been upper-level sermons uh pointed towards this passage without getting into the details But quite frankly, I'm looking at the fact that it has taken me two years to get to chapter ten. And if I'm going to finish the Gospel of Matthew I'm probably going to have to move up the pace a little bit. So we're uh I don't intend to go lightly over anything in God's Word, but I am recognizing that I would like to preach on Matthew 28. Turning to God's word, Matthew ten, picking up at verse twenty-four, reading through the end of the chapter. A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his master. It is enough for a disciple that he be like his teacher, and a servant like his master. If they have called the master of the house Vieselbub, how much more will they call those of his household? Therefore do not fear them, for there is nothing covered that will not be revealed, and hidden that will not be known Whatever I tell you in the dark, speak in the light, and what you hear in the ear, preach on the housetops. And do not fear those who kill the body, but cannot kill the soul, but rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. Are not two sparrows sold for a copper coin? And not one of them falls to the ground apart from your father's will. But the very hairs of your head are all numbered, do not fear, therefore, you are of more value than many sparrows Therefore, whoever confesses me before men, him I will also confess before my Father, who is in heaven. But whoever denies me before men, him I will also deny before my Father who is in heaven. And do not think that I came to bring peace on earth. I did not come to bring peace, but a sword. For I have come to set a man against his father, a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law, and a man's enemies will be those of his own household. He who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me. And he who loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me And he who does not take his cross and follow after me is not worthy of me. He who finds his life will lose it, and he who loses his life for my sake will find it. He who receives you receives me, and he who receives me receives him who sent me. He who receives a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward. And he who receives a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receive a righteous man's reward. And whoever gives one of these little ones only a cup of cold water in the name of a disciple, assuredly, I say to you, he shall by no means lose his reward. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding which comes from his word. I want to start off the uh introduction to the sermon today by Taking us back to an Old Testament period and I w and my sole purpose is to build an image in our minds that will help us understand and approach this particular passage. I want to go all the way back to the events of Deuteronomy 7, verses 1 through 11 And I want you to picture there Moses standing with all of the children of Israel on the far side of the Jordan River And he is speaking to them about something that he's not going to be able to do with them, but that God is calling them to do, to go in and take the land of Israel. And he is charging them there about their duties. God has brought them through the wilderness. After saving them out of the slavery of Egypt, and now God is setting before them a mission. They are to cross over the river of Jordan to enter into this land that was promised to them and which is called to be flowing with milk and honey. They have been taught obedience They have been chastened, if you will, into obedience using the passages that Jeremiah talked about earlier God has taken these people and he has formed a disciplined nation out of a bunch of quarreling rabble. They have learned to trust God for the mana that comes from heaven and furnishes their food. He has provided them water out of rocks in a desert. They have learned that God will strengthen their arms against enemies that are more powerful than they and cause and brings about their defeat. God has done great works among them. God has given them a great law. And now God is sending them into the nation of Israel to do his work. And Moses tells them right there, and I would like you to put yourself in this. Imagine you're out there standing in that hot sun With all of those million people standing around you, and somehow miraculously you're able to hear the words of Moses as he's speaking to you And he says, in this land, there are seven nations that are bigger and greater and stronger and mightier and smarter and by all earthly standards better than you are. But don't fear them. God tells you, do not fear them, rather, fear him. Don't compromise with them. Don't make any allowances for common aspirations. I mean we're all in this together and just because we have different opinions about how the world is supposed to work Sure we can find some way to live along the side of each other together in peace and harmony. Let's all coexist. You don't hear that. You don't hear that. Moses says, God says, don't lose sight of your goal. You are to take this land and you are to claim it for the Lord your God. And why? Because you are a holy people. You are a holy people to the Lord your God. God has chosen you to be a special treasure to him above all the other peoples of the earth. And not because you're powerful, far be it. Not because, as has been amply demonstrated, you have a bunch of sterling qualities that lifts you up in his estimation because you're obviously the most qualified people in the whole world to serve the living God. God didn't choose you for any of that. God has chosen you for one reason. He loves you. That's it. He loves you. Therefore, you're to know that the Lord's your God, He is your God, and you're to know that He keeps covenant. And shows mercy to a thousand generations of those who love him and keep his commandments. But you need to know that he will repay, he will destroy any who hate him. Therefore, go into all of the land of Israel. Go into this land that I shall give to you. Take it and be my people. You're to be my people, and I am to be your God. Now how would you feel standing there listening to Moses say these things? How would you stand recognizing the challenge that is being presented to you? Because you are being called to go to war. Moses doesn't say, God has said none of you guys are going to get hurt. He doesn't say, look, don't sweat it, guys. These guys are bigger and stronger than you are, but don't worry about it, not a one of you are going to get killed. He doesn't say that. You're there listening to this, seven nations bigger and stronger and wider than you are, more advanced, sitting behind great big old walls. With lots of weapons and a lot of people. So you're thinking there, hmm What is it that is to sustain you? Here's what God says. What's to sustain you in the face of any fears or doubts you may have this is that God has made a covenant with you. God has made you a member of His church, His people. And you're to take comfort in the fact that you have been chosen, individually chosen for that. And you have been chosen because he loves you. You ask the reason why he loves you? There isn't any. He just loves you. That's it. That's the last endless string. Why is it that God chose you? Because He's God and He loves you. And he has demonstrated that love to you by showing you great works of mighty power. And now, therefore, here's what he's saying. Don't be afraid of them. Don't be afraid of those who can only kill you Don't be afraid of those who cannot touch your spirit. Rather, fear God. Fear Him. Fear him as those who are opposing you should fear him, because he not only is able to kill, but after he has killed, he is able to throw the soul into eternal hell. Fear him. How would that have affected you? You're standing there listening to God saying He loves you. And for that reason, He has made a covenant with you. And now he wants you to face a scary task and to do nothing other than trust in him for it. You look about you. And you recognize that he's not speaking just to you. He's speaking to all your brothers and sisters who are gathered about you. That you're not alone in facing these challenges. And most of all, God Himself has committed himself to being there with you, giving you what you need, giving you the things that you have to say when you have to say them, guiding your feet, strengthening your arms. That is the daunting challenge that is before you, but that is also the encouragement to take it up with joy. How would you have felt that day? Would you have been raring to go? I hope we would. But I think you already see where I'm going with this. You can see how this relates to the passage before us. The Gospel of Matthew is the most Hebrew of all of the Gospels And here in Matthew 10, I think the Holy Spirit is guiding us to see Jesus' words to his disciples in this whole chapter as being rooted and grounded in what Moses told the Israelites. A thousand or so years earlier. There are many points of contact between these things and throughout the whole book of Deuteronomy. What we see is Jesus sending out his church. It was an Israelite church then. It was not filled with Gentiles as it is now. The twelve disciples who were standing before him were the twelve tribes of Israel. And he's sending them out into this selfsame land, the same geographical entity that Moses through, God through Moses, sent the Israelites back to in Deuteronomy. And he's telling them to go out and wage warfare to the people who are in these cities, the ones who have departed from the Lord their God. and who must now be viewed as being idolatrous. He's sending them out to fight with a message similar to that of Moses. But it was the message that they were to fight with their word rather than with a sword. But they were given powers. They were given great powers to heal and to cast out demons in order to validate the message that they were to take to these cities. They were to proclaim the kingdom of God, the kingdom that Moses had told the children of Israel that they were to take the land and build. And they were to call these people back to the reality that they are a special people to God, a people on whom God has set his love. back throughout the generations to Abraham. What they are to hear is that their true king has arrived. They must remember what Moses had told them on that day. That this king was indeed a good king. He was a merciful king. He would show mercy to a thousand generations of those who love him and keep his commandments. That is what Jesus Himself said. If you love me, you will keep my commandments. Your king is here. The message is the same. You must also realize, as is abundantly clear in Matthew 10. That this same king is not slack in punishing those who despise him, who hate him, and who refuse to acknowledge his presence. This is what we see in this chapter. And we see Jesus and his disciples standing again, as in a sense, standing again before the Jordan River. And he's calling his people back to their first mission. He did not come to bring peace, but a sword. He had come to be victorious over his enemies and to establish his kingdom, and he was starting with Israel. But from thence the kingdom would spread to the rest of the world. One of the great thrills I have in studying scripture, and I am constantly thanking my God for giving me the opportunity to do so, is seeing these kind of connections in Scripture to see the flow of God's plan throughout all of history, how things are linked together across centuries. Of seeing how God never changes his plans and how he is always, as has been quoted to us already, causing all things to work together for good for those who love him and are called according to his purposes. to see history as the demonstration of God's faithfulness to his own promises, both his promises to bless and his promises to punish. And then to see that his constant call throughout all of the ages is to call his people to trust him. And to do what he sets before them to do. And that is what Matthew 10 teaches us. I'd like to share a few of the things that I think this chapter particularly should stand out in our mind today. In the first Deuteronomy passage, we saw Moses there, and God's kind of in the background. Moses is speaking. He's speaking as God's representative. But he is always pointing away from himself to God. Notice the difference in this passage. Brothers and sisters, Jesus Christ Himself is the center of this passage. He is that very core of meaning in it. In verses 24 through 42, if I count right, that's about 17 verses. Jesus uses the first person personal pronoun, I, me, my He uses those personal pronouns 24 times. 24 times in a total of 17 verses, and most of them are concentrated in the last ones. Starting in verse thirty-two, whoever confesses me, I will confess before my Father. He goes on talking about those who deny him. He tells us, I did not come in peace. I came to bring a sword. He places himself as the touchstone of a person's covenantal relationship to God. Our relationship to God is conditioned entirely upon Jesus. He who loves his father and mother more than me is not worthy of me. He who receives you receives me. And whoever receives me receives my Father, who sent me. Whoever confesses me, I will confess. Do you see here? Everything about our relationship to God, every aspect of our covenantal existence Holms in, centers in on the person of Christ Himself. He is the center of our covenantal relationship with God the Father Almighty. And I didn't even list all of them that are in this passage. What these disciples are to understand and what we are to understand is that Jesus, his person, his work, and his authority is to be the basis on which The disciples were to go out and follow his commands in this particular chapter. And brothers and sisters, that is to be the basis of our life as we seek to follow after them. The disciples were to have Jesus as they'd go out and face the scary reality that they could get hurt big time. Talking with these people who are nominally there of the same families as they But who would turn on them and bring hatred against them and persecution against them? That's what he promised. That's what we talked about last week. They had to have the courage to go out and face these people, and they had to do so based upon their confidence in Christ Himself. That he was the center of their life, and he was the reason for them doing things, and he was the one that was going to be the focus of their work. And everything that they were to face, every battle they were to fight, they were to know that Jesus had sent them and that he would strengthen them for the task that lay ahead of them. Brothers and sisters, I call on you to grasp here today and to embrace this thought. Everything about our life and our work in this world. has to revolve around Christ. Your personal walk, how you treat other people, the stuff you do when nobody's looking. The stuff you would like to do, but are being held back. Everything about our personal life has to revolve around the person of Christ. How about our families? How about all of those people that are near to us and dear to us? Every aspect of it has to be built around the reality of Christ, who he is, what he's done, and our covenantal relationship to God the Father through him. Jesus Christ must not be something we add to our life, and it kind of sits over there on the shelf until Sunday morning. It has to be the very center and heart of our life. Jesus was not only the content of the disciples' message, he was to be the very center of their thoughts. And everything that they were to face, every battle they were to fight, had to be undertaken, knowing that Jesus had sent them and that he would strengthen them to whatever they may be called to face. Brothers and sisters, that is what we are called to do also. Our Lord is to be the very center of our lives in all things. I think the next thing we should learn from this passage is that in the struggles of life we are to keep in mind That we face those struggles in the name of Jesus Christ, and that He and He alone is to be the ground of our hope and our ultimate encouragement in facing them. Jesus does not here promise his disciples a rose garden. I remember the words of Winston Churchill many years ago. He said, All I have to promise you is blood, sweat, and tears. And then victory. Through the blood, sweat, and tears, there will be victory. And that is to be our hope Now, anytime I speak this way, it has runs the danger of communicating to you that the life of a Christian is supposed to be sheer abject misery. And that is not the case. Teaching what the scriptures images on, we recognize that the joys and blessings of serving our God are always attended and make our lives worthwhile. However, I doubt that I could have anyone in this room that would raise their hand if I were to ask, is there anyone in this room that doesn't have any troubles? Nobody's had any heartaches. Nobody's have any fears. Nobody has any scary things. Nobody trembles when they look at what God calls us to do and wishes maybe there might be some other way. So I think that when we're talking about this, we can approach it realistically without despair These disciples were to face each instance of difficulty in their mission as we are to face difficulties in our mission, and they were to remember that they don't have to fear anything. Many of you remember Tim Hudson, I'm sure. He was one of the founding members of our church and he was uh first to be an assistant pastor here. He is ordained now and is pastor of a church in Charleston, West Virginia. Well he was a kind of a humorous guy, a dry sense of humor. He used to work for the government over there in that special place behind all the fences for me. And he went out and did some dangerous stuff. And we were talking one day. I don't remember. Uh Rob McMahon may have been there when he was on session. And uh I know Bill Brownsville was And Tim got to talking about some of the things that he was allowed to talk about. And he he had said that he was Trained that when he was in these positions, that if he were ever captured, he was supposed to handle the questioning in a certain way And the guys that were teaching him how to do this one time in a class, they said, okay, when the guys start threatening you with uh with um with death, if they're going to put you to death, what are you going to say? And Tim raised his hand. And the guy said, Yes, what are you gonna say? And he says, I'm gonna tell him, are you threatening me with paradise? Well that's Tim. But what he said was true. If death is not the ultimate end The threatening of death has no power ultimately over our lives And there's something serious about that because that is exactly what Jesus is telling us here. Jesus tells his disciples, don't fear those who can only kill your body. They have no real power over you. The people that are making your lives miserable, brothers and sisters, you're letting them make your life miserable. You may love them and it may hurt you and grieve you, but nothing anyone else does to you can rob you of your hope. And your joy and your ultimate sense that your life is meaningful and worthwhile because it is rooted and grounded in the work of Jesus Christ and not in the way people treat you. Don't fear them. There is nothing done in secret that will not be proclaimed from the hill uh the rooftops. Nothing that is done against God's people in secret will remain hidden Jesus tells his disciples to see their battles from God's perspective. No matter what people do to you, you win. Why? Because God wins. And that is to be our hope, that is to be our joy, and that is to be our courage. We are to be comforted in this because we know that God loves us. Why do we know God loves us? You might sit there and say, how do I know God loves me? Well, just as Moses told the people of Israel, Jesus tells us, are you not more important than sparrows in the field? And yet not one of those that gets shot down by a hunter and falls to the ground, not one of those sparrows. Does so without the full knowledge of our Lord and God and to serve his purposes Are not the very hairs on your head numbered? Moses had told the people of God that they would be victorious, even though many would die in battle. Moses is essentially saying, don't you guys know that even if you fall in battle, yet you are victorious? Don't you know that God is aware of your death? And the disciples were to have that exact same comfort. God knows each one of his beloved people. No life offered up to God is a life offered up in vain. It is precious beyond all that we can imagine. And it is precious because God loves that person. We are to embrace this and cherish it. We are not, most of us are not called upon to actually sacrifice our lives for the gospel. However, we're all called to be obedient and to bear our cross, and in doing so, there will be times when we have to know that God knows us. He knows our dreams. He knows our fears. He knows our sin. There's nothing about us he doesn't know. And there's nothing about what we're going through that he doesn't know also. That is to be our great comfort Knowing that this is the grace in which we stand. God has chosen us to be his people. Why? Because he loves us. That's it. And because we are his special treasure, we are to go out in his strength and do his will. In summary, I would like you to consider the promise of this passage As Jesus speaks to the disciples in terms of the victories that they will attain. He speaks of how things that are covered will be uncovered. He speaks of the certainty that those who confess him before men, that he will confess them before God, and then seal their covenant relationship to God the Father through himself. He promises categorically, the disciples that receive, or those who receive the disciples will also receive him. And through him, God the Father. And he ends this entire chapter with a promise that even the very least offer given by a disciple in the name of Christ. being a disciple of Christ, that that person will not fail to receive his reward. Deuteronomy 7 also speaks of God's victory. It doesn't say if you cast these people out. It says I'm going to go before you and kick these people out. And by the way, you're going to come along with me. In the same way, Jesus sends his disciples out with a calm assurance of victory. And that's what we must embrace here today. We must see our lives, going back through it, dedicated to the life to the person of Jesus Christ. Our lives are not our own, and we've got to build our lives around it. And we must face our lives knowing that God loves us. That is our fundamental and most essential comfort. And we must know that the efforts that we undertake in his name will be rewarded because his victory through us is assured. I think these three three things will guide us in all that we do, both as a people and as individuals. Will you pray with me?