To turn to Acts chapter eight together and our text this morning is our verses five through twelve The word of the Lord. Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria and preached Christ to them. And the multitudes with one accord heeded the things spoken by Philip, hearing and seeing the miracles which he did. For unclean spirits crying with a loud voice came out of many who were possessed And many who were paralyzed and lame were healed. And there was great joy in that city. But there was a certain man called Simon, who previously practiced sorcery in the city. And astonished the people of Samaria, claiming that he was someone great, to whom they all gave heed, from the least to the greatest, saying, This man is the great power of God. And they heeded him, because he had astonished them with his sorceries for a long time. But when they believed Philip, as he preached, the things concerning the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, both men and women were baptized. Let us pray. Father, we know that left to ourselves, we will not heed you. So we ask that you'd work against the remaining flesh that closes our ears to your word. I ask that you would work against uh that even in its fullest form where that you would call those that whom you have predestined to yourself this morning. Ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Well, I think that last week's sermon is easily summarized. I've actually, in speaking with some of you, heard you summarize it yourselves. What they meant for evil, God works out for good. I heard several of you apply that to different situations in your life. The situation that we saw in the life of the church from the pages of Scripture. Was that Saul played havoc on the church? But that God used Saul's hatred and Saul's ignorance For good to send out preachers of the gospel from Jerusalem to Judea, to Samaria, and to the ends of the earth. You could think of it in terms of a farmer spreading his seed. Saul sought to stop the farmer, but under Christ's rule, Christ scattered out his people like seeds into the soils of surrounding cities. Now this week we moved from the wide camera angle, which looked at the whole region and the other regions that we're going to see The gospel spread to in the future. We're moving from that whole vision of the whole region, and instead, this morning, we're zooming in to view Philip in verse 5, heading into a particular town. He's heading down, it says, heading down, to a city in Samaria, and he is preaching Christ. Now to understand the Spirit's intent, we must notice the contrast that is happening within the passage. And this is signaled by the word heed. I don't know if you've noticed that word popping up throughout the service today, but it was in our reading from Pharaoh did not give heed. You can see within this passage it's repeated at least three times. Heed. And there's a contrast that's going on that helps us get to the heart of what the Spirit wants to communicate to his church. I want to start with the heed of verse 11. So that's the second and third heed first. And that's verses chapter 8, verses 9 through 11. Let me read that for you. And notice the word here. But there was a certain man called Simon, who previously practiced practiced sorcery in the city, and astonished the people of Samaria, claiming that he was someone great, to whom they all gave heed. From the least to the greatest, saying, This man is the power of God, and they heeded him because he had astonished them with sorceries for a long time. What you need to do is observe at least three things here One, he performed sorcery. Two, with that sorcery for a long time, he astonished them. Even to the point, number three, that he was above them as some kind of divine being or power from God. And we could talk about that for a while. There's a great deal going on there. I don't think I'll talk about this later, but Simon is known as the father of all heretics, interestingly enough. But he is uh here they come to know him as the power of God, the great power of God or from God. And then I want you to observe one more thing besides those three things. And that is in verse 7. Verse 7 shows us a number of things, but the one is that there are unclean spirits present in the town. That have possessed some of those who occupy the town. What we realize then, looking at those four things, is that this entire Samaritan village had become under some kind of demonic possession. You may not think of it as a demonic possession because it doesn't look like the way Hollywood per you know presents it to us with someone writhing on their bed. But this is what's going on here in this picture. This manifested itself, the demonic possession of the town, manifested itself in them heeding Sinon. That was the main way, is that they were deceived. That's what they do. They are from the father of lies and get people to accept lies. And so this whole town had become devoted or heeded or they were heeding to his false teachings. You could think of him as a false prophet also, which usually has an unclean spirit associated with him. Now this can be a bit shocking to our Western ears, can it not? If I were giving this sermon in certain places in Nigeria, they'd say, yep, seen that before. But to us it seems odd, and sometimes we try to rationalize these things away. I think that we acknowledge that there is evil in the world, but this kind of evil? Really We, along with our culture, are willing to acknowledge certain kinds of evil, like for example, that evil comes from nurture in the nature-nurture debate. Our parents we'd say if someone is evil or at different levels of evil, we'd say, well, they must have had bad parents, or they were brought up incorrectly, or they were in a certain school system, or whatever we would say, would all contribute to this idea that evil comes from nurture. Today, for example, many are asking questions about the evil of racism. And if you listen to them very carefully, what they're saying is that the evil of racism most Deeply comes from a deep and prolonged nurture among us. They say There are some, and there's a spectrum of those who hold these positions, but the ones with the most serious, in the sense of radical teachings, say that this nation itself, from its founding, has nurtured the evil of racism into each and every one of us by the very structures of our nation, which would be a a kind of systematic racism. If you want to know what I think about that, you can you can talk to me after the service. As good reformed Christians, we add to this idea of nurture that evil also comes from nature. I'm not so sure that our culture is willing to recognize that one yet. But here, what we see in this passage, the main point that Luke brings out to us by way of the Spirit, is that there is a third option as to the cause of evil. Evil arises from at least one more cause, and that is from unclean spirits or the demonic world. That is right there in front of your face. And I could give you many, many other examples, including the one, I mean, how do you explain the serpents? the rods being turned in the serpents with Pharaoh. You tell me what's going on. I mean from a guy who wears a hat that's in the shape of a snake. Something's going on there You can see that he too is controlled by these forces. In other words, it was a great evil for this Samaritan town to devote themselves to Simon. What you're witnessing here is a kind of idolatry. What caused this evil? Is it nurture? Is it nature? I think the answer is both. But there's a third one, too. It's also from the demonic world. And I'll just remind you of Ephesians 6, verse 12, because that certainly is present here in our passage. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood only, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places That's right. That's Ephesians 6. 12. Now that's the first heed, and you can see why they were heeding. It wasn't just that Simon had some some uh birthday magic tricks. It was that he was fueled with power from a dark realm. And that's our first heed. And it prepares us to now see what's going on in the second heeding in verses five through seven. The heed is mentioned in verse six, but let me read the whole section. Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria and preached Christ to them, and the multitudes with one accord heeded the things spoken by Philip, hearing and seeing the miracles which he did For unclean spirits crying out with a loud voice came out of many who were possessed, and many were paralyzed, who were paralyzed and lame were healed. Now we get to ask the same set of questions from this record that we did with the record of the first heed. But we get to do it in relationship to the good. Why is it that this group of people who have heated Simon are now all of a sudden heeding someone else? What causes people to heed the good of the glory of God? Is it nurture? Is it nature? It doesn't seem to be the case in either one of those. They've been nurtured from childhood, perhaps, to worship Simon. the great power of God to believe his teachings. Obviously their nature is dead set against it. They are full of deceit. But what about some other kind of power beyond humans? The answer is yes, and you see that present here. And we really need to notice that in this part of the passage, and though this may sound technical to you You need to notice the passive voice. Grammar is so unpopular these days, but so st still so necessary. Notice, for example, in verse 7, they were healed. Well, they were healed by what? They were healed by whom? Whatever what it was or the whom it was, it was the same thing that that uh dispossessed those people of the unclean spirits as they cried out. Well, it's the same as before. It's the same as before that we've been seeing throughout the whole account of Acts. If you remember Peter, before he goes into the temple for prayer, he heals the lame man and they marvel at this and he says, don't marvel at me as if I'm something great. This man has been healed in the name of Jesus Christ. And the same thing continued on and will continue on in Acts, and it is continuing here within this passage. The disciples have been doing great works by the power of Jesus from the beginning, and this is what verse 5 in part means Philip preaching Christ to them means that all the power that the Samaritans see in Philip or have heard of in the church, they recognize them preaching that this is from the Christ who is Jesus from Nazareth. That is the great revelation to them. And it is therefore because of this Christ, not because of nurture. Not because of nature, but because of this Christ, that they have begun to heed the preaching from Philip that he brought to their town. Now, in the end, what you end up having in these in this passage is that you have two heeds. In the past, many people in the town heated Simon, and now the true power of God has arrived, and many people in the same town are now heeding Christ. But there are some very basic things that we learn about ourselves here and about people, who they are, and how we must operate as a church. Because when we see how this is unfolding on the pages that Luke has given to us, when we ask the question, why do people devote themselves to things? Why do we prioritize and order our lives the way that we do? Can we answer that question fully and totally with nurture answers? And can we give that fully and totally with nature answers? I believe that nurture and nature have their part. But the confession of the church has always been that we must acknowledge the spiritual realm and its influence on us. Demons are one cause for why people devote themselves to the things that they do. And what we find out here is that no matter what demon you are, no matter what power you think you have Christ is sending his spirit to overcome everything. Nothing will get in the way of his glory. You can think perhaps of the Gospel of Mark, where he says, In order to clear the house of the strongman, the strongman must be bound. But there must be one who is stronger than the strong man. And that's what we find here. He has done so in Jerusalem for those whom he has called. He is now moved into Samaria, and he will go out and he will bind the strong man. no matter where he has influence across the face of the world, in every tongue, in every tribe, and in every nation. You have nothing less before you than the glory of God, who is Christ Jesus, the Son, the Father, and the Holy Spirit. Now, when you look at this reality that you see here on these pages, it has many, many implications. It has implications, for example, of the importance of prayer in everything that we do. Because if you think that we're up against just nurture, or if you think we're just up against nature, which is hard enough, then you don't realize the real situation that we are facing. There is a whole nother realm, as Paul says, that is against us. And that brings in the importance of prayer, and I hope to have that conversation with you. But for this morning, I don't want to get into the application of prayer I just would encourage you, once again, you should be praying. This battle that we're in is more difficult than you realize. It is more complicated. But the Lord will hear your prayers. This morning I want to point out, though, a more basic thing that is present within the passage. I want to point out that all of history, what this teaches us here, looking at the two heeds That they heeded Simon, then they heated Philip. All of history and all of life should be divided, just like our passage with the Heeds. In other words, the reality we are presently in is the reality of a competition or a battle between the spiritual forces of darkness and Jesus the Christ. And all of humanity may be divided between those who continue to heed the father of lies, who is the devil, children of the serpent, or those who heed Jesus, who is the Christ. That is the main division. Those are the two kinds. The spiritual darkness, lungs and pants to keep the world blind. from the glory of God. That is their main goal, and we have to keep that in mind. It is nothing less than that, that Christ would receive no glory. They over and over again deceive that we would give glory to anything else but Him. It could be images of birds or reptiles or snakes. depending on where you live. It could be yourself or your comfort or recreational sports or whatever car is great. I don't really do cars. But that's what they do. They try to keep you functioning as an idol factory. Their ultimate goal is to create imitations and deceptions, that the creation, rather than the creator who is forever blessed, that anything else would be worshipped but Him And what we, therefore, when we look at this, what we're discovering here, and why I didn't focus on the specifics of prayer is I wanted to get to something more elemental. Something more basic about the reality of everybody's life here. It's a lens through which you have to look at everything. It shapes the meaning of everything that you're doing and everything that you should do and how you should order your entire life. When we begin to use what we have here, these two heeds, and the way that this battle is raging, we can begin to see who we really are as a church, for example. We have to realize once again that we are the reborn bride of Christ. That we have awoken from our demonic slumber. Something like scales have fallen from our eyes. You have been given the nurture of the body of Christ, and you have been given a new nature to heed the scriptures. And you have to ask, given the situation that I just described on the reality of the world, why do you have all of those things? Why has so much grace been poured out on you to where you are given all of those treasures of eternity? And the answer must be, and that we see within the scriptures themselves, is so that we, as the bride of Christ, would start to witness that glory only belongs to the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. And everything in our lives, no matter what you do that is lawful, is organized around that single end. It is the one thing to which we all strive in our efforts. That is what it means to be the church. That is where we find our meaning. It is where we find our rest. It is where we find our understanding and our wisdom. When we see Christ scatter the seed of his word through Philip I know that some of you recognize that that is the beginning of the Great Commission. Matthew chapter 28, right? And we're all very excited about that. We have it represented on our wall Christ, through Philip, is making disciples of all of the nations. He is teaching them to heed everything that Jesus has commanded. And he, as you saw in the passage, baptized He's baptizing them and their children in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. But do not miss the point. The early church did not miss the point by that baptismal Uh saying that I just said: the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. We think that it is just some kind of ritual that we've always done. But that's not the point. What it's doing is it's stating the main point for why they have become disciples. The end goal is not, listen to me very, very clearly, because there are not many churches that say this anymore. The end goal is not the salvation of nations. That is not the end goal. I don't care how compassionate you are in your heart, that is the wrong goal to set for your life Stephen, for example, does not die his martyrdom for the salvation of the nations. And Philip, if he gives up his life, will not give up his life for the salvation of the nations as his ultimate goal. The salvations of the salvation of the nations are but a means to the goal of all of heaven and earth, and that which is below the earth, and that which is in the sea, and that is the glory of Christ. and the glory that he will give to his Father, God the Father. That is the end of all of creation. And we will glorify Him by showing forth His grace that He has given to us, and in the ordering of all of our lives, and not the disordering of our lives. And he will also be glorified in his wrath at the final judgment. What we see in this passage, when we look at this basic reality. Is that the Samaritans had ordered their lives to Simon? He they declared, and even from his own mouth is the great power of God. And when Christ sent Philip to this group of people, the very first thing that they needed to realize, which they did by the power of Christ's Spirit, is that their lives were not in order. But they were in total disorder because they had ordered their lives to the wrong thing or person Repentance for them and for all of us is first and foremost to reorder our lives to the glory of God. We reorder our lives for the first time. It's called conversion. Sometimes we call it repentance onto life because there's there's something different. You're moving, you're being translated from darkness. Into light, as the scriptures say, but then every single day there is a reordering, a looking on to Jesus And ordering our lives that He might be glorified in all things. As Joe said earlier, we are not ordering our lives to our comfort or to long life or to retirement or to our pleasures or to women or to men or whatever it is. It's all a form of idolatry. Instead, we're ordering all things onto Christ, and it must be done in repentance every day, because our hearts, as the song says, are prone to wander. We reorder every single day. And we are looking for that great day of salvation where all things will be publicly ordered to his glory. As it says in Philippians 2, 10 through 11, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. Of those in heaven and of those on earth and of those under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord To the glory of God the Father. Amen. Let us pray