To his word that we might hear from him from Psalm thirty nine. I'd encourage you to continue to study this psalm throughout the rest of your life. I think you're going to need the rest of your life to try to figure out what it means. Or at least to deepen your understanding of what this psalm means. I said, I will guard my ways, lest I sin with my tongue. I will restrain my mouth with a muzzle, while the wicked are before me. I was mute with silence. I held my peace even from good, and my sorrow was stirred up. My heart was hot within me. While I was musing, the fire burned, and then I spoke with my tongue Lord, make me to know my end. And what is the measure of my days that I may know how frail I am? Indeed, you have made my day as hand breaths. And my age is as nothing before you. Certainly every man at his best state is but a vapor. Surely every man walks about like a shadow. Surely they busy themselves in vain. He heaps up riches and does not know who will gather them. And now, Lord What do I wait for? My hope is in you. Deliver me from all my transgressions. Do not make me the reproach of the foolish I was mute. I did not open my mouth because it was you who did it. Remove your plague from me. I am consumed by the blow of your hand. When with rebukes you correct man for iniquity, you make his beauty melt away like a moth. Surely every man is a vapor. Hear my prayer, O Lord, and give ear to my cry. Do not be silent at my tears, for I am a stranger with you, a sojourner, as all my fathers were Remove your gaze from me, that I may regain strength before I go away and am no more. Father, we ask that you would give us wisdom That you would give us the wisdom of humility. We ask that you would help us to understand ourselves and to understand you. We ask that you would bake it in. In the name of Christ. Amen. I want to begin by reading Daniel 4, 28 through 33, and you're welcome to follow along in your own Bibles, or you can just Close your eyes and listen, or you can stare at me and listen. You're welcome to follow along. I'm going to read in a translation that's more of a meant to be read or read aloud. This is Daniel 4, 28 through 33. But all these things did happen to King Nebuchadnezzar. Twelve months later, he was taking a walk on the flat roof of the royal palace in Babylon. As he looked out across the city, he said, Look at this great city of Babylon. By my own mighty power I have built this beautiful city as my royal residence to display my majestic splendor. While these words were still in his mouth, a voice came down from heaven, O King Nebuchadnezzar. This message is for you. You are no longer ruler of this kingdom. You will be driven from human society. You will live in the fields with the wild animals, and you will eat grass like a cow. Seven periods of time will pass away as you live like this, until you learn that the Most High rules over the kingdoms of the world and gives them to anyone he chooses. That same hour the judgment was fulfilled, and Nebuchadnezzar was driven from human society. He ate grass like a cow, and he was drenched with the dew of heaven He lived this way until his hair was as long as eagle's feathers, and his nails were like birds' claws. This is the picture of pride. And here is the question. If for every time you swelled with pride or presumption or arrogance, if every time you swelled with pride, God made you eat grass. How much grass would you have eaten? I suppose it's a bit of a different question or turn on the how much wood could a woodchuck chuck? But how much would you have consumed by now? The author, David, of Psalm 39, would have eat would have eaten grass at least once, according to this Psalm. We know he would have eaten grass more than once, but at least according to this psalm he would have, because that is what is going on here in this psalm. David is having A kind of Nebuchadnezzar journey. Not everything is the same. But you could overlay the narratives of what's going on within David's life and what's going on in Nebuchadnezzar's life. What we learn here in Psalm 39 is that David muzzles his mouth Seeking a remedy for his pride and relief from God's discipline. That's the main message. The journey begins with a mouth muzzled Pride remedied, sought for, and then discipline relieved. And those will be the three ways that we look at this whole passage. We'll just divide it under those three parts: the mouth muzzled Pride remedied and discipline relieved. Here with David. And I pray that you, by the Lord's grace, would experience these same things in your life. Let's begin with the mouth muzzled. It's obvious That the title should be that because you can see the muzzle there in verse 1. David takes a vow of silence. He muzzles his mouth due to sin. And you can clearly see the vow of silence in verses 1, 2, and 9. I said, I will guard my ways, lest I sin with my tongue. I will restrain my mouth with a muzzle. And then in 2 he repeats, I was mute with silence. I held my peace even from good, or sometimes for good reason. And then in verse 9, I was mute. I did not open my mouth because it was you who did it. This is his vow of silence that he is taking and revealing to the congregation. What we have to consider as we're looking through this psalm are the events that surround the vow of silence. We have to piece the clues together. To try to understand at least in general the situation that David is dealing with, to arrive that he's dealing with the Nebuchadnezzar experience First, I want you to notice in verse 2 that the vow of silence was taken while the wicked were before him. It's a very important clue. Second, notice that David was silent, verse 9, due to something that God had done in his life, because it was you who did it. And then third, notice that whatever God did in his life, it was as an act of discipline on David for sin. Take a look at verses eight and eleven. Deliver me from all my transgressions. Do not make me the reproach of the foolish. That would have been the discipline. Plinned for his transgressions. And then in eleven, when with rebukes you correct man for iniquity, and he speaks about the results of such a thing Obviously, sin is involved here in David's life, as we've been seeing in a number of Psalms closely related to Psalm 40. Now, when you add up all of these elements together, I believe that David is choosing. to bite his tongue so as to not complain about God's discipline before the wicked. Look at verse 6. Surely every man walks about like a shadow. Surely they busy themselves in vain. And there are a lot of different examples that he could have given of vanity. Ecclesiastes is full of them. And yet look at what he chooses. He heaps up riches and does not know who will gather them. It is quite possible that God allowed the wicked to strip David of his property And social esteem as an act of discipline, and David is at least lamenting on the inside. Take a look here in Psalm 41. I want you to see what's happening The Psalms are compiled together and they inform one another. We are here, notice Psalm 41 is the last Psalm. Now look at Psalm 42. Right before Psalm 42, you should see it says book 2, Psalms 42 through 72. Most Bibles will have that. We're coming to the end of the Davidic Psalms here. This first book. And Psalm 41 reflects, looks very much like we are looking at the last days of David on his deathbed when people are seeking to take advantage of him. And so I think the same thing is progressing from 39 to 40 to 41, where for different reasons David possibly has been stripped of his social esteem and his property as an act of discipline. Perhaps David sounded just like King Nebuchadnezzar. By my own mighty power, I have built this beautiful city as my royal residence to display my majestic. Splendor. Could he have said that as he looks over Jerusalem? Whether it was this or not, we can't be sure of exactly what the point of pride or the presumption or the arrogance was. But we can be sure that on God's part, it is discipline for his sin. And thus I believe that David is muscling his mouth from further sin. That's the point. He will not blaspheme God's name before the wicked. He has said enough. He will no longer utter prideful or presumptuous speech. He instead wants to learn his lesson. And now David will continue this silence in relationship to the wicked, but as you can see in verses 2 through 3, he's about to burst. As David remained silent, his heart was hot within him. The fire burned. His heart was swollen with sorrow for sin. He's moving towards repentance here. It's not a complaint. He wants to learn from his sin. That's what's going on. And actually, one of the reasons why I'm so convinced of this view of this passage is because the way that he seeks a remedy for his sin Is the way throughout all of Scripture you seek a remedy for this sin. So David will continue in his silence, but then will be unable to continue as it swells up in sorrow. And he is about to pop. My wife began making red sauerkraut and fermented radishes. And she has to go down in the basement and burp them so that they don't bust. And it looks to me, friends, that David here is looking for the belch of repentance, if you will Will. A burping. That's what's going on. Or you could think of like a volcano, but something is so sorrowful within him that he must go to his Lord to learn his lesson. He needs a remedy from his presumption and his pride and his arrogance. And that brings us into the heart of this psalm and the next point, which is pride remedied. David wants a remedy to his pride. You can see this in the majority of the Psalm, particularly in 4 through 6. Have you ever thought of remedies for your pride? I know that you think of remedies for poison ivy. Can you think of all of the remedies people have tried on you for poison ivy? My mother used to wipe old banana peels on my poison ivy and rub oatmeal on it. And medicinal cream for some of us? Or we seek remedies for being sprayed by a skunk. My grandmother told me a story once that uh her brother Daniel was sprayed by a skunk and he added Take a bath in tomato soup. But have you ever thought or heard from your mother or your grandmother or your relatives about the poison and the spray of pride and the remedy for it? Throughout the scriptures, especially in the book of James, there is a concentration of remedy for pride. Ultimately, the remedy is God Himself. He alone has the power to destroy pride. But he allows us to use means and participation with his work. Just consider James 4 in relationship to this psalm. I think that perhaps James was meditating on this psalm or on Psalm 90 says, Whereas you do not know what will happen tomorrow, for what is your life? It is even a vapor. that appears for a little time and then vanishes away. The title in my Bible in James says that he's arguing against presumption. and pride. And the remedy that he suggests is to recognize who you truly are, that you are but a vapor. And then if you were to turn to James chapter one, you would see the same thing for the potential rich man. The rich person is taught to glory in their humiliation, because as a flower of the field he will pass away. For no sooner has the sun risen with a burning heat than it withers the grass, its flower falls, and its beautiful appearance perishes So the rich man also will fade away in his pursuits. The prosperity would cause pride, and the remedy to the pride would be to recognize that you will fade away just like a flower. You are nothing but a mist and a vapor. That's how James handles pride within his context. In both examples, James is seeking for the Spirit to incite humility in his audience. God resists the proud, James chapter 4, but gives grace to the humble. He comes out right out and says it. And so that's what's going on here. David requests that God would teach him the wisdom of humility, the ultimate lesson for humanity. The request for wisdom is in 4 through 6. David begins with a personal request, although he's going to generalize out to all of humanity. He begins in verse 4 with the personal request: Lord, make me to know my end. And what is the measure of my days, that I may know how frail I am. Do you know how frail you are? Did you take it for granted that you would be here this morning? Verse 5 continues with one metaphor after another. You can almost hear drumbeats as he's seeking to pile drive this notion into his heart. David is rehearsing his personal lesson. My days are hand breadths. Only this big is my life relative to the universe. It reminds me of trying to identify We're all in a tick scare When everybody gets a tick, everybody is in a scare. And you're most scared when the tick is very small. And people are asking me, and I'm trying to look at the small tick, and they're saying, well, what is on its back? What is the design? And the tick I the the head of the tick and the tail of the tick are so close together I can't see its back And that's pretty much what he's saying here. That your life is like the back of a tick. The front and the back. They touch each other. That's how short it is. John Calvin summarizes it this way. As if it had been said, the life of man flies away swiftly, and the end of it, as it were, touches the beginning. My age is nothing, he continues. In our best state, humans are a vapor. When you are most strong and vigorous, when you're not ashamed to wear a tank top or a bikini or whatever it is. You're but a vapor. Now isn't that interesting? The Bible is very relevant, isn't it? David here is talking about vaping. Finally we can connect to your culture. It's just like that though. I drive by some guy who decided to lower his Honda Civic. And take off the muffler, and I see his whole cabin fill up with smoke. And then It's gone. I thought it would have lingered longer, but then it was gone. And that's David's point here Like chimney spoke, gone when a wind comes through. Easily blown away. Thin, insubstantial, inconsequential is your life. Now he moves from his personal specific experience as he reflects and he is pile driving this self-identity into him. As he compares himself to God, but then he broadens out and he makes statements as if he is now writing the book of Ecclesiastes. Surely every man, not just me, but everyone, walks about like a shadow. Surely they busy themselves in vain. They heap up riches and they don't know who's going to gather them. Just as soon as you get something, it's going to be taken away from you because you're going to go naked to the grave And that's the whole point. We as human beings, in all of our fervid activity compared to God, are inconsequential. And this is the David that this is the wisdom that David wants. This is what he believes he needs in the face of pride. This is the remedy for his pride. He wants to have an accurate understanding of himself. And so he uses image after image, barraging his men his imagination to rehearse this wisdom. Smoke. Smoke, vapor, mist, shadow, width of my hand. And this is a deep kind of wisdom. This is something that you cannot learn in the classroom. This is from the hard knock life, by the hand of God. And David wants to learn this from his hand as he has ex Experiencing perhaps being stripped of his property property and his social esteem. And we need to seek this. But I'm telling you, judging from the rest of Scripture, wisdom like this only comes from a baking process. Intense heat to bake it in. And so suffering and trial. There was a babysitter over our house who brought these ceramic bowls and plates, and the kids would paint on them or use the marker. And uh I guess the nice thing about it is after you paint or you mark on it, you could wipe it clean of no matter what design you put on it In order to get it to set, you had to put it in the oven for it to seal into the very pottery itself. And the same thing David is longing for here. He's longing for these truths to be baked into him. He's already undergoing the heat of discipline, and he prays that in the heat these truths would be baked into him. And it is instructive for us as Christians. While God was turning up the heat of discipline, he wanted these truths to set in To soak in where any new situation couldn't just wipe them off. Ultimately, I am inconsequential. Ultimately, I am not in control. Ultimately, I have earned nothing, and everything has been given to me by God's grace Ultimately, I am an undeserving servant. Ultimately, I can't even make my heart beat. Ultimately, I can't control if my lungs will collapse. Ultimately, I can't control the palpitations. That would be David's experience mixed with ours, things that he once bathed in. Imagine. Imagine if you truly believed those things. Have you ever met a person like that? It's the opposite of pride. This is what we hear in America. I am the captain of my life My plans succeed. I don't need your help. I solve problems. I deserve But as Mark read earlier from Luke 18, Jesus spoke to us in a parable. Seeking to relieve the crowd around him of pride. Two men went up to the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank you that I'm not like the other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this tax collector. I fast twice a week. I give tithes of all I possess. And the tax collector, standing afar off, would not as much raise his eyes to heaven But he beat his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. And Jesus summarizes the lesson. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified, rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be Will be exalted. The rain of mercy will not stay on the mountaintop, but always run into the valleys. And that is where we must be in humility. Perhaps more than any other wisdom, brothers and sisters, we need the wisdom of humility. I am plagued by my pride this morning I feel like I am just beginning. And I ask that you would begin. I pray that God would remedy our pride. I pray, if you will, that he would make us oven-baked humble Christians Now, everything that we said here is true. David is prideful. He opened his mouth in some arrogant way, and God is disciplining him for it. David gets that. David requests, therefore, wisdom so that he would learn from his heavenly father's correction. And he needed a remedy for his pride, therefore. Now he can see his place in the universe. He put on a different set of glasses that are no longer labeled arrogance, but humility. And he will re-look at his situation. He will re-relate to God. And he does so under our third point: discipline relieved. He re-relates to God as a servant without pride, asking God to please take his gaze away from him. Stop the discipline. I want you to notice first in verse 7 that a miracle just took place. Do you see that God blessed the baking process? What would indicate that? In verse 7, the transformation has already happened. Presumptuous and arrogant people hope in themselves. As Stuart Smalley used to say, I'm smart enough I'm good enough, and people like me. They can figure it out on their own. But in verse 7, we see that David is different. He's now opening his mouth And the first thing that he says is, My hope is in you. Deliver me, verse 8. Remove your plague from me, verse 10. And you can see in verse 11, That the baked in wisdom is immediately present to him. David uses the image of a moth. And now this can be taken in two different ways. Notice how every image hereafter is from a posture of humility. David is now interacting with his God, not from a place of pride and arrogance, like Nebuchadnezzar. Every word that comes out of his mouth is no longer presumptuous. He understands who he is before God in this moment. And he considers himself like a moth. And that can be taken in two ways. You could either envision this, a moth flying into a flame. It's the vapor again. Or you can envision it as a fabric that's slowly eaten away by a moth. Both seem to be images that the scriptures use. This, my translation with the NKJV, is focused on the melting moth. Flying into a flame. He is but a vapor. And this he has learned is now his appeal to God. From this new place of humility, David begs for relief. Not because he deserves it, but because he is vanity and a vapor. David knows that he is insignificant and fragile and thin He is like a cobweb. And if God were to just let go of the rock, the rock would go right through the cobweb and would not be able to withstand it. Notice in verse 12, actually rabbis have picked up on this also, that there is an intensification here as David learns humility. He moves in verse 12 from a prayer to God, to 12b to a cry to God, to 12c to his tears before God. He is pleading with him for his mercy. And he continues this plea as he argues as a stranger. For I am a stranger with you, a sojourner, as all my fathers were. And the reason why he would do this is he doesn't claim a right to anything. That he would have made up himself, but appeals to God for the rights that God has established for the stranger. God gave privileges to strangers. He promised a certain amount of protection and refuge to those in his kingdom. justice would be done in his land, and if you dwelt there as a stranger, then justice could be done for you. He would discipline even his own people if they treated you wrongly. And so David is asking for a refuge here because he knows who he is. David understands that because he is a vapor, he must relate to God in prayer, in crying, in tears. God is his savior, God is his deliverer, and God is his refuge. God is none of those things for a person who is prideful because they have their own solutions. This is the fruit Of the lesson that has been baked into David, he is finally at the end of the Psalm relating to his God as a human being should relate to their God. And here's the final statement. If your gaze remains, if you continue with the hand of discipline, I will go away. And I will be no more. Save my very life. If you don't, I will be extinguished. Like a moth. in a flame. This is an intense psalm. You really don't get it just by the words. There are certain experiences in life that God can use to teach you this. But I pray that something has come across. As his mouth was muzzled, As the pride was remedied through a consideration of his vanity, and as from his new posture of vanity he asked for his discipline to be relieved David muzzled his mouth, seeking a remedy for his pride and relief from his discipline David took the Nebuchadnezzar journey. It is a journey that many of us are on. Nebuchadnezzar began this way: I, Nebuchadnezzar, was living in my palace in comfort and prosperity. And it ended this way. Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and glorify and honor the King of heaven. All his acts are just and true, and he is able to humble the proud. And that is our promise in our King of Heaven. Now, who is and always will be Jesus the Christ. We began the service with me telling you that you don't deserve to be here How will you ever escape your pride? Who is strong enough to cleanse you from it? Who is strong enough to justify the prideful before God the Father? I'd ask that you would humble yourself and receive this truth for the first time or again Again, that Jesus Christ alone is the Savior of prideful sinners. It's something astonishingly that even Nebuchadnezzar learned there at the end David likewise began with pride, but he ended in humility before his sovereign God. And we have a lifetime. A lifetime of suffering and pain that God will use in the Christian's life, not all suffering and pain, but He'll use it to bake into us humility. Are you on Nebuchadnezzar's journey Do you need to be? I want to give you a surprising example of pride and humility. The difficult thing about pride is that it's sin, and the difficult thing about sin is that it's deceptive and it hardens to where you can So I want to give you a concrete example of someone, and I think you'll be surprised at what pride is actually in your life when you compare yourself to With this lady. This is from Johnny Erickson Tana, one of her blogs, and she's meditating on humility in relationship to the humiliation she feels in her disability Recently, I was at a ladies' luncheon with a couple of new friends. The table was set beautifully Linen and china and delicate little teacups, tiny egg salad sandwiches, beautifully decorated lady fingers. And after we blessed the food and got started, I asked one of the women now remember she's new to me to place the napkin on my lap and to insert my bent spoon just so into my arm splint I was especially grateful that the tea sandwiches were so small. That meant I could fit one easily on my bent's food and take it in virtually one bite by myself. So far, so good. My new friends did not feel awkward about my disability, and the one to my right was happy to occasionally give me sips of tea. Are you getting this picture. Someone must feed her and give her drink. Now she'd say, tell me if I'm not doing this right, betraying a hint of nervousness. in her voice. But I would reply, oh don't worry, you're doing great, happy that her hands weren't shaking and no tea spilled from the cup. This line Lunch in was going great. I was feeling just fine in this unusual setting with new friends. But in the middle of our conversation, I began to feel my nose run. I quietly sniffed, and I did this several times, but after a minute or two I could do nothing to stop the dripping that now wet the bottom of my nostrils. No doubt about it, my nose was running, seriously running. I knew this would take some quick thinking, and so I looked for the nearest mother. If there's anyone who can manage someone else's It's a mother, right? Now I knew the woman to my right never had children, and so I looked at the w mother to my left and said with a smile, I need a mother right now. Someone who is really, really experienced at wiping a runny nose. Would you mind getting a tissue and helping me with that? Well everyone had a good laugh, and I think that woman felt honored that her skills as a mother had been called upon. When she held the Kleenex to my nose, but she held my Kleenex the Kleenex to my nose a bit hesitantly, so I said, What's your child's name? Jessica, she smiled. Wondering why I should ask at that moment like this, so I said, just grab my nose as you would Jessica's, and you gotta wipe hard And that's cute. But do you see the situation? It was all the instructions she needed, and the nose wipe or two later, I was fine. Now, why does she tell us this? I tell you all this because there was a day a problem like that would have humiliated me. I would have thought, now listen to this. I would have thought of no one but myself and my embarrassment and my awkwardness. Humiliation, however, like that, is born of the ego. Humility, however, is born of the spirit Pride makes us artificial, but humility makes us real. It is the freedom to think of others And to do so in a creative way, because you know what? I believe the mother who helped me that day went away feeling very good for having helped someone who is helpless And for having met a very practical need. C. S. Lewis once said, humility is not thinking less of yourself, it is thinking of yourself less. Isn't that so true? For we learn humility through accepting humiliations in a good spirit. And so the next time you find yourself in an embarrassing, awkward situation, remember that where the Spirit of the Lord Jesus Christ is, there is always freedom. Friend, you are free to think of other people besides yourself. Friend, you are free to be creative. And while you are at it, you are free to discover humility. Do you see the pride in you now? The humility should still be gained within this life? Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus. Who being in the form of God did not consider it robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation Taking the form of a bondservant and coming in the likeness of men, and being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. Jesus Christ had the humility to become a servant, and some of us are unwilling to adopt that. You think you are better than God Himself. But when humility comes in and God turns on the oven and it begins to bake, we begin to hear songs like this. When I survey the wondrous cross, on which the Prince of Glory died, my riches gain, I count but loss, and I pour contempt. On all my pride. Let's pray Lord, these lessons that we are seeing David learn, they are hard lessons. They are divine. lessons. They are heaven coming to earth lessons. Lord, you have conquered us in our repentance unto life. It took humility that you created within us to do that. We ask as our Savior As our refuge, that you would consider us the stranger, the sojourner Lord, if you do not correct our pride and sanctify us from our pride and give us humility, we will vanish in our sin. We are wholly dependent on you. For our progressive sanctification. And we ask, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would pour out your Spirit on us. Work in us through our humiliating moments. Work in us through our suffering. Working us through our sickness. Help us to take Nebuchadnezzar's journey. Humble the pride. Humble the pride. The prideful. Make us like Jesus. Give us our cross. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Let's stand