Let's pray together. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, I pray that your word even preached here this evening Would be received by your congregation, by your grace, that you would reveal your glory to them, that they would worship you, and that they would see that you are worthy of following. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. When I was in high school, I lost a close friend. He was on his way back from a soccer game with his girlfriend and the steering cable snapped. They crossed the median strip and hit head-on with another car We had attended camps together for lacrosse all that summer, really looking forward to our senior year together and playing the best ball we had ever played. Uh but that wasn't going to happen. And it wasn't going to happen just for me. It wasn't going to happen to all of our brothers. We call our each other brothers. We're on the football team together or the lacrosse team together. But to remember him, to keep things alive, to keep plans and hopes alive We would have his initials, for example, on our t-shirts that were given out by the team, or we'd have uh his number. on our helmets. I wonder if you have similar experiences like that of trying to remember people. Human beings from the beginning have come up with different ways to remember the things that are the most important to remember. And what we have here today is not a sticker on a helmet or initials on a t-shirt, but we do have Uh and it happens every single year. We have these dates set on our calendar because we have, together with millions of other human beings for thousands of years, determined That it is very important for us to ponder and to remember and to put our hearts forward in the acknowledgement of who Jesus Christ is and what he has done. Specifically, not just in an abstract theological sense, getting lost in a seminary classroom, but really asking the question, what is the relevance? Of Jesus Christ for me? What difference does He make? And is there anything that He wants of me? We've already seen in the last sermon that he is declaring himself and has been declared by God as king. What does our King want us to do? What does he want from us? Well those kinds of questions, the relevance question, the how does Jesus relate to me And what does he want for me? Those kinds of questions are answered here within our passage. They're all condensed together for us and they've been written down and preserved so that you could have these things. Really from the Holy Spirit working in John. I just want to recall a few of the things that I have already read to you here. I know it's getting darker and darker, and you can't see the page. But I'll just go through these verses again just so you can see what is John's message and how does he begin to answer those questions. He starts the whole thing off like you would expect a person to start off a story where he's giving you the setting. and the introduction. Really, he's giving you orienting statements or a lens through which you should look so that you can understand who Jesus Christ is. He says things like this, now before the feast of the Passover. Well, that's really key. It tells us and invites us to enter into the reading and the understanding of what John is teaching us here through the lens of the Passover, that we should see Jesus in relationship to the Passover and the Passover in relationship to Jesus Christ. It also mentions his hour, which we see throughout this gospel, when Jesus knew that his hour had come that he should depart from this world to the Father, having loved his own Who were in the world, he loved them to the end. Do you hear that kind of general cosmic statement? It's almost as if we popped out of the story for a moment. And John is saying, listen, if you want to know what all of this is about You could summarize it in a single word. It's about how Jesus Christ loved his congregation to the end. And that's what this story is about. And that ties in with him and the Passover. Now, what Jesus is going to end up doing here within the the rest of this passage is he's going to unpack who he is as the Passover Lamb. And he's going to display to you his love all the way to the end, his commitment and his fidelity and faithfulness and his loyalty. He's going to start to depict that to his disciples and to you here this evening through various symbols. The first symbol that I've already mentioned is the symbol of the Passover. Jesus plans the whole thing to take place during the feast of the Passover. If you were to review your Old Testament history, you could go to Genesis And you could or Exodus and you could see the Passover feast. I think that we've we've heard these stories within children's Bible stories or in Sunday schools where The Lord and the angel of death will pass over the Israelites when the lentils of their doors are covered with the blood of the Lamb. And this wasn't just some weird ceremonial activity from an odd place in Egypt. This was a foreshadowing or an illusion. Or a type of what yet was to come that's here in its consummation. And Jesus is calling up all of those stories that they would have heard, all of the imagery And he's inviting you to begin to see that what he is going to do with his life and with his death is going to cause a kind of Passover and exodus Those stories will continue in the Old Testament and little hints will be given in other stories that were told. Do you remember the story of Isaac and Abraham. In Genesis 22, 9 through 12, there's this famous story that was even picked up by philosophers like Seren Kirkregard to try to capture what's going on within human existence. It says in Genesis that when they arrived at the place where God had told him to go, Abraham built an altar and arranged the wood on it. Then he tied his son Isaac and laid him on the altar on top of the wood. And Abraham picked up the knife to kill his own son as a sacrifice. But right at that moment, we all remember that the angel of the Lord called to him from heaven, Abraham, Abraham. Yes, Abraham replied, Here I am. Do not lay a hand on the boy. The angel said, Do not hurt him in any way, for now I know that you truly fear God. You have not withheld from me even your son, your only son. And then there's that that moment when Abraham is able to look up and to see Going into verse number 13, Abraham looks up and he sees a ram caught by its horns in a thicket. And so he took the ram and sacrificed it as a burnt offering in the place of his son. So here we have a firstborn son, just like we have in the Exodus story, and we end up with a kind of lamb that is given to us and sacrifices and blood. That original Exodus story. Of the Passover is continuing among this group of people that are God's congregation. And the most famous one among them ends up being Abraham and his son Isaac. Where he looks over and he sees that there's a lamb that has been prepared instead of his own son who's stuck in the thickets. You know what a thicket is? You ever had to go through thickets? What's there? What would you find? Thorns? I mean, isn't the picture all starting to come together? You know, it's it's as if uh the older t older uh testament that has been given to us was kind of like that TV I grew up with my grandmother where we got B WBFF TV 45 TV 54 and I think MPT channel 22. And that was it. And I had rabbit ears. And sometimes I knew that we were watching a TV show, but I couldn't make out people's faces. The resolution was horrible. And the Old Testament can be a little like that in terms of what is God's plan for the redemption of humanity. But here we're beginning to see as it unfolds, even in the story of Isaac, something's starting to become clear when we look at it through the lens of John. We're starting to get more of a 4K television. Isaac Watts picks up on this and he says, see from his head, his hands, his feet. Sorrow and love flow mingled down, Did e'er such love and sorrow meet, and going back to the thickets, Or thorns compose so rich a crown There's the ram. There's the thorns in the thicket. And apparently there needs to be a sacrifice. Well, there's that that's just in verse one of chapter 13 where Jesus has planned this whole thing to take place during the feast of the Passover, and those are some of the things that should be running through your mind as he does so. But obviously, the main symbol in our passage is the footwashing. And it is really a symbol of his service. And I'll talk about our service in a minute here, because he uses it for that too. But in John 13, 4 and 5, we see something astounding. That Jesus, who is the king and has been established as the king in this gospel, he rises from dinner or supper. He lays aside his outer garments. He takes a towel and he girds himself. He's essentially taking on the costume, if you will, of a slave. And after that he pours water into a basin, and he begins to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the towel with which he is girded. He's taking a kind of prophetic action or symbolic action or playing something out so that they would begin to understand What is at the core of how he is going to love them? But he's not just going to love them. He's going to love them all the way to the end. All the way to the uttermost. He's going to love you all the way to the end I was listening to uh one fellow preacher and speaking about this act that Jesus takes and in rising up, taking on the form of a servant, is how Paul would put it in Philippians 2. And the commentator says this, that Jesus was aware of who he was, that he's the incarnate Son of God, and of what he was about to do. And in this context In this context, Jesus rose from the table and he took off his garments. Now, if you were in a modern context, he continues, it would be as if a man took off his suitcoat. He took off his tie. He took off his shirt and he took off his trousers. And then Jesus put on a loincloth. It would be as if a businessman himself would have taken on some kind of garb that now recognized that he no longer has a seat at the table. But is instead a slave. Jesus assumed the garb of a slave, and it seems he was consciously embracing symbols of humiliation as he strode toward the cross that was waiting for him. Now why would Jesus do that? Why would Jesus move into a state of humility, even in acting it out, and taking on the role and even the look of a slave? Well, have you ever heard of Jesus being the servant? Here we see he's serving them at the table by washing their feet, but is that a new theme that just shows up here in this upper room? Don't we hear of Jesus uh the anticipation of Jesus being the great servant to come from Isaiah 53 For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of dry ground. He has no former comliness, and when we see him, there's no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected by men. A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, and we did not esteem him. But why? Why must he be the one who is the servant? Why is he the one that must be outcast? Isaiah goes on to reveal his vision of what God is accomplishing through the Christ, and he says, it's because he's bearing our griefs. He's carrying our sorrows. We esteemed him stricken and smitten by God and afflicted, but here's the trick. Here's the reality of it. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement for our peace was upon him. And I do pray that you would remember this as you envision him as a servant. It is by his stripes that we are healed. He has the power to become a servant, and he has the power to take up his kingship again. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord has laid on this servant that we see in this passage, Jesus the iniquity of us all. That's what Jesus is depicting in the beginning here of this foot washing. Now, when I was reading this, besides seeing the symbolism of the Passover and the symbolism of the of what Jesus will do as our servant in our salvation. When I was reading, I started to read Peter's part where he said, you'll never do this and you'll never do that. And I heard some of you Laugh like you do it, Peter. It wasn't a laugh as in like, ha ha, you're so funny, Peter. It was more like here we go again When we look at this and we continue making these observations, you can see that the Holy Spirit is using Peter in a very special way. And it's not just a way for you to know the history of this. All of this is history. It happened. But God has this here so that you could begin to see a fundamental problem with all of us. Is that as soon as I demonstrate to you here by way of this symbolism that Jesus Christ is going to serve you, you're going to be like Peter and you're going to say, I don't really need it. And that's a major obstacle that human beings have to overcome. We do not believe, actually, that we need any help from God. And any help from his son. So we have the same words as Peter, or we act them out when he said, and Peter says to him, Lord, are you washing my feet? Jesus answered and said to him, You'll understand later. Peter says, You're never going to do it. You're never washing my feet. But here's the trick, and I wonder if you caught this too when Jesus replied to Peter, and he said Listen, if I do not wash you, you don't have any part with me. So whatever it is that's going on in us as human beings that reject the help of God through Jesus Christ, It is an extremely serious problem because if you do not receive Jesus Christ as your servant, as God's help sent to you for your salvation, then you see the clear words here, you have no part with me. So one of the things we're going to have to get to eventually here in this sermon is that there's going to have to be some humility. Some acknowledgement of something's wrong with us that needs help. The kind of help that requires the death of Jesus Christ. And then we end up seeing finally in the very last part of this teaching that Jesus returns back to the table. Isn't that lovely? He comes back to the table after acting out what he's going to do, and he breaks the whole thing down into just a nice clear lesson for his disciples. making sure that they understand that there's another point that he needs to make with them. And that is that there's a main rule of life for being his disciple. What you have seen me just do in washing your feet as your Lord and as your master, I expect you to do that for each other. I expect you to do that for each other. That's a a major rule that he places at the top of the page. If you wanted to write out your resolutions, because you're in the Jonathan Edwards this year. Right at that top of the every single page for every single year should be, I should be like Christ washing the feet of his congregation. So when you end up putting this whole story together, you can see these different parts. You can see the symbolism of the Passover and the symbolism of the foot washing and the the the the pride of Peter and the kind of service that we owe to each other. There's a beautiful message that is given to us on Monday Thursday, year after year So that we could remember something that's very important. More important than the initials of my friend on my shirt. More important than his number on my helmet. And it is this. That Jesus Christ has come to serve you, his congregation. And Christ sends you to serve his people. Jesus Christ has come to serve you, and Jesus sends you to serve. Now, I had already brought up that there is a major problem in being able to accomplish this. I wish it was that easy where Jesus just comes so that we can recognize him as our servant and then he sends us out the serve and the story's over. We're all just accepting him as our servant and we all just serve. We don't need to talk about it anymore. But that's not how it unfolds. We're all resistant to these kinds of truths Let me remind you of, and uh just by way of illustration of our kind of resistance to Jesus as a servant Let me remind you of a passage from the Gospel of Mark, chapter 2, 15 through 17. Now it happened, and what I want you to do, I'm going to read this story to you. You're sitting there in the dark. I'm going to read this story to you, and I want you to think honestly, have an inner dialogue with yourself. And if you if you even want to be in a kind of prayer with God at this point. I want you to hear the passage and I want you to honestly evaluate and even ask God to show you who are you as a character in this passage? Which person are you? Do you resemble anybody here? Maybe think of some of the decisions you made last week. And if they reflect that you have taken on a certain characteristic. Now it happened as he was dining in Levi's house that many tax collectors and sinners also sat together with Jesus and his disciples, for there were many, and they followed him. And when the scribes and Pharisees saw him eating with the tax collectors and sinners, they said to his disciples, What is it that he eats and drinks with tax collectors and sinners? When Jesus heard it, he said to them, Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. And I did not come to call the righteous, but I have come to call sinners to repentance. I just wonder. Who you recognize yourself as in that passage. Are you one who has acknowledged That you're kind of like, you know, if you if you don't understand the tax collectors and you should understand a sinner is a sinner. The tax collectors and the sinners are something you wouldn't want to egg uh live acknowledge Or say, yeah, this is who I am. You'd want to acknowledge that you're these other people in the picture who have their lives together They're so fit, they're so healthy, that they don't need a physician. And that's how they view themselves. If you were to do it today within our kind of culture, there's a couple different kinds of people that we could acknowledge ourselves to be. Some of us acknowledge ourselves, for example, to be unathletic and we're and if we try to run, we're not going to make it. And then there's others where they just have this cute little ponytail bopping down the street in their brand new tennis shoes, and they look like they belong on the cover of a magazine. And the Pharisees thought of themselves as that second part. They didn't need any help. They were at full health. And Jesus is in some way here, by way of analogy, saying. The same thing that John is saying that if you don't acknowledge yourself as a a sinner and sitting at his feet and the fact that you need a physician Well then look at the character that you are. And imagine if you get to a place and you realize that Jesus offered to be your doctor and you refused. I wonder in my experience, I I have a couple truths that rise that seem Unassailable. One is that human beings are hardheaded. They have trouble seeing things as they really are. And another one is that Jesus Christ doesn't give up on human beings. He pursues them and he gets through their hard-headedness. So let me just ask you this question on this just this first point that we're working on. Has Jesus Christ been hounding you? Trying to get through your head that you need Him That you need him to serve you in the most profound way. I've seen this happen in different ways in my own life, in the life of others. Are there certain failures that are happening in your life right now Is it possible that God in His providence is causing you to fail so that you could see that you need help? Are there certain accidents that have happened to you? Things just like a bolt out of the blue. Never could have anticipated it. Is God trying to wake you up and say, listen, you are going to be highly competent as I work with you, but nevertheless, you will always be dependent upon me? And you need to realize that. You need me as your physician. Is God trying to wake you up to that reality? I just wonder. And I hope that you can take the time to consider that. Now that's the first part. We're just working on that first part with are you willing for Christ to serve you? And that's harder than we originally would anticipate. Because we have to admit that we need something. But then that second part of the story is Jesus Christ telling us That as he serves us, he's not going to do so that we so that we become immature and greedy. He's going to serve us so that we might serve others Now I know my audience here, I think mostly. And I think you would be very excited if I reminded you, for example, of 2 Corinthians 4. 5. And you can give me an amen for this if you want. Listen to this. Tell me this isn't the heartbeat. of you as a Protestant Christian. For we do not preach ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord. And I said amen when I read that too. But then I had an old friend remind me that there's a second half to the verse. And it's conjoined with an and. We preach Jesus Christ as Lord. And then he goes on and he says, and here's the second, there's a two-point sermon. Here's the second part of the preaching. And we preach ourselves as your servants for Jesus' sake. That's the same thing that Jesus is pointing out in the passage with John: I'm going to serve you because you need it. You need a physician. And I'm going to set you up by way of my power that you would serve others. And Paul summarizes that in saying, we preach two things. We preach Christ as Lord. We also preach that we're servants for his sake. There's the two parts. That friend that reminded me of that I won't mention his name because I don't want to embarrass him, but he wrote some things on those service of serving in the name of Jesus Christ and what does it really look like to serve in the same way that Jesus teaches us teaches us here by way of footwashing He had a profound experience in someone serving him that changed his life. And so he explored it a bit. And here are some of his words that have been really helpful to me over the years. I think I've given these words to you before. In thinking about washing each other's feet, of not only Christ serving us, but us serving other people, he says, I want you to imagine standing before any body of Christ and proclaiming with all the declarative authority of every other doctrine you have ever heard, like justification by faith. And that same with that same vigor preaching, I am your number one foot washing, toilet plunging, trash cleaning, floor scrubbing, diaper changing, spiritual janitor. Please give me a call. He goes on and he says, do not take my words toilet plunging and foot scrubbing for pure drama. Do you really believe that such menial acts as these are somehow lower than the Son of God becoming man and suffering on the cross with the weight of sin of all his people on his back? Do you really dare to think that the sovereign God serving until death and even death on the cross is less menial or less difficult than the act of plunging a toilet? And he finally says a question, which I've really been pondering, and I want you to think about this too. Let me just ask you directly, brothers and sisters, why are you so afraid of servanthood? Perhaps it is because the definition of Christian servanthood in accord with the lifestyle of Christ is as follows. This is what it means to be a servant. Servanthood is not simply doing what one is assigned, nor is it doing one's rightful duty. It means you will do what no one else would possibly choose to do. And his final words in this essay that he wrote is, this is how Christ serves. Isn't that true? Who else in their right mind would do what Christ has done? Well, as we gain the mind of Christ, this is the definition that we take up, and we find that it's the rightest mind of them all. That if we're truly going to wash each other's feet, not in a single ceremonial act, but as a basic rule of life, it will mean that you will choose to do what no one else is willing to do for each other, even plunging toilets. You will become each other's servants It is how Christ serves you, isn't it? It is how Christ expects you to serve his people. Amen. Please join me in a word of prayer.