We'll begin in verse number twelve. This is after the foot washing. So when he had washed their feet, taken his garments, and sat down again, he said to them, Do you know what I have done to you? You call me teacher and lord, and you say well, for so I am. If I then your Lord and teacher have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example that you should do as I have done to you. Most assuredly I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master. Nor is he who is sent greater than he who sent him. If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them. I do not speak concerning all of you. I know whom I have chosen But that the scripture may be fulfilled, he who eats bread with me has lifted up his heel against me. Now I tell you before it comes that when it does come to pass you may believe that I am He. Most assuredly I say to you, he who receives whomever I send receives me, and he who receives me receives him who sent me. When Jesus had said these things, he was troubled in spirit and testified and said, Most assuredly I say to you, one of you will betray me. Then the disciples looked at one another, perplexed about whom he spoke. Now there was leaning on Jesus' bosom one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved. Simon Peter therefore motioned to him and asked who it was of whom he spoke. Then leaning back on Jesus' breast, he said to him, Lord, who is it? Jesus answered, It is he to whom I shall give a piece of bread when I have dipped it. And having dipped the bread, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon. Now after the piece of bread, Satan entered him. Then Jesus said to him, What you do, do quickly. But no one at the table knew for what reason he had said this to him. For some thought, because Judas had the money box that Jesus had said to him. Buy those things we need for the feast, or that he should give something to the poor. Having received the piece of bread, he then went out immediately, and it was night. So when he had gone out, Jesus said, Now the Son of Man is glorified, and God is glorified in him. If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself and glorify him immediately. Little children, I shall be with you a little while longer. You will seek me, and as I said to the Jews, where I am going, you cannot come. So now I say to you. A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another as I have loved you, that you also love one another. By this all will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I pray that you would grant your blessing on the reading and on the preaching of this word. I pray that you would glorify your Son. And that your son would glorify you. In the name of Christ. Amen. This past Sunday I announced that we would be considering throughout this season the glory of God specifically. We oftentimes are able to repeat what is the chief end of man, to glorify God and enjoy him forever. And we sometimes don't ask the follow-up question, well, what does it mean to glorify him? I think we have some sense of it, but what is it that we mean specifically and not just a hunch? Last, this past Sunday, we discovered that there is a resurrection glory by which God is glorified, that Jesus Christ is the one who is the resurrection and the life. And that though doctors in a sense bring life, though medicine in a sense brings life, they all pale and pale in comparison and are but derivatives of life himself, who is Jesus Christ, who is the life and resurrection. Tonight we are here to discover in Christ the glory and the greatness of God again. so that we can share those discoveries with others. You'll remember that quote that I gave you this past Sunday from SPEP's mission statement actually. And here we are to do so at a solemn occasion. I'm not sure exactly what it would be like because not all the details are given to me. So I'd ask that you would just mind my imagination for a moment, but if you could imagine yourself there on this night, having supper and being a part of a foot washing with your Lord Jesus Christ. What do you think it was like? When I look at archaeology books and it being in a room and it being dim, I know that there's going to be oil-lit candles. And so it's not going to be a bright LED like we would experience or even a bright light bulb. I remember watching Downton Abbey and the introduction of electricity and bright light bulbs and the oldest and the and his mother complaining of how harsh the light was. Well it wasn't like that at the supper and the foot washing. It would have been a calm, gentle, earthy tone that would spread throughout the room. And as you would sit there and Jesus Christ would ungarment himself in order to kneel down and wash your feet, what would your feelings be? What would the thoughts be? What thoughts would you have? Uh you've heard me say multiple times that I have way too much in common with Peter. And I don't mean any of the good things. I I know that I would rush into it and say, Lord, you know who I am and you you shouldn't be kneeling before me washing my feet. And he would have to say, unless I wash you, you won't be clean. And as I have to every single day in my life here, not in my imagination, I have to accept the cleansing of Jesus Christ. And so too would you. And so there he would be. And what would cross your mind as you looked in the candle glow across at each other? What would cross your mind when he says that you are his servant and he is your master? Of course you'd say, Yes, of course you are our master. And he said, the servant is like the master. And what I have done you must do for each other. I imagine that that would sound aspirational, that that would sound motivational, that you would be on board? You'd say, yes, well then we have common ground because I want to live a life of love. But over the time after the supper and as you move on your life you would find, you know, thinking back on that dinner party and on the foot washing, this is far more difficult. There's something inside of me that is quite different than Jesus And I really need his help to be able to love my brothers and sisters. We'll talk towards the end of the sermon about why it's so important, and maybe that'll provide some further motivation. I wonder furthermore, what would you do at the same supper? He places his garments back on, the footwashing is over, and he announces that to whom he dips the bread and gives, gives the bread, will betray him. If you were there and you had as much knowledge as they did, I'm imagining you wouldn't really know what he meant. I don't get the sense the disciples were real clear on what was happening. Do you get the same sense there? Do you get the sense that they were trying to drive with a muddy window shield? That's something that the wiper really needed to clear things off. I get this sense I've gotten this sense from earlier chapters too. Do you remember in the triumphal entry? When there's the editorial comment when uh John is writing and he's saying, after Jesus was glorified, in hindsight 2020, this is the Jesse paraphrase. In hindsight 2020, we looked back and we realized what the crowds were doing in singing to Jesus, and there was more going on than we realized. And I think there's more going on than they realized here when he mentioned betrayal, his hour that he was waiting for. the death and the crucifixion. All of these things are going to be surprises to them. Right now, I'm wondering if in that room, in seeing him triumphantly enter Jerusalem if they were ready to pick up their swords and cut off some ears. But the whole thing is going to unfold differently. At least at that moment, the whole thing will unfold differently. And I wonder what you would have thought. Would you have thought, am I the betrayer? Who is it that will betray? Well, you know, you can reflect on that scene, but as we and which we just did, we can We can see that as that scene unfolds, and then with the help of the editorial comment, that there is some clarity that comes across in verses 31 through 35. So we can leave the scene for a moment. We can step back into our regular portion of time where God has caused us to be born. And we can begin in verse number 31, which says, so when he had gone out Now right before that, it says, having received the piece of bread, he then went out immediately, and it was night. So when he had gone out, You know what that should remind you of? It should remind you of something similar that happened right at the tail end of the triumphal entry. There were Greeks that showed up and they were asking to see Jesus. And because they showed up, Jesus dropped into a dialogue with his disciples and said, My hour has come. Now, why would he say that then? I think he said that then because he saw the Greeks coming and asking about him as a sign that the wheels had been put in motion. that the hour was drawing near. And I think that him taking of the bread and Judas Iscariot heading out, Jesus knowing the scriptures That he saw the wheels of the hour that he had been living for being set in motion You'll remember in John 12, 20 through 23, now there were certain griefs among those who came to worship, and then Jesus' response, well we have something similar here. So when he had gone out Jesus ends up saying, Now the Son of Man is glorified. Do you see that? And now how could he say that sitting there in that moment? Nothing has really changed. In fact, if anything has happened, we're moving away from him receiving glory. at least in our earthly way of thinking about glory. But Jesus is viewing this differently. He's seeing this as a sign. He's seeing the world through the scriptural revelation that had been given to him and the close relationship that he has with the Father. And so what he does then is he moves into a time where he is going to strengthen his disciples. And I would imagine if you were sitting there, you would need some strength also And do you know when you would need even more strength? When you would look up and you would see that your Lord is being crucified. And so the strength begins here So when he had gone out, Jesus said, Now the Son of Man is glorified. Jesus is speaking about this positively, though one is just leaving to return with guards to arrest him, for him to go through several trials, and for him to be crucified. But Jesus says, now the Son of Man is glorified, and God is glorified in him. If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself and glorify him immediately. Now you can see that there's a revelation here, and you can see why the church has professed from the beginning, really, by way of faith, that God is one God in three persons. There is an interaction here going on between the Father and the Son, and of course the Spirit is present. The Father and the Son glorifying each other. Despite the betrayal? You know, we're used to this word, the glory of God, in a sense. I wonder if any of you have Psalm 19 memorized. Or at least if you enjoyed reading it, the heavens declare the glory of God. We've read that before. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament shows his handiwork. Day unto day utter speech, and night unto night reveals knowledge. There's no speech nor language where their voice is not heard. Their line has gone out through all the earth and their words to the end of the world. In them he has set a tabernacle for the Son. If you haven't had the opportunity to reflect on that, Psalm 19, I'd encourage you to do so because it's saying that creation itself has a voice. And you can't shut it up. Whether it is daytime or whether it is nighttime, it is always speaking. Whether it is in the east or it is in the west, whether it is in the north or it is in the south. Anywhere creation is, it is always saying one thing, and that is that God is glorious, that he is splendid. Now you can get into some of the specifics on that. If you were to go through the Proverbs, you would see the stately walk of the Lion. shows forth the glory of the king who is the lion of lions and the king of kings, the f from the tribe of Judah. That's a way in which a lion would point you toward the glory of Christ himself. Well, that's true of all of creation, and you can reflect on that. But here, what we're seeing is not Psalm 19, the heavens declare the glory of God. What we're going to see is that the actions of Jesus Christ the Son of Man show forth the glory of God. He says right there in the verse that he is going to glorify the Father, and the Father in turn is going to glorify him. So there is a lot of glory, glory, glory, glory going on here. Glorified, glorified, glorified, glorified, glorify. I'm just counting them as I look at the scriptures with you. And it is the Father and the Son glorifying each other here, not the heavens declaring the glory of God, but Jesus Christ declaring the glory of God. And I think that the important thing here for you this evening as you're meditating on this, as you take the next step in discovering in Christ the glory of God and sharing those discoveries with others, is you ask the question, what glory or splendor It's a good translation of glory. Splendor. What glory or splendor is revealed in the work of the triune God, in the voluntary death of Christ? What glory or splendor is revealed in the work of the triune God in the voluntary death of Jesus Christ? What glory is there in the reality of the footwashing. It's not something that is far away, remember. You might think, well, the glory of the Triune God is when Jesus returns and brings all things into perfect order and every knee shall bow. That's true. Or you could say the glory of God here is the resurrection. That's true. But you'll notice in the passage that it specifically says in following up in 32, if God is glorified in him, God will also glorify in himself and glorify him immediately. Immediately. And the most immediate thing that is getting ready to happen here, which the footwashing was all about, which the triumphal entry actually was all about. As he spoke, that you cannot have many plants growing up if the seed does not die in the earth. He's been talking about this for some time. His hour has come. It is the hour of his glory. It's not something simply far away in the future like his resurrection or even his return, although that should be included in this. It will be his death His death reveals his glory. His death reveals the splendor of his Father Combined with the footwashing, you could put all of this together into a holy conglomeration, and you would say That the glory that is being revealed here, and it will be revealed again tomorrow night as we talk about it, but in more detail, it is the glory and the splendor of his love for his bride, the church. That's what's being revealed. The evangelist makes it clear, writes one author. That the supreme moment of divine self-disclosure, the greatest moment of displayed glory, was in the shame of the cross. It is because by it he glorifies God the Father, for in the cross of Christ as in a magnificent theater. The inestimable goodness of God is displayed before the entire world. Have you ever thought about it that way? I know recently there was a theater production. I've been to theater productions myself. I had the privilege of going and seeing Broadway. And you know the way that the theater is set up, it's it's set up to where everyone can see the stage. And there's a spotlight. And we know that we're getting ready to go to the point of the story where we find ourselves on Golgotha, we look up and we see that at the center of the world And with the spotlight where everyone is able to see and every nation will be able to hear about it, it will be Christ voluntarily permitting himself to hang on that cross. And you have to ask, what is he seeking to demonstrate in this theater of the world? It is the splendid glory of the love and the faithfulness of God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Now I wonder, as we talk about what is being displayed here, I wonder if that is exactly what you need displayed to you. You know, I've been a human being for the way that we count it, I guess 49 years, I guess we could count that a little bit differently. And my whole life, if there's one thing I have struggled with, it is believing that God is good and that He actually knows how to love. I think it's something that we struggle with, knowing the love of God. I think it's something we struggle with all the way. to the end. And then finally when we cross that river and we are glorified ourselves, we finally realize And it's not just that God has some love of greater quantity than most. It's that God is love. That that is his splendor. That God doesn't just have 60% faithfulness, whereas most have 20%, but that God is faithfulness. I don't know what you're going through right now, but I know who Satan is, and I know what the world is, and I know what your flesh is. And I know that when things go wrong, when things go sideways, when things have been difficult even for just a little while, there is a suggestion that is offered to you. Well, maybe God just isn't good. Maybe he doesn't really know how to care for you. And what is being preached to us here tonight by way of the Holy Spirit in these scriptures. Is that that is a lie. And what the truth is, is that God is most glorious and splendid in his love specifically for you. He is going to, by way of the supper, distribute the bread and the cup to you to show you a specific love to you. Not a general theoretical, hey, this is what love is. But I love you. And I need you to know how glorious my love for you is and for all of the nations. Now that is how he is seeking to strengthen his disciples. I went on there a little bit, but that's how he was seeking to strengthen his disciples, and I'm hoping that you feel a bit more strengthened there. And just understanding that that glory and splendor of his love is directed at you, brothers and sisters. It's directed at you. I hope you can remember that, and I hope you can remind each other of that. We all need a reminder. Now, you'll notice that the passage goes on to where this is it's interesting that it's following a similar pattern to what we saw last Sunday in that Jesus has revealed what his glory is going to be. It's going to be the splendor of his love and his faithfulness. But then he is also going to reveal how the world will continue to see his glory. And he's going to do so really with what is the beginning of what's called the farewell discourse. So if you wanted to understand more of what I'm talking about here tonight, you're going to want to keep reading. into chapters 14, 15, 16, and 17. Okay? That's where he's going to start revealing more and more of the preparation for his disciples as he leaves. That's why it's called the farewell He says this here in John chapter 13, verse 33. He says, Little children, this is the next stage here. He says, Little children, I shall be with you a little while longer. You will seek me, and as I said to the Jews, where I am going you cannot come, so now I say to you. So he has revealed his glory and his splendor. And now he's moving more into the preparation for him to leave his disciples in a way that they're not, they don't understand he's not going to, at a certain time he's not going to be with them physically any longer. He's going to be sending the Holy Spirit so as to not leave them as orphans. That's in the in the upcoming chapters. And when he does so, one of the very first things that he does after strengthening them In his farewell discourse is he gives them direction on how to make sure that they are a continual witness to the glory of his love. And he says it this way, he says, A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another, as I have loved you, that you also love one another. Now if you were sitting there with him, if we were to go back and use our holy imaginations, if you were sitting there with him and he said That you love one another as I have loved you, that you also love one another. What is the very first thing that you are going to think about? The foot washing. He had already said in the footwashing, as I have done these things to you, so too you are to do these things to each other. Now I think you miss the point if you think he just wants you to repeat a foot washing. I think he is using that as a sign. and uh representative for us to be able to see the a larger picture of what he's calling us to as his disciples. Now that all sounds really good It sounds like an ethic that we would want to accept. And I think that's important. An ethic of love is important. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and your neighbor as yourself. All the law and the prophets hang on these two things. Of course that's something we would want to accept. But the focus that we have here tonight, besides just an ethic on how we could shine is the focus here is how is it that we shine like the moon and not like the sun? That is to say that we are the reflection of but a greater light We want the world to know the splendor of God's love, and the way in which that is going to happen, according to Jesus Christ, as he gives us direction here, is that as he has loved us. We will love one another. And in that way and analogously, they will, the world, will be able to see a witness to the love of Jesus Christ for the Father and the love of the Father for the Son. And because we have been given the Holy Spirit, they'll be able to see the love of our fellowship with each other. And that is meant to be, as one author, and actually I'll mention his name here, it's Francis Schaeffer. Francis Schaeffer is famous for saying of this passage. This passage here gives you the mark of the Christian. It is the mark of the Christian He says in one of his writings, through the centuries, men have displayed many different symbols to show that they are Christians. I wonder who here is wearing a symbol right now They have worn marks in the lapels of their coats. They have tongue chains around their necks, and they have even had special haircuts. When I entered into uh the playing lacrosse as a freshman, I was uh the only Christian on the team and I was re ridiculed often in college because of that, and one of the ways they ridiculed me, just as a fun story for you is that in the hazing they shaved my head to be a tonsure. Which is like Martin if you see pictures of Martin Luther And that's aga it's a it's a and why did that come to their mind? Because they know that there are these certain marks throughout history of what Christians would have, whether it be chains around their necks or or a certain kind of uh haircut or whatever it is, but Schaefer goes on to say uh that but there is a much better sign There is a greater mark. It is a mark that was not thought up just as a matter of expediency for use on some special occasion or in some specific era. It is a universal mark that is to last throughout all of the ages of the church until Jesus comes back. And what is that mark? And that mark is love for one another, from hearts that have been purified by the Holy Spirit. And that is a community of love. And we oftentimes think, well, how lovely it would be to be a part of a community of love. And that is true. But again, I'm still drawing our attention for us to be the moon, that we would reflect a greater light, that the world would be able to witness Just a taste of the splendor of the love of God in Christ. It says in 1 John, and of course it's the same John that wrote the Gospel of John under the superintendence of the Holy Spirit, he says this. For this is the message that you have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another. And this will bring glory to our God. So what should the love look like? Our world has reduced it to a doctrine of kindness. But it is the dedicated love of a mother to her children, a Christian mother to her children. It is the dedicated love of the Christian father to his family. That is only made possible through the love of Christ. It is the dedicated love of church officers to the congregation. It is the dedicated love of a soldier who is willing to take a bullet and give one for the sake of the weak and those who are downtrodden. This is the way in which love shows up in our vocations and the duties that Christ has given to us. And it also shows up in how we treat each other as a holy community of love. It's the salt and the white of the earth. The glory of God, his splendor, is seen on the cross because it manifests his profound love, mercy, and power to overcome sin and misery. setting the entire order of creation into good order. We continue to make the glory of his love known as we bear the mark of love, especially to one another. Amen. Please pray with me.