Should be a great comfort to you, for it tells you that the way that if you look closely at the scripture, it will lead you to the same conclusions. So if you would please listen as I read Luke 22 again to you. And what I'm going to be focusing on tonight is picking up in verse to verse uh where is it verse fourteen and then reading down through twenty-three or two uh through twenty-two When the hour had come, he sat down and the twelve apostles with him, and then he said to them with fervent desire. I have desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. For I say to you, I will no longer eat of it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God. Then he took the cup and he gave thanks and said, Take this and divide it among yourselves. For I say to you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes. He took bread, he gave thanks and broke it, and he gave it to them, saying, This is my body which is given to you. Do this in remembrance of me. Likewise he also took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood which is shed for you But behold, the hand of my betrayer is with me on the table, and truly the Son of Man goes as it has been determined. But woe to that man by whom he is betrayed May the Lord add his blessings to the reading and thoughts that have come about as a result of his word. What a power-charged evening that must have been for our Lord, especially for Jesus. Especially Jesus. You know, too often I think that, contrary to what I said just a few weeks ago, that we sometimes forget just how human Jesus was, who he was I I know I spoke just a few weeks back about how we we tend to not think as much as we should about how totally other he was. Well in the same way that we oftentimes don't think as much as we should about how unlike us he was, I think sometimes we forget just how like us he was I think we tend to put Jesus in that category of larger than life. We've watched so many heroes on TV and they all seem to be impervious, if you will, to the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune, whatever may be coming at them. And as a result of that, we we tend to think of someone as big and powerful and as wonderful and as as incredible as our Lord Jesus Christ and his humanity and and we we we tend to get a sense that he's not really real When it comes to his humanity, we think that somehow, because he's God, we don't really have much in common with him. Things don't affect him the way they do us. In one sense, that is correct, there is a sense in which he is not human like we are. Because, and I want you to hang in there with me, listen to me closely here, the reason why he is unlike us in his humanity is because he is more human than we are. Sin did not detract from his humanity as it does for us. Sin doesn't turn turn his love into selfishness as it often does with ours. Sin didn't put a stone wall around his heart. To hold back his compassion. Sin did not add a haze of lust. to the passion of love. Jesus was different from this, from us, in that he did not experience life exactly as we But he was not different in that he did not experience the same things we do, but rather he is different because he experienced those same things we experience only much more intensely. Much more fully. His grief, his joy, his warmth was so pure and clean that it might overwhelm us if we were to experienced that at the same level he did. So we must realize that the passions and the feelings and our moods are just a taste of what he went through. But it does mean that with due reverence We can place ourselves where Jesus was that night, as he shared this Last Supper with His disciples, and we, I believe, can enter into His emotions. At least to some degree. Let's set the mood first. Because the mood is important. J Jesse is, I will say in a few minutes, saw that everything about this dinner was carefully orchestrated, carefully determined. It was set exactly right. And so his setting for this supper meant something the way it was going out about. And so in our mind eye, in our mind's eye, Let's look at that occasion and let's realize that while it might have been a large room by their standards, by our standards, it would not have been. The sun had set in this very intimate, very close, smaller room. Everybody was very close to each other. The only light in the room would have been oil lamps. And if you've seen that, I mean candles give brighter light than oil lamps. So I think the add the darkness, the kind of dimness to the to the room added something to the feel of it. The Holy Spirit was there, brothers and sisters. He was there in spades. And as a result of that, that mood would have been one of kind of an electricity. I think everyone felt him. I think those disciples didn't talk at all unless they spoke in whispers. What's going on? Hey Peter, do you know anything? What's happening, man? Something was going on. Now Jesus knew what was going on, but the disciples didn't. And brothers and sisters, that's the whole point. Jesus knew what was going on, and that determined his emotions. And that's where we're going tonight. Jesus had set it up for it to be solemnly and deeply moving. He wanted the entire activity that those disciples were going through that night. to to be one in which they were recognizing that this was a holy, holy, holy time. I think they began to get the sense that there's more going on here than just a meal. In your mind, place yourself there. Let your mental vision enter into that mood, brothers and sisters, and let that begin to work on you. And when that is in place, then we're ready, I think, to move on to the second thing, the first major point that I want us to consider here tonight, which is the source of Jesus' emotions, the experience that he went through that night, and which I hope that we will enter into also. You see, the emotions that Jesus had that night sprang from his knowledge. His entire earthly experience. His entire earthly life was summed up in that dinner. His whole life lay on that table. He knew that. The disciples didn't. That was the gulf between him and those disciples. And recognizing that they really didn't understand what was there must have made it a very bittersweet moment for him. And I can imagine emotions flooding up in his heart as a result of that, as he looked out with tender compassion upon those men, even knowing that one of them would betray him. He tells us in this verse 14 that he fervently longed for this meal. The English translation don't do the words justice. Jesus had looked forward to this moment with such an intensity That the closest thing I could perhaps imagine is that of a young wife whose husband has been away at war and she has received news that he is coming home and that he is about to arrive and she is Anxiously waiting for him to come, for him to walk through the door. I think he was gripped with a passion as a result of that anticipation. He had been anxious for this moment for so long. Everything about God's plan for his life on this earth, everything's about his obedience and the fulfillment of his life. was especially true tonight at that dinner. In verse 24, Jesus says, truly the Son of Man goes as it has been determined. Truly the Son of Man goes as it has been determined. Only Matthew says that. I'm sorry, only Luke says that. Jesus was on a definite path. He was on a plan that took his Steps and moves them throughout his life. He was on a path to the cross. He was on a path to Easter morning. He was on a path that would lead to his ascension to Lord God the Father. His entire life was a journey of completion, of fulfillment through obedience. It was a journey that his father had sent him to accomplish. It was a journey that he willingly took upon himself to do. And it was a journey that he knew that night was nearly over. Another day in this mortal body. another day of suffering and pain, another day after that in the tomb, and then to know as a result of that what it means to have his very soul ripped out of his body. And then that glorious day when his resurrection would happen. And following 40 days later his ascension. That was all that was left for him to do. For his whole Journey of his life. That was it. We're down to the final lap And so he's sitting there looking at his brothers and sisters in the gloom as I'm kind of looking at you. And they were the fruit of his ministry. Those guys were the fruit of his life's work. He had called them. He had walked with them. He had patiently, beyond reason, dealt with them. He had given them his example, he had shown them his power, he had revealed to them his mission, and they were it. They were what he had to show for it. Three intense, exhausting years of service. Day in, day out Waging war against Satan and fierce hand-to-hand combat, twenty-four hours a day being thronged by crowds. Heckled by enemies everywhere he turned, pushed to the limits of human endurance, all for them. But it was worth it. This is the way it had to be And now all that that all that I just mentioned, all of that life was focused on this one last dinner. After it was over, after this dinner was over, all that would be left is these men, eleven of them, plus one other guy, Paul, whom he would add later. All that would be left would be them. And this dinner. This was the foundation of his new covenant people. This was his new church. And in embryonic form, it was all right there. We can only dimly imagine the emotions that must have surged through his heart as he thought about that or as he realized that. And brothers and sisters, those are the same emotions that ought to grip us tonight. Jesus didn't set up this table as just one more of those God things that Christians do. He didn't approach it that way, certainly. He knew that sin was present in that room that night. He had no delusions about that. He had no false hopes about Judas. In fact, he knew that the sin that was present in that room that night was the whole reason why this dinner was necessary. This table was set up for sinners. Like you and me. It was set up so that we could remember Jesus. That's what he says in this very passage. Do this in remembrance of me. We are to remember Jesus. But we're to remember him not as someone who just lived and died years ago. Rather, we're to remember Jesus in the same way that we might remember that we have a family member somewhere else that we haven't thought about in a long time and we need to get in touch with him The table is presented to, was presented to them and presented to us. For us to remember that we have a Christ. But he is the one who set it up. And he is the one that has put it in its place for our us to do that. And we're to remember him, and when we do so, we're to do so in a special way. We're to remember him as we approach this table. in a manner like he was that night. I think there were two major sources of his emotion that night that caused him to fervently desire this meal and to experience it on such an intense level. The first set of emotions sprang from his knowledge of what the table actually meant. Jesus came to this table with full knowledge. of this particular Passover. Just this special one-time Passover. His disciples didn't know this. Well, brothers and sisters, to a large extent you and I can. And so the knowledge we have is more like the knowledge Jesus had that night. as he approached that table. And so the knowledge that, the emotions and experience that sprang from his knowledge can be used as a guide for ours also. Jesus, first of all, knew that this was the last meal he would take before he suffered. Verse 15. He knew that. He knew what was in front of him, and so do we. He knew that the cross was next. And he knew that with that cross, listen carefully here. He knew that with that cross and his work on it. The true Passover would be accomplished. The final Passover would be done. This supper, he's looking at it, this supper heralded the end of the Jewish Passover It replaced it. It superseded it. The old, that night passed away and something new has come. The old symbols, the Passover lamb, the unleavened bread, the whole ritual that went into the Jewish Israelite Passover was from that night on obsolete. You see, the Jewish Passover pointed towards Jesus, who was our Passover, as Paul teaches us in 1 Corinthians 5. 7. And his sacrifice as our Passover was perfect. There's nothing that can be added to that sacrifice, brothers and sisters. And we must make certain that nothing ever is detracted from it. I challenge you here tonight to do away, banish from your thoughts any idea of going back to Jewish rituals. Of coming up with some kind of Christian Seder. Or searching the Jewish Mishnah or or Midrash or or any of those things, so that you might find within them some inner spiritual thing that we can do, we can add to the supper, and it'll make it so much more uh meaningful to us. No. Why would we add to what our Lord has said is replacing that. Jesus looked at that bread on the table and he looked at that wine and thinking in terms that he was the Passover. He said, this, this is my body. This is my blood. Looking down there at it. The cuff had been moved around and the disciples are saying, What? Can you imagine the intensity of emotions that welled up inside of him as he said those words? For thousands of years, people have been doing this. People have been sitting down to the Passover meal. For thousands of years, people have been looking forward to me in it. And now I'm here. And my brother sitting around this table with me, do you realize what I'm saying when I say this? Here tonight, when you taste these elements, Do you understand what it means? The Passover has to die But once the Passover has died, God's anger is over. God's anger is fully expended. It's exhausted. There's nothing left. By this one sacrifice, Jesus knew that his people were tonight going to start their exodus. They were redeemed out of the bondage of slavery and all the promises, all the hope, all the expectation of the first Israelites coming out of Egypt In their typological significance was being fulfilled now. All of that was embodied in this supper, and Jesus knew it. Now his people would keep this supper from henceforth, not the old Jewish one. Just as the Jewish Sabbath would be replaced by the Christian Lord's Day. So the Jewish Passover would pass from among the institutions of God's people because the new Exodus had begun. And the old linescans were being replaced with new ones. I cannot emphasize enough Everything God the Father and God the Son had planned, had purposed, as Jesus said in verse 22, came down to this night. Here was the end of the old and the beginning of the new. That's what he came to do. And this supper incorporates it all. Just think of the emotions in his human breast. He loved his old people, ancient Israel. He did. He wept when he went into Jerusalem. But they rejected him. And they rejected him just as they were predestined to do. Acts 2. 22, Acts 4. 27 explicitly make it clear. He loved him. And so there was great sadness in his heart. As he looked at this table and realized that this table was also judgment against them. But there was also great joy and there was anticipation because now finally after thousands of years the purposes of history were being fulfilled. A new people was about to spring out of this room. A new people who would know Jesus as their living God, and they would eat with him at this table through the years from henceforth. Brothers and sisters, think about what Jesus knew about this dinner. And let the same emotions that I have just described about his knowledge. The same joy, the same sense of solemn concern and the cost that it had, the same awesome reality, let that sink into your breast. Because that's what Jesus wants us tonight to do. He wants us to have full knowledge of what this table means. But there were other emotions that were gripping Jesus that night, and this is the second major category of knowledge that produced emotions in him. He also knew that these elements, the bread, the wine. They embodied a duty that he had still to accomplish. He said with fervent desire, I have desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. Jesus' great work of obedience still had to be completed. He had to be obedient, even to death on a cross. That's what he and his father had covenanted before all eternity for him to do. That is what his father wanted to do, and that's what he wanted to do. And yet it was a terrible thought. At that table It began to settle in. And I I ask you, brothers and sisters, to enter into our Lord's thinking here and and look down at that bread and look at that wine and realize He's saying, this is my body. This is my blood. What emotions would get you if you were to say that. Knowing that the awful wrath that we read about in Psalm 22 was going to be visited on him. And those elements represented that. He was only hours away from that. So the knowledge Jesus had at that table was of two types. It was what the symbols meant in the progress and plan of redemption. But it also represented the knowledge of the duty that he was to fulfill as a result of the covenant that he had entered into with God the Father before time. Brothers and sisters, as we approach this table tonight, both of those types of knowledge must be present in us also. When we participate in this supper, We are celebrating a covenant that Jesus has made with us We must know what that covenant is. I have tried to explain it to you. That we are heirs of that covenant work. the new Israel. We are our members of that body. With all that goes into that, which is far more than I can speak of here tonight, but we must know that when we partake of that The emotions that spring from us is that we know what this means. But we also must know that to take this covenant is to commit this supper is to participate in a covenant which commits us. and our bodies to a life of service to Jesus Christ. It's not a one-way covenant. Obedience is required. We are commanded, as an act of obedience, to eat the bread and the wine. We are to know that eating us binds us to this Lord who instituted this meal for us. Knowing that we must take this meal in faith And in doing so, give our entire allegiance to Him. And we deny ultimate allegiance to any other. There's no middle ground. When we take this bread and this wine, we are committing ourselves to taking up our cross and following Jesus up his mountain. So we are to show forth both of those two aspects of faith. Full knowledge of what God has done through Christ for us, as it is embodied in these elements. And full knowledge of what God requires of us in return, a life dedicated to the one who gave himself, so that we may live with him forever. That is the knowledge that Jesus had, and we can imagine the emotions that must have flashed through his soul, that flooded through his soul that night. And I ask us tonight here that we give full reign to the Holy Spirit as He is moving among us, as He moved among those disciples that night And let those same emotions, in essence, if not in perfection, flood over us. It's what Jesus put this sacrament in place for us to do. And that is what we must seek. It adds a great deal of solemnity to my thoughts here tonight, knowing That 148 of our brothers and sisters died because they understood what this meant. I pray they did. And that they participated in this supper as we are here tonight. The stakes are real. It is a joyful thing to serve the living God. But it is also something that must be done with full knowledge. Will you pray with me?