Now the feast of unleavened bread drew near, which is called Passover, and the chief priests and the scribes thought how they might kill him, for they feared the people. Then Satan entered Judas, surnamed Iscariot, who was numbered among the twelve. So he went his way and conferred with the chief priests and captains how he might betray him to them. And they were glad and agreed to give him money. So he promised and saw an opportunity to betray him to them in the absence of the multitude. Then came the day of unleavened bread, when the Passover must be killed, and he sent Peter and John, saying, Go and prepare the Passover for us that we may eat. So they said to him, Where do you want us to prepare? And he said to them, Behold, when you have entered the city, a man will meet you carrying a pitcher of water. Follow him into the house which he enters Then you shall say to the master of the house, The teacher says to you, Where is the guest room where I may eat the Passover with my disciples? Then he will show you a large furnished upper room. There make ready So they went and found it just as he had said to them, and they prepared the Passover. When the hour had come, he sat down and the twelve apostles with him. Then he said to them, With fervent desire, I have desire to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. For I say to you, I will no longer eat of it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God Then he took the cup and gave thanks and said, Take this and divide it among yourselves. For I say to you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes And he took bread, gave thanks, and broke it, and gave it to them, saying, This is my body which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me. Likewise he also took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is shed for you. But behold, the hand of my betrayer is with me on the table And truly the Son of Man goes as it has been determined, but woe to that man by whom he is betrayed. Then they began to question among themselves which of them was which of them it was who would do this thing Now there was also a dispute among them as to which of them should be considered the greatest. And he said to them, The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and those who exercise authority over them are called benefactors. But not so among you. On the contrary, he who is greatest among you, let him be as the younger, and he who governs as he who serves For who is greater? He who sits at the table or he who serves? Is it not he who sits at the table? Yet I am among you as one who serves. But you are those who have continued with me in my trials, and I bestow upon you a kingdom, just as my Father bestowed one upon me, that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom. and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel. Amen. Please pray with me. O Christ, we thank you that you have enscripturated these words by your servant Luke, and we pray, Lord, that you would use them to beget And to make even more lively faith and obedience. And Lord, that as we move to your supper after the preached word, that it would confirm the same faith. We ask these things in your name. Amen. May be seated. We really began the the kind of arc or pilgrimage through this this specific time of the year last Sunday with Palm Sunday. What we did last Sunday for those of you who weren't in attendance is we took note of what the Spirit is doing through Luke in his gospel. You could make an argument that from the beginning he is doing this. I think that's true, but it is definitively true. That Luke, beginning in chapter five and working all the way up through the rest of his gospel, is giving us character profiles or or snapshots and through parables and teachings and stories of exactly what it looks like to be a real disciple of Jesus Christ. What we ended up doing this past Sunday, and what we're supposed to do all the way even up to this point, is to use those characteristics and those parables as a time for self-examination. Self-examination, I wonder if you've ever thought about that. I wonder if some of you have equated self-examination with feeling bad about myself. And never recover. I think sometimes that's how it's used, but is that really how we use the word examination in all the other spheres of our life? If you were to have your car examined, or if you were going to get to the doctor for an annual examination, is it not always for The continued use of your car and for life and health of your body. Well, we're doing the same thing this Holy Week. Our self-examination is to get rid of the disease, not just to be disappointed that we have some. It is to notice our sickness and to not just feel guilty or wither away in disappointment. Is first and foremost to acknowledge these things before Christ and to say to him, In these ways, Lord, I am lacking. And in these ways, Lord, would you please fill me up? That's what we've been doing since Sunday, and we're going to continue in that same spirit. What spirit? The spirit of life We want to continue tonight looking at the continual life that Jesus Christ gives to us. Well, we can do that with this passage by noticing a couple of different things. Right away in the reading, I'm sure you noticed, Judas, with his surname Iscariot, has been captured by Satan himself and has rejected Christ. All along, we noticed this last week with the crowds gathering for Jesus mounting the colt and heading into Jerusalem. We noticed that Among those crowds, the leaders at that time were seeking to destroy Jesus. They have not had the opportunity because the multitudes would not put up with their shenanigans. Well, here they have found a way to make it happen. You'll notice that that detail is actually brought out with Judas. Judas is going to be able to permit the betrayal to take place outside of when the multitudes are around him. They're going to be able to accomplish this without the crowds really knowing. Judas, therefore, is given to us as an example, as we see throughout all of Luke, of not a true follower of Jesus Christ. And actually, he matches up quite well with one of the teachings on discipleship earlier in Luke, where we can become a barren soil if we give up our lives. for money, or if money chokes out what Christ has said to us. And that is exactly what we witness here in Judas. Judas chose money as his master And he betrayed Christ for silver. Judas let riches choke out the words which Christ gave him. All that time that they spent together, it was choked. The next thing that I'd like you to notice is that just as we saw on the triumphal entry where Christ creates this large dramatic scene in order to declare who he is without ever saying a word about it, so too do we see him create a living parable here. You see the same kind of language where he told the disciples Go and get the cult, and and this person's going to say this to you, and then you're going to do this, and it's going to happen this way. You see the same kind of language here with Jesus making or wanting to be able to celebrate the Passover with them. Jesus uses a meal and not a donkey to make his point about who he is and his determined calling from God. Now Why would he want to do that in this setting with this meal? I think his intention is to draw upon much that is within the scriptures That they might have a fuller understanding of who he is and what he is getting ready to do. He wants them to have the opportunity to make sense of the cross. It will be horrific for them all, especially him. And therefore, this meal that we have here, in order to help them locate what's going on This meal is analogous that Jesus brings up to two main meals in the Old Testament. I bet you you can guess at least one of the meals. And that is the Passover meal. It is like the Passover meal, remembering God's deliverance from Egypt through the waters of the Red Sea. I think we've all heard that story. But when we look carefully at Jesus' words, there is another meal that actually I would argue takes more prominence within the total story. He says, for example, in his words in our passage, this is the cup or the blood of the new covenant. In my blood. This is the cup of the new covenant in my blood. Jesus here is evoking a meal that took place in Exodus 24. And I'd encourage you to read that. There are more similarities between that meal and what we see here in his crucifixion than any other meal I know. There are so many details to discover. This is when in Exodus twenty four, I'm not sure if you're familiar with it, but Moses sprinkled blood on the altar, he sprinkled blood on the book of the covenant, and he Sprinkled blood on the people. Interestingly, this sprinkling of blood is picked up and explained in Hebrews chapter 9. Hebrews chapter 9 decides to focus in on Exodus 24 to be able to understand the crosswork and sacrifice of Jesus Christ. Christ. And that is what Jesus is doing right here. I bet you the one through the Spirit who wrote Hebrews chapter 9 noticed that this is what Jesus himself was doing. For that covenant in Exodus 24, it signified and it sealed the people of God to God Himself and It showed that blood or death is required if they violate the words of the covenant. So it is for two purposes. It is for the cancellation of any sins. Blood is required to cancel sins out, and blood is required for consecration. Those are some of the lessons we learn in Hebrews 9. We'll pick that up a little bit later. The next thing that I want you to notice is that notice in our passage when we read that the He had a beginning, which was a discipleship lesson. Don't be like Judas. Don't give, don't sell your soul for a bag of silver. And you'll notice at the end of our passage here, it's another discipleship lesson. Can you believe That Jesus is going into these details. He's evoking the Passover, the deliverance from Egypt through the Red Sea, that they would become God's people and no longer married to Pharaoh. He evokes Exodus 24 when Moses eventually finds himself atop Mount Zion with God himself. And these guys decide to have an argument about who is the greatest. Well, Jesus doesn't miss a beat. And he shows them by his own example that that is not the mentality, the mindset, or the actions of real disciples. Followers of Christ, like Christ Himself, determine that it is better to give than receive, in the words of Paul, quoting Jesus. It is better to serve than to be served. And of course, since this is in the shadow of the cross already, this is not a call to passivity. We all know that Christ will serve by voluntarily being crucified. And that means that the service of true discipleship is an act of service wherein you place yourself in harm's way, or you make sacrifices one way or the other for the life of others, especially the household of God. Now, it's not the final lesson on discipleship, but boy, is it at the center in the heart of what it means to be his follower. And didn't you love the example that he gave? He said, usually the person who's serving those who are eating the meal is the lesser. But who's serving you right now? And he points out that he himself is giving the bread and he's giving the And he says, that's what you're supposed to be like. We serve each other. Now when we pull all these different things together, I think there's a real simple message that pretty much any age could get when we think about Jesus Christ and the institution of his supper here. And it is this. When we participate as God's people in his suffer, we are called to always remember the two C's of the supper. The first see is the cancellation of our debt or our sin. And the second see is our consecration to be his people So let me say that again to you. When we, as the Church of God, participate in His supper, we are called to remember two C's. cancellation and consecration. Let's begin with just some thoughts on the cancellation. Let's get our heads around that a little bit Have you known anyone who has sent away a blood test to find out their ethnic heritage? Anyone here? I hear m uh of more and more people doing that. I heard of some getting the the little test for Christmas. They would open it up and say, Oh, a blood test. Nice. Uh but then it intrigued them, and they would send their blood away to who knows who, and they would receive back that they are thirty percent Irish. And that explained their temper. And they were uh partially Italian, and that also explained the rest of their temper, and uh and whatever else it was. But you know those I looked into that because it was kind of intriguing to me too, and then I saw the price on those things. And it's no wonder they're given for Christmas because you couldn't afford it any other time of the year Why do you think that people are willing to pay that kind of money for that test? I think there's probably many causes. But one has to be the same thing that happened to me when I started hearing about people receiving the tests, is that I was intrigued, and I was intrigued because I have this kind of longing to understand who I am. From where I come from. And I think it's the same with those who decided to send their test off to hear if they're Italian or Irish. They wanted to have some sense of place. in order to understand their lives. Now that's one way to do it, but the other way to get a fuller understanding of where you are And where you are going is the scriptures. It is a sacred history delivered to us by God, to his prophets and apostles, and enscripturated that we can benefit through all time. And it shows us where we come from, where we are, and where we are headed. This sacred history Though initially it sounds kind of boring to people or a bit heady, the main emphasis within this sacred history, even the organizing principle, is around our relationship with God, and it ends up being called a covenant. So it's obviously more important than we give credit for. It just keeps showing up and showing up and showing up. It even showed up in our passage, didn't it? This is the blood of the covenant. These covenants clearly outline our responsibilities to God. They outline the rewards. They outline the curses. They frame and constitute how we are to relate to our Creator and even to each other. Now, one covenant that's really familiar with all of us is the first one, right? You can take, for example, the first covenant between God and Adam and Eve, for example. The nature of their relationship is captured in a kind of feasting together, walking in the cool of the day, plenty of work to do, knowing exactly when to worship, no confusion. Here you have a king and a queen building an entire kingdom with their progeny for the glory of God. It doesn't get better. There was one condition that they should not eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, and we know the story. We know that they did in the end not listen. But instead ate and therefore received the curse, including death. And that included death both spiritually, and you can see it showing up and then blaming each other. It's this woman that you gave to me And it also will show up physically as they immediately start working towards becoming dust and dying naked. This was a covenant that did not just affect those two people. We sometimes can miss this, but Adam and Eve did not enter into that covenant as private individuals. They were public figures and representatives for the human race. And therefore, from that day forth, they set the course of events for all of humanity. Now we're familiar with that one. The other one that I have brought up to you is the covenant that is cut in Exodus 24. All the people delivered from Pharaoh agreed to all of the words of the covenant. And if they kept those words, then blessing. Harvests would be reaped Wine would be drunk. But if they forget those words, then curse and blood and death is going to be the only way to cancel their debt or their sins against God. Now, whether that makes sense to you or not That is the understanding that God gives to us to make sense of this world around us and our lives. What I've essentially given to you, and an analogous would be: I've just given you God's Silmarillion. That you could understand the metaphysical foundations of humanity, the angels, this created order, sin, death, pretty much everything. Now when you get a chance, I want you to keep that sacred history in mind while reading the book of Romans. Paul recites that history showing that all of the world by one covenant or another, the covenant with Adam, or the covenant that we read of in Exodus 24, and one covenant or another, Jew or Gentile, have become guilty before God, needing somehow to cancel their debt or their sin. And the question that hangs in the air is how is that going to take place? How will the cancellation take place? Whose blood? Whose death? How will sin against God be canceled? And this is where, of course, we have our good news that is showed forth even in the supper. It is the one major part of the supper that has given to us. God the Father has agreed with his Son to cancel our sins by his blood and his death. I want you to listen again to the words of Jesus from our passage. I just gave you all of that background, but I want you to hear in the way that Christ structured his sentences with the emphasis. How those that background is all latent right there within his words. His words are pregnant with the history that I just gave to you. And he took bread, he gave thanks, and he broke it, and he gave it to them, saying, This is my body, which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me. Likewise he also took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Which is shed for you. Do you hear the emphasis? This is my body, and it is for you. This is my blood. It's for you. All in the context of Christ evoking Exodus 24 when he says the blood of the covenant. All of the context of the Adamic history, for both Jew and Gentile, Christ died for us that our sins would be canceled. And then that they would not only have their faith instructed, but confirmed and sealed, they drink it. And they eat it. And they say, this is applied to me. Isn't it great to have a pastor around who can do some great application? I'm telling you right now, there is no better applier than Jesus Christ when he applies his death to you. In the signs and the seals of the bread and the wine. One of the most significant times in the administration of this sacrament is to watch the that bread and that wine leave the table and go to you It means that it is more than instruction. It is confirmation that your debt has been canceled. You are a member and beneficiary of the new covenant. Now that's the first C. And boy, we could stop there because that's just good enough. But there is also another C here, which is consecration. And Exodus 24 Still unfolds this uh this consecration aspect. It helps us to understand the consecrating features of the Lord's Supper That we are to remember every time we partake. In our passage, as I already brought up to you, the disciples start arguing over who is greatest. They have status issues. And this seems to arise because they connected the dots with what Jesus was doing with Exodus 24. In that passage, again, I encourage you to meditate on that during this season. In that passage, there are actually layers of status among the characters who are in that chapter. And the layers of status are demarcated by where you are located on the mountain. The disciples have recognized, in my opinion, that they are not like the people who had to remain at the bottom of the mountain If you look at that chapter, they were not able to ascend the mountain of the Lord, the people. There were elders and some priests that were allowed to go to the mountain halfway, or up the mountain halfway. And then we see that the mediator at that time, Moses, went to the top. And here the disciples are with Jesus directly in the upper room. Separated from all of the crowds which are below them in the city streets. And it appears to me that they're making these connections with these thoughts and asking about who's going to be the greatest, since we seem to already be in the inner circle. Yet, whatever their reasons are, to argue over who is the greatest was at least a misunderstanding of what it meant to be set aside for service to God. And that is what consecrated means, by the way. There are not many things in the scriptures, if you go ahead, take a look and see how many times something is sprinkled with blood. It's actually I know that it happens cyclically, but if you look in terms of of when it would happen, it actually doesn't happen that often But it marks a consecration. It is used on the utensils, for example, in the tabernacle It is used on the clothing of Aaron and those who will serve within that tabernacle. Consecration is something or someone who was set apart for special use. Who has received a special calling to be God's vessel, if you want to use Pauline language when he's speaking to Timothy. Some vessels are set aside for this, others are set aside for that. And Jesus points out that to be set apart as his disciple for his apostles will actually have a ton of power, if you look at his passage. You will reign. You will rule the 12 tribes of Israel. You will have a lot of power. I'm not going to take that away from you, even though you were just arguing over who's going to be the greatest. He just points out to them that his disciples, his followers, are the ones who rule and have power in a way that is exercised in service. Let us not forget That consecration, when we come to the table, consecration is another example of what it means to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. And this is the same lesson that we have seen elsewhere in the Gospel of Luke if you've been doing your reading like I instructed you last Sunday Consider, for example, Luke chapter 9, verse 23, and I could give you other examples too that bring up the same topic. This has been on Jesus' mind for a while. Listen to this one. Then he said to them all If anyone desires to come after me, that's another way of saying, if you want to be my disciple and my follower, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. It is the same kind of lesson. And so we have here, at least for the second time, in this institution of the Lord, supper connecting with other teachings that have been going throughout the Gospel of Luke. We see here that the sacrament is meant to remind us that we are consecrated to the service of the Lord, especially in our sacrificial service for each other. Now, I want you to raise a question that is one of the most important questions in all of life. How Will this world be restored to its glory, wherein all creatures are blessed, and God's name is glorified That is the end for which God has determined this world to arrive. And how will it reach such an end? It will be, of course, most importantly, through the sacrificial love of Jesus Christ, but it will be right on the heels of that, the sacrificial service of his people. You will give up your life that life might thrive. That'll be how you bless the world if you are his disciple. Now, last Sunday we all started to engage in self-examination. We were to look at the examples of discipleship in Luke, and we were to say, what kind of disciple am I? We were supposed to look at those crowds of people that are in those passages, and we were supposed to ask the question: where am I in the crowd? What are the kind of things that I'm saying and I'm doing when I'm confronted with the reality of Jesus the Christ? Where am I? Am I for Jesus or am I against him? Now I want to point out to you that in some sense, self-examination ends tonight. Last Sunday, there was instruction on what it meant to be a true disciple so that you could renew your commitment to God or you could become committed to Him for the first time. Tonight, you are not called to examine yourself. You are called to submit to the examination of Jesus Christ of yourself What has Jesus Christ declared about you? What he does in the supper is he confirms his word Those of you who will receive the bread and the wine, you are to acknowledge that Jesus Christ has chosen to forgive your sins. to take his blood for you. And you are to acknowledge that he has consecrated you unto his service. No more examining yourself. I just want you to remember the words that Jesus has said about you and let your faith be confirmed. You must yield to the examination of the Lord. Has Jesus Christ chosen you? Has he revealed to you he has chosen to forgive you? Has he shown you that he has bought you at a price and you are now consecrated to his service? As we move into the supper, let Christ's will to make you his be confirmed in you. Do not resist. Do not just see bread and wine, but by faith see that you are a member and beneficiary of the new covenant In the supper, let us not just be instructed in the cancellation of our sins and our consecration unto God, but let it be confirmed by the Spirit in your conscience. And in your heart. Amen