1 Timothy 2, 8 through 15. I desire therefore that the men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands without wrath and doubting. In like manner also that the women adorn themselves in modest apparel, with propriety and moderation, not with braided hair or gold or pearls or costly clothing, but which is proper for women professing godliness with good works. Let a woman learn in silence with all submission And I do not permit a woman to teach or to have authority over a man, but to be in silence. For Adam was formed first, then Eve, and Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived, fell into transgression. Nevertheless, she shall be saved in childbearing if they continue in faith, love, and holiness with self-control. Let us pray Oh Lord Christ, you are our great teacher from heaven, using means such as the preached word on your Lord's Day through many ordained preachers. We pray, Lord, here this morning that you would teach us through such means. Pray that it would benefit us to where we would love you and love our neighbor. In the name of Christ, amen. You may be seated. If you were to review the letter to Timothy, you could summarize quite accurately chapter one as a pep rally. I don't know if you remember those. I remember pep rallies in our gymnasium at Queen Anne's County High School. It was quite peppy. And that's what Paul is doing here within the first chapter. Paul is a young minister who has many things that are against him, and he may struggle a bit with some timidity. being such a young man put in such a stressful situation. So Paul, in a kind of pep rally, presses him to keep his post to remember his charge and to keep up with his calling. And now we've moved into the second chapter for some time now. But the second chapter is moving away from just a pec rally in general and moving into instructions for how to order the worship service of the church. And then it will broaden out a little bit in chapter three and ordering the church more generally. In verse 8, Paul gave directions for the ordained men everywhere who were leading congregations in prayer. And we said a lot about that I said a lot about that. We looked at a lot of scriptures last week on that part. And now we move into 9 through 15. And so I want to begin by making a few observations And then have a couple applications for us this morning. Here's the first thing that I want you to notice. Please have your word open. One of my goals is that you'd be able to explain this yourself if you needed to And again, I'm happy to have a conversation after the service about any scripture that we go over in the morning, including this one. So the first thing I want you to observe is that Paul instructs Timothy on how women should conduct themselves in worship services. He begins with an application of how they are to dress. And he says here: the women adorn themselves in modest apparel with propriety and moderation. Not with braided hair or gold or pearls or costly clothing. That's verse 9, and it's just right there. I'm just making an observation as to what's in front of us Now, to understand what Paul is writing to Timothy, the first thing you have to notice about this verse is that it is an application to this particular congregation. Now, when a person is making an application, they do so from a principle. So what we would want to do is we want to ask the question: what principle Is operating within Paul's heart and mind that he's trying to relay to Timothy, that then has this application to clothing. And that's what we see in verse 10 In verse number 10, we have a principle. He says, but which is proper for women professing godliness in or with good works This principle is the same that we saw within Titus, and significantly in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 10, but I'll only read to you the Titus verse. Listen to the same principle being present in Titus 2, 14. It's all about salvation, this verse in Titus. Jesus Christ gave himself for us that he might redeem us from every lawless deed and purify for himself his own special people, zealous. For good works. It's the same principle that you would find in Ephesians 2. 10, where we were made for good works. In that context, Paul is encouraging Christians to live in accordance with their callings in Jesus Christ, and to do so, you would want to express yourself in many different kinds of good works. Whether it was to their own families, men or women, children, whatever, whether it was to their own families or fellow church members or the governing authorities, you can see a listing of all of those kinds of domains within Ephesians or Titus or within 1 Timothy, they are called in Christ to relate to everyone as new creatures in Christ, doing good works by the power of the Holy Spirit. We in fact here have a vow that it says that we would endeavor to live lives, lives that become the followers of Jesus Christ. It's the same kind of thing here. And now what we're seeing in 1 Timothy is Paul adding another application from the exact same principle that we are to operate within good works But he makes his application specifically to women. Christian women must continue to do good works even in how they dress in worship services. That is his point. They should dress in a way, if you note verse 9, they should dress in a way that matches their profession of godliness. He's not calling them hypocrites. He's just saying that even in what you put on and how you express what's important to you in your clothing, It should be consistent theologically with what God has taught you about being a woman. And this means that they should look throughout all of the scriptures for the vision which God has given for godly women, and they are to express that vision in their choices of how they express themselves in clothing or jewelry or hairstyle or whatever it is. That's the basic teaching here that he's given. Now I'll get into that a little bit more. I'm just trying to show you the basics of what you see here so we don't get lost. That's verses 9 and 10. And that's the first observation I want to make is that he focuses this application of good works, this principle, on the application of even how you would dress in certain situations. including the worship service. Now here's the second thing I want you to observe. Paul moves from the fashion, if you will, to the roles of women in worship. You can take a look at verse 11. Verse 11 here, let a woman learn in silence with all submission. And I do not permit a woman to teach or to have authority over a man, but to be in silence. Now, as soon as I read a verse like that, there are some catchwords or key words That are immediately cringeworthy for some people. It can sound like Paul is telling women to get back in the kitchen and shut up. And that is not what is going on here. And I'm not just saying that because I just want to say that. I have looked at a tremendous amount of scholarship on that. And it is overwhelming, even in the study of these specific words, that these words, in this original context, were not demeaning towards women. That's not the tone that Paul has. Like earlier verses, Paul is applying a principle. Now, what is the principle that Paul has in this case? We tend to focus on the cringeworthy words To the neglect of what is really obvious and quite beautiful in verse 11. What is the very first thing that he says to women and their role within the worship service? That they are to be learners, that they are to be students, that they are to study. That's the very first thing that he says in verse 11. Let a woman learn. And that is not meant to be demeaning either. All Paul is doing first is saying that she does not have the role of the official teacher in the worship service. When she shows up on Lord's Day morning, she shouldn't be thinking about what is she going to say when she's behind the pulpit Instead, she should be thinking about what is it that the pulpit has to teach her, as well as other women, as well as other men Now, how should learners conduct themselves is really the answer or the question that he wants to ask here and answer. How should a learner conduct themselves. And that is his point in the rest of the verse, that they should learn in silence with all submission. Now some cringe at these words, but they are not demeaning. In our culture, if I were at a dining dinner party and my wife was talking and I said, Silence! I just want you to know that she would smack me. And Jesus would probably be on her side That is not what is going on here with Paul. I want you to listen, for example, to another use of the exact same word from Acts chapter 22. two in a little bit of a different context. And there's another case which we could talk about maybe over some ribs today from First Thessalonians Listen to Acts 22, where the same word is used. And this time it's not just addressed to women, it's addressed to women and men, and probably children also. We can't see who's in the crowd, but it's a huge crowd of people that are listening to Paul, and he says, Brethren. Which means all kinds of all kinds of folks. So he says this, Brethren and Fathers, hear my defense before you now And when they heard that he spoke to them in the Hebrew language, they kept all the more silent. You see that? They all got quiet. They were all silent before him as a teacher. Now, in that particular scenario or in that case, was it demeaning that they kept silent No. Rather it was natural to be attentive, which I think is actually a great translation of what's going on here, that you are to be attentive to the teaching. It was natural to be attentive to someone who was saying something important, who had been ordained to that role and even voted into that place by you. Women first, therefore, are called to be learners and not authoritative ordained teachers. And again, I'm talking about in The church when I'm talking about this passage. I haven't talked about any other domains of life. Haven't even gotten to the household yet. I'm just talking about what we are taught in the scriptures about the church. And as you will see in chapter 3, men are authorized to be the official teachers and rulers of the household of God. And you can look at that in the up. That's the second thing I want you to notice is about women being learners, and then the application to a learner is that they would be attentive. Now, here's the third thing I want you to notice in the scriptures. Paul grounds his principles and applications not in temporary fads in the church He is addressing temporary fads that are happening in the church. It'll happen in different ways in all kinds of generations where we have to give applications. But his principle underneath of all of this is transcultural. He appeals to the creation account itself from Genesis, and when he does so, he makes three points. Verse 13 is the first point that he wants to make. This is the underwriting. This is the foundation of all of the application that he's doing. God created or formed Adam. These are words that are directly taken. When you look at this translation, when it says God formed Adam, Paul is pulling words from the Old Testament. Accounts. That's why he chooses his words the way that he does. This is Paul forms Adam, or he formed Adam and then Eve. And as you can see, as a part of this context, this is not a statement of chronology So like for five o'clock Adam's formed, Eve's at seven, Eve's after Adam. Cool That's not what's happening here. The chronology is indicative of a far greater significance as to how we are supposed to understand societal order even within the society of the church. Paul is pointing back to the way God wants to order society in order to understand the society of worship. Jesus did the same thing with the same account in Matthew 19 When the Pharisees and Sadducees were asking him about marriage and divorce, he said, You've got it wrong. You've been reading it wrong for a long time now. You need to go back to Genesis to understand what my father has always intended for the marital religion. And Paul is doing the same thing here. Do you want to know why we set up things the way that we set them up? Let's look back at Genesis. This is the way that it was intended to be It is the created order, not just a statement of chronology. It is Timothy's task, therefore, please remember that Paul is writing to Timothy. He's trying to write to this young man and showing him how to set things up. So he's writing to Timothy, and he is telling Timothy that it is his task to preserve the worship space By advancing overseers to a particular rank, letting them be men, and through his own diligence and through his example. This is the way he's supposed to set things up in order for him to be faithful to his calling. And it is rooted within Genesis chapter 2 and chapter 3. So that's the first thing I want to mention is that God created Adam first and foremost. In a space with full responsibility and as the head of that space, and then Eve as his helper, and that the same order continues in certain societies today. Here today we're talking about the society of the church Then there is verse 14. And it says, Eve's transgression, it's talking about Eve's transgression of God's order led to disorder. Now, I want to clarify a couple things here. And if you want to talk and debate with me afterwards on this, that's great. Let's do that. Some try to make the point that Eve, who here in this passage is representative of all women, was more prone to deception than Adam. And they want to make an argument that that continues today and that women are by nature more prone to deception than men. I just want you to make you aware that there is something out there that is like that. And I'm open to having that discussion, because I think it's an important discussion. But when I trace that line of thought It comes from Aristotle and not the Bible. I trace it to Thomas Aquinas, who does some exegetical work and he's relying on a view of women that is largely from the Greek world. But I'm open to having that conversation with you. When, in fact, I look at the scriptures, I do not see strong Christian women in the scriptures that seem more prone to deception than the men. So even in a scriptural experience, if you were to do statistically or something, do we find women even on the pages of scripture are more deceived than the men, so that we could discern by experience what their nature is And the other thing that I find funny about that reading is that we know I showed you last week where women are to be women are to be commended with their work. For example, older women are to teach younger women. We saw Timothy's grandmother and his mother teaching him and raising him up in the faith Are you telling me that we're supposed to take the one who's the most deceived and let them rule over the most vulnerable? That just doesn't make any sense To me, in terms of like a logic. Alright? So we can talk about that. But that's that's my view on that. Instead, what I think is happening here is that Paul is showing that Eve's transgression of the given order that God gave. between male and female, and their social responsibilities, which were different from each other, that Eve's transgression of that given order caused major problems It was by definition antisocial. It was the kind of thing that destroys a society. And if you want to read a book about antisocial behavior, read Proverbs. The implied application for Timothy is don't let the church in Ephesus transgress the order. It doesn't lead to anything good. Would you like an example? Eve and Adam. Okay, that's what I think the reasoning here is in verse 14 that underwrites this whole argument on why a person is a teacher versus a learner. And then we have verse 15. This is the last one I'll step through with you and then I'll proclaim a doctrine. Nevertheless Even though the boundaries have been transgressed, even though there is a tragic history of the human race Eve's line eventually gives birth to the Messiah to bring salvation. He will save all of those who are walking in the Spirit Now, if we were to read the scriptures, take a look here, nevertheless, she will be saved in childbearing if they continue in faith, love, and holiness with self-control. I'm telling you what I think the interpretation of that is. But I think that there are basically two good interpretations of this passage. I try to be humble and modest and not just say things if I don't have a ton of certainty about it. And if I don't have a lot of certainty about it, then I will give you multiple ways that it could be taken that are all true. And so that's the case with this passage. This is a really difficult verse. But I think there's a couple different ways to take it. And if you were to look at the rest of the scriptures, it doesn't contradict any doctrines anywhere else within the scriptures. So it would be safe for you to accept either one. So the first one that I give you is that when Paul says the word she, take a real close look with me. You're going to feel like you're in seminary class for a second When Paul says the word she, now we're dealing with a singular woman here. Okay? So when he says she, he may be, who is he referring back to? Those of you who love grammar, you're asking the question, what's the antecedent? She, it might refer back to Eve. And if it is referring back to Eve and makes sense and doesn't contradict anything else in Scriptures, The scriptures, then the way we would make sense of this, the story that's being told, is that eventually her line would give birth to the Messiah who would bring us salvation. And then, I want you to notice one other thing. Nevertheless, she, singular, will be saved in childbearing if they plural. You can see how this, there's a oh It gets difficult. But when it shifts to they, in this way of looking at it, all those who are in Christ follow the same paths as the daughters of Eve who have received the Holy Spirit, which is a path of faith. It is a path of love. It is a path of holiness. And it is a path of self-control. And some of these words are repeated from talking about the woman with her clothing. That's the first way to take it. The second way is this. Paul may be referring back to the women who must embrace God's created order, because that is in the singular as well. Let a woman learn in silence with all submission. See how I could go back to that singular woman So Paul may be referring back to the women who must embrace God's created order, and accordingly, they must stay on the path of salvation. Which consists of gladly accepting womanly vocations, like motherhood And all is to be done in the spirit of faith, love, and holiness with self-control. He is not saying that women are saved by the works of faith and love and holiness and self-control. Self control, he would say, but those who are saved walk a path that is constituted by faith and love and holiness and self-control and the embracing of your womanly duties which are unique to you. Those are two ways to take it. Now we can talk afterwards about those different interpretations. I didn't do any application that relies on those two, because I think we would need to talk more about it for you to Have that straightened out in your mind. But everything else, I believe, has been made clear. And so here is the teaching this morning. Christian women are called to good works within the church. That's the main point. Surprise. Christian women are called to good works within the church. And the first good work I want to focus on is clothing And the second good work I want to focus on is learning. Clothing and learning. So let's begin with the clothing. That is a good work that we saw as the first application from a principle that Paul gave us. If you look into the history of this passage, which is a wormhole in and of itself, you will see that the clothing choices of women Especially during this time in these churches that Paul was writing to whom Paul was writing these letters, that the clothing choices of women were symbolic of adopted philosophies and heart attitudes that were thriving among the women. Many documents have surfaced. You can look at many archaeological finds that talk about what were going on what was going on within this. the society, archaeological digs, showing that women were joining a philosophical movement called the New Roman Woman And they use their newfound financial freedom in order to seek an unbridled freedom in many dimensions. This included having many partners. This included a ton of alcohol. Real early in the morning. It's five o'clock somewhere, but they would have said that in Greek. Embarrassment, there was a large scale in this same literature, embarrassment to be a woman. And showing the uniqueness of a woman, for example, in their motherhood, if they became pregnant and they started to show they would hide it. Because it wasn't socially acceptable, and largely they would just get an abortion. This is all documented. It was such a horrific movement both among the churches and society at large, it was so antisocial that you can find in these archaeological digs decree after decree where the local governor is trying to get this to stop because it's destroying families Now, with all that said, go back and read Titus about how he warns, hey listen, why don't we take care of what's going on in the home instead of drinking first thing in the morning? You can see that kind of talk right there in Titus. So this kind of thing was going on among them. Now, here's the thing. I say that to you just so that you're educated about some of the resources out there to understand the pastoral epistles But I'm always uneasy about drawing conclusions about archaeology alone. I don't like that to be like the main foundation in how I think the story should go or the way that the apostles are telling us the story here. And the good news is that we don't have to just rely on archaeological evidence. We have biblical passages which show this kind of problem elsewhere within the church. And of course the Holy Spirit planned that, so we'd have more than just this single passage to understand what's going on. The passage last week that I gave you was Isaiah chapter 1. Well, this week it's Isaiah chapter 3. It looks like Paul was really reflecting on the church and its problems within Isaiah, and he is using that as a theological model to give instruction to young Timothy. Here, you want to write this down so you can talk about it over lunch. I think he is evoking Isaiah 3, verses 12, then jump to 15 and following. Isaiah 3, 12, 15, and following. The women of the church in this passage had become arrogant and they had become antisocial, and the way in which they were destroying society in part was by how they dressed and carried themselves. Their hearts had become corrupted And that corruption was expressed in how they chose their clothes and what they wore and how they did their hair. Now, here's something interesting. James picks up the same Isaiah passage and teaches about the same thing happening within his congregation in the New Testament. He says things like that the rich exploited the poor, and they didn't give the poor a paycheck, and then it talks about the clothing that the rich are wearing. And that it's going to end up being evidence when God shows up, it's going to end up being evidence against them that they were extravagant in the face of those who were dirt poor. Which was anti-social and destructive of unity within the community. I just want you to imagine that for a moment. Imagine working hard all week long. You go to your boss and you're supposed to receive your paycheck. And they say, we don't have your paycheck for you. You know that they are just bleeding money that they are as rich as can be based upon their house and all of their choices. And so you have to go home because you didn't have the paycheck that week And you have to let your wife know that you were hoping to be able to refill the pantry and the fridge at this time, but I have no money, and we're going to have to figure out a way to make do. And she says to you, what does that even mean? Make do How do you make do? I mean the food is here, we eat it, and then it's gone. So what do you do? I mean, how do you make do? Then they go to church on Sunday morning crying, you know, and they've been crying out to God that there would be some kind of relief from this because they know they're being wrongfully treated from their boss. They go to church and they see his wife up in the front row Because she gets the fancy seat. And she's wearing a bunch of new bracelets. And she just had her hair done for $150 And she's got these new shoes on, and she pulled up in a new car. How do you think that is going to go among that community? That is anti-social behavior, what they have chosen to do. They have exploited the poor, which created a wound, and then they shoved some salt in it on Sunday morning as they're all trying to worship together. That's the kind of thing that was going on within James. And so it's the kind of thing that we're supposed to be taking notice of here within our church. Now, I give you this background so that you know how to apply these verses. And how not to apply these verses. Because the way that I just gave you these verses already leads you in a different direction than the way we have seen some people take these verses within our culture in two directions. The way to apply these verses, here's how you would want to apply these verses, you would take the verses in 1 Timothy, Isaiah, and James. And you would use them as case studies so that you can make an application today in how you women want to dress in worship. You would ask the question, how do I want to dress in worship in a way that is for the common good of my neighbor? You would make sure that your life is filled with good works, even in the choice of your clothing and your personal appearance. Now you would ask the question: well, what is proper and what is fitting for worship? We kind of have that sense, don't we, of other situations, what's fitting for a wedding, what's fitting for a funeral, what's fitting for a day on the beach, what's fitting for fishing, what' What's fitting for school But what is fitting and proper for worship? Those are the kind of questions you would begin to ask, and you would want to answer that from a moral vision that is given to us within the scriptures. You could start to answer it by asking other questions. You could say, well, to what kind of community do I belong? If I belong to a poor community, but I showed up every morning with $250 sneakers, it might be a distraction to what's going on within the worship service. What builds up that community and what is a distraction? If you came in here on your head with all the feathers of a peacock, How would that even be helpful to anybody? Because seven of the people behind you will not even be able to see me I mean that's funny, but some of the literature I read from this era, people were showing up with that kind of stuff And you can and so I'm trying to give you simple cases that aren't you don't really see any debate about it. Yeah, obviously I shouldn't wear a peacock on my head today, so that you can start to move into more difficult cases as about what is proper and what is fitting. among your c particular community so that it's not a distraction and it's not anti-social. So here's another question that you could ask, ladies. What are the results of your clothing choices in the community? You could think about, for example, what is the model that you're setting for younger women or for younger girls What parts, here's another one, I think this is a good one to ask, though I don't really see the problem around here. What parts of you should remain private and why? What parts of you should be public and why? Those are good questions. And the reason why I'm putting these in the form of a question is because I want you on a case-by-case basis to answer these things theologically And not through the information of local philosophies. When you answer that question, you must answer theologically Or you will in all likelihood make your choices based on the catechism work or catechitical work that the pagan philosophers have doing on forming and shaping you on what you think women are supposed to be. You see a woman on the Super Bowl stage. That is not meant to be an individual. She is trying to represent as a piece of artwork a view of all of life. And we pick these kind of things up and we start to dress in certain genres and we can tell w kind of our philosophies by the ch The clothing choices that we make. And I want I'd appreciate it if you would start to answer some of those questions and please let me know what you come up with. What is the theological moral vision that you have for what should be private and what should be public. Now that's how you would apply it. is you would you would approach this on a case-by-case basis with a general principle of not being antisocial but bringing but participating in the common good. Now here's how not to apply I beg you, let us leave a certain era in the church behind and not make these commands as they are specifically written absolute. There is nothing wrong with pearls in and of themselves. There is nothing wrong with gold in and of itself. There is nothing wrong if your hair is braided today. Congratulations on your braided hair. I think it's great. There's nothing wrong with that in and of themselves. Now in this church, if you had braided hair, it was a a sign of something different because you would not braid your own hair. Would braid your hair. It could end up being a kind of class distinction, which could which could break down the church. But in and of itself, these things are not wrong. Now I wanted to you to notice in your bulletin This is one of the reasons why we included Ezekiel chapter sixteen in your bulletin. In that passage What we have is God rescuing a young lady or baby, and she grows into a woman. And he adorns her with the finest things in the land, essentially making her a queen. She's got a crown on her head there. She's royalty. Okay? And if you look at the description, it includes gold. He dresses her in many things. That were luxurious that the regular population did not have. I still don't know today that anybody here any w women have badger skin sandals on today? I don't think so But here you see her in all of this luxury, all of this beauty, to where she's so beautiful and dressed so well that the entire world knows about her And so, what you would have to see here, the reason, is that if gold and pearls are wrong in and of themselves, then God is wrong for giving them and encouraging her to wear them But God can never be guilty. Let every man be a liar, but God always tells the truth. And so the point, the point that we're supposed to see here is that These things are not wrong in and of themselves. We have to look at how they're fitting in with your role within Christian society. What are they doing for the community around you? Are they building it up or are they bragging it down? Those are the two questions that you need to figure out. So what not to do? Women, you don't have to wear a burqa. Congratulations. Okay? That's not the application here. And that sounds ridiculous to you because we're not in an eastern uh or near eastern land, but let me tell you something else. You don't have to be confined to just denim dresses that go to your ankles. That is a major problem within the church. Even to this day, there will be some churches that will read this passage woodenly, and they will have all of your clothes laid out for you, women, and you will sow them yourself, and they will be made of denim. Well now that's a that's a bit hyp hyperbolic. There's probably uh other fabrics that can be used. But do not take don't read this literally, in accordance with its appropriate genre, but not literalistically. Understand the heart of God in the passage. Don't just read the letter of the law. Understand what the Spirit intends by it. And I think I'll I'll stop there in terms of those kinds of movements. But that's how we would not want to apply it So woodenly and not understanding the heart of God. Now that's the first part. The first part is clothing and the good works that you would bring into the church by your intentional choices. And now there is learning. We spend so much time arguing with people who have a bad attitude about this passage that we lose the good stuff that's in the passage. I just gotta admit something to you. I'm just over the bad attitude on the passage. The more I study it, the more simple it becomes. There's not a whole lot going on here unless you're trying to get away from something. We need to see the there's so much good that is being given here for women It says here, right off the bat, the very first words that he says is that women are meant to be studying and learning the Word of God, especially the preaching of the Word. That is meant to be a relief. That is meant to be informative and instructive in how you would conduct your life, women Now, when I say that, I think there's a really helpful story in the scriptures to help you. Okay? And it should be a model for you and how you would think about this particular passage. And guess what story it is? It is the story of Mary and Martha. Let me read it to you. It happened as they went that he entered. A certain village. This is about Jesus. And a certain woman named Martha welcomed Jesus into her house. And she had a sister called Mary, who also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word. But Martha was distracted with much serving, and she approached him and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Therefore, tell her to help me And Jesus answered and said to her, Martha, Martha, you are worried and troubled about many things, but there is one thing that is needed, and Mary has chosen that good part, which will not be taken away from her. Ladies, I wonder, do you see yourself in the passage? You remember this is a quotation from Luke, chapter 10, verses 38 through 42, and when we've studied Luke before. we noticed how the Holy Spirit wants us to look at the different characters in the story to learn what it means to be a good disciple. And here you have two, in a very particular kind of circumstance. And I wonder, ladies, do you see yourself in this passage? Honestly, let's just back up for a moment. I am amazed. I was thinking about this even this morning, and I was as I was finally reviewing my notes. I am amazed at how much good work the women do around here in this congregation. I mean it is higher if you were to stack all of the good works that the women do around here, it would be higher than like the highest mountain that you could even dream up. The women are doing amazing things if you were to see all of the progress that they have made in their individual lives and how they contribute to their community. When I look at you and I think of your devotion to Christ, I see women who are filled with good works. But there is a danger with Jesus, which Jesus tells us about, you can become so busy with good things for your family, you can become so busy with good things for your schools. You can become so busy with good things for your church and for your outside communities that you never take the time to be silent. That's the way that Paul uses the word. You're not taking the time to rest. You're not taking the time to be quiet. And to sit at Jesus' feet through the preached word Not sit at the preacher's feet. May it never be. I'm talking about sitting at Jesus' feet through the preached word. The Lord's day should be a day especially. Remember, this is what it's talking about. The Lord's Day should be a day especially devoted to setting aside your worries and your distractions, and letting Christ minister to you with the word preached and the word discussed when you get home That's how the day should be set aside. Now, let me speak for a moment to you single ladies, and this would include the widows also. I would ask that you please do not fill your Lord's Day with a bunch of activities based on this verse. Please try to have lunch with folks from the church and discuss the sermon and talk about your life and let them talk about their life And what difference the Word of God makes to our lives today. I really encourage you to do that. Make this a day where you can slow down and you can be quiet. And you can study God's word with your community. Where you can not just study it, but in a way that your mind is refreshed, which is encouraging, but you also want to do it to where starting to solve your problems that are in your life. You're learning the kind of directions you should be going and how you should be moving in certain things Now, those ladies who are not single but are married, I would encourage you to do something that is going to be quite difficult for some of you. You have got to tell your husbands that you need time to learn. That is going to be tough for you for two reasons. Now, when I go and I have lunch with folks, On the Lord's Day, when I visit you for lunch, I often see the women preparing the meal. They're moving all about, trying to get everything ready, and just at the table. And one of the problems you're going to run into is that you just love to do that And that's that is uh I can I can relate to that. If somebody came out to me when I was smoking a amazing piece of meat on my smoker and you said, would you like me to Take this work away from you. I'd say what work? This is great. I'm you know, I just want to smoke this pork loin or whatever it is. And some of you feel that way about table settings and flowers if that's your Preference and about the meal, you're excited about the cooking. And I'm encouraging you here that is it possible for you to still take part in those things because you love that kind of good work. But to also make room a little bit later in the afternoon where you can learn, where you can take some time to speak with your husband or with your friends. or with guests who are in your home, especially about the preached word that day. Could we mold and shape the day where you could take this passage seriously where Paul says, guess what, ladies, you are learners. You are students, and you have got to take that seriously. Slow down, be silent, and receive God's words. And in that conversation, I pray that it would get far enough to where you'd even be able to bring those things home emotionally. Now, when God made Adam, he eventually determined that Adam needed a helper, and so he made Eve. Together as equals, but with different assigned societal roles, they are God's agents for his creation to flourish When they are in order. Women, we desperately need you in everything. God has already said that. Even in the small details of how you outwardly present yourself. And we also need you in how you inwardly embrace the Word of God as a learner or a disciple in the school of Jesus Christ. We desperately need you to embrace those two things. And as a result, may you Christian women embrace your calling To do good works within the church. Amen. And let us pray