I desire therefore that the men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands without wrath and doubting. In like manner also that the women adorn themselves in modest apparel, with propriety and moderation not with braided hair or gold or pearls or costly clothing, but which is proper for women professing godliness with good works Let a woman learn in silence with all submission. And I do not permit a woman to teach or to have authority over a man, but to be in silence. For Adam was formed first, then Eve, and Adam was not deceived, but the woman, being deceived, fell into transgression. Nevertheless, she will be saved in childbearing, if they continue in faith, love, and holiness With self-control. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we don't need another opinion on earth. We need your truth And so we pray that whatever is preached from the pulpit would be solid, that it would always be the food that you have delivered to your people, that it would be a result of the correct division of the word. That uh and that which is good would be taken. We ask these things in your name, Lord. Amen. You may be seated. Now, two Sundays ago, we were looking at a desire that God has revealed to us. What a privilege it is to hear what is on God's heart. God desires the salvation of all different kinds of people, and that refers to the different nations and ethnicities. And that God uses our prayer to accomplish his desires. And so we concluded with Paul that a healthy church therefore prays for all kinds of people. We noted especially government officials because they can affect how we can conduct our business here on earth as it was decreed in heaven. Now we move on to this passage in 8 through 15, and as you can see from the difficulty of the topic, I was tempted to find a substitute preacher for today to teach on this. But God would not let me. What I'm gonna do, because each of these topics and the passage as a whole requires a little more uh observations than usual. I'm actually I read the whole passage because it is a unit, but we're just going to deal with verse 8 today, because that has to do with the men And then next Sunday we'll work solely with the women in the rest of the passage in 9 through 15. This is also in a controversial passage and it has been just about every age as I've researched it, not just this age all the way back to the beginning. And so let's just we're just going to make observations about the context of the passage and Use all of them for this week to focus in on men praying everywhere. And then next week we're going to get in to all of the details that we see here about the women. And if and if you're here today I'd encourage you to return next Sunday also because the argument that I'm making here about the context applies to being able to understand what's going on with women here also. I think that you're going to be surprised. as to what this teaches, though some of you will still be discontent. In fact, I'll say that this passage here and what God tells us about women Will be the rock that some of you women shipwreck on and leave the church. And I'm gonna I'm gonna I've been praying and I'm I'm really hoping that Lord the Lord can give me the wisdom to where I can be a help to you where you don't do that where you don't fall for false teaching that our culture is giving us. But it's a very difficult time right now. So we're just going to start with the men. So I hope you come back next Sunday to hear about the women So let's start with just a few observations here. The passage is controversial. It's very difficult And with a passage like that, I would always encourage you to come and talk with me afterwards if I just make you as as angry as can be. Or if you don't know how this applies to your particular situation, come talk to me. Because Each situation deserves its own care. But I'll say in general that with all of Scripture, this has to be read carefully, and therefore if we're going to do so, then the context is of the vast of vast importance. We've got to look at multiple paragraphs here and not just yank these verses. out of context. I want you to notice first that there is a string of desires. There's a string of desires and we're meant to link these things together so that we can see a total fabric that is being knit together by Paul. The very first time we see this word desire is in verse 8 I desire therefore that the men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands. Now, that's the first If you want to think of it as a pearl on strings, on a string, that's fine. That would be the first pearl. The second pearl is understood in verse 9. Because Paul says in verse 9, in like manner also, he's expecting you to supply the verb. I desire also, in like manner, that the women And then we'll get into that next Sunday. So there's two pearls on the string, these two desires. Then if you go all the way to chapter 3, verse 1 We can see that he's not speaking specifically of his apostolic authorized command or desire, but you can see in 3. 1, this is a faithful saying, if a man desires the position of a bishop, Paul authoritatively desires something for men first. He authoritatively desires something for women second. And then in three, if a man desires And Paul goes on then in 3. 1 to have a discussion first of the office of elder, and then look at verse 8 There's the likewise word again. We're going to continue now, and we're going to talk about the office of deacon Then the last string I wanted to show you as an observation of this these pearls all being strung together on this string. We can keep going and see that the context stretches out even further so that we can understand Paul summarizes what is on his heart and what is on his mind. What is his main motivation and drive here? Take a look at chapter 3, verse 15. I'll start with 14. These things I write to you, though I hope to come to you shortly. But if I am delayed, I write that you so that you may know how you ought to conduct yourself. In the house of God, or the church, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth. Now, that analogy of the church being like a house was already given, if you had read the elder section, which we didn't do together, but the analogy of the household of God and the church of God was already mentioned in the section on the church officers, and that the the The elder must conduct uh for if a man does not know how to rule his own house, how will he take care of the church of God? There's a there's a latent analogy there of them both being kinds of houses Which Paul brings out in verse 15. And so this is what we end up seeing in summary here as we stretch all the way from verse 8 out all the way into verse 3, 15, and perhaps further. to see the total context here in which Paul is writing this letter, or at least this context, we have a section here wherein Paul writes to deal and give instruction in a very narrow and limited domain This is the domain of the church, and it is in the domain specifically of special officers officers or officials who have been given as a gift to govern her or to rule and serve. This is not a passage first and foremost about life in general. There's plenty of passages about life in general. And we can actually make inferences, deductive inferences from this passage about life in general, but that's not first and foremost what's happening here. My whole argument to you, what I lay before you this morning as an observation, is that this whole section is restricted to life in the church. Now that's the first thing I want you to notice is that context and that string of pearls. Look at the field of discourse that we're in. Now here's the second thing I want you to notice. We can become even more specific than what I just said. It's more narrow than just life in the church, actually. This is not just about life in the church. It is about how men and women should conduct themselves in formal, public worship of the church. It becomes that narrow. A formal public worship service of the church. I want you to take a look at the kind of reasoning that we we'd have to do in order to be able to understand verse 12. I'm using this for the sake of us understanding the whole passage. We'll talk about verse 12 more next week when we get into Women in the worship service. But when you take a look, take a look at verse 12, it says, And I do not permit a woman to teach or to have authority over a man, but she must be in silence. Is that true even on the pages of Scripture, consistently throughout all of the letters of Paul? Is that what we see represented in all of the Bible in general situations? That the woman, she can't teach, she must be silent. This statement is not true in general, even within the pages of the Bible itself, because women are obviously commended. It's not just a fact. with no moral evaluation, women are commended for their teaching in some situations. I want you to remember, for example, the letter of Titus, which we just went through. Did not Paul specifically instruct the older women to teach the younger women? So there's a situation where this can't be a general truth. This has to be referring to a specific and narrow context in which that shouldn't be happening. And then if you were to look in 2 Timothy, there's this really lovely picture in 2 Timothy. It has stuck with me ever since I became a Christian It's this picture, it's like a little snapshot, and a lot of it is latent and you have to draw it out, but it's a picture of Timothy as a little boy growing up And you can see that there's this teaching ministry of his grandmother and his mother. So that Timothy was raised in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord, and Paul is grabbing a hold of him for his calling to the church. to be a special official minister. But that depended on the work that his grandmother and his mother did, Eunice and Lois. Women are not restricted from teaching in general if we follow out all of these things. Now there's more examples than that. You could look, for example, that Jesus reveals himself uh uh after the resurrection to women and then the women go and they're not quiet about it, they're not in silence, but teach that something has happened And there is the another example, or many other examples throughout the scriptures, to where it really doesn't make sense, even according to the scriptures themselves, to restrict women in general to say that they should not be teaching and that they just need to be silent all the time and maybe will bind their feet too. That's not the picture that we have here. The way to make sense of this, therefore, is to see that women are restricted from authoritative teaching in the church. This is another way of saying that they are not to become elders, which is the total context that's going on here. And since elders teach authoritatively, especially in corporate public worship, women are not to lead the worship services. And this was a major problem that was going on within this church and within the Corinthian church, and we'll talk about that next Sunday For now, I'm seeking to establish that the lens and the limiting factor of this passage is extremely narrow This passage is Paul's instruction about the narrow topic of life in the church in formal public worship. You'll notice if you if you'd like to look down again at your scriptures, let a woman learn in silence with all submission, and I do not permit a woman to teach her to have authority. That is to say, she cannot be an authoritative teacher Well, what does that mean? That's Paul's way of talking about the same stuff he's going to talk about all the way through chapter 3, verse 15, where they should not be taking the official role of elder or deacon. And leading the church in the deposit of the faith. But there are all these other examples where it is fine for women to teach. He has a very narrow focus here. I hope that you can see that from that argument. Now, here's the third thing I want you to observe. Now that we have the control through the context, I want you to notice that Paul first addresses the ordained men of the congregation telling them that they should pray. I'll talk about the women next week. If you're dissatisfied about the women section, it's because I haven't talked about it. Okay? And and so let's get on to the men, and this is observation three. Notice that Paul first addresses the ordained men of the congregation, telling them that they should pray. Now just look at the pieces of it. It's just one verse. It's real easy today. I desire therefore that the men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands without wrath and doubting. And my goal here is to stay consistent with the lens. And so he addresses the official men everywhere, meaning in all of the churches. He tells them to lift up their holy hands. And now I'm trying to stay consistent here. And the term holy, this is actually a special use of the word holy If you were to look in the Greek, those of you who are seminarians, take a look, and this is not hagias. This is something else going on. The term holy here is used of elders in Titus 1. 8 And in my further research, it is often used of priests and what they're supposed to be doing, that they are set aside like a Levitical priest is holy. These hands, furthermore, Paul says, are hands that are lifted in prayer, and then The idea that they are holy hands means that they are qualified to represent the whole congregation in prayer before God. I really think that the picture that's going on here, based on the authoritative context and lens, is that this is Paul's instruction. To the elders, especially those who lead the worship services and all of the various churches, to make sure that they are representing the congregation in prayer specifically in the worship service. Now this word prayer is also an interesting word. It's a most general word for prayer that you can use in it in the same way that you is everyone here are familiar with the Book of Common Prayer? Have you ever noticed that when you open that book, it's not just prayers? It's hymns and worship services. And that's the way that the word prayer is used sometimes for the whole service. And I believe that's what's going on here, is that Timothy is being instructed to these same elders that he's that are getting ready to be ordained. They will be the ones, along with Timothy, who's doing the reading of the word and leading the service, that they are to raise up their hands as representatives of the people. in prayer. We're talking about how to conduct a worship service. These ordained men, therefore, should not be lifting up hands, being filled, continuing with verse 8, filled with wrath or doubt or disputing. And that is another way of saying that the congregation should not have elders who are troublemakers up there trying to lead them, even in prayer. They are not to be troublemakers in the congregation. So here's the first set of instructions that we have for how to conduct the worship service. And it is directed to the men who have been set aside to lead the worship service. And the basic command is that they should pray. And we'll talk a little bit about that in the application. But here's the doctrine this morning. A healthy church encourages men to pray well. In corporate and family worship. I brought in the family part because I do want to do an application. This passage just talks about corporate worship But that's a little foreshadowing. A healthy church encourages ordained men to pray well in worship, would be the exact proposition. For this passage. A healthy church encourages men to pray well in worship. Now, I would like to talk about men praying in the church, which is going to be uh uh helping us to think about officers a little bit, especially with the nomination period coming up. And then I also want to do a further inference since this Sunday is talking all about men and then next Sunday is all about women, I'm going to talk about men praying in the home. So let's talk about men praying in the church and then men praying in the home. As I argued in the observations, the men praying in the official public church worship service should be ordained and they should be examined. We are approaching the time of the nomination of officers, so this is really appropriate to talk about. We've seen other passages where we begin we get a framework to figure out who is it that we should nominate and when should we say yes on the nomination form for the election Those of you who are officers, this is a good time to remember the gravity of your calling and to never get up here and go through the motions of prayer. Prayer is probably different than you thought it was. It's far more of a holy calling than you realize when you're being a representative of the people. Now, if you look closely at Paul's teaching on lifting holy hands in prayer, it becomes obvious that Paul is evoking Isaiah 1, verse 15. And I'd encourage you to study that this afternoon. Since this day is meant to be set aside both privately and publicly in worship, I'd encourage you to To fulfill that by looking up these scriptures and talking about it together over lunch or late in the afternoon. This is a passage wherein the priests are calling the people to a solemn public assembly. In that public worship, the priests are lifting up their hands in prayer You can see this throughout the scriptures, and it's all over the Psalms, by the way. It is a regular posture within the worship of God's people. It was never meant to it was never intended for there to be like some guy with long hair in the back waving his hands, but everybody else is being Presbyterian and standing like this during the glory of potri. It was meant to be a sign of our unity together in that we're all lifting up our hands. Now, some of you can't handle that this morning, and you're going to need a further conversation, but I'm just letting you know what the Bible presents to us, especially in Isaiah and in the Psalms. Here, the public worship, the priests are living up lifting up their hands, as is so often done within the scriptures. And I want you to listen to the description of their hands. in the Isaiah passage, which are symbolic for the work of their lives. When you spread out your hands, I will hide my eyes from you, even though you make many prayers. I will not hear you. Now listen to this. Your hands are full of blood. That's Isaiah one fifteen. Now, he does, maybe he has a maybe Yahweh has a case of literal blood in mind. Maybe there really was some murder going on, probably so. But he explains a few verses later more about this blood imagery, and this is Isaiah 1. 18, same passage. He says And you're very familiar with this, but here's the context that you probably haven't heard before. Come now, let us reason together. Remember this? This is the same passage talking about prayer. Come now, let us reason together, says the Lord, though your sins are like scarlet. on your hands, though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be as white as snow, though they are red like crimson, still focused on the hands, they shall be as wool So he's talking about some kind of hand cleansing here. They're going to get the blood off of their hands. If they could just reason together for a little while about what's going on here. Well what's going on here? What's the actual crimson crimson stain in the real life? Well he says this in verses 16 through 17 of the same passage of Isaiah chapter 1, 16 through 17 Wash yourselves and make yourselves clean. Put away the evil of your doings from before my eyes. Cease to do evil. Learn to do good. Seek justice. Remember the oppressor. Defend the fatherless. Plead for the widow. So you can see what's going on here. Their hands are blood red with the opposites of the things that we see. here. It's the taking advantage of the widow. It is supporting the oppressor. It is defrauding the fatherless. It is seeking injustice, inselfishness, and greed. That's what's on their hands. And so what you have then are ordained men who are lifting up their hands in prayer, in corporate worship, but their lives are filled with sin. That's the picture that we have within Isaiah. Now, did you catch what happens when you have such men in the pulpit, and they are the ones that are praying as a representative of the people? Did you hear what God said? When you spread out your hands, I will hide my eyes from you. Even though you make many prayers, I will not hear you. God does not hear their prayers. Now that is a devastating remark That is a devastating reality. I want you to just imagine that for a second. Imagine that you really are trying to do what this series keeps telling us week in and week out. That we are seeking to be a healthy church in the Lord, right? And then I want you to imagine that because you neglected the responsibility you have In electing responsible and godly men, that when they are up here praying for you, that God turns his face away from their prayers. Imagine going through a whole worship service with all of the prayers said by the ordained men, including all of the prayers of praise that perhaps they pick out for you And God does not listen. What it says here is that if these men are living certain lives, then God will not hear their prayers. And the reason will be will be because God sees the heart. He knows what they're really after. And when they are praying, they're not after his glory. They're acting something totally different, and he is not going to honor that. That's really what's going on here. So if he were to answer their prayers in Isaiah 1. 15 What would they do with the success? Would they not continue to destroy the widow and the fatherless? So repentance needed to happen first. And then he would hear the prayers so that they would do good with the success that he would give them Now I imagine that there are some objections to this. Some of you are probably thinking, this is the strangest sermon I've ever heard. in my life. You were already in big trouble with the passage itself, and here you've complicated matters for you, saying that God doesn't hear our prayers Or maybe you're you're saying, well, that was before the Son of God took on human nature, and now we have Jesus Christ, and it doesn't matter who you are, he just hears everybody because he's a love bunny. And that's not well those are your objections in my mind. But this objection fails to remember that James references this exact same Isaiah passage in his letter Now I read to you 16 and 17 where he talks about the washing of the hands. That's what James picks up. He says, draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners And purify your hearts, you double-minded. That's exactly what the problem is in Isaiah, is that they're double-minded. And in that James passage, when he says to purify your hands, when he says to clean your hands, what is the context of that James passage? It is prayer. It is prayer. He says, You lust and do not have. You murder and covet and you cannot obtain. You fight and war, just like in Isaiah 1:15. Yet you do not have because you do not ask, meaning prayer. You ask and you don't receive because you ask amiss, that you may spend it on your own pleasures. You are adulterers and adulteresses. That's the total picture within James It is a total picture of prayer, of what happens when leaders get themselves in a position of leadership and yet their life is full of sin and they've got blood all over their hands That God does not hear their prayers, even today, according to James. And so, brothers and sisters, when you nominate and then elect someone to office, You elect them to represent you before God in public worship. They are praying on your behalf to God. They are invoking his name with worship, that he would send his spirit to all of us. They start off the confession of sin portion, and then you take over with your personal prayers Silently in your own hearts. Here they are representing you, and you can see here that you better be careful who you elect to represent you before God in public worship. Now, I know that you take seriously the election of those who are going to bring God's words from God to you I know that you do. I know you don't just want anybody up here in this pulpit talking. But I'm telling you here this morning, according to this passage, you better take seriously who brings you and your troubles and our words to God. And not just God's words to you. You better be careful there. You hear what the scriptures teach. We do not need somebody in the pulpit to whom God does not listen. God says that he will not hear the prayer of those leaders who live in constant adultery against him. This is a pretty grievous situation. You must take the election and lives of your officers seriously. Make sure that you elect officers who are fit to pray for you. What would it be like to have someone up here who is praying for you and they just said 15 things that you know are not biblical? They better be trained in the word. They better know who God is. They better know what his will is I remember uh being an intern here at this church, the lonely intern. And I was sitting in the back. And the way that this service used to run is that we'd have a time where you would let the pastor know your prayer request from the floor. And then the pastor would write those down, and then he would pray. And I was in the back and I was feeling really bad for this one person who needed a transplant. So I raised my hand And I said to the pastor who was up here, could you please pray that such and such would receive an organ for the transplant? And then the pastor said, I understand the sentiment, and I will reword what your desire is because I cannot pray that someone would die so that we could harvest their organs, so that we could then give it to someone as a transplant. And people felt very sorry for me that they confronted me like that in the worship service, the pastor did. But I'll tell you the truth: that pastor is the kind of person you want up here in the pulpit Because he refused to take a compassionate prayer request, which lacked truth, and to just bring that on its own terms to God. Instead, he said, I'll translate this for you because I get your heart. But we're not going to ask for people to die today. But we can still pray. Now God is the kind of person Now what goes into the character of a person who can do something like that? Well, whatever it is, you want to look out for that when you're electing men into office who are going to lead Prayer before you and God. You need to make sure that your elect officers are fit to pray for you. You need to make sure that you are praying for the lives of your officers That they would keep the blood off of their hands. That they would stay out of sin. And let that be our prayer now. May our ordained men always lift up holy hands and not selfish ones. Now that's men praying in the church, ordained men praying in the church. There is an application that we can deduce here where we can talk about men praying in the home. Only ordained men should be praying to God for the people in public worship, and there may be some exceptions on those who are licensed and becoming ordained in that way. In the home, however, both the men and the women may pray together. That's fine. There's different ways to order that. But nevertheless, I want to address the husband, since he is the head of the home, and we're focusing on the women all next week. I want to address the husband, not only because he's the head of the home, though. That's not it. I want to address the husband, this is preaching to myself here too. Because one of the most common complaints that I hear, brothers, listen up, okay? One of the most common complaints that I hear from the women is that you don't take up your leadership of worship in the home. And they are desperate for you to do so. They try not to step on your shoes and take over, but they the sometimes they have to because you are not rising to the calling that has been given to you. And so that's another reason why I want to talk to us Talking to me here too, because I got some problems here. So I want to remind you men that not leading your families in worship And therefore, neglecting prayer in your home is a great tragedy, and it is an immense disservice to your families. I want you to think of your role as husband and father as an office. You are the official head of the family. And as such, the responsibility of the health of the family rests upon you. You cannot obtain A healthy family, unless God blesses you. And I'm telling you right now that God prefers ordinarily to bless you Through the prayers that you offer to him on behalf of your children and your wife and your extended family This is a means that he gives to us, a gift, that we might take it up and use it in service of our families. When your children and wife See you praying and know that you are a man of prayer. Not only are you going to receive the blessing of God answering your prayers, but when they see a man of prayer In my experience and in the testimony of many people I know, your family will take the reality of God and what he is doing through Christ seriously. It will be a constant testimony and witness that the kingdom has come and his will will be done. Now, I do not want to embarrass anybody here. I didn't ask permission to share this example, and so hopefully I won't get in too much trouble. My wife Holly spoke. She already said these things publicly, so I thought it was fine. But my wife Holly spoke at the women's retreat a while back And she recounted how watching the hospitality of her parents has left a lasting impact on her for what it looks like to live for Jesus Christ. Now I was a person who received the fruit of that hospitality ministry. I'd go over there and have lunch many, many Sundays and talk about Jesus Christ and pray. And and uh Barbara makes the best salads in the world. Because these artichoke hearts are just so good. But there is another example from her parents, and I don't mean to embarrass you, Doug and Barbara, also. I apologize. Or uh no, what do I do? I Ask for forgiveness and not permission. There we go. But there's another example from Holly's parents that she recounts. Actually she recounted this just the other day and she has throughout our whole marriage and she has recounted it more than the hospitality exam. Even to this day, something that has shaped my wife's heart is that she remembers when she was a little girl of always seeing her father on his knees He's praying on his bedside. I think I got those facts right. She remembers that, and you can see that it's not just a historical fact, it's a historical shaping. Fact. She saw a spiritual leader in the home who was committed to what Jesus Christ has said and lived in dependence on him. him. And she saw that because he was on his knees. And he was on his knees every day. Now again, I hope that's not embarrassing, but I think that's helpful to us as a congregation to see how important it is that as men, and women, we'll talk about women next week, but men We have got to show ourselves to be spiritual leaders within our homes. And I don't know a better way to do that than to show your children that you worship God. and that you are dependent upon him. Let me ask you a couple of questions, brothers. Let's just start with the basics. Have your children seen you worship God at home. You might need to start there. Have they seen your love? Have they seen your adoration? Have they seen your utter dependence upon God in prayer and praise inside the privacy of your own family. Because that's really where God makes the difference Not only in the prayers that you pray, but in the witness that you give. Now, a while ago I uncovered a photo It was me and diapers, really blonde hair. I used to have almost white hair. And I was pushing a little plastic lawnmower And I was doing so because my father was on a riding lawn mower. And I just wanted to be like my dad. My little mower had these little things that popped and I still remember it. Do they still have mowers like that today or is it just a video game about lawnmowers? And even to this day, I admire my father. I wanted to be like my dad then. He was excited actually about mowing the lawn and and machinery. He still is today. Jack just mowed. a bunch of acres with him. They were both on lawnmowers. Or if dad's excited about the Orioles, then the children become excited about the Oreoles, especially this month. Or if dad is excited about fishing, or if dad's excited about soccer, children pick up real quickly what's important to you, dads. And then they want to be like you. They want the things that are important to you to become important to them, and they want to excel in those things. And none of the things I've listed are bad things. Go fishing, mow the lawn, enjoy an O's game. But what a tragedy it would be, this is my main argument. What a tragedy it would be if they get all the way up into the teenage years and they never thought once. Do you know what the most important thing is to my father? The worship of God. And I know that because I tangibly and physically saw my father adore his creator and depend for his every breath upon him. When money was short, guess where my dad went? He did not first go to Dave Ramsay, but he went to Yahweh. And then Yahweh sends him to Dave Ramsay. I wonder if there's a time now for some of us that as husbands and fathers. to have a change. Uh you know, the reason why we don't do these things a lot of the times is uh we're confused or there's some obstacle in our way and we need some help to get through it. And I just wonder what those things are You need to grab a hold of somebody who's healthy in their family worship if you can find one and start talking to them about this. So that you can be a spiritual leader within your home. Some of your wives desperately want you to take your place And to be the man that God has called you to be. If your children pulled you aside, And they said, and I asked them, would your father rather stay at home or would he rather go to worship service? What would they say? You really need to evaluate you as a worshiping being before your father. Now, brothers and sisters, whether it is an officer who prays representationally and publicly in public worship and therefore has to be examined because of that role, how serious that role is, with how many people they represent. Whether it's that officer or it's a husband or it's a father, let us strive, according to the words of this scripture, particularly verse 8, to be a community which holds them accountable in their roles. And we do so through having a solemn election of officers And by building up our men that they would lead in family worship and stop giving them excuses for all the distractions they pursue. They've got great-looking boats, but there's no prayer in the home. That's a problem. That's just an example. Now why would we want to do that? Because of the main teaching here today. A healthy church is a church that encourages Ordained men to pray well in worship and as a deduction, we encourage and we train men to pray well and be spiritual leaders within the home. Amen. Amen. Let us pray