Alright, so the the main question that I had posted for the bulletin is how are we to relate to those in other denominations and religions? It was a question that seems to be asked quite a bit. It is an ethical question, and so depending on the situation, there can be slightly different answers. But I thought we would go over some general principles And I am going to be sharing quite a bit from the scriptures, but I'll also be asking you some questions just to see what you're thinking. And in fact I'd like to begin with a question and just ask, is there anybody here who is wearing a cross? Anyone wearing a cross today Okay. Does anybody have a cross at home? Okay, we have a a few crosses at home. If and uh has anybody ever owned a cross or have a cross on any of the items that they own? Alright, we're getting more hands. So now we have the a pretty good majority here of people who have crosses in one way or another. So as you feel free, there's no pressure really But as you feel free, what is the significance of the cr the symbol of the cross for you specifically? What what is meaningful about it to you? Or is it not meaningful? Yes. You failed to ask if anyone had a crucifix. I did. So for me I was raised Catholic. I did I didn't fail. I purposely didn't ask you. When I became a Christian, it really became a strong point as to what's the difference in the cross And the crucifix. So for me, the empty cross was a sign that our Savior is risen and seated at the right hand of God. Okay, yeah, for that's that's nice. Okay. So do y y you have a cross somewhere in the house since you decided to speak. I still have a crucifix. You still have one. Okay. Uh do you have imagining how is there does the cross have any significance to you? I guess you said the significance it has is that it reminds me that Christ is at the right hand of the Father in all authority. Is that right? Yeah but I I actually don't have a cross in my Yeah, okay. Just wondering, anybody w want to speak to the significance of the of the symbol of the cross? Yes. Jesus isn't on the cross. It's done. And that's that's to uh we were given but uh my wife grew up in the in the Catholic Church. We were given her grandparents crucifix that we were supposed to hang in or bedroom in our we we didn't ask for that. And if you knew if you know anything about trees It wasn't uh you know, it wasn't gonna be hung anywhere. But um we ended up returning it about a decade later, you know. But it's like uh it it just it was awkward. You know, and why why was it awkward? Yeah, to us Jesus, you know, he his work is done He is at the right hand of the bottom. And that's what the symbol of the cross is. Okay. So with both you and Dwayne, it ends up being significant relative to the contrast in your own life with your upbringing within Roman Catholicism, particularly Therese in this case. Anybody else have any other stories on the significance of the cross for them? Yeah In addition to what's been shared, I look at it as a identifier. I would give it to seeing somebody with a cross and out of the board Oh, your personal faith is as a launching point to talk about their gospel. Okay. Okay. So it's uh like an identifier or a badge, or maybe this is a fellow person of faith, is what Keith was saying, if you couldn't hear him. Yeah. Mike? Um I think the cross for me, the first word that comes to mind at least is humbly. So, you know, just uh it makes me realize uh what um what God had done for me. Oh the sacrifice that was made for me. Right. You know. And it keeps me in that that mindset like uh who I am and there's there's one right in my office. Okay, gotcha. And I was saying by God. Alright, yeah, very good. So Mike was s saying the cross is especially significant in remembering what was done for him, that he is a sinner and saved by God. And that goes right along with the idea of the cross. Sounds to me, Mike, like the cross is a reminder of your forgiveness. Yes. Is that right? Absolutely. Okay. Dave? Uh I'm close with the mic. It's just kind of a visual reminder of the work redemption. Yeah. I think through the data when you see it in various places might be a taxi or something. I it kind of resonates with better company to see Christ's work with them. Okay, very good. Yeah, okay. It's meaningful to many people. if not most. There are some churches that choose not to have crosses as a part of their population or even within their sanctuary. Um if you were to look behind me, obviously we're not one Uh and in fact th uh this w uh if I remember correctly and Archie you could you could correct me if I'm wrong, but if but we act the church actually was quite intentional in having the cross here Which is which the intentionality is seen as that I believe one of the members made this. This isn't something they ordered. Right. It was uh Genie's brother. Yeah, okay. Oh. Not uh Sunday, but Bob Bob. Oh, yeah, so this was so this is that just the fact that they had someone craft it for them who was a family member. to genie shows you the kind of intentionality and I imagine some of the same kinds of thoughts that you're having here today, it's a ne it's not a crucifix. It's a cross. That was on purpose. And it is to remind you of the forgiveness. And Christ saving sinners. Dave expressed it a bit more generally, which I'll get to, which is that it reminded him of the work of redemption. The work of redemption is a bigger way to talk about this, and forgiveness would just be one aspect of the work of redemption. But that also is significant for Dave And um all right, very good. Now if you were to look across like our culture, did you notice the cross, whether it's a Christian meaning or not, tends to be pretty significant for people? Um you'll see the cross in a lot of different movies. Uh one movie that where the cross is dominant is in the mission. Does anybody ever remember seeing that older movie? Has quite the score to go along with it. Anybody see The Mission? You'll see the cross showing up in different movies as a kind of um symbol that keeps evil away. So if there's a vampire movie, this cross inevitably shows up Whatever it is. My I'm not saying that that way of seeing or even using the cross is what we should adopt. I'm just saying that across the culture there ends up being this significance with the cross. And I wanted to start there because I think just asking the question is what does God intend to communicate by the crosswork of Jesus Christ? So that could be a framing way or a way for us to enter into the discussion and to the question of how are we to relate to other denominations and religions. And the reason why I think at least in this case where we why we should begin there is because I think if we were to reflect on the scriptures as to what does God intend to communicate by way of the cross and the cross work of Jesus Christ, then that'll help us to understand what our mission is, and if you understand what your mission or your purpose is, then you can be in a position to make ethical decisions about how you're supposed to relate to different people. I think that's how I think that's how it has to begin. Or at least that's how it's worked within my own ethical life. So let me explain what I mean When we look at the scriptures, does anybody have the scriptures on them today? You're welcome to follow along with me in your scriptures. And it's important you can do that and then meditate it on meditate on it later also if you have any questions. I'll just point out a couple different passages on the meaning of the cross as a way for us to frame, to get into a position where we can ask ethical decisions about relationships. In Ephesians, I just preached on this last Sunday evening, so some of you will know the answer to this, but there is an allusion, if you will, to the crosswork of Christ in Ephesians chapter 1, verse 7. It says specifically, using the same language that Dave chose to use, it says, in him, and in this case it is in Christ, we have redemption through his blood. the forgiveness of sins according to the riches of his grace. So I think that's pretty obvious reference to the crosswork that Jesus performs here. And you see that it is through his blood, which would be uh a figure of speech for talking about his crosswork, at least one of the things that is accomplished is redemption. There is also the mentioning here of the forgiveness of sins, and then it also talks about where is this flowing from and to what end is it going towards, and it's to the glory of his grace. In Ephesians at this point the main emphasis is to praise God for the glory of his grace. And one of the gracious re uh one of the ways he's revealed himself as gloriously gracious in is the redemption of his son. on the on the cross. So does anybody have an idea and if you were here last Sunday evening you can you'll know the answer. But what is redemption? That'll help us to understand the meaning of the cross if we're able to define what redemption is. Anybody have any ideas? So placing back into the intended order of things. So it's specifically the intended relationship. Okay, so redemption, Ian is saying that redemption uh is uh putting things back into order. Is that right? Okay, that's pretty good. It's pretty Anybody else? Yes, Keith? Okay, reclaimed. Very good. Yes? Renewal. Alright. Yes. Exchange of one thing for something else. are getting at getting at what's going on. The the main way in which the scriptures communicate this, or the whole the main way that the Holy Spirit has sought throughout all of the ages to help us to understand what redemption is, is primarily with the story of the Exodus. The Exodus is a a story of a group of people that are being redeemed. And that redemption consists of at least two parts when we look at it, the teaching from the prophets and the apostles There is the fact that the people are under a particular slavery with Pharaoh and are made to serve him. There's then something done by God Himself that releases them from their slavery to Pharaoh Not over into neutrality, but into a slavery to God, if you want to put it that way, or into a service to God. Now who here has read the Exodus story? All hands. Okay. Yep. So do you remember in the storyline any hints about that? About them being in service to one and then being released from the service and in service to another. Do you see that in in any of the elements of the story? Do you remember that? If so, could you share where you see that in the story? Moses demands the release. Moses demands the release. Right? Okay. Yeah, very good. And that's because God himself is demanding it? Yeah. Joseph, he was uh serving to his father before he was served as a fair of the case. Okay. Yep, very good. Any other elements in the story that lets you see those two things moving or being translated from service to one to service to another? Completely dependent on Donald Gaside and Bottom or Five And uh yeah, crossing arrest and uh in all ways being English Manna would have been around. It's not just that they were released from slavery Yeah, and a way we could talk about that is a covenant too, yeah. Some people talk about this in terms of vassal status And all of that kind of thing. Anything else within the story itself? Outside I, the establishment of the laws and community relations Yeah, and before he even starts to uh enumerate the various laws, there is the overarching declaration as to what he has accomplished in there and bringing them over into his service And then here's a summary of what is required and forbidden of you. Alright. Stephen, were you gonna say something? I was gonna say the giving of the law. Yeah, the giving of the law Okay, so so these are all different ways to talk about redemption. And already I just wanted to point out that the the If this is, as it says, and it is the case, that in the scriptures this is accomplished by at least in part, or at the very least, through Jesus' cross work, that Jesus is um accomplishing redemption through his cross work, then the cross is not just about the forgiveness of your sins. That's part of it. The cross is also about taking you over into a place to where you're no longer in service to one master, but you're in service in a very different kingdom to God as your master. And that's it's really important for the argument that I'm gonna make here. We see this in spades, not just in Ephesians, but in Colossians. There's kind of a highlighting verse for this way of viewing the cross, and it's in Colossians chapter 2, 14 through 15 And it speaks more on the other side of not just what is Christ on the cross taking us away from, but what is he taking us to And that is in uh Colossians, basically it speaks that through the cross, Jesus Christ in him through the cross. He disarms Satan's dominion over you. So now we've moved at really in that in that case, we've moved from Pharaoh really being kind of a representative on earth of a satanic kingdom. And then they are delivered from that sanctanic kingdom analogously in the Old Testament. And then we see through the full work of Christ That there really is a movement out of this kingdom of Satan and over into the kingdom of God. And it's talked about in terms of disarming the powers And that's in Colossians two fourteen through fifteen. It says this, having wiped out the handwriting of requirements that was against us, which was contrary to us And he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. So you see his cross work is central here in the thinking of Paul. And he goes on to explain what has happened Having disarmed principalities and powers, he made a public spectacle of them, triumphing over them in it. And that's Colossians 2, 14 through 15. Has anybody had the opportunity to study specifically what Paul would mean by public spectacle of them triumphing? over them in it. Anywhere f anyone familiar with what a public spectacle in this situation would look like in the ancient world? So he put the driven background through the center of the world to show that he had conquered the people. And that was considered further triumphant externally. Blessed with the moral week of victory that Other times I uh friendship determined the the world started that their uh was it Titus after his piece of the um Uh or the first personal one comes back and creates uh say a spectacle or an object to remind the people of the thing that Yeah, okay. R right, very good. So there's actually a pu there are different public ceremonies in the ancient world and we actually have these same things happening today. I'll share in just a minute. At least an idea. But within the ancient world you would have you'd have a figure that would represent a kingdom. And what better to do that than the king himself? And if you could have the king, if you could have the let's say a um the whoever's in charge in Rome at the front of a procession Marching with his entire army through an arch into the city with crowds on the left and crowds on the right, celebrating the power of Rome. And at the end of their train, if the king is bound or being drug, then that is that's that is not just um an individual that's being drugged What's being ha what's happening there, it is a representative of an entire kingdom or way of life that had set itself against Rome. And the demonstration in the public spectacle is that they have conquered that entire domain or area. And it ends up again being representative of who Rome is, their purposes in the world, what they're supposed to be bringing to the earth There's a a great deal of work that's supposed to be going on there. And what what Paul is doing here is he's pointing out that here and in First Corinthians and other places that the powers and the principalities There's multiple meanings of that. Let's just stay down on the earth for a moment. Pontius Pilate, the scribes and the Pharisees, the other Jewish leaders. They were thinking that they had made a public spectacle of Jesus Christ and whatever he stood for that the fact that they were able to do what they did to him showed and demonstrated once again there is no such there is no rule but Roman rule That would be the demonstration. But here Paul is saying, actually, in even the work of the cross, and of course in the work of the resurrection, what Jesus was saying is actually What I have demonstrated is I've made you a public spectacle. So there's a reversal there that what Jesus ended up accompli again, what we end up seeing is that in the cross Jesus has not just forgiven us of our sins, but he has released us from the domination of a kingdom that is set against the kingdom of his Father. So he's released his family, or in other words, I'm still talking about redemption. He has redeemed us as a people out from underneath of that dominion and over into the dominion of his Father. And so there's a just another picture of just, well, what is the meaning of the cross? And you see here within the scriptures that it does, like Dave pointed out in the beginning, point to the larger work of redemption Which is not just the saving from something, but the saving to something. And that is spoken in terms of we're no longer dominated by a foreign kingdom or the kingdom of Satan But instead that we're under the kingdom of our Father now who is in heaven. I think an important question to ask at this point, which I alluded to earlier uh is it mentions in the Colossians passage having disarmed principalities and powers. Has anybody heard that before? That kind of language. Um you know that is picked up in Ephesians, not surprisingly, but it's picked up in Ephesians chapter six verse twelve, that same kind of language. And it says, I know you're familiar with this, it says, For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood. Everybody remember this one? But against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age. against spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places. So you see there Paul alluding To these principalities and powers that we could speak about them as heavenly powers, there's kind of like angelic and demonic powers that are then influencing powers and how that works out on the earth. So you for example could have Pontius Pilate as a particular earthly power, who we see in Uh uh scriptures like Ephesians and Revelation are being influenced by heavenly powers to maintain the kingdom of Satan on earth. But then Christ comes in, makes a public spectacle of all of those layers of powers. uh taking all authority in heaven and earth to himself. And nevertheless, we're still uh warring against them. In fact, while while while Paul is writing this letter, uh he's in prison, and he's in prison because there's still some kind of an influence. going on with those principalities and powers. We learn more of the principalities and powers in Ephesians two, one through three. He says, And you he made alive who were dead in trespasses and sins, in which you once walked according to the course of this world. And listen to this here. According to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience. among whom also we all once conducted ourselves in the lusts of the flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, just as the others. But then Paul will go on and he'll say, but we are no longer under that kind of dominion because Jesus Christ, through his cross work, has moved us into a different kingdom And he'll if you were to keep reading in Ephesians there, oh that ends up being the argument Um so we end up seeing the same thing throughout all of the scriptures. Basically the cross is not just a symbol for our forgiveness, the cross is a symbol of of Of course, for our forgiveness, but also, more largely speaking, our redemption from one kingdom and all of the purposes that you would fulfill called the lust of the flesh in that kingdom to a different kingdom and what Paul later will call walking or staying in step with the Spirit and working for the purposes of God's kingdom. This was seen not only in the New Testament, as I've been demonstrating, but we also see it already in the Old and Joshua 24, 14-15. This is always the way it's been. If you want to understand, you understand things by way of the kingdom. It says, Now therefore, fear the Lord, serve him in sincerity and in truth, and put away the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the river and in Egypt. Serve the Lord. And if it seems evil to you to serve the Lord, choose for yourselves this day whom you will serve, whether the gods which your fathers served that were on the other side of the river, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. This ends up being a pinnacle statement of what it means to be redeemed uh that you've been translated from one kingdom into the next. Now how what the the what what do you say that do you remember anything within the pages of the New Testament of seeing actual examples or stories of people being translated from one kingdom to the next? Can you think of anything Paul. Okay, how um him going from Saul to Paul? Yeah, right. So then think about that and so the Jesus through the cross accomplishes something that is then applied to this person named Saul, to where he is able to be redeemed. So what is he redeemed from? From the he was the persecutor to the pursuit Okay, yeah. So he he's redeemed from being a persecutor of Christians. He was doing so in the name of God, which is interesting. But he was uh aligned with powers and principalities that were against the Christ Who is Jesus? He's then on the road of Damascus, we end up seeing the beginning of his story where he is then translated or redeemed by way of Christ's cross work over into a service now to God the Father through His Son and the Holy Spirit. Okay, do you have any other ones that you can think of? Yeah? It's helpful to just have practical examples. This one's kind of interesting. There's this uh Roman legion commander who was serving God called the Jewish faith, but when Peter visited him, he's Yeah, that's right, Cornelius, and um sometimes we refer to that as the second Gentile Pentecost because there's such a powerful moment there of the Spirit being sent to him and redeemed from the traditions of his fathers even as a pagan or as a god fear even. Yeah, Doug. I think that Al Paul was redeemed from being a servant of the religious politicians of um his country to being a servant to the living God And I only had that thought the other day and it almost poured me. Yeah. The same man in two two different roles Serving two different kings. Yeah, that's right. And um that's a good way to put it too. He is he has been even um divinely appointed into a different service. He will not serve He's not meant to serve at any rate anyone but his Lord. And that's how Ephesians starts off. It says Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, through I think it's the best translation there, through the will of God. So God had has chosen him as a particular servant to himself. Paul won't be serving the agendas any longer of Pharisees and Sadducees. Who you're right, they were uh like a political pressure group. Thank God for that. Yeah, thank God for that. Any other uh examples that you can think of? Who said that? You? Did you? Abraham? Okay, yeah, right. If you were to go back into the old, right. Uh here's the one here that kind of catches all of the different layers of the effects or the application we could say of Jesus' crosswork. It says in Acts Chapter 19, 11 through 20. Now God worked unusual miracles by the hands of Paul so that even handkerchiefs or aprons were brought from his body to the sick, and the diseases left them, and the evil spirits went out of them Then some of the itinerant Jewish exorcists took it upon themselves to call the name of the Lord Jesus over those who had evil spirits, saying, We exorcise you by the Jesus whom Paul preaches. Also there were seven sons of Skeva, a Jewish chief priest, who did so. And the evil spirit answered and said, Jesus I know. And Paul I know, but who are you? I love that. So good. Made a power of that situation and had made that mistake of, I'm nobody, I'm just We'll just stick with the apostles and Jesus. Okay. Then the man in whom the evil spirit was leaped on them, overpowered them, and prevailed against them so that they fled out of that house naked and wounded. This became known to all Jews and Greeks dwelling in Ephesus, and fear fell on them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified And many who had believed came confessing and telling their deeds. Also many of those who had, and here you can hear start to see some of the fallout and how there's kingdom changes happening now. People are being redeemed by the crossword of Christ from one place to the next. Listen, it says also many of those who had practiced magic brought their books together and burned them in the sight of all. And they counted up the value of them, and it totaled fifty thousand pieces of silver. So the word of the Lord grew mightily and prevailed. You see what's going on there is Jesus really is, even in his ascension, because of what he had done in all of his work of redemption, he's still parading his enemies through the streets. Even in this, the magic books being burned, the those who thought that they could just take a position in God's kingdom being embarrassed when the demonic spirits saying, Who are you who are you? in this situation. So there you see it again. This is all an application or a flowing out of, according to Colossians and Ephesians. that Jesus has accomplished this redemption through the cross. So what does the cross mean to us? Well it can mean a lot of different things. Forgiveness of sins But when we start uh and when we start to look throughout the scriptures, we see that it means and it is accomplishing a lot. And we could talk about it accomplishing redemption Which is taking you from one dominion or kingdom into another. And you see what that ends up looking like practically in Acts nineteen, eleven through twenty. Now when you start to think of it that way, the symbol of the cross still is meaningful because we hear personal stories all the time Of Satan dominating a person and then Jesus for the application of his crosswork setting them free. And I wonder when is the last time that you have heard that? Um Duane, you've been working with a gentleman where that's is part of his story, where we see him set free to serve uh God and his kingdom. And Dwayne has been discipling him for a few months now, is that right? About is it how many months has that been? I don't know. It's It's an eternity. Yeah. I don't know. It's it I think it's only been like three months, but it feels like longer than that. Yeah. But it's great, I mean it's been increasing And I imagine that you all hear of uh different stories and you have your own story yourself. You have your own personal experiences actually of what it means to be in d under the dominion of Satan and being released than under the dominion of Christ, who has been given all authority in heaven and earth. I didn't know this, although I think this is kind of old news And I don't know that this is really going to appeal to hardly any of you. I know Dave will know this person, but I don't know if anybody else. But the um Brian Welch, you know Brian from Corn? Dave. So I don't know if any of you listen to Corn, K-O-R-N. Uh no, most of you don't. But uh it's uh ends up being a good example, I think, as long as what he's saying is true. But it ends up being a good example because if you on their way home from this meeting listen to corn, you're gonna be like, this is the craziest stuff I've ever listened to And and um there are YouTube videos now of him talking about how Jesus Christ has redeemed him or released him from a terrible abomination by s from Satan. drug addiction, meaningless status, etcetera, over into the true service of his king. Uh we hear stories like that all the time. He he says, um, despite having money and success, I felt like a walking dead man. And I was functioning, but I was a severely addicted drug addict. Uh he feared his addiction would leave his daughter without a father. And after a friend introduced him to Jesus and he attended church, Welch felt a profound supernatural love that instantly took away the desire for drugs. And there was a kind of immediate immediate transformation for him. In 2005, he actually left the band Corn He threw away all of his drugs. He was baptized in the Jordan River. I guess that's the way to do it. He was baptized in the Jordan River and he describes his relationship g with God now as a shift from finding pleasure in life to finding contentment and purpose through Christ And years later, apparently he rejoined the band, not to return to his old ways, but to bring light into a dark environment. Now that has the marks. of someone who has come under the power not of Satan, but of Jesus Christ and his redemption. The cross is a symbol for that kind of thing that is done within the life of a human being. So let me just put it just in like a summary statement of everything that I have said so far. It's basically this, that through the cross, Jesus sets his people free from the kingdom of Satan to serve God instead. Through the cross, Jesus sets his people from the kingdom of Satan to serve God instead. And that shouldn't surprise us. Isn't that how the story started? where we were given a place within the garden to exercise dominion, and what we end up seeing is that that story was never forgotten. That God has always purposed to bring creation under Adam. And now Adam is Jesus. He is the second Adam, and all of his brothers and sisters who we are are now exercising dominion more and more as we bring all things into accordance or the order. of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, that they would flourish under the Godhead. That's the idea. Okay, so that's the that's the basic gospel story in my mind. And you can get to that by just reflecting on when we look actually look at the scriptures, what are what's the fuller meaning of the cross? What's Jesus accomplishing through it? What's its place? And we see, as Dave has mentioned, that it has a central place in redemption. And now we understand redemption as more than the forgiveness of sins, but really moving from one kingdom to the next. Okay, now that we have the frame, at least this is how I have worked it out. Where now I can move into like an ethical discussion about how we're supposed to relate to other denominations and religions. And with any ethical discourse, I do think uh it can take a minute to have to work through your various principles and that kind of thing and to grow as a person who's making good decisions about how we're supposed to relate to people. So I'm going to do my best here and basically just share with you what makes sense in my mind. I have excellent ethicists sitting here. I've seen you all work through very difficult family issues and under the spirit uh make the right decisions. And so I don't claim to be the uh expert here on ethical decision making. In fact if I have a serious ethical question in front of me I usually take Arch out to lunch and ask him. I don't remember. I do appreciate that. Um so at any rate, so these are ethical decisions and um it's good to just keep thinking through these kinds of things, and this is where I've landed these days. on these kinds of questions. So the the place the principle that I've been leading to and giving you all of that framing scripture is The one thing I I can lay down, and I hope we can all agree on this, I'm not sure maybe we can't, but I'm I'm firm on this, and that is that we are meant to exercise the Great Commission or Dominion. as the congregations of Jesus Christ. So we've been taken out of one kingdom and over into another kingdom, and we're meant to be serving our God in the Great Commission or the exercise of the dominion that he gives to us within that particular kingdom. That's what the story is that I just told you. And I think if we keep that in mind, it can help us to understand how we're supposed to relate to different denominations and religions. The difficulty that we come into is when we start to say it's not just a group of people that gather at 1624 who have been translated out of one kingdom over into another. This is a global movement under the authority of Jesus Christ. There are many congregations that have formed. And because we haven't arrived at glory yet, we find that groups of people join into congregations And one congregation or even a group of congregations versus another group of congregations end up adopting a set of beliefs and practices That can either be largely or just mildly different than another group of believers And that starts to get into what I think the problem is and the and this is how I would state the problem, which I I think ends up being fruitful, is The question is, how is it that those two groups of people, or all of the various groups of people, are able to accomplish the mission that they have been given? I really think that needs to be the question. I think if you keep the mission centered, then you start to see what the question is, and then you can start to try to answer that question. But if we're all on mission, because we're all in service to God, so it's a true Christian church, yet they are disagreeing on belief and s and some practices, the question is, are we able, nevertheless, to still build? with each other? Are we able to tear down strongholds with each other? And that's how I want to define here this morning on what I mean by how do we relate to other denominations or religions. There are a million different ways to relate to other human beings and groups of human beings, and I'm not interested in all of the million here this morning. If you were at the postal office and there was someone else from another denomination getting mailed next to you, you should relate to them by saying, good morning. That's not what I'm talking about, though. I'm talking about a bigger picture of how should we be relating to them with regard to our redemption. with the service that we've been put into as soldiers for Jesus Christ. I think that ends up being the main question that's on my mind. So there are lots of different denominations depending on how you define the term. I think if you define the term one way, there are thousands of denominations. If you define another in another way, there's just hundreds. So it really can depend on the the uh the definition. Um Here's a question for you. Let's see how you do on this one. Within Roman Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy, let's assume for a moment that they're that they are branches of the Christian Church Are they do are they just a solid unity of a church or do they also have denominations? Or is it just Protestants who have a bunch of different denominations? Any ideas? Well I know that the Eastern they don't listen to the podium, you know, so I would say that there's So at least our s le at least Roman Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy certainly aren't the same d if you wanna they would be different branches. Okay. What about within those two big categories? Any ideas? Yeah. I mean all this is something generally have three different types of conversations very quite My Catholic friend is broad and hazy, high and holy, and uh good high and holy all of the tradition, all of the things that have been handed down to the centuries to los in Haiti they smoke up the place and um do all that kind of thing then there are those that are almost positive like in the broader view of Uh incarver to evangelic fish. Yeah, evangelic fish. Yeah, so Keith was saying that even within Roman Catholicism, according to his experience, there are many divisions in there on different beliefs and practices. Yes. My mom became a believer uh in early 1981. She at that time was suffering with cancer and she had been a Catholic all of her life But she became a Christian through a Billy Graham Crusade. After my mom became a Christian, she joined this group that was at the same church in Glaverni, which was Holy Trinity, which is where we grew up at, she joined within that Catholic Church another group, and they were the charismatic Catholics. Right, yeah. Uh my mom, from her own lips, called them Her Holy Roller Friends. But it was within the same Holy Trinity Church, but it wasn't traditional mainline Catholicism Within the same church they had a basically a Pentecostal form of Catholic religion Yeah, and the only reason why I'm bringing this up is because one of the things I keep hearing of criticisms against Protestants is that we have denominations that we're not fulfilling the scriptures which were where's meant to be a unity. But then when I look at it practically within Roman Catholicism or in Eastern Doc Orthodoxy, though they all identify themselves with a single name Nevertheless, I see a lot of different divisions within their body over belief and practice. For example, there are in fact charismatic Catholics. They're taking a different position on the gifts, the spiritual gifts today, than others would. So they don't escape this problem on how are we supposed to relate. to each other when we end up taking different practices and we and we end up taking different beliefs. And that's with the assumption that the RC or the Eastern Orthodoxy are uh actual branches of the church, just for the sake of discussion. Yes. Uh if I might interject just one thing there. Yeah, sure. Official Catholic doctrine differentiates between the Ecclesia Docens, which is the gathering or which is the true church And that is the priesthood, the ordained priesthood. There and then there's the uh ecclesia uh I forget the last term that the priesthood serves But uh the priesthood is considered the true church, uh and the other is that which the true church serves. And that's the reason why for so many years they would not serve both uh elements in the uh uh in the uh Euchorous because only only the ones the only the priests can take clothes out. That's changed. It it's another issue with that organism owner that you really have to differentiate between what the doctrine is and what is practicing Okay, gotcha. Yeah, that's helpful. And uh that that explains a number of different things. Okay. Yeah, thank you, George. Um okay, and if you were to go over into Protestantism, I imagine you are aware of some of the differences in belief. and the differences within practices. And so then the question becomes again is how are we supposed to relate to each other with those different beliefs and practices? And the way that I'm posing that is, is there a way for us to tear down what should be torn down and is there a way to build together? Um I think the answer is that the answer is yes, but before I uh say that Um question for you is are denominations good or bad? C yes. Yeah, well what do you think it does? Oh I mean I see a very ugly Right. So what are you what are the like some of the distinctions that you need to do in order to start making sense of my question? Good or bad, so what end? What's the goal or what's the measure that you're going to use to determine where Okay, so there needs to be some kind of a standard. Dwayne, were you gonna say something? Oh Dave. Yep, you're up. Do they teach her to do something? Okay. Do they teach heresies? Okay. And are you comparing relations to another system with a modeling? Or Alright. And you're and that well I'm thinking like one of one of the areas that seem to this about is like uh in American Christianity at least there are many denominations Let's say someone's excommunicating. The whole idea of excommunication has dies if you can choose where you want to hear based on process. Okay. And so there's just One thing I consider on that question. Okay. Yes? Okay. Are denominations good or bad? Good. Alright, what what makes you say that? I think it because of the words of Paul in First Corinthians eleven, where he says for uh I hear that there are divisions among you, and in part I believe it, for there must be factions among you so that those who are approved may be recognized. And then we know some denominations are definitely bad. Part of the point of these is Uh they certainly that God gives between. Okay, so we could show the perceived argument Compolling him is that the one way in which the denomination could be good is that God has gone ahead and stuck all the people you should stay away from I'm very thankful for that. Yeah, okay. Dwayne. Yeah, I'm kidding. Tail onto that and just say that there are primary truths that we have to say that we align with this group and we don't align with this group. Um, understanding that Christ died on the cross for our sins and that's where our salvation comes from is a key point. That is the reason and the good for denomination. So I'm here part of this church and this denomination on purpose. Because we hold to the Westminster Confession of Faith, and Westminster Confession of Faith is a good summary of what the scriptures principally teach. And it is helpful as a rule in the guide. I'm not part of other churches because they don't believe in the law of God. They don't believe that all scriptures inspire the God readings. So denominations are good But denominations can also be dangerous. So you have to you know, even uh even amongst the early believers, you know, I do I do I serve Paul, do I serve Apollos? No, I serve You know God. So we have to remember where our allegiance is, what called us here. And what is our duty and responsibility in this life? It's not to serve a denomination or a church or a pope or any leaders. It's to serve God All right, yeah, very good. So then w one of the ways that we uh that's already starting to be brought out by you and how this conversation usually ends up going is that if you get to the point where denomination really should be starting to be called probably a false religion. We could move especially into Stephen's statement that God has grouped these people together and it makes it a little bit easier for discernment If you start moving uh if you don't have things that are that distant from the truth, but are instead talking about like denominations where we share The things that are the most important or the core of the gospel, for example, those things which don't strike at the vitals then you could talk about it being good in the sense of before Christ returns and we still wrestle with our sinful nature, it does give people the option to not violate their consciences. And then I would also say you could argue for the goodness of denominationalism in the sense of instead of us continuing to argue over these things where practices are not going to be able to align, then we are able to gather together in different groups. So you take, for example, our Reformation service, some years we have Baptist preachers, right? But do you notice what we don't do at Reformation services? Baptisms. Because we would immediately run into some major problems with each other. We're already stretching our relationship by serving wine. and and the grape juice. We've had to work through to try to still be able to gather together as the different denominations on that. And where the the Lord has allowed us to be successful. So I think that's a good discussion, but y I I think it is important for you to see that The denominations can be in a sense until Christ brings us to a certain point within the life of the church, within the the where he brings us all into perfect unity that it it could in my mind it looks to me like it's a grace to where we're able to get on with our lives and worship the Lord and to serve him and to continue to be brothers without fighting all the time uh over who should be baptized and how should it be administered and all of those kinds of things. So that's kind of what I'm getting at with the idea of our denominations good or bad. And and then If we get into the question of other religions, that's a difficult one in terms of just defining what a religion is. Uh one thing that has been helpful to me in terms of being able to relate to whether it's people in other denominations or other religions, we could really probably be best to say false religions. There's a true religion and then there's false religions. And these would be the beliefs and practices which fall outside of the vitals and practices of Christianity. And what has been helpful to me is a series of questions that I ask about other religions. And it uh s it would be this, who are we? So how do they answer that question? Who are we? Where are we? So who are we is what does it mean to be human and what is our purpose in life? Where are we? What is the nature of the universe or creation Um what's wrong? So what is the problem that we're um eventually or what is trying to be solved? And then where are we within the story? These have been used by different scholars and they've been helpful to me if you were to run through, for example, any um belief or practice system outside of Christianity, they would all give very different questions to all or very different answers to all of those questions. And all of those answers would be in violation of the vitals, of the way that you would answer it as a Christian. If you are an atheist and you ask the question, what does it mean to be human? That's a very different answer than what the Lord teaches us in his revelation. Where are we? Meaning, what is the nature of the universe? You're going to end up as a Christian saying we're in God's good world. And if you're an atheist, you're not going to say that. You're already starting to, there's the whole doctrine of creation is out. There is no doctrine of creation. So we're st we're really getting at all of the vitals. Uh what's wrong? Chemicals are out of balance or is there something deeper going on? Is uh can you even define wrong at this point or is it all arbitrary? So it starts to reveal what another religion is. But whether you're dealing um with a uh denomination or you're dealing with a false religion One of the ways that it the question has been answered on how we are to relate to either one of them is by a gentleman named Francis Schaefer. And in a famous work of his within the Christian Manifesto and there was one other work, in order for him to answer that question for the generation that he was ministering to He was saying that we always relate to other denominations or false religions either as allies. or co-belligerence. That those are the two categories in which we should work. So then If you are working together as an ally, it means that you have the same calling and you're on the same mission. And you have been given the same spiritual capacity in order to be able to accomplish it. If you're a co-belligerent, it means that you might have the same outward purpose, but pretty much everything else is different. And don't ever call yourself an ally. So an example would be in relating to other denominations as allies. Let's just talk about it into the way that I think it has been working for my brain, which is are there things that we can build together? So let's ask that question about the Baptist community. What do you think? Let's just try to answer the first question. Within the, let's say the Baptist communities that join us on Reformation Day, are we allies or co-belligerents? Okay, allies. And what are the things that we would be able to build together? More believers. Okay. Let's get a little bit more specific. Let's see how far this works. In what way? How does this work out practically? Again, this is all re figuring out how to relate to Baptists That's what we're doing right now. Strengthening each other's faith. Okay, we can strengthen each other's faith. Has anybody here ever had their strength, faith, uh their faith strengthened by a Baptist? Yeah. Daily. Yeah, daily? Really? What what you're oh okay, gotcha. Yeah, yeah, cool. All right, very good. Okay, so so we're all strengthened, our faith is great, and we all think, you know what we should do in order to um continue is we really need to expand Christ's kingdom by planting a church Okay. And do you think that that is yes, sir? Uh Jesse, you're you're using that just in terms of performing, right? Yes, I uh yeah. Uh the the ones that would attend our Reformation Service. Right. You're not including dispensationals. No. Yeah, I just have a little s tiny segment of the forty million Baptists that are in the United States. Do you have any follow up? Yeah. Oh. Uh well I was raised in dispensationalism, so I can certainly help. by dispensationalists. Okay. I do not recommend seeking them out for though. Go there. But uh sure, reform Baptist. Everybody likes Persian. You know, so right up to the point that we lose a bit of baptism float broke it. Yeah. And that's where so that so then if you were to go through the scenario, how can we keep relating to people of other denominations? We've chosen as a specific case study Reformed Baptists. We're doing great in encouraging one another uh by sharing Spurgeon's sermons or whatever it is. And now I'm asking, well what about a church plan? How will we how will we continue to relate to them as allies? Financially. Okay. So if they they if they want to contribute to uh church that we're planting? I like how you framed that. That was pretty good. If they want to give us their m money, great. That was really good. Okay, fair enough. So that then brings up a question of as allies are we able to contribute money to their plants? Yes. Okay, we have a yes. Anybody have a no? You say no? No, I I yes. Okay. I was saying no to no. Okay. Um dispensationalism might be the better example there like Mr. US apology would be uh important for you to think that dispensationalism is just pushing While while itself might not be quite the bio, but it's pushing at one of the biology. Yeah. But that's not to say that you could have a positive relationship. Yeah. Yeah, so then this really starts to get at the categories actually work, and they have worked for me so far. Allies and co-belligerence But within each case you are going to have to evaluate to ask how am I supposed to be relating to them specifically, like if we did a church plant What can we build together? Doug has said, well they can give us their money, that's fine. We all agree with that But when when we are forming the order of worship and we start to get into baptism, we're going to find that we're not going to be able to relate in just saying, yeah, well let's do it however you want to do it. the relationship is going to become more difficult at that point. And I think that's another part of this is in order for us to relate properly to them is to recognize where we can be allies and where we can build together, and it won't be all places. But I think it can be more than we realize. And especially during this thing, I think it's very important for us to build whatever we can together. But then I also think on the other side of it, again, I'm just sharing my own convictions that Christ has formed over time, is I'm not interested in relating to or having a good relationship to them by giving up my my beliefs. I think it's very important that if you're reading the scriptures and you believe that Jesus Christ teaches a specific thing, that you should hold to it. And that you should be convicted in your conscience, and for the sake of unity, you should not give up your beliefs. That's one way that people try to accomplish it, and they give up truth in order to accomplish unity. And that is not how Jesus Christ wants us to be united or to relate to false religions or other denominations To tell you the truth, when I watch PCA guys, some PCA guys relating to Baptists, I will watch a PCA guy give up their beliefs for the sake of unity, and I'll watch a Baptist not do so Because they are are they I'm not saying all PCA guys, I'm just saying it's all my experience there's a kind of false unity that will be created around a certain personality type, but I haven't noticed it within the the Baptist world, at least in my experiences. So I think that they would be right in that example. Also a personal example that I have, I want to get you out of here. So a personal example that I have is during COVID When we started having a lot of government mandates on whether we could worship or not, and if we were going to worship, what did the worship look like and all of these kinds of things? I was basically stuck in my house And working with the elders and the deacons, trying to figure out how in the world are we supposed to be going forward and is there any wisdom out there? I was crying aloud to God for wisdom. How am I supposed to lead as his servant, the people of God, during such a difficult time. And he gave a lot of different wisdom. And one of the ways in which he gave wisdom is I accidentally received an invitation to a Zoom call that had about a hundred people in it that were all Baptist They were uh actually most of them were Baptist ministers in the area that wanted to get together to figure out how they as the church were supposed to be relating to the local politicians and the decisions that they were making. And I was able to enter into those conversations with them and hear all of the ways in which they were working this out. We immediately started having access to the politicians themselves. They started showing up on the Zoom calls. We were able to complain to them and tell them this isn't going to work for us and this is what needs to happen. I've got seven acres we can meet outside, the whole outside church movement uh is started in part by that group pressurizing local politicians as other options instead of everything just being shut down. So that's another great example where me as the I it was like All these Baptist guys and then it shows up and they're all doing introductions of I'm Jesse, I'm Presbyterian, and you see everybody's head pop up on the studio. Hey guys, it's alright I'm a servant of Christ. We're doing five. We're doing three. But that was the way in which we worked together and we still have relationships. They are um sending their children here to this academy now, some of the Baptist pastors in the local area, because we had made that connection. So that's another way in which um I'm relating to other denominations and I'm relating to them as allies. As we depart from more and more of the vitals then that we're we're not able to do as much work or build as much together, but I'm still always looking for ways in which we can build together. Now very quickly, what about like a false religion like m um let's say Islam That goes into the category of co-belligerent. So you're not allies. They do not have the Holy Spirit of God They have their hearts have not been transformed. They do not work in accordance with the word of God in the way that we would understand it. They are not they haven't had their hearts purified by the Son of God Spirit of God and is not to the end of the glory of God as has as He has revealed His glory. So then let me ask you the question, still being on mission, is there any way to build were to tear down in co-belligerence with someone of the Islamic faith. Is there any way to relate to them or should we isolate ourselves? Yes. They have the same interest in freedom of speech and assembly under our constitution that we do and often show up on the same side. Okay. So then if you keep the mission in mind, and this is what Francis Schrafer was trying to do, he was saying, Well wait a second, if we frame this by saying Christ has us on mission Has he in fact given us even those of false religions to where we share some kind of common goal? And though we're not allies, we can in fact be co-belligerents, and Doug Doug is suggesting perhaps that's the case with freedom of speech fight. Let me give you a really simple example that was given to me I listened to on a podcast I thought was pretty good. If you were in a hotel room and there was a fire in the hotel And on one side of the hall of the hotel were all Christians. And on the other side of the hotel, they were all Muslims. Could you all join together in getting buckets of water to put the fire out? I think the answer is yes. Will you agree on your motivations for putting out the fire? Not exactly, especially if you get into the supernatural and and how why you have the motivations to help human life. You're going to start disagreeing on just about everything, but you're able to put the fire out together as totalligerence So is that is it possible to do that for example with Roman Catholics and um issues of pro life For example. Right. And so there may be some building that can be done even with atheists, as long as we're very clear that we're not allies. We are only co-belligerents. And I still think you need to be super careful So that's the way that I have worked that out. So yes sir. It's a very delicate topic, Jesse, but if you don't find me inserting a little uh some of my own thoughts there. Yeah please The big thing is that we must maintain the distinction in such a way that it does not appear to the wider unbelieving public that these guys are the same. Yes. You hear, well, they all worship the same God, so why shouldn't they march against abortion together? I don't go there. I would not march even against abortion. Okay. With atheists for abortion. Or even Catholic. The reason being is that we don't serve the same God and we are distinct and therefore maintaining the distinction is more important than any moral, political, sociological issue. I don't believe that carries over to fighting a fire. The real issue is because there is no question about the moral obligation to fight a fire But there is a difference between the moral obligation to oppose abortion based upon an atheistic rationalistic worldview or anything like that as opposed to how a Christian tool you would do it. So I'm I'm I'm very cautious to the point of Oh say no we must maintain our distinction. Yeah. Um so if I'm understanding you correctly I wanted to I wanted to understand better what you meant, where you would fight a fire with a Roman Catholic or someone from Islam, but you would not fight against abortion with a Roman Catholic. And it's the same thing, I mean it's uh it's not a moral issue that we are representing Christ in doing. It it is a common factor of of uh fighting a fire to preserve life. Any doctor is not the Christian doctor is going to say the guy that's in front of him. He's not going to ask first a piece of muscle. Yeah. Okay. All right. But when you're fighting against abortion, when you're fighting against moral issues, issues that are determinive and distinctive within the Christian worldview such that It's no longer a question of just politics. It's a question of moral appearance. Then that uh that distinction would hold in my mind of that and I believe we would we should maintain separate separation there. Yeah. I don't know I'll put you on the spot here. I remember having this conversation with you many, many years ago on a seminary class. within our goals for onboard life. Any any building that can be done with, let's say, Roman Catholics Or you think there needs to be a total separation in your mind? Roman Catholics are in that uh different mind there. However The actual doctrinal position of the Roman Catholic Church is apostate. That means that they are quite not quite as far aposto as quite as far out there as Islam, obviously. Right. But the bottom line is that they're outside of the the uh the definition of the gospel. And so as a result of that uh for the citadel citizen relations whether it be a battle uh because they have a different gospel. And we cannot ever be in a position to where we act as if we believe that that we have common beliefs. Okay. So if I'm understanding you correctly, you're not saying that Um stopping stopping abortions is very important to you. Absolutely. But then if the but w what what rises in the level of priority No, that's not the best way to put it. There is also it's also very important to you that you maintain distinctions between, let's just make it simple, true religion and false religion. And you're not going to cloud the distinction by becoming a co-belligerent with certain people. Is that basically what you're saying? Yeah, if if you want to march against uh abortion, feel free. Go ahead. If you want to show up, I'll show up. However I'm putting a margin under a distinctly Christian worldview and articulate it a a distinctly Christian worldview as a plan. Abortion is rule. Okay. What should be done. And that uh that necessitates a certain separation from non-Christian view. Okay. Well that's helpful. It's helpful in figuring out how you're supposed to re be re I mean, if if we assumed your principles that you're using for making the ethical judgments you just did, then that's helpful in figuring out how are we supposed to relate. And sometimes we don't relate because there are things at stake that we're not willing to give up, namely a clear witness as to what the true gospel is, or something like that. And we're not going to s we're not going to um make that cloudy for a sociological issue or something like that. John says with With great clarity that if somebody comes to your door with uh a gospel, you're not even going to let them in your house. Uh, he is talking about within your community That is true, so he's not he's talking mainly about letting them into your church. However the greater principle is that you're to maintain the physical separation from those who are actively opposing God. Okay. And if you're not within the biblical definition of the gospel, you're an enemy of God, whether you call yourself Christian or not. Okay, very good. Thank you. Dwayne? So more more die each year from abortions than die in fires. So I would disagree with that statement as far as not being willing to take arms with someone to fight Something that is killing babies that are made in the image of God. Just because we're not aligned. The same at all pertaining to the religion. Okay. Because at this point it becomes a political battle. Now there was a question or a statement or a piece of it was made that would get tricky is would I You know, if I was a pastor of a church, would I have this congregation of all these different people in my church? No. But to be out in public or to be You know, standing in a square, dealing in the political realm, linked arms with them and saying we are against the murder of these babies, even though they're all doing it for different reasons. Politically, you're standing and linking arms to save lives. You're doing it for different reasons, but I I I see it as, you know, why would you why would you grab a fire hose to save Some of them that are dying in a fire, but not try to fight fight a battle politically to save millions of babies that are dying each day That's a good question. And it's it's a difficult case. Yes, Doug. Um not not to enlarge this conversation, but uh at one time uh My wife and I were actively involved in the pro-life movement, including the politics of it and working with the legislature. And at that time We went to Baltimore and we heard Francis Schaefer speak on that. He had cancer and was weakening, but he would still rise and give the testimony of the Lord. In the context of abortion, somebody framed a question to him that basically said, aren't we allies with the Catholics in uh opposing abortion? And he said, no. But we're not allies, we're cold belligerents. with the Catholic Church because there's very important differences between us. Um but he didn't express the belief that we shouldn't join with the Catholics in opposing abortion. Um and uh having while working as a volunteer in the legislature while that was going on I have a number of Catholics, some of them gave unequivocal confessions of faith in Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. that convinced me that we were worshiping the same God, even if they were the same in the way they were approaching it. Uh so yes, I I think I think it's this is an important question that we're discussing here. Uh because uh We're going to be asked over and over to make that kind of decision on other issues besides abortion. I'll know we'll have Mark, you can go last, but we're 15 minutes over. Um as I'm processing it, I I think it like many ethical decisions, it depends. Or in my mind, it depends. Um if if as a church, I'm processing this kind of extreme, if at a church, Severn Run, and you have a mosque down the street And somehow there was an opportunity for us to gather together as two bodies of different faiths To come to together for a particular cause, I would say I would not support that. But if there was a vent And at that event, I found that, well, it's likely you're entering into a public event and you have got all walks of faith. that are present that you don't even know of. And yet at the same time, because you don't have that relationship You find yourself in a practical way of being aligned. And the question is, do I If an event were to happen like that, and I were to have to decide whether or not I wanted to participate, knowing that I'm not going to know where everybody is Am I going to support that particular cause, say, for life? I'm going to go to the Walk for Life. I can assure you there's going to be unlike-minded individuals there. And I go and I support Down on the wall. And so it depends. And I think that practically speaking, in most cases, we're not going to know And if if it is something that does create an occasion to where we as a church are seeking to or a challenge to be aligned with another body of unbelievers We're gonna we're gonna choose uh okay. Alright, thank you. Alright, so so um Essentially with raising the question the the way I work myself through this ethically and raising the question of how are we supposed to relate to other denominations and false religions is number one, I'm defining from the scriptures that and looking at it through the lens of my vocation. That is to say, I, together with all of God's people, have a particular mission. We've been given a calling, and there's something that we're supposed to accomplish. So I want to ask the question about how to relate to other people underneath of that category of accomplishing mission. When I do that There are two categories that have been offered by Francis Schaefer and probably others that have been helpful to me in figuring out how to relate to other denominations and false religions. And the two categories are are they allies? Or are they co-belligerents? It's helping me to figure out what kind of work can we do together and how can the work be done. That's what's going on. I think it's important to keep those two things separate. I think Arch actually is saying pretty much the same thing. Um I don't want to put words in his mouth, but I think when it comes to not working with Roman Catholics or Islam on pro-life issues, I think what has become a top ethical concern for him is the true witness of the true gospel. And that he's unwilling to give that up by pretending that he is an ally with Roman Catholicism or Islam. In their co-belligerency, people could mistake that and then there's no true witness any longer because the witnesses have been mixed up. Just to clarify the since you referred to it. Yeah. In Mark's occasion period, we had a a uh uh Muscle what do you call it? Down the street here. I certainly would not go out and cooperate with them in marching. Right. But if their house if their house started burning down, I'd be down there holding a hose. Yeah. To to put it out. Remember the witness in Japan, the Christian Church in Japan, after the tsunami. They were the only ones that rushed to the region. And the witness that they made of doing good to a foreign power and a foreign pagan power was a great incentive to the building of the church in Japan. So it's there's a difference in doing what is good for witness to an opposing power, uh to the enemy, in case we may think so. And walking under simultaneous banners, saying we're against abortion to the glory of Allah. And we're against abortion to the glory of God. Yeah. So, all right. Very good. That's helpful. So I hope those categories are helpful to you all as you think about these all all of the million ethical decisions you have to make. in being able to relate to people from other denominations and false religions. Alright, let me close us in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you that you have given us the standard here of your word. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us, especially in this era where uh field by social media, we are encouraged to be at odds on everything, to not build anything together with anyone. to to uh uh isolate ourselves off into various tribes that are often unnecessary. I pray, Lord, that you would give your church the wisdom, your congregation the wisdom that they need in order to figure out who can we build together with, who can we tear down strongholds with. I pray, Lord, that you would help us in doing that. to maintain the witness of the true soul and the true light that is within the world. And Lord, that you would be glorified. I pray, Lord, that your, at the very least, that your congregation, as Arch was just saying, would uh love their enemy. Ask these things in your name. Amen.