Jude, a bondservant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, to those who were called sanctified by God the Father and preserved in Jesus Christ. Mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you. Beloved, while I was very diligent to write to you concerning our common salvation I found it necessary to write to you exhorting you to contend earnestly for the faith which was once for all delivered to the saints. For certain men have crept in unnoticed, who long ago were marked out for this condemnation, ungodly men, who turn the grace of our God into lewdness and deny the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. But I want to remind you, though you once knew this, that the Lord, having saved the people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those who did not believe. And the angels who did not keep their proper domain but left their own abode, he has reserved in everlasting chains under darkness for the judgment of the great day. As Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them in a similar manner to these, having given themselves over to sexual immorality and gone after strange flesh. Are set forth as an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. Likewise also these dreamers defile the flesh, reject authority, and speak evil of dignitaries Yet Michael, the archangel, in contending with the devil, when he disputed about the body of Moses, dared not bring against him a reviling accusation, but said, The Lord rebuke you. But these speak evil of whatever they do not know. And whatever they know naturally, like brute beasts, and these things, they corrupt themselves. Woe to them For they have gone in the way of Cain, have run greedily in the air of Balaam or Balaam for prophet, and perished in the rebellion of Korah. These are spots in your love feasts, while they feast with you without fear, serving only themselves. They are clouds without water, carried about by the winds, late autumn trees without fruit, twice dead, pulled up by the roots. Raging waves of the sea, foaming up their own shame, wandering stars for whom is reserved the blackness of darkness forever. Let us pray. Lord Christ, we ask that you would continue to pour out the grace of your wisdom on us that we may know how to conduct ourselves in this world and yet not be of it. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. I emphasized it in the reading, but have you noticed in verse 1 of Jude where he says, and preserved in Jesus Christ? To preserve is to maintain or to keep. If you are preserved, you are maintained It reminds us or should remind us of the second petition of the Lord's Prayer. Question 102. What do we pray for in the second petition? Answer. Kingdom come, we pray that Satan's kingdom may be destroyed, and that the kingdom of grace may be advanced, ourselves and others brought into it and kept in it. There is the preservation once again. Given Jude's instruction that we've heard over these several weeks, how does, or at least what is one way, that Christ Keeps his church. He keeps us by instructing us in his word concerning moral discernment. You can see just in the reading from our bulletin in Proverb 1 that those without wisdom go to the grave, and those with wisdom are spared. That is one way that he preserves. And so to the to this instruction, he has given to us many different images. He keeps us by instructing us in his word concerning our moral discernment. We learn to walk in wisdom by recognizing villains, for example, like the generation which died in the wilderness. Sodom and Gomorrah, disobedient angels, Cain, Balaam, Korah. You can see how this is turning into an adult and a child's catechism with all of the characters to learn from. And to this same purpose, last week we moved into verses 12 and 13, which gave us metaphors from nature. Last week we heard this: avoid treacherous treacherous rocks, that is to say, reefs, and wolves in sheep's clothing by judging them by their fruit. Tonight we look at another metaphor, and we're just doing one. They are clouds without water. First, let me just say it's my prayer that someone no one ever says that to me. They are clouds without water. Clouds, and you can see that right there in the verses that we have in our bulletin. Clouds in this context is uh Has a different feel for their culture than it does for us. When we think of rain clouds, we think of canceled plans or someone raining on our parade And that's because we're primarily a recreational society. Rain clouds mean that we cannot do what we want that day. Jude, however, writes in an agricultural society with no city water, and if they do not have rain, they will not stay alive. To look like a rain cloud, just think of this, to look like a rain cloud, but to give no rain is to look like something that brings life But only brings death. You were dependent upon it. Perhaps you put all your eggs in that basket and it didn't deliver. And this, of course, is a metaphor for the false teachers with which Jude is dealing. It is a metaphor for false teachers to help us more clearly see things the way that God wants us to see them. That's what we call moral discernment. He warns us that false teachers, false people really, are keen on seeing the needs of people and communities. And then taking advantage of them by making promises to meet the need. Pay close attention to this, because all of this is wrapped up in that image. He warns us that false people see the needs of those in the community and then take advantage of them by making promises to meet the need. Then they present themselves as the solution to those needs, oftentimes the only solution to the needs. Their basic message is this You have an itch? I can't believe it. I'm really good at scratching. In fact, there's nobody else in all the world that can scratch but me. False teachers, in other words, boast that they have what we need, but here's the thing: when the time comes, they are an empty rain cloud And that's not even the worst of it. Actually, the reverse takes place. In the worst cases, they promised life, but our relationship with them resulted in a kind of death. That's the same kind of relationship we see within Proverbs 1, 8 through 13 that we read earlier, by the way. And you can see, besides just Proverbs 1. That Jude is tapping into the deep wisdom tradition of God's people. Proverbs chapter 20, verse 6. Listen to this. Most men will proclaim each his own goodness, but who can find a faithful man? It's the same situation Most men will proclaim each his own goodness, but who can find a faithful man? That's a waterless rain cloud. Or listen to this one It's as if he's quoting this, Proverbs 25, verse 14. Whoever falsely boasts of giving is like clouds and wind without rain. And then, of course, we already saw Proverbs chapter 1, 8 through 19. And this is where the worst happens, because if you become affiliated with those from the realm of death who promise life, They will take you to the grave. I think the teaching that comes out of this, one of the doctrines, is the way I should put it, I know that this is one of the doctrines. It's this. Do not entrust yourself to waterless rain clouds. That's kind of common sense, right? Do not entrust yourself to waterless rain clouds, literally or metaphorically. And here we have it as a metaphor for false teachers And so what I'd like to do is to just unfold this a bit, especially during this season of nominations, I'd like to look at this in application to officers. And then ourselves. So two O's, officers and ourselves. Do not entrust yourselves to waterless rain clouds is the main teaching. Now for officers. We can go ahead and make a very clear application to them. Do not entrust yourself to waterless rain clouds by nominating and electing the wrong officers or the wrong men, rather Do not entrust yourself to waterless rain clouds by nominating and electing the wrong men. You need to take that seriously. We've been learning around here how important it is to know who is in an office and what kind of power they have Over the last year, Christ has introduced us to several scriptures, giving a fuller picture of elders and deacons. You can see not just the quotations from Titus and Timothy, but across the whole canon. What is behind the idea of deacons and elders? And we would consider a passage like this, for example, Isaiah 54, one of my favorite passages. Isaiah 50, verse 4. The Lord God has given me the tongue of the learned, that I should know how to speak a word in season to him who is weary. He awakens me morning by morning. He awakens my ear to hear as the learned. We know that this is first and foremost about Christ and his speaking. But just as other passages like this that we've seen in the book of Acts, Christ nevertheless also speaks through his elders to do the same Elders, pastors, apostles, those gifts that you see within Ephesians. Christ works through them, giving them by way of the Spirit the same kind of gift, the tongue of the learned, being able to hear as the learned, to give the wisdom of the learned. And therefore, we know that elders should have to a degree, not the degree that Christ has it, he has the spirit without measure, but to a degree. Elders should have the tongue of the learned. They should know how to speak a word in season to him who is weary. Another passage that you should be familiar with is from Titus. This is always read when we're looking at qualifications for elders and deacons. This one is For example, for the deacons. This is Titus chapter 3, 1 through 7. This is a faithful saying. If a man desires the position of a bishop, he desires a good work. I'm sorry, this is for elders. A bishop, then, or elder, must be blameless, the husband of one wife, temperate, sober-minded, of good behavior, hospitable. Able to teach, not given to wine, not violent, not greedy for money, but gentle, not quarrelsome, not covetous, one who rules his own house well, having his children in submission with all reverence For if a man does not know how to rule his own house, how will he take care of the Church of God? Not a novice, lest being puffed up with pride, he fall into the same condemnation as the devil Moreover, he must have a good testimony among those who are outside, lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil. And that's for the elder. And now we have the deacon. As for deacons, you could look at Acts chapter 6 to see the kind of men that are meant to be in that office, full of the Holy Spirit, it says, and then you can see their actions. Look at Barnabas, for example, and the work that he does. But it says this here in 1 Timothy 3, 8-12. Likewise deacons must be reverent. Not double-tongued, not given to much wine, not greedy for money, holding the mystery of the faith with a pure conscience. Jude talks about the mystery. But let these also first be tested, then let them serve as deacons, being found blameless. Likewise, their w likewise their wives must be reverent, not slanderers, temperate, faithful in all things. Let deacons be the husbands of one wife, ruling their children and their own house as well. Do you see in all of the examples In all of the lists, do you see the underlying assumption that is present in every single one of them? The assumption underneath each of those qualifications in that passage is that those men have already proven from other arenas of life that they are in fact not waterless rain clouds. When we are nominating or electing, we are not nominating and electing based on somebody's potentiality for the office. I remember watching a church do that one time, and it was a nightmare. We are not electing or nominating based on a complete potentiality to the office, latent. No, in each of the examples, it is already present out there that they are a rain cloud raining down life-giving rain in all kinds of areas. This is not a crapshoot. This should alert you to avoid a major failure in the upcoming nomination elections that are before us now with our officers. Do not nominate or elect someone you hope will work out in the end. Do not nominate or elect someone you have no idea if their household is run well You need to seriously look into people to see if they're a waterless rain cloud or not I tell you what, if you don't do it, what you will find is you had put your hopes in somebody And you will find yourself in the hospital sick and alone, no one visiting you, because they never intended it or had the maturity to do it to begin with. Who are the people that already visit in the hospital? Instead, the person you nominate or an elect should already be proven in substantial ways. To use the image, nominate someone who is already bringing life-giving rain to the congregation, to their families, to their communities You heard the different domains in the qualifications. How are they doing with their family? How are they even doing with those out in the community? What is their reputation amongst their co-workers, for example? All of those things have to go in to a nomination and election. If you don't do it, then please pray that your existing elders and deacons will do it for you. That they will ask the tough questions, that they will investigate to see if the household has run well. May they protect the sheep in doing so Now that's just the officers. But there's also ourselves. There's ourselves because we too make promises to each other Sometimes they're explicit and sometimes they're implicit. We can benefit from the waterless rain clouds applied to ourselves. It's a good way to do a moral evaluation to see where we stand. Think about this imagery in each one of your vocations, and this will be a short point. In our families, for example, think of the explicit and the implicit obligations that we have to each other. And think about those obligations we have to each other in all of the different situations that you face at different times within your life. What are the ways in which you as a husband or you as a wife or you as a child or a mother or a father or a grandmother or a grandfather, what are the ways that you lawfully depend upon each other as a farmer depends upon rain for a good crop. Think about that. I think it does a good job of summarizing the kind of obligation that we have to each other, the kind of bind that we have with one another, what we should expect from each other. What a tragedy it is. In other words, to put it in the negative, what a tragedy it is when we are waterless rain clouds to our own families. And the same can be said not only in the domain of family, but in the domain of church family and church membership. Each week here we have the privilege of coming to the Lord's Supper. And when we eat the supper together, Do you know that there is an implicit, really an explicit obligation when you eat from the same loaf as me? That's the way that the Lord Christ has arranged it. There is an explicit commitment to everyone who shares the same bread and the same cup. It's called the communion of the saints, and you can read about those articles of faith. And then look them up in your scriptures by way of our catechism and confessions. What a tragedy it is to take the supper and communion with each other. But for that to not reflect the reality of our communal lives. We take the bread and the wine together But it's just a farce and a facade because that's not actually how we share our lives. That, in a sense, is a waterless rain cloud. The supper then becomes an empty promise that we have made to each other to support one another It is a promise and an act of hypocrisy towards each other. It is meant to at least communicate, I am here for you, to the best of my ability We are in this together, to the best of my ability. You are not alone, to the best of my ability But to take the supper and to never come through in the reality of those things makes us like a waterless rain cloud. I look around, and there are these promises of all my brothers and sisters, and how we join together like a body, that we might be strong and depend one on one another, and that's symbolized in the taking of one loaf And of one cup. And then when it comes to the reality of the situation, and I need somebody, I look around and there's no one to help me except for my Buddhist neighbor. Thank God for his uncanny providences. But we two there In not fulfilling our obligations to the best of our abilities, become like a waterless rain cloud. So that is the officers, and that is ourselves. Christ preserves his people through scriptural instruction by way of the Spirit. Tonight, through another nature metaphor, Jude gives us the Lord's wisdom. Do not entrust yourselves to waterless rain clouds by nominating and electing the wrong officers. This is not a game. We are always now in serious moral decision-making mode. We need people that can actually deliver in that. Do not become a waterless rain cloud yourself By not living up to your family or church family responsibilities. And may Christ, through his Spirit, Make us all full of good things that we can rain down upon each other. Let us pray.