Today we're looking at First Corinthians chapter two. And it'll be six through 16 if you'd like to turn there. 1 Corinthians chapter 2, verses 6 through 16. And I'm going to ask you to stand for the reading of God's Word. And then I will pray for Here is two, six through sixteen. However, we speak wisdom among those who are mature, yet not the wisdom of the sage, nor of the rulers of this age who are coming to nothing. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the ages for our glory, which none of the rulers of this age knew, for had they known they would not have crucified the Lord. But as it is written, I has not seen, nor ear heard, nor have entered into the heart of man the things which God has prepared for those who Love him. But God has revealed them to us through his spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, yes, the deep things of God. For what man knows the things of a man except the spirit of the man, which is in Him. Even so no one knows the things of God except the Spirit of God. Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might know the things that have been freely Given to us by God. These things we also speak, not in words which man's wisdom teaches, but which the Holy Spirit teaches, comparing spiritual things with spiritual. Does not receive the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him, nor can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. But he who is spiritual judges all things, yet he himself is rightly judged by no one For who has known the mind of the Lord that he may instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ. Let's pray. Lord, what can we do after reading this, but to ask you to illuminate our minds by your Holy Spirit that we might understand your thoughts, that we would discern them and see not just their truth. truth but their excellence. We ask this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Please be seated. There is a crime committed, and there are twelve witnesses Eleven of them say that it wasn't a crime, it was an accident. But one of them says it was a crime, it wasn't an accident. Following me? Okay. Who do you believe? The eleven or the one? The eleven. I forgot one vital and piece of information. The eleven are blind. That ends up changing it. So now we believe the one. You know It's it's a funny scenario, but it's really the scenario that we find ourselves in as Christians. As we walk around in America professing to be followers of Jesus Christ, we can be Begin to feel like fools. We can have eleven people telling us that we are fools and we're the only one left. But we know that the truth of the matter is it's like listening in this scenario to eleven blind people and not to the one that can see. But that can be really difficult, can't it? Here's the thing. God right before this passage, God did not call many of the wise. He did not call many of the honorable. Not many of you are senators. Not many of you are Professors. He calls the weak things of the world to shame the strong. And here's something about us weak things. We tend to doubt ourselves. So if a 11 people tell us that we're foolish, we could beat ourselves up and toss and turn in the night thinking that maybe I've made a big mistake and I've wasted my life following Jesus Christ. Maybe they're right. That's a struggle that all of us can have, and doubts can seep in. Maybe it won't be about Jesus Christ and his vital work. Maybe it'll start out on the fringes. And then slow down. Slowly but surely the whole beach erodes and we find that there's nothing left there. No foundation to stand upon. Is that your experience? Is that a concern that you may have? Because Because that's what we're exploring both last week and this week. We're taking a look at this culture that calls us fools, and we're looking at the scriptures to see what Paul can teach us about About being called fools and how we might stand up underneath of that. Now, last week we had the opportunity to hear the Apostle Paul and Festus's uh conversation. Paul tells his entire testimony in Acts chapter 26, 25 and 26, and uh Festus says, Paul, you have gone mad. With too much learning. And Paul responds to him, No, I have not. What I speak to you about Jesus Christ and the message of the cross are true and rational words. morning again. But there's a further argument. There's an argument that is going to help us. There's two, and these two arguments are going to greatly help us as we are being called by full, being called full By more and more people. Let me just try to try to, I'm looking at your faces. Let me try to communicate how serious this is just for one more minute. One of the things Things that can happen to you for you to become doubtful of your own position is when you are surrounded not only by the opinions of people, but when entire uh institutions have Have been changed to reflect that you're a fool. So, in other words, the Supreme Court of the Land is a major institution That most people respect. It is an institution with authority. And yet now, through their declarations, they themselves are saying that you're a fool. thinking things in the wrong way. Now you please don't be naive and please don't be arrogant. That will weigh on you as a Christian and you will begin to wonder if you really Really should be following Jesus Christ. And the Holy Spirit wants you to see these two things today and to believe them that you might be able to bear up under these kinds of criticisms. And realize that the gospel, the message of the cross of Jesus Christ, although it may be said by 11 verses the one, is not really foolish. It is the wrong Wisdom of God Himself. And that is what we must be convinced of this morning. We're going to look at it under two parts. It's hidden and it's revealed. And these two parts are going to help us. to see that God's wisdom is wisdom and it is not foolishness. So let's begin. The very first thing that we see in order to be able to help us Through this to see that God's wisdom is not really foolishness, but it is, in fact, wisdom, despite what other people and institutions are saying, is that the leading authorities and minds are blind to God's Wisdom, that is why they think that you're a fool. They just cannot see the truth of it. Now, this is really profound. We talked a little bit of this about this last week. But it develops even more here in verse uh verse six and verse seven. However, we speak wisdom among those who are mature, yet not the wisdom of this age, nor of the rollers of this age who are coming to none. Nothing, but we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery. The hidden wisdom which God ordained before the ages for our glory. Did you see that? It's uh a mystery. It's not a mystery in the sense of um we can't Can't ever figure it out, or like a mystery novel. It's you can see the synonym right below, or at least in my version, it's the hidden. rulers of the age to where they're just unable to see it. Now I want you to think this is not a new thing. This is this should be somewhat familiar to us if we remember our Bible stories. There is a history of hiddenness, or at least there would be if he kept it totally hidden. I can't, I don't want to go into the second point yet, but he starts But here's the thing the history of hiddenness, just think of how clueless Abraham was as as to actually what he'd be doing with his life. of the plan of salvation for God. And yet they were hidden from Abraham until God chose to reveal it. If God never chose to reveal it, Abraham would have never known. We would see the same thing with the um with Moses. Moses had no idea how his life would unfold, or that there would be ten plagues, or that the Red Sea would be opened up and the way that it had prophesied to Abraham four hundred years prior that the Jews would go into slavery. That too would have remained hidden unless there was a prophecy of what would take place. Nothing is hidden to the mind of God. He searches all things and he knows all things, but he doesn't choose to give you all things and those things that you don't receive from him remain hidden. That's what's that's what's being communicated here. But but here's here's the um here's the next Step that we see within the passage. Look at verse 8. That's 7. His salvation, the message of the cross, how he will redeem. Humanity and restore the world is hidden from a group of people called the natural person. Very profound. Secondly, verse 8. Which none of the rulers of this age knew, for they for had they known, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. Do you see that? This This is the next step. There is a historical event that verifies the cluelessness of the rulers, that they had no idea how God was going to bring salvation to humanity. Imagine that your identity goes back as far as you can remember, and you have uh recited genealogy upon genealogy. Genealogy so you could always remember your church fathers. And every institution, every building, every meal, everything that you wear was a reminder of the of the people and of your identity that God would save you eventually through a Messiah. And then imagine that the Messiah comes and he stands next to you. He eats at your kitchen table. And yet you totally miss him. You never even recognize him. And yet, worse, you conceive of him as a criminal, and you speak to the Roman governor and convince him to be crucified and said. And you would think that um everyone would get on board after the the crucifixion and then the resurrection, but the resurrection was denied and they continued in their folly until the like we spoke about last week, till the temple Destroyed in 70 AD. This is the next step of the hiddenness. Now you say, well, well, yeah, well, you know, maybe It is kind of hard to believe this stuff. Maybe they just kind of missed it. Well, yeah, that would be a natural explanation of it, I guess, but what the scriptures are communicating here is that God has chosen that That if he does not reveal it to them, they will never know it. That is to say, they could not do anything to change this. In other words, consider uh this in light of Acts 2. 23, having him being delivered by the determined purpose and foreknowledge of God. That is to say And the predetermined foreknowledge of God, God had determined that they would never be able to see it, so it is so that it would be from their lawless hands that Jesus Christ would be crucified. Because that is what he planned would always be done. He would always remain hidden so that he would be crucified. There was no chance of them knowing unless God was going to reveal it, but God said he would not reveal it so that he could be criticized. so that he could be crucified. Do you see what I'm saying here? That it's within the decrees of God himself that the natural man cannot understand what you profess. He has the entire or she has the entire decree of God against them in doing so. And you're going to believe them that you're the fool? That's foolish. That's the next step. Now, here what we end up seeing is something if you've taken logic. I I never get this word right. I'm I'm a guy that reads books and never has the words pronounced for me, so I always say the words wrong. Ah fatoriori. Okay. Uh I'll shorten it. Aforte. Ah, forte. Okay. And we anyone that's taken Latin, we know that that's not my forte. It means strength. Right? That's not my strength. And this is an argument uh from the stronger. This is an argument that we see on a commercial from Life Serial. Mikey likes it. Everybody remember Mikey likes it. Do you remember Life Serial? Mikey likes it? Yeah, okay. Because here's the argument with life serial. Mikey doesn't like anything. He is persnickety about all things. So you slide the bowl of cereal in front of Mikey, and to our surprise, even Mikey likes it. So those of us who aren't for snickety, just think of how much more More we're gonna like it. Now that's the argument with life serial, and that's the argument that's going on here. If those who were of the Jewish nation who had built themselves around The revelation of God as their redeemer through a specific Messiah that would come, if they could not get it, if it remained hidden to them, how much more would it remain hidden To all of those who call you fools that surround you now. Could you not have that heritage? That's the power of the argument. There's no chance It remains hidden. You know, a perfect example of this is Saul to Paul Saul is a Pharisee of all Pharisees. Paul knew the scripture in his original language. And yet Paul himself, with murderous intent is in charge of killing the first martyr, who was a servant of Jesus Christ. Now as we think about the hiddenness here, it's not coincidental that when we We see Paul on the Damascus road that in order for him to get it, he must first realize that things have been hidden from him, that he has been blinded, and that is shown forth by scales coming over his eyes. Then, when God chooses to reveal to him the true nature of salvation through the cross, and this is the author we're talking about right now. Through the cross that his something like scales fell from his eyes, and he realized that Jesus Christ was the Messiah. Be no, look at the difference. There's a difference in the name change. because he went from a man where God was hiding those things from him, hiding salvation, to a man to whom it was revealed. And I'll tell you, what is the difference? Is it because Paul became smarter or he took a seminary class Or he became, he had greater intentions or motivations. It was a sovereign decision by God to choose to hide and then choose to reveal. And it is seen perfectly within the conversion of Saul to Paul. Now I hope that you can see the strength and the power of this argument here with the scales falling off because essentially if you're going to to believe those who have scales on their eyes that you're a fool, then you're not really seeing the picture here. Who would you rather follow to find the downed deer or the shot rabbit? The human or the dog? It's gonna be the dog. You know Are you going to believe me about what color this carpet is? I'm colorblind, I have no idea what color this carpet is. Or are you going to believe someone who has an eye for color like Therese Cooley, who's a photographer Therese Cooley. Why are we believing people that do not even have the sense, they don't have the taste buds to taste what has been revealed to us? They are natural people, and it is totally hidden to them. Do you believe those who crucify Jesus to be telling the truth? No. Those are the ones to whom it is hidden. And they're missing a great deal that has been revealed to us. So that's the very first argument. The very first argument for you not to feel like a fool, even if there's eleven and you're one, is that you don't believe the people to whom all the truth has been hidden. That in itself would be foolish. You believe the people to whom it has been revealed. Now here's the second part. Here's the revealed part. We have been given the ability to see the truth. cross and to understand its significance. And that is why you end up contradicting eleven people and you stand as one person. And I want to show you this from the passage. First and foremost. Verse 10, we pick up right there. The spiritual man, not the natural man, can see the message of the cross as God's wisdom, and they give the message their entire life to it. But God has revealed them to us through his Spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, yes, the deep things of God. For what man knows the things of a man except the spirit of a man which is in him? Even so, no one knows the things of God except the spirit of God. Do you see the reasoning? That's happening here, what he's trying to say. He's playing off of the idea, unless it's uh revealed, it will always remain hidden, but it has been revealed. And he's trying to draw upon your experience here. He's saying something that all of us grant in this room, whether we like it or not, and that is, you don't know the thought of the person next to you unless they share it with you. Now if that doesn't hit home with you, there are a couple uh phrases within our culture that r that allow us to recognize that this is a self-evident truth for every American. My grandmother Uh I used to bug her about what we're going to be doing next and she says, I don't know, my crystal ball is on back order. Okay. Uh or Or I would a uh more rightly I would ask her, What is my mother thinking? And she'd say, I don't know, my crystal ball is on back order. And then here's one that all of us recognize a happily married man is one who understands I'm not trying to be offensive or degrading I'm just pointing out that all of us recognize this, that we cannot read the person's mind next to us unless they choose to reveal it to us. We know this deep within our core, and it has caused us many problems. And that is exactly what's being communicated here. But here is the thing. In the same way that only you know your mind, and the way the Paul Speaks about this is that your spirit knows your mind. Your spirit knows your spirit in the same way God's spirit knows his mind. God's spirit knows his spirit. And we have not been given the spirit of the world, but we have been given the spirit of the The Spirit of God, who is revealing to us the mind of God, the very mind of God is being revealed to you through the Holy Spirit. Who better to ask What God is thinking, then God's Spirit. The Holy Spirit searches even the deep things of God that were formed in eternity. And he shares them. This is the great uh the great argument here, and there's there's really two parts to it. There's two parts that we're going to develop. When he says that we have received Receive the Spirit of God. There's a we there. And you gotta determine who's the we. Is it we the apostles or is it we the congregation? And it makes a pretty big difference, and I'm gonna state both. Okay? Okay? Because this is the difference. If you look, it says specifically, after he says, we have received from the Spirit of God, the mind of God, he says, verse 13, these things we also speak. Now he's speaking about apostolic testimony there, okay? And so the very first thing that you need to recognize is that the Apostle Paul, as an apostle, had received revelation from the Spirit Himself as to the mind of God in order to be able to disseminate to all people the true gospel and true salvation through Jesus. Christ, and that this eventually was inscripturated. When Paul wrote down these letters, we now have these things written down. Same thing with the Old Testament. We call it the scriptures, and then those things are spread throughout all of the lands, first around the Mediterranean Sea and beyond. It is first to the apostle that receives Receives the mind of God, and then the apostle delivers the message to us, and now we have the mind of God. And so there's both. But there's another part to this, too. Not only is the Holy Spirit uh revealing these These things to the apostles, and then with apostolic authority there is preaching, and then there's preachers preaching and people sharing, but there is also a discerning that takes place when the Holy Spirit chooses to share the words to where we recognize that things are not only true historically, but that they are also good. And this is key. If you're starting to tune out, please don't do it this moment. I have said this to you before, but there are two main things that the Holy Spirit is doing within us. When it says that he allows us to discern his words. He teaches us first and convinces to us that it is true. But secondly, he convinces us that these things are good. Which is a different story. Now I told you this story I've told you this before, and I've said it to my students, but I'm going to say it again because it's very, very helpful. If I said to you, I want you to come to me into the back field, and we're going to dig a hole. And there's going to be a lot of rocks and a lot of dirt there, and I'll give you all the dirt that you want. Come on. You're going to say to me, that's not true. No, you're not. You're going to say, yeah. is a lot of dirt back there, you're right. So you're not questioning my veracity. But you're not, are you going to get your shovel and head onto the backfield with me? No. Because you're not Motivated by dirt. You have enough dirt at your own house. You don't need the dirt back there. It's not motivational to you. And so you don't delight in it. You don't move forward in that way. And it's it and it's an actual Same thing if you were to consider this scenario. I want you to go back there with me and all you have to do is dig for a little while and there's gold in the field and you can have as much much of it as you want. It could fill a pickup truck. Now as long as you believe that what I'm saying is true, you also believe that gold is good because of all the promises it gives you for your wonderful lifestyle. And so you will end up being motivated and you'll and you'll proceed out there to the field with me. And that is exactly what Jesus is talking about when he says you would buy you would sell everything in order to buy the field, in order to gain the treasure. And that is what happens when the Holy Spirit teaches us the mind of God. He is not teaching you just historical facts. He is teaching you the excellence of Jesus Christ on that cross for you. The excellence of Jesus Christ in his resurrection for you. The excellence of Jesus Christ in the sending of the Holy Spirit to you. The excellence of the Holy Spirit dwelling in you. with you and your family, the excellence of his presence, the praiseworthiness of every part of him. You are the kind of person that likes to go through a list of his actions That is what it means for the Holy Spirit to reveal to you the mind of God. It is not just a group of husband your own head if you needed to in order to keep following him. Now that is some sharing of a different kind. But that's what it means for the Holy Spirit. To share God's mind with us and for us to become convicted not only of its truth but of its excellence. And so, many of you have tried to run away from Jesus and your faith before, and it didn't work. You're still here. That's because the Holy Spirit has a hold of you, and He is the one bringing convictive power. Now, this is the second argument for us. And this is the position that you should be in. There's a couple. The first is that you now can explain to yourself that even when you are called a fool and you are made the refuse of this world, you cannot shake your love for Jesus Christ. I know that you don't love him with all of your might in the way that you long to, but you do love him because the Spirit has taught you to love him. I want you to think of the examples of the people in our lives. Stop beating yourselves up and saying that you don't love Jesus Christ. You really do. I understand that we haven't reached our glorified There is much to work on, but there is love there. Even if it is the size of a mustard seed, it could change the whole world and your entire family. Think of the stories within your own life of what it means for you you to have the mind of God revealed to you and that you really don't believe that it is foolishness, even if there are 11 people barking at you. Think of some stories. There was a woman when Jesus was around, and Jesus said, It is not for me to give the message to you. You are a Gentile. And do you know what her husband Humble response was, even dogs receive crumbs under the table. Now isn't that you? Don't you remember those moments that you have had where You just could take a crumb from him because even a crumb from him is so precious because it came from his hands. Or those of you who lived in the world and prostituted yourself. in a very broad sense of that word, or maybe even specifically. Don't you relate to the woman who saw by the power of the Spirit the excellence of Jesus Christ and his forgiveness through the cross, and she washed his feet. With her hair. How do you explain that? What other source are you going to appeal to to explain that occurrence to me? Why not Appeal to this. That the Holy Spirit is revealing the mind of God and He is allowing people to discern not only the truth, but the excellence, and we cannot run away from it. We will stand, even if being called a fool. I have a friend. We have all a number of us have experienced this kind of thing. I have a friend who became A Christian, and her family, of course, did not understand. And there was a confrontation. I don't want to get into the details so as not to embarrass, but this was the response. And this is your response, Christian. Even every one of us, despite the horror of the past for some of us. We love our family. We love the uncle that played football with us when we were younger. We love our mother. We love our father. And to become a Christian and to To see our brothers and our sisters and our mother and our father become disappointed in us for professing a novelty and an irrationality brings a great deal of pain. But there is a friend of mine who replied to this in the midst of a family confrontation. She says, I have become a Christian. And the family says, we know where you're from. We know who you are. And basically, I'm paraphrasing, this is ridiculous. And her response, of course, was, I know. That Jesus Christ lives, and that he lives within me, and I am happy. Now, how do you capture That kind of argument for this second one. Only those of you who are spiritual can even see the truth of what I'm saying. Because it is the Spirit of God that reveals the And there's no argument, there's no rhetoric I could come up with right now in order to convince you if you are in a natural state. It is only the Spirit of God Those of you who had your heart jump at that moment, you're recognizing not the experience of someone you don't know, you're recognizing your own experience of the Spirit working within you. What has God called us into? You can see why we worship Him. Even if you don't understand, if you're confused by everything I'm saying, and you You think I'm a fool for professing this. You need to explain uh why we would worship him like this if it were not true. Now here's the last step, and it moves us a Immediately into the table. In fact, we're going to move into the table right now as Arch administers the Lord's Supper to us. This is the message of the cross. We're going to be singing a song. to give you the opportunity to both sing and to see the true spiritual significance that the Holy Spirit has revealed to you from the mind of God himself as to the significance So let us go forward now. Let's turn to our invitational hymn. We'll remain And let's begin reflecting as we seek to worship our God in this act.