And I'll read the first three verses. Therefore, laying aside all malice, all deceit, hypocrisy, envy, and all evil speaking As newborn babes, desire the pure milk of the Word, that you may grow thereby. If indeed you have tasted that the Lord is gracious. Let's pray Father, this is the very milk of which you speak. We pray that we would be nurtured by you, that we would actually grow up into you. In the name of Christ, Amen. We may be seated. Have you ever built a house? When you build a house, you start with the foundation, at least in my experience. Now, last week we learned that Peter, like a master builder, ended up laying a foundation for us. That's been a large part of the first chapter. There are different blocks within that foundation, but particularly last week he taught that the foundational truth, that we must be born again by Christ from his Spirit from above. Those who are born again, those who have that foundation, they live their lives, a Christian life And what we've seen in verses 13, 14, 15, 17, and 22 are some of the things that would mark such a life. In verse 13, we see that those who have been born again from above live in hope of the second advent of Christ. In verse 14, those who have been born again from above live as obedient children, not relapsing into their former lives. In this case, it would have been paganism. In verse 15, that we Christians are to have lives of holiness, as our Father is holy. And in verse 17, we are to live with godly fear as we finish our stay here. And in verse 22 from last week's sermon, we are to show constant and fervent love toward our fellow Christians. Tonight we're adding to the list. I hope that you heard it. There are two main commands here. The first is that we are to lay aside evil. That's a summary of that list. And in opposition to that, desire the Lord. Really desire the milk of the word in which the Lord is written. And so those will be the two things that we consider through the whole sermon tonight. Lay aside evil, desire the Lord, as a further way in which we understand what it means to live by the Spirit Let's start with verse 1 then with the lay aside command that we see there. Verse 1 begins with a key verse or key word. You see it right there. It says, Therefore, laying aside And then it goes on to give us the things that we are to lay aside. Something I just want to point out to you is that earlier in verse 13 of chapter 1, do you remember when Peter said that we are to gird up our loins? And remember what the imagery was to what it was referring? And meant to take your long robe back then, and for one example of it would be to tuck it in your belt so that you're able to do the work of uh where you would need agility to do the work of fighting in some cases. And it was a clothing analogy. Gird up. It's a clothing analogy. Well the same thing is happening here We have another clothing analogy. We are not girding up clothing, but laying clothing aside. You can think of a jacket, perhaps And then allow that jacket to represent a life, a former life and mode of existence, which would be characterized by evil. And he's saying that we, now living by the Spirit that's been given to us from above, would set aside that jacket of evil. And then he gives us a list here of some of the ways or some of the things that would be on that jacket. So this is the list, then, after he says lay aside. One of the benefits of a list like this is that it's very general. And what that means is that throughout as the as history goes on and as different cultures rise and fall, it will be equally applicable in each one of those cultures. cultures. It's written so as to be timeless, to be able to take into account who you are and what you struggle with within your society. The benefit of the general list is so that you can make it specific to your situation, in other words. You and the Holy Spirit can apply it to your life. The list also, it should be mentioned, is not philosophical. This is not like a Greek list of virtues. This is relational. Every single word in this list, when it says lay aside, is a relational. Term. If you did a word study, you'd find that these words show up in relationships. So that's very important as an orientation. So let's just take the first two, for example, malice and display. It says, therefore, laying aside all malice, all deceit. Both refer when I looked up these words throughout all the canon of scripture, both continually refer to trying to do evil to a person. person. That's what it would mean. You could say something like, do you have malice in your heart for me? Are you trying to deceive me? Those are re that's a relationship statement. It involves the intent of the heart, it involves all the planning that would go into it, and it involves, in the end, the execution of the That plan. You know, an example where this word shows up in the Old Testament, if we use the Septuagint to see the Greek words, is from 2 Samuel 15, 14, and there's so many times in which this Happens with this relationship, namely David and his son Absalom. It says, David said to so David said to all his servants who were with him at Jerusalem, Arise and let us flee. Or we shall not escape from Absalom. Make haste to depart, lest he overtake us suddenly and bring in this translation it says disaster upon us, but it's the same word Unless he bring malice upon us and strike the city with the edge of the sword. You see what's at stake here if you were to remember the whole story between David and his son. And I'm sure you can overlay that example on many human situations where a person intends to do you harm. It is out of anger, it is out of envy, it is out of whatever can be stirred within the human heart to then want to do you harm. That is what is being talked about here Absalom sought to bring malice and deceit upon his father. And we are to lay such things aside in regards to really everyone. Here, the context has to do with our fellow Christians. We're not to be an Absalom to our brothers and sisters in Christ. The same is true for the rest of the list as we continue on. It says laying aside all malice, all deceit, and then hypocrisy, envy. and evil speaking. These are again relational terms. Don't get lost philosophically with these. Hypocrisy is pretending to be a friend, but really you're not. In the end, you hurt. Envy is stewing on a person's harm, usually because they have something that you would like to have. Evil speaking is another way of saying abusive and false words to hurt another person's reputation. And we have a word actually for that. It's called slander. And that is what is present here. You can see that what Peter is doing is he's defining what should not be present within a Community that is ordered by the Spirit. The Apostle Paul, when he talks about these kinds of things, he likens Christians to wild animals He says, But if you do if you bite and devour one another, beware lest you be consumed by one another. I say then, walk in the spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. It's the same kind of conversation, but this was in Galatians 5, 15 and 16. Paul is saying the same thing. That's the whole point. We have been born again, not according to the flesh, but the spirit, and so we're taking off the flesh. In the Puritan literature, it's called mortification, the mortification of the flesh and the vivification or the life of the spirit. Therefore, we are to lay aside all of that former relational evil and embrace the desires of the new life In every area of our life, including social media. Social media is an aspect of our social lives. That's why it's called social media. So that's the first point here. But there's not just the laying aside or what we should not do. And this really fits into that those those same list That we see within Paul where he says take off and put on. This is Peter's version of it. So we've seen the laying aside. And now let's look at the positive We are to lay aside all malice, all deceit, hypocrisy, envy, and all evil speaking, that is to say, relational evils. And instead Verse 2, as newborn babes, we are to desire the pure milk of the Word. Now what I'd like to do is Start in verse 3. And verse 3 says, if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is gracious. I'm going to get nerdy just for a second. This is a typical Greek sentence known as a first class conditional. Have you ever heard of that before? It's been mentioned a couple times from the pulpit, probably a lot of times from this pulpit But over the last 28 years, it often means that the first part of the sentence is in fact true. So you could retranslate it and you could say, well, since you have tasted that the Lord is good. And that's the sense here. Since you have tasted that the Lord is gracious. Now, I want you to notice that gracious is another relational term. We're still within the social sphere here. It means, when we look throughout the scriptures, to be gracious, it means to be humble, it means to be gentle, it means to be sympathetic, it means to be considerate. It means to be relationally wise, in other words. The question that we have to ask as we're looking at three to taste and see that the Lord is gracious. Is ask this question, how would they have tasted that the Lord is gentle, sympathetic, and all of the others in the list? How would they know that about the Lord? Well, the answer is in verse 2, and that's why I started with 3, so that you can get the context. The answer is in verse 2 is that they turn to the milk of the word in which Jesus Christ is revealed. That's where we drink of Christ. Remember, they did not have a New Testament in the form that we do They, however, did, if you take a look at chapter 1, verse 12, remember they were under apostolic preaching and teaching, breaking with bread with one another, having all things in common, devoted to the apostles' teaching. And that's where they learned about Jesus. That's where they tasted of him and they found that he is gracious. All of those wonderful works of God that we heard about this morning, they heard about those Especially on the day of Pentecost. And it was sweet to them, like mother's milk. When they heard that the preached word about Jesus and what he did and what he was doing, the milk of that message was Was sweet. That's the whole point. The milk of the word, what it does here, and in many commentators throughout the life of this the Western Church It invites us to think of Jesus in a new way that we don't normally think of him in. But it invites us to think about Jesus and the apostles in a motherly Have you ever thought about Jesus as a motherly role? Jesus is a man, he is a male, but we may think of him in a motherly role or in motherliness, demonstrating attributes that are motherly. The divine name, it is true, is always revealed in the masculine, and that is how we should refer to him. But God does reveal a motherly aspect to himself. Anselm, does anyone know of Archbishop Archbishop Anselm? Psalm from 1093, he has a famous prayer celebrating Christ in his motherliness. And it's obviously him meditating on a verse from Matthew 23, verse 37. It's do you remember when Jesus said this, O Jerusalem, O Jerusalem, the one who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her How often I wanted to gather your children together as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings. But you were not Not Willie. He's relating himself to those aspects that we would know of with a mother, in this case a mother hen. And so Anselm wrote a prayer that went like this: Christ my mother. You gather your chickens under your wings. This dead chicken of yours puts himself under those wings. For by your gentleness the badly frightened are comforted. By your sweet smell the despairing are revived. Your warmth gives life to the dead. Your touch justifies sinners. Warm your chicken. Give life to your dead man. Justify your sinner. Let your terrified one be consoled by you. Despairing of himself, let him be comforted by you, and in your whole and unceasing grace let him be refashioned by you, for from you flows consolation for sinners, to you the blessing for ages and ages. Amen. Now, if you were to read that whole prayer, it's way longer than that, and I don't agree with the majority of it, but this section really captures the motherliness that we see within the scriptures. And some here did have a deep connection. He had a you could tell that he had the deep desire and connection that he had tasted and seen that the Lord is gracious in the way that we see in Matthew 23. And this helps us to grasp what Peter is seeking to say. Just as Christ had gathered you under his wings You also, as you taste of that graciousness, of how gracious he is to you, as you learn those things, you also would become a person who spreads your wings. Over each other rather than just pecking one another to death. That's the point. That's the opposite of the lay aside and what we are to desire, the kind of life that we are to desire. We are to lay aside all evil in our relationships and instead desire to be like the Lord, particularly in his motherliness. Give gentleness to the badly frightened. That would be one application. Let the sweet smell of your love revive your fellow Christians instead of making them feel exasperated by your presence. Let your warmth of affection give life to those who feel dead and tired. Let them find rest under the tree as you are The Apostle Paul summarizes this nicely. Uh uh I'm sure that some of you out there think I am the weirdest person in the world today by talking about motherliness and corrupt. So let me just give you this one more example. The Apostle Paul talks about it also, and he summarizes it nicely. From 1 Thessalonians 2, verse 7, he says But we were gentle among you, just as a nursing mother cherishes her own children. And so he thought of motherliness and that aspect within himself as an apostle, and how he is to relate to people in the same way. Well the Christian life begins with new birth. We are newborn babes, as it says in two, in in two two But you don't stop at birth. The life we live is full of action. We're running all over the place and doing all kinds of things, and we are social creatures. This evening, the actions that we've been pointed toward are laying aside and desiring to be like the Lord as revealed in the milk of the Word. We have tasted that the Lord is gracious. He relates to us like a nursing mother cherishing her children. And this encourages us, it actually is an exhortation, that we also may cherish one another. It's really the perfect image. I have seen how much Mothers treat their children, particularly in this congregation. If if I've seen a child be criticized and I've seen mama bear come out in some of these mobs Because they cherish their children. They protect them. They keep them under their wing. They're concerned. Mothers will be the ones that are praying for their children well into adulthood. Because that's what mothers do. Do you know the saying, you have a face that only a mother can love? I hope no one's ever said that. To you. That's a very mean statement. But it tells you a lot about mothers. Let me ask you. Are your fellow Christians, and just think of your local context here at Severn Rut, are they careful with you? What I mean is, do they know that you have teeth and that you will bite them? Are they careful with you in that they know that you have really no interest and enjoyment in them? So they don't open up or become vulnerable to you at all. Those are the kind of things that we want to lay aside. A life that would encourage those kind of things has to be set aside. Do your fellow Christians feel cherished by you? Are they revived in your company? It is Peter's purpose that we would grow in each of these areas. He gives us this word here that I'm sure he preached and then was enscripturated here for the benefit. Of the church, not only then, but even now. And blessed are those who not only hear these words, but actually do these words. That they become gracious. That they would seek to be as gracious as the Lord Himself, whom they have tasted. Let's pray together. Father, these things are impossible in ourselves, but nothing is impossible And you have sent your spirit, and your spirit works with your word here in these commands that we would lay aside the way that we used to relate to people and that That those habits may be sort of still a part of our lives. They may be a great deal still a part of our lives. But Lord, we are seeking through your power to lay aside A poor way to relate. You are teaching us how to engage in relationship, and we are to learn from our Master who is Christ Jesus He knows how to relate perfectly. We pray, Father, that we would not just be hearers of this word tonight. But that everything that you've said here, the list, our understanding of it relationally, the imagery, the way that your church have uh has understood it in terms of motherliness, that all of those things would become An energy that pushes us by your spirit to conform ourselves to your image, to be conformed to your image This is my prayer for this congregation. I pray, Lord, that you would allow it to be, as you have decreed in heaven, may it also be. We are to be known as your disciples, and your disciples are to be known by their love. And this in these specific ways. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.