This is the last section of chapter 30, as you can see, which will then move us in in the following sermons for Proverbs 31, which will be fun. We'll camp out there for some time. Proverbs 30, 32 through 33. If you have been foolish in exalting yourself, or if you have devised evil, put your hand on your mouth. For as the churning of milk produces butter, and wringing the nose produces blood, so the force of wrath produces strife. Let us pray. Oh Lord, I pray that you would minister to your people through the preached word as you have done from the beginning. I ask, Lord, that This preaching would be by your power and not by the eloquence of man. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. You may be seated. I was working in the backyard one summer when the children were younger. I think I've mentioned this to you before, but I'll tell you again. I was working in the backyard one summer and somebody had done something that really rubbed me the wrong way. And I was getting ready to let my words unleash. I think I was in the middle of trying to fix something and already frustrated and some bickering was happening or something along those lines. And I bubbled up, and just before I could let the words rip, one of my children, who was very young, said A soft answer turns away wrath, Dad. It was like they had taken their little hand and put it over my mouth. And that's the image that we've already read, isn't it? A hand over the mouth. There's a lot of wisdom in that that we get to learn about here this evening. About uh just stop it. Just be quiet. There's a lot of wisdom here for us to learn in this th verses 32 and 33. There is a lot of wisdom and there's seems like it's unending. It constantly pours out the more you read Proverbs by the ministry of the Spirit in our lives. Last week we learned a lot about what Christ is doing with us. If you would look down at your scriptures again by way of review, beginning in 29 and ending at 31, there were a series of animals for us to learn from. that walk stately through life. They walk with majesty. They control their environments. There are the They're the king of the jungle of the lion, or they're the king of the yard if they're a rooster, or we went through the different examples there, all leading up to this king whose troops are with him or once he goes out he can't be stopped and it was letting us know about the king of Judah who is Jesus Christ and how He exercises dominion over all things, but it was also letting us know something about what Jesus is doing with you, that he's not interested in you being weak. or fragile or incompetent. But actually he's making you into people who in your maturity, your story arc is that you will exercise dominion like kings and queens We discussed that a little bit this morning in terms of you'll be judging angels. What kind of being do you have to be to judge angels? Well, that's what Jesus is doing with us. He's giving us mastery of our environment under his reign. Well, this week he gives us more wisdom by way of his Spirit. Here in verses 33, 32, and 33, the Spirit teaches us this evening with a warning. The Spirit warns us to silence our ungodly rebellion against King Jesus and instead to give him our lives in service. Spirit warns us that we, if we are rebelling, silence it. Put your hand over it. Make it stop. As it goes against King Jesus, and instead let us enter humbly into his service. We're going to take a look at this just for ease of memory under three parts. A warning described a correction given, and the effects pictured. We'll begin with a warning described. The Spirit warns us against disturbing the social order by exalting ourselves through arrogance and evil planning. Let me say that again. This is the very first point I want you to notice in this passage. That the Spirit warns us against disturbing Jesus' social order in our arrogance, exalting ourselves and planning evil. You can see this in verse 32. If you have been foolish in exalting yourself, or if you have devised evil. Those are the two parts If you have exalted yourself foolishly, if you in your arrogance are rising up in a kind of rebellion, if you're going outside of your lane, I'll talk about that in a minute. Or if you have been scheming to do so, there's a warning for you here. If you have been a fool by being proud and plotting evil, this message is for you. And all of us have engaged in this kind of thing before. The scriptures have many different examples of this. I'm only going to show you a couple. But the first one I want to bring to your attention of disturbing the social order through self-ex arrogant self-exaltation and planning is from numbers 16, 3 through 5. And these these scriptures from Numbers, these are not just meant for people a long time ago in a galaxy far, far away. These are meant specifically for you. All of Scripture is given to us that we might be mature in serving our God. And in Numbers 16, 3 through 5, oh, what examples of wisdom Christ gives to us in showing us this morning. They gathered together against Moses and Aaron and said to them, You take too much upon yourselves, for the congregation is holy, every one of them are holy, and the Lord is among them. You see what they're doing? uh in order to support their case. They're going up to Moses and they're saying, You have set yourself above us, and you've done so in a way that is self-exalting and arrogant. All of us here are equals. Although you should not be rising up above us. They say, why do you exalt yourself above the assembly? Well, Moses hears this in verse 4. He falls on his face. And he spoke to Korah and all his company. This is the the rebellion of Korah. He spoke to Korah and all his company, saying, Tomorrow morning the Lord will show you who is his and who is holy, and will cause him to come near to him, that one whom he chooses he will cause to come near to him. So Moses is saying You're twisting these things, but rather than argue with you, the Lord Himself will show us the hierarchy that He has established among us Now, if you were to continue with that story, the hierarchy becomes very clear, because all of those who have rebelled against Korah are basically destroyed. Again, re-establishing God's social order as he had placed Moses. Now, the second example I want to give to you, that's the first example of a group of people Korah and the re and those who rebelled with him, of foolishly exalting themselves and devising evil plans to do so. That's what this whole first point is about. It's a warning. Don't be like Korah and the rebellion. This passage is picked up by the Apostle Paul and his teaching. I've mentioned this to you several times and I've gone over it with the elders. uh numerous times. It's picked up by Paul in 2 Timothy 2, 16 through 19. There is a rebellion happening in one of his congregations. And they are defying the apostle and those who have been given authority within church government there, elders and deacons. It says this, Paul says this to the congregation, but shun profane and idle babblings, for they will increase to more ungodliness, and their message will spread like cancer. Hymeneus and Philetus are of this sort. So here you have two people who are disrupting the social order which God has put in place by way of the apostle. And the apostle goes on to describe Hymeneus and Philetus, and he says, they have strayed concerning the truth. They say that the resurrection is already past, and they overthrow the faith of some. And here's the quote from the Numbers passage. Nevertheless, the solid foundation of God stands having this seal. The Lord knows who are his. That's the Numbers passage. Moses doesn't get in an argument with them. He says to that rebellion, let the Lord show who is his and how this hierarchy is supposed to be set up. And the Apostle Paul draws upon the same story for his specific situation, saying, the Lord knows who are his. Though they are overthrowing the apostolic faith of some, just like it happened in the rebellion of Korah, so too it will happen here. The Lord will eradicate this cancer. He goes on and he says And uh the Lord knows who are his, and let everyone who names the name of Christ depart from iniquity Two examples of those who exalt themselves against Christ and his social order. The proverbist and the spirit is telling you here that these are examples that are meant to place before you a warning. It's not wise to do that. You know, I really think this connects back to our passage from before. If you look at our passage from before, the very the final verse in the passage before was And a king whose troops are with him, or a king who can you who can you withstand? How could you withstand him That really ties in well with what we're seeing here. It is foolish in exalting yourself or to devise evil against a king who walks stately like a lion. That's the warning. We already looked at Jesus is the Lion of Judah. For anyone to seek to disrupt his social order, though it may look like they're being successful for a time. The warning is here for you by way of the spirit. You know, it really reminds us that The world that God has created, the reality that He has communicated to you in the scriptures, is that God has built this world to have a social hierarchy. They has given different people different places. And we call that government. There can be a church government. There are many different kinds of governments that could be for nations and peoples. But it reminds us that Jesus has created an ordered world where we are meant to know what our lane is and to drive in that lane. I wonder if any of you have had an experience like I've had where you're just driving, you're trying to keep your family safe, and then there's some crazy person who doesn't know how to stay in their lane. It could be during St. Patrick's Day. Or it could be New Year's Eve. Or whatever it is. Sometimes it gets so bad. I wonder if you have. uh had to do this. Sometimes it's gotten so bad what I've witnessed that I had to call the police while I was right there in my car because the person almost killed a jogger that was over on the shoulder. They were just Weaven like this, and it looked to me like they were intoxicated. We all abhor that We see that if you're not going to stay in your lane, the consequences are severe. This the disruption that you can bring to society by crashing into other people, hitting joggers, whatever it is. It's obvious. It's self-evident that that shouldn't be the case. And the spirit is showing us the same thing here. There's an order to society. And Jesus Christ has revealed that in his word. We're to know what our lane is, and we're to stay in it So, for example, if you're a child here, you know the fifth commandment gives you a lane. It says, honor your mother and your father. That shows you your lane. I'll just give you that as a single example. Now that's the first point that I wanted to bring out from the passage, which is just that this describes a warning. There's a warning here. about God's order that he brings into the world. The second part is that there is a correction that is given. The message that the Spirit gives us here with the correction that is given is take your hand and put it over your mouth. It's not more direct. Clap your hand over your mouth. Keeping immediate and absolute silence in respect for God's appointed superiors. The placing your hand over your mouth is a sign of submission to an authority in some passages. It is, and the statement that you see there just in verse number 32, if you want to take a look, it's very quick. He just says Here's the problem, exalting yourself like a fool, and I showed you some examples. Here's the solution. Put your hand over your mouth Now there are examples of correction like this throughout the scriptures, and one primary example that I know that most of you will be with which you'll be fulfilled. familiar is Job chapter 41 through 7. I just don't know if you remember that Job puts his hand over his mouth. It says here in Job 41 through 7: Moreover, the Lord answered Job and said, Shall the one who contends with the Almighty correct him? He who rebukes God, let him answer it. Then Job answered and said, Behold, I am vile. What shall I answer to you? I lay my hand over my mouth Once I have spoken, but I will not answer. Yes, twice, but I will proceed no further. The Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind and said, Now prepare yourself like a man. I will question you and you will answer me. We all have uh heard that that passage and it's been powerful for all of us, and there we see The woo the path that Job was walking down that he needed to put his hand over his mouth. And you can see that that is a literal putting your hand over the mouth, but there is a a symbolism to it, that it stands for something bigger than just I put my hand over my mouth. It means the stopping of a particular action I would say that you could unfold this and you could say that the symbol starts to point us towards other ways in which you would do this. Kings who have been rebelling against God, exalting themselves proudly against his Messiah. He warns them, just as the Spirit does here in this proverb. And at the end of that psalm with the coronation and the establishment of the king, it calls out to those who have been in rebellion and says, Now therefore be wise, O kings, be instructed, you judges of the earth Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way when his wrath is kindled but a little. But blessed are all those who put their trust in him. And that in that sense, that kissing of the sun is the same thing in meaning as the putting your hand over your mouth. Put your hand over your mouth or put your lips upon the ring of the king. That would be a very similar action, according to what the Spirit teaches us here. James brings up this same kind of thing when he speaks about the tongue in James chapter 3. Where he talks to us about this kind of correction, or at least he implies it. He says in James chapter 3, out of the same mouth proceed blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not to be so. Does a spring send forth fresh water and bitter from the same opening? He goes on to talk about a fig tree for a moment and olives and grapevines and then goes back to the idea of the opening of a spring, and he says, thus no spring yields both salt water and fresh. And you can see he's picturing us as Having all of these words that are down in our hearts, and then they come up out of our mouth like water comes up out of a spring And it could be different kinds of water that would come out of us, and the one that he brings up that is the one that you don't want to be the spraying would be that bitter water. Now, I wonder if you have different experiences with water in your homes and you don't want it there, like a burst pipe. Burst pipe or uh I remember when I was younger and I was working working on you're gonna love this when I was working younger, didn't I knew less than I know now. And I was on a construction site as the manager for uh Crutchley and Sons construction. We had to extend the foundation. I hadn't thought well ahead and the backhoe went ahead and dug in dug in and hit the water, the water line coming into the house. So do you know what we immediately needed to do? We had to run over to the front of the street and turn our water off at the main. Now if you have a burst pipe or if you had copper pipes and it sprung little uh those little pinholes you would you would run and you would turn off the water at the main. And the same thing is happening here within this proverb. It's uh the Placing your hand over the faucet, so to speak, or placing your hand over your mouth so you could stop gushing forth things that are going to get you in trouble. Is really the point here. Remember the warning. Remember the warning and and then look at the correction. Turn off the faucet. We see this exemplified within the New Testament besides James in Acts 2, 36 through 38. Jesus says, therefore, let all of or I'm sorry, Peter says, let therefore therefore let all of the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. Now when they heard this, they were cut to the heart, and see and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, men and brethren, what shall we do? Then Peter said to them, Repent and let every one of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and you shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. Now, how is that an example of what we're talking about here in wisdom? That was an extension of the wisdom that the Spirit gives to us. This same group of people, if you go back and you look at Peter's sermon, or if you go back into the Gospels, this same group of people were chanting what was coming out of their mouth. What was coming out of the faucet? It was crucify him. Tell me that that is not an arrogant self-exaltation against the king. We have already been warned about that. And so they have caught the Holy Spirit is working in this group of people for them to realize We should have never said the things that we said. We should have never devised plans against this Jesus who is the Christ. What were we thinking? What should we do? And he doesn't say put your hand over your mouth, but in a sense he does, he says, turn it and repent Stop saying those things that were against him and instead repent and confess your sins. It's the same kind of thing. It's the same kind of action. This same kind of correction of putting your hand over your mouth and moving in a different direction These examples are all over because as human beings, our primary inclination is to rebel against Christ and his order. But you know, it's Christ's primary inclination to save people like us and to bring us into order. And we see that here even as he works in them where they were cut to the heart. They were cut to the heart. To where that faucet of evil was turned off by Christ so that fresh water could spring forth by way of the work of the Holy Spirit. Well, Jesus Christ gives us a lot of wisdom in this passage. He gives us a lot of wisdom in giving us a warning. You know, this is a gospel warning. It's from Jesus. And he not only gives us the warnings here, but he also gives us the correction. And we were able to amplify that correction a little bit to where we're not just all walking around literally keeping our hands on our mouth or You or moms, you can just go ahead and start keeping duct tape in your purse for everyone in the family. Just real quick, wrap it up. So that we can't say anything any longer. There's a wisdom behind this that ends up multiplying. There's a treasure box that when we open it, we see that there are many gems that Jesus Christ has for us. Even the gems we saw in Acts chapter 2. And there's one last point here that I want to bring up from the passage, and that is that there are these the effects are pictured. The effects are pictured. The warning is described, the correction is given, and now we have some uh the effects of this kind of path. If you don't if you don't put your hand over your mouth If you don't repent and believe, if you keep down the path of resisting against the sun and you don't kiss the sun, well there are effects. There are consequences to that. And those consequences and effects are pictured here within the last part of our passage in verse 33. Let's take a look at the pictures together. These are metaphors for pushing someone's buttons until they explode. And they can explode in justice if it's Christ. In verse 33, it says, As the churning of the milk produces butter, and wringing of the nose produces blood, so the forcing of wrath produces strife. Do you see what he's saying there? It's talking about getting squeezed beyond its limits. It's talking about the measure of your sins rising to the place where God acts. There's a really what what's happening here is the spirit is calling upon you to reference your everyday experiences. There are certain things in our lives that we can really count on. There's cause and effect relationships because of God's sovereign supervision of the cosmos, He establishes our physical laws. And we therefore can count on them. Every day we count on it. There is a cause and there is an effect. I wonder what are some things in your life that you count on? I mean most of the time if you we've talked about faucets, most of the time you expect that when you turn this little knob here, like this, that water comes out of the other thing. What are some of the other things? For me, cause and effect relationship, if someone walks down my sidewalk, my chocolate lab will bark. That's that's that's like uh that's a real cause and effect relationship there. It happens all the time. What are some things that are even tighter than that? Whatever goes up must come down. We could get into the laws of physics and that kind of stuff What the what he's doing here is he's pointing to their everyday experiences to say, as surely as you see this cause and effect relationship in this domain. So too will you see it in this other domain. Now let me explain to you what I mean. As as surely as if you keep churning milk, that it will produce butter or curds. Butter or curds. And the next one he gives is, and as surely as you keep wringing someone's or pushing or punching someone in the nose, the effect is blood. In the same way that we trust in those cause and effect relationships, please know that that same relationship of certainty, of regularity Is present also in another cause and effect relationship, and it is this: it is that those who force the wrath of God produce strife with him. And that goes back to everything that we've been learning so far. If you keep pushing on him and pushing on him and pushing on him in the order that he is established, he will not break. But instead it will produce a strife between you and him. And if he is your father, then there will be a fatherly discipline to where the strife will end. But if you are his enemy, you're still at enmity with him. And there has not been reconciliation between you and God. Then there will come a time when the measure of your sin has reached the brim of the cup, or whatever he has determined, and he will act, and your rebellion will be over. Like we saw with Korah. Like we see with Hymenaeus and Philetus, like we see with many other characters within the scripture. And I actually would like to give you a few examples here from Acts chapter 12, 1 through 3. I want you to think about how Herod kept pushing. And pushing and wringing God's nose and wringing God's nose, churning God's people Now the Lord was patient. In Acts 12, 1 through 3. Now about that time Herod the king stretched out his hand to harass some from the church. Then he killed. Herod killed James, the brother of John, with the sword, and because he saw that it pleased the Jews, he proceeded further to seize Peter also. Now it was during the day of unleavened bread. So then Peter is thrown into prison. The story continues. An angel is sent by God as a messenger to release Peter from prison. Herod finds out that the prisoner is no longer present and has the guards killed. Well then the day comes where Herod takes it another step and he steps out in royal apparel And he sits on his throne, and he gives an oration, and the people are shouting, You have the voice of a God, not of a man. Do you see the arrogant self-exaltation? The evil scheming and plans against the order that Jesus Christ is establishing, namely his kingdom, the church. By way of Peter and the other apostles, that apostolic foundation together with the apostle the prophets. Then in verse 23, we see that immediately an angel of the Lord struck him. Because he did not give glory to God. And he was eaten by worms and he died. But the word of God grew and multiplied. He wrung Christ's nose one too many times. He turned the milk too often, and the forcing of wrath produces strife. And that's what we see there within that passage. It's the same thing we see in many areas of the scripture, really. And so the Spirit has given to us wisdom tonight. He's given us wisdom by way of a warning, by way of a correction, and by way of these pictures of everyday activities like making uh curd or cream. And like bloody noses. And what happens when you keep pushing Christ buttons, especially when it is against his bride. And so we can see once again that the Spirit warns us to silence ungodly rebellion, especially when it is against King Jesus, and to instead give our lives in his service. His service, his kingdom, his order. We find our place as creatures worshiping the Creator. There's one last example that I wanted to give you, and it's the transition from Saul to Paul. The story is the story that uh embodies the proverb. He was ignorant in many ways, but this the arrogant self-exaltation was present with him with murderous wrath. standing against what Jesus Christ himself had designed and was putting together, his church. It says in Acts 9, 1 through 6, then Saul, still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest. And asked letters from him to the synagogues of Damascus, so that if he found any who were of the way of Jesus, whether men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem And he journeyed and he came near Damascus, and suddenly a light shone around him from heaven. And then he fell to the ground, and he heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why are you You almost could add in the translation from our proverb, why are you wringing my nose? Why are you churning my people like butter? Why are you persecuting me? And he said, Who are you, Lord? Then the Lord said, I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. It is hard for you to kick against the goats. So he, trembling and astonished, said, Lord, what do you want me to do? You see it happen there again? In that sense, he's putting his hand over his mouth. He didn't keep running his mouth, that was for sure. It moved into a question and humility before God in the flesh, Jesus Christ. Then the Lord said to him, Arise and go into the city, and you will be told what you must do. Let's just stop there for just a moment. And let me just ask you, are you kicking against the order of Jesus Christ? Are you kicking against the order of Jesus Christ? You could think about that in terms of how you're you're allowing yourself to be ordered. What are you allowing to enter your eyes? What is that doing to the order of your soul? What emotions are you allowing to become out of order? Is it discouragement? Is it anger? What is it? Is it time to put your hand over your mouth and how you're being Conducting yourself as an individual, or what about in your family? Do you undermine your husband instead of helping him to flourish as a head of the home? Husbands, do you nitpick and undermine your wives when they're meant to be flourishing vines in the center of the home? Do mother and father exasperate their children, sowing, as we looked at this morning, sowing things in their souls that just make them produce fruit of anger and exasperation Those are all against Christ's order. And what about civically? As we move outside of the home and we enter into relationships that are a part of our larger society, are we helping to bring Christ's kingdom on earth as it is in heaven? with the things that come out of our mouth. Those are good questions. Are you kicking against Christ's order? Are you persecuting him? Are you wringing Christ's nose in the way that you conduct yourself? Even in church you could think about those same things since there is a hierarchy and order within the church. What are you kicking against Christ and his kingdom? Christ doesn't leave him there asking a question after having a light that surrounded him on the way to Damascus. And Christ doesn't leave you there either. He doesn't just ask you to think about the ways that you're kicking against him. He brings up in Acts 9. 15. The mission that he has for Saul, who now will become Paul. But the Lord said to him, Go, for he is a chosen vessel of mine. to bear my name before Gentiles, kings, and the children of Israel. Now we see that last part of the what the Spirit is teaching, right? That we turn off the faucet so that the fresh water could flow, and we find our place and our freedom under the Lordship of Jesus Christ, not kicking against them. That's where real wisdom is. Wisdom is begins with the fear of the Lord. And our freedom is found in living under the authority of Jesus Christ. And that means really practical things. It means Putting ourselves under and submitting to all of the ways that he has constructed human society. The way that he in his providence has allowed America to have a republic. The way that he has apportioned a part of his government to police officers or to governors or to mayors or to presidents He's given an order to his church too, in terms of church government, with elders and deacons. He's given order in family with grandmothers, grandfathers and mothers and fathers and older brothers and older sisters. And all of these things are put into place because Christ wants you to flourish. And we will flourish if we live under his authority in those specific ways. This is the wisdom that Jesus Christ gives to us. He doesn't want you to keep turning milk against him and wringing his nose. Instead, he longs for you to kiss him the Son, and to recognize that your happiness and your joy is found in serving him. Let us pray.