And he began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things. And be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again He spoke this word openly. Then Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him. But when he had turned around and looked at his disciples, he rebuked Peter, saying, Get behind me, Satan For you are not mindful of the things of God, but the things of men. Please pray with me. Almighty Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you have not left the human race in darkness, but you have given us that marvelous light, the light that is your word, your revelation. We pray that your Spirit will lead us into the truth, the helper that she promised, will guide us, that we would see what we need to see. The truth of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I pray, Father, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength. And my Redeemer. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. I learned about something new this season, something I'd never heard of ever once in my entire life. And I learned it because when I was In our kitchen one day, and I was the only one there, I saw a pot on the stove that was filled with apple cores and what looked like a bunch of garbage. And I almost threw it away. I thought, this is just leftover trash. I need to clean this up. So I texted my wife. What is this thing on our stove that looks like it needed to be thrown away days ago? And she explained to me a marvelous invention called the simmer pot. Have you heard of this? It's why our house smelled so good. It smelled like an apple pie. But to me, when I looked at it, it just looked like trash. I nearly threw it out. I did not understand Mama's plan. I was not mindful of the things of mom Had I had I thrown it out, I would have thwarted all of her efforts to make her house smell marvelous for the holidays Well, brothers and sisters, we are all at grave risk of this in our Christian lives, in our walks We may not fully realize what God is doing with us and with others. So I ask you, have you ever been in danger of tossing out something that God had planned? I'll tell you a story from my own life. A few years ago, I was in danger of tossing out a person. Someone that God had brought into my life, and I was ready to just shake the dust off my sandals. I could not see the reason. That God had put them in my life. I was not mindful of God's plan. A conflict had come up with us, and I felt like they were simply a waste of my time. And now, they're one of my closest friends. They're one of my life's joys. I looked forward to speaking with them, to hearing from them, to seeing the world through their perspective. Then I only saw how they had offended me. How they had made me feel. I was only mindful of the things of me. And I was not mindful of the things of God. I was not mindful of what he, our great and gracious God, was going to do for me through this person. And I certainly wasn't mindful of what God was going to have me do for them. God is so gracious to us. He loves us enough to rebuke us, to correct us. to show us how this world really is moving according to his perfect plan And so we praise God that He has not left us to devise what is it what is it that God could be doing. He's given us His word that tells us precisely what he is doing. We had a marvelous reminder of that already today, this morning. And I want to just remind you, it's been a couple weeks since we've been in Mark, but remember Mark His gospel. It's the good news that Jesus of Nazareth, that Jesus that we learned about, who was born to the Virgin, He is the Christ. He is the Messiah. He is the Son of the one and only living God. Remember all the miracles we've already looked at in Mark so far. He's cleansed lepers. He's driven out unclean spirits. He's healed various diseases. He's healed the blind. He's restored sight to the blind and hearing to the deaf. He's raised a little girl from the dead. But I want to point out to you that all of those miracles are not necessary. He didn't have to do any of that. It's very helpful for us to see that he is the Son of God, that he is God incarnate, but it wasn't necessary for him to do those things. He could still accomplish his work without us knowing what he was accomplishing. And all of Mark, all of those wondrous miracles have been leading up to this center. And if you've looked, Mark has 16 chapters. Right here in the center of chapter 8 is the pinnacle of the mountain. It is the most important thing for us. And we saw it last time we were in Mark with the confession. The confession of Peter on behalf of all the disciples. Do you remember that confession? If you have your Bible, well it's still open. It's right there. He says, Who do you say that I am? And Peter answered and said to him, You are the Christ. You are God's anointed. You are the Messiah. Yet no sooner has Peter made this confession. No sooner have we reached the top of the mountain. Then the Lord immediately takes us, and we start the descent, moving down. God begins to reveal clearly what is of vital importance for all who follow Jesus. And it will be the rest of the message of this gospel. Our passage tonight sets us on that path, and it teaches us It teaches us that we must be mindful of the things of God, or we may find ourselves working against him. Beloved friends, you must be mindful of the things of God, or you may find yourself working against him. We're going to look at this under two headings tonight. We're going to first look at the verse 31 and the very beginning of verse 32, and we see what it is to be mindful of God And then we'll look at the rest of this passage, verse uh the rest of thirty-two through verse thirty-three and examine working against him. And so we must be mindful of the things of God. Look at what he says there. Verse 31. And he began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things. And be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed. And after three days rise again We must be mindful of God's self-revelation. Be mindful of his teaching. See what it says there? It says that Jesus began to teach them Had he begun to teach them this truth from the very beginning, I don't think he would have ever gotten twelve followers to give up their jobs and their their pensions and their their livelihoods to follow him, if they knew what they were following him toward in this earthly manner Brothers and sisters, you must be willing to be corrected by God, by his word. Perhaps you've thought that you understand it. Perhaps you think you understand God's plan, how he's doing what he's doing. I exhort you, you must be willing to allow him to change your mind. To correct wrong thinking about him. And how does he do that? He does that through his word He has told us what he is like. He has told us what he's doing. He has given us many wonderful truths here and only here. You must be willing to submit to this, that he can change how you think about him. Jesus reveals to his disciples the truth about himself. It seems like a new truth, doesn't it? He hasn't said this before. When the demons said, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God, what did he tell the demons to do? Quiet, you It's not the time for that. Even after they had just confessed it, the first time human beings confess that he is the Christ, what does Jesus do for them? He strictly warned them that they should tell no one about him. This truth that Jesus is revealing feels new. But the reality is it's not, is it? It's very old. We just read Isaiah 53 together, hundreds of years before this event that we're reading about tonight He knew that the one who would take away the sins of his people would have to endure. There are things that must happen for there to be salvation. There are five musts. Did you catch that? One of them is not present here. One of them we had to take from this morning's sermon. The first must of salvation is that the Son of God must come in flesh and take on human nature. He must Because God can't die. God can't suffer. He must take on flesh. And he says right here that the Son of Man, who they have just confessed him to be, The Son of Man, you see what it says there? He must suffer many things. Do you see the next thing that must happen for humans to be saved from their sin? The Son of Man must suffer and he must be rejected. Do you see who he's being rejected there? It's a strange one for me because it's the elders have to reject him. It's the same word from which we get Presbyterian. It's the same word they use for good elders The Christ must be rejected by the elders. He must be rejected by the chief priests and the scribes. He must be rejected by those who should know him the best. The fourth thing that must happen for you to be saved, it's right there for us. The Christ must be killed. He must die. It's not an option. There was no option for the salvation of the human race. Other than for the Christ to come and to die. And the fifth must is a glorious must. What's that fifth must that must happen for you to be saved? He must rise again. If you know the Apostles' Creed, this is all very familiar to you, isn't it? This is what we confess, we believe, about the Christ. He was born of the Virgin Mary. He suffered. He was crucified. He died and was buried. This must happen. And it's old information from the Old Testament. Psalm 2 tells us That you must kiss the Son lest he be angry. For the Son is receiving all that the Father has planned for him. This old information has got to have a new understanding, and that is why Jesus begins to teach this now. They have confessed him as the Christ, and now they must know what will happen to the Christ. He says this, if you look at the beginning of verse 32, it almost seems like a throwaway statement. But it's very important here. He spoke this word openly. That word for openly means clearly, plainly. There's nothing hidden any longer. Jesus is clearly stating what must happen to him is that these things he will suffer, be rejected, die, and rise again. He's going to say this many other times in the Gospel of Mark. We'll hear all about it. Jesus, through his words, spoken plainly and clearly, This is his word spoken plainly and clearly. He is correcting the disciples' way of understanding the Messiah. They had confessed who he is. And now they need to understand what he will do, and how he will do it. If you know your Bible, you know that the sacrificial system God gave to Israel involved a lot of death. A lot of animals died during that time. Anybody remember how many bulls were sacrificed at the The the building of the temple by Solomon? Thousands. Just imagine the snow The smell of death. Because even though they were killed for sacrifice, they are still living creatures that die. There was still blood poured out. There were still All of that worldliness about death that was still there, but he had given it to his people So that they would understand there is no remission of sin without death. The life is in the blood. There can be no forgiveness of your sins, brothers and sisters, unless someone dies. Now you could die for your sins, right? But then you'd be dead. The only way for a death to pay for all the iniquity and transgression and sin in the world is for that death to be beyond value, beyond imagination. The death of the God man. He had to assume our nature. The divine had to come down and become the mundane, become the human. Add to himself the human nature. Otherwise the human nature could not have been redeemed. Because a human dying for a human It's just not worth it. He can't accomplish it. That sacrificial system always pointed to Christ, but there was another bit of information that the Old Testament contained. Promises. Covenant promises. Promises of offspring greater than the stars in the sky and the sands on the seashore A blessing of all nations through the one seed of Abraham. The last two morning sermons have really driven that home for us. It was the promise of the covenant that Christ the Messiah came to fulfill. There's a kingdom of God that will come in power and in glory. It's been there in the Old Testament. But it must be accomplished by God's way, not by man's way. If you want to understand the kingdom of God, you must be mindful of the things of God. Not mindful of the things of man. And so, brothers and sisters, if you don't want to find yourself like Peter, you must be mindful of the things of God. Because what happened to Peter? Peter was not mindful of the things of God, and what did he end up doing? He ended up working against God. Look at the rest of verse 32. Then Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him. Ooh, make you uncomfortable? Made me a little uncomfortable. Kids, is it a good idea to rebuke your parents? The answer is no. He made a grave mistake. But we can we can understand why Peter made that mistake, can't we? There's a reason Peter makes this mistake. He has a right confession. He's confessed to Christ. The disciples have, right? He's the Messiah. Jesus says that that confession could only come from his Father. That faith could only come from on high. It didn't come from the flesh. It wasn't a thing of man. That confession was something of God. He was right in his confession, but he was wrong in his conception. How he conceived of what he had confessed was very, very wrong. Peter shows That he misunderstood what he had confessed in trying to correct Jesus, trying to rebuke Jesus. Paul says this is the problem that all the Israelites face. If we go to Romans chapter ten, you can turn there if you want. I'll turn there. I'm going to read a section for us. It's important. It's a long section, but it's worth it. Romans 10 Starting in verse 1. He says, Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they may be saved. For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge. Zeal for God, not according to knowledge, sound like Peter For they being ignorant of God's righteousness and seeking to establish their own righteousness have not submitted to the righteousness of God. For Christ is the end of the law, for righteousness to everyone who believes. And then Paul goes on and he tells us what it is that we must confess. Is it enough to just confess that Jesus is the Christ? If you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus. And believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. To believe that God has raised the Messiah from the dead requires something, doesn't it? It requires that he must die. Paul, uh Peter also had a wrong expectation of what power and glory is. If you still have your Bibles, go to Daniel chapter seven Daniel chapter seven. There's a reason that Peter would have thought this about the Son of Man, is because this is where the Old Testament starts talking about the Son of Man. Daniel says, I was watching in the night visions, and behold, one like the Son of Man coming with the clouds of heaven. He came to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him. Then to him Was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom the one which shall not be destroyed. Okay, so Peter's looking at God's word and thinking this is the Son of Man, the Messiah His kingdom will come in power and in glory. It will never fade. And so he has this right confession with a wrong expectation, and it leads him to this wrong action. It leads him to rebuke God To strictly warn him, to chastise him, pick your sin in him. None of them are appropriate for us to do to God. So that's the reason for Peter's mistake. And what is the result? What's the result of Peter's mistake? He works against God. And if you're working against God, who is it that you are working for? You're working for Satan. The name Satan means adversary. It means enemy. Peter is not thinking straight. Because if Jesus doesn't do what he has told them the Son of Man must do, then there is no hope for them. There's no hope for anyone. And I believe that this is what Jesus is thinking when he it says he turns or turning participle. He looked at his disciples. And he looked at those he loved and had been leading and teaching. And if there had been a moment of temptation in Jesus, it's all gone. It all melts away because of the love he has for his people. The temptation was a kingdom without a cross. Do you remember when that temptation first came? It came from Satan, and it came in the wilderness. And he said, bow to me, and I'll give you all the kingdoms of this world. That's not one of the five months, is it? For you to be saved. The Lord Jesus Christ needed to die. Not to submit himself to Satan or the work of Satan. So how dare Peter rebuke him? And that's why he says, Go, get behind me, enemy, adversary. How was Peter able to be so wrong? He was not mindful of the things of God. That's what Jesus says. Get behind me, Satan, for you are not mindful of the things of God, but the things of man Who do you work for? Are you in an adversarial relationship with God? With Christ? Are you working for the enemy? Maybe you don't think you are. I've had to think about this a lot. I was the kind of person for a long, long time That you may be very familiar with if you know any Calvinists, or if you know any Republicans. I was the kind of person who thought that because I'm right and that what I'm right about is true. It doesn't matter how you feel when I tell you. If I tell you the truth and you reject the truth, it doesn't matter if I've offended you in the way I told it to you That's how I used to be. Does that describe any of you? We have a phrase in the Reformed world. We call it cage-stage Calvinism. Have you ever heard of that? It's when we first discover reformed principles, and we just want to shove it down people's throats. Because we're right, because the Bible says so. And yeah, what does the Bible also say? If you have the truth without what? Love. What is it? It's not nearly as important as you think it is. Yes, the truth is important. Of course the truth about God is important. But it must be truth tempered with love. Have you ever been the kind of person who thought so highly of yourself that you forgot what God's calling on you is We're going to find out later when Jesus describes himself, when he does some marvelous things at the king of all the universe. You could never imagine this king doing that. You couldn't imagine an earthly king doing what Jesus does. Could you imagine the president-elect washing your feet? And Jesus calls himself the servant of servants. And he calls you to follow him in his footsteps, to be a servant as he is a servant. Dads. Those of you called to be fathers. Are you mindful of the things of God in your fatherhood or the things of man? What's most important to you? 100% absolute immediate obedience? You do what I say when I say it Or is it more important that you're training up your children to understand why there is a structure of authority at all? And I tell you what, you will make a kid hate authority if that's the way you go. Trust me, I know Moms. Sometimes the household can be seen as your domain and your domain alone. Is it your intention to force everyone to enjoy Christmas? You will love this season. You will enjoy the cookies that I make. It doesn't matter that everything else is falling apart so I can make dozens and dozens of cookies. I'm not saying that that's a bad thing, but be mindful of what God is doing. What would God prefer your children to be thinking about in this season, at this time of year. Husbands, the Bible says you're the head of your wife. That's a big deal. And it's true But you can find yourself working against God. If you believe that means that your wife must do whatever you say. You can find yourself working for Satan if you take that to mean that God has given you blanket authority. To decide every decision she ever has to make. Are you mindful of the things of God as a husband? Why? Are you mindful of the things of God? What does God tell you to do? Tarmon. And if you're only mindful of the things of men, God telling you to submit to your husband will sound like you are making yourself a slave with no rights and no power and no joy and no life whatsoever. If you're mindful only of the things of man, but if you're mindful of the things of God, what does that mean? Follow your husband as he follows Christ. Your helper. Whose mission are you on and helping with? The Lord has given us many callings. He's put many things in our lives. He has given us much good to do. But I promise you, brothers and sisters, if you are only mindful of the things of man, you will find yourself working against God. And I want to close with this. Just one example from Scripture. You guys know about King David? The one who Joseph was of the line of, the one who Jesus is the son of. You remember that David was called a man after God's own heart? What a beautiful way to put it. He loved what God loved. A man after God's own heart, that's a man you can follow. That's a man you can trust. Who out there knows where I'm going with this one? How did a man after God's own heart find himself raping someone, stealing her, murdering her husband? How does a man after God's own heart fall and make such a mistake? What's our answer? He was not mindful of the things of God, but mindful of the things of man. He thought of himself as men think of kings. She already belonged to him. She's in his kingdom. He can do whatever he wants. There are no consequences. Do you remember what he does? He gives it's even worse than he just kills Uriah. He sacrifices like a legion of troops and sends them to a terrible place on this siege where a lot of people die, so much so that the guy who sends the messenger back To David says, hey, when he gets really mad at you and he says, Why'd you do this? This is a foolish strategy. This is what you're to say to him. Uriah the Hittite is dead. End of story. A secret message for the man after God's own heart. Brothers and sisters, we must beg God to do whatever it takes to rebuke us. To correct us. If we think that we love his word and we love him, if we want to be saved If we want to be free of our sin, we must beg God to make us mindful of his ways and of his things. And not of our own. Otherwise we will be working against him. Please pray with him