Remember that Jesus Christ of the seed of David was raised from the dead according to my gospel. For which I suffer trouble as an evildoer, even to the point of chains. But the word of God is not chained. Therefore I endure all things for the sake of the elect. That they also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. This is a faithful saying. For if we died with him, we shall also live with him. If we endure, we shall also reign with him. If we deny him, he also will deny us. If we are faithless, he remains faithful. He cannot deny himself. Let us pray. Oh Christ, we have before us that beautiful message that you have given to us through your apostolic messengers. We pray, Lord, that we would realize what a treasure it is that you've given to us. That we would be attentive accordingly. That we would hang on your every word, that we would make sure that your word leads to watering us and helping us to grow and to produce fruit for our neighbor and for your glory. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Children, what is the last thing that you've done that was helpful to somebody else? I'm wondering if there's anything lately that you could think of. uh that pops into your mind when I ask you that. It could be something simple. It doesn't need to be world-changing. I'm not expecting you to have fed all the poor in Analy County or something But maybe you're one of the children that volunteers down at the pop-up pantry and you've helped somebody that way. Maybe that came to your mind. When I asked myself the same question, I remembered I tried to be helpful to my dad before he would get home from work and surprise him by raking all the pine needles up out of the driveway. On the Eastern Shore we don't have leaves, we have pine needles, at least where we were located. And I just wonder where you have sought to be helpful. I also wonder if you, in listening to the sermons and in reading through 2 Timothy, if Paul through the Holy Spirit has been helpful to you at all? I wonder, in other words, if not only are you helpful, and not only am I helpful sometimes, but I wonder if the apostle is helpful to us. And I wonder if you can give me some stories of how even God has been helpful to you. The reason why I ask is because that's really our main theme. It's what Paul is seeking to accomplish in this letter. He's seeking to be helpful to Timothy. uh by teaching him different things uh about the truth, about this deposit that he's passing on like a baton. Can you think of some of the things that we learned last week that were meant to help us. Sometimes we can enter into the Christian life unrealistically thinking this is just going to be an easy little stroll on a nice spring day And that would set us up for failure. And so Paul was extremely helpful to us last week by way of the Spirit, just showing us realistic pictures and alerting us that we're all going to face hardships. And in fact You going through hardships is the way in which God brings about his kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. Do you remember some of the images that he gave us? He taught us to be A soldier, I'm looking for some participation, athletes, and a hardworking farmer. All pictures of what it really looks like. to be a part of the Christian race or to to be sowing seed or to be devoted to your Lord. Well the Apostle Paul's not done being helpful. He has some helpful things for us here this morning in this passage. I'm going to break the passage up into three separate sermons so that we have some time to to really look at these things closely. I don't usually make a habit of that, but this is so can this is really con uh compacted stuff that Paul does. If you take a look down at your scriptures real quick, for example, in in uh verse number eight, he says, at the very end, he says uh my gospel. You see that? So he's summarizing a lot. He's summarizing a lot in this little verse. So I want to unpack that just a little bit. We won't be too long. And then next week, Lord willing, we'll move into the example of Paul, and then the week after that, we can move into the faithful saying in verses 11 through 13. But they're all one unit. We're just breaking them apart so we can spend more time. This morning, the Spirit seeks to teach us and to help us by way of a very specific doctrine, and it's this. We are helped in the Great Commission by remembering two main things. We are helped in the Great Commission by remembering, one, that Jesus Christ is our King, and two, that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. We are helped in enacting the Great Commission by remembering that Jesus is our King and that Jesus is the Son of God. And so we'll look at that under two parts. Jesus is our King, and Jesus is the Son of God. Let's go ahead and look at the verses together. uh that teach us that. It's all located there in verse number eight. Let's read that again. You can take a look at your Bible. Remember That's the command to Timothy. Remember that Jesus Christ of the seed of David was raised from the dead. according to my gospel, or the gospel that I preached, or the gospel that was handed to me that I preached, and that's what he means by my gospel. But the first point that you can see that he makes there in verse 8 is that this Jesus Christ is of the seed of David. The first branch is that Jesus Christ is of the seed of David. Now That sounds a little bit funny for us as modern Americans, but if anybody here, has anybody here ever researched a family tree? You could perhaps get on ancestry or something along those lines. And when you get on those trees, sometimes you find something that's quite surprising. Sometimes you find out that um Even though you've never really acted like it, you're related to royalty. I remember being told that, believe it or not, somebody told me I am related to royalty, that apple has officially far and fall from the tree Uh someone mentioned to me that by way of ancestry that I was somehow related to Lord and Lady Fairfax of Fairfax, Virginia. Now, if I wanted to use the words that were present here within our passage, I would say, I am of the seed of Lord and Lady Fairfax. I am um it's a part of my ancestry. That's uh my that's my family tree, and that's what's going on here in this particular passage. Paul is pointing to the fact That Jesus, in other words, is a physical descendant of King David. That is very important. It is a part of each one of his gospel presentations that he gives. And if you were to turn to the sermons of Peter. You would find that Peter brings up over and over again that Jesus Christ is the physical descendant of King David. Now why does he do that? Why is it so important that that be a part of their message? Why is it so important in this short and compacted verse 8 where he's seeking to uh compactly give us all of his gospel, he brings up the fact that he's of the seed of David. It's because it's more than just saying he's a physical descendant. He's saying he's the physical descendant. Jesus Christ is the descendant that everyone had been waiting for. And I wonder if you are familiar with some of those prophecies that were given. about the king that was to come, that God would grant all authority in heaven and earth. Their argument in each of their gospel presentations is that Jesus is that king A lot of the times they end up quoting the Psalms. Have you ever noticed that? In gospel presentations, the apostles like to quote the Psalms. And when they do, those psalms are speaking about the Messiah or the Christ or the Anointed One or the King And how will you know when this king has arrived? Well it will be the king who has been not uh kept in the pit, but has been raised from the dead. It'll be the king who was stricken for our transgressions, who went forward like a silent sheep to the slaughter. There's all of these different Psalms. Those are all a part of the picture of the awaited king That was the descendant of King David, the one who would take over the Davidic dynasty, which was no longer just located locally within Israel. Or in the Middle East, or in the Far East, but over all of the world. I wonder if you could think of a passage in your Bible reading that captures everything that I just said. Well, one that would be excellent for you to discuss over lunch today would be from 2 Samuel 7, verses 12 and 13. Listen to this. This is God speaking to David, helping David to understand where this whole thing is headed He says, when your days are fulfilled and you rest with your fathers, I will set up your seed after you. Who will come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. Now that's what Paul is referring to here. Paul is saying what he said, what God said to David has come true in Jesus, and Jesus' last name is not Christ. It's Jesus who is the Christ. And Christ means anointed one or Messiah or King. That's Paul's argument, is that Jesus is in fact this king. And that's our main point. I mean the the main this whole division of Our passage when we look at verse number eight and he's giving us his gospel, he says, remember two things. Remember first that he's of the seed of David. Well, what's his point there? His point is this is the king. And I just read from you from 2 Samuel that God had promised that He would bring, He would establish or set up David's seed and establish his throne and his kingdom forever. Well, behold your Christ, who is Jesus from Nazareth. That is the first branch of this verse that Jesus is the seed. He's the long-awaited king who established who establishes God's kingdom on earth. And we actually heard about him in Genesis when it says, You will crut this seed will crush the head of the serpent. And here he is. It is Jesus. Now, how is that helpful to you? We started the whole thing, children, in talking about how you're helpful, how I was helpful once in my life. And that God is helpful to us, especially through his apostles. How is this doctrine? How is this truth helpful to us? Well, if you look back up in our verses a little bit, go back up to chapter 2, verse 4. It's just a few verses up, four verses up. And he says, No one engaged in warfare entangles himself with the affairs of this life. Why? So that he may please him who enlisted him as a soldier. Now here's the question to you Who has enlisted you as the soul as his soldier? We say Jesus, but now what we're doing is we're fleshing out the first part of what that means. That you have been enlisted by the long-awaited king that God has set on his holy hill and has given all authority in heaven and earth I cannot, therefore, think of a more honorific calling to receive. That's the first way it helps you is just to realize the kind of honorific position that you have been given To be called his brother, to be called God's son and daughter, and to be called his soldier, and to be recruited into his particular army. That's one way in which it's helpful, but it is helpful for so many other ways. And I just want to bring up I want to bring up one. One way that this is helpful. As I'm going through my pastoral task, I try to map and see are there patterns of what people are struggling with as they seek to be good soldiers for Christ? And one of the things that continually comes up that people ask, and I wonder if you just if you even ask this today, maybe you didn't even ask it out loud Maybe you made a piece of toast this morning and when you were putting butter on the toast and then you were putting a little bit of jam on the toast, even though you probably shouldn't have You were in your own mind thinking about, hmm, I I wonder what God wants me to do about this. Not about the toast, folks. I'll say what does God want you to do about a situation in your life? Was your child on your mind? Was your marriage on your mind? Was a workplace something or another on your mind when you're doing this in the morning and you're just wondering, I wonder what I'm supposed to do? Well another way to put that according to this passage that is clarifying is that you should be asking the question, What would please my king? It can become that simple for you. I find that quite clarifying in my thought to just ask the question, what would please my king? And the more we know him, the more we would know what is pleasing to him. It was pleasing to my father when I raked pine needles. all in the front driveway because that meant he could go to work and not come home and then keep working. But could have a moment of relaxation perhaps or hang out with a friend. The first thing that we would do is we would say, What is pleasing to our king? And this would immediately start to get us in touch with that Great Commission, because if you remember, he spoke as a king in the Great Commission. Sometimes we don't pick up on that But what does he say? Doesn't he speak like a king when he says, Teach them to obey all that I have commanded you, and baptize them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost? Teach them to obey all that I have commanded you. That's king language. He knows who is in charge. And he has called you in the Great Commission to go out, even among your own children and your grandchildren. Seeking that one main question would always be in front of us, seeking to be answered, and that is, what would be pleasing to our King? What has he commanded? That's a summary of his commission. What is the king's will for his kingdom? Is another way to put the same thing. What is the king's will for his kingdom? I like that because it keeps both of our feet on the ground and we don't need to go off into some abstract ethical concepts talking about the ontological necessity of man's existential dilemma or whatever You come up with when you're reading your philosophy books. We just ask the question, what's the king's will for his kingdom? And the more we get to know our King, by way of His word, we know the answer. And we pray that we would not just know His will, but obey it. It's part of the Lord's Prayer. We can also begin when we start to think about this in terms of a king and his kingdom, we can also start to notice when we are around a different kind of kingdom. Then is our king's kingdom. And we would know what we need to do, and that is not defect or become a turncoat to another kingdom. I wonder, children, if you saw this in The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe with the White Witch. And then we have Aslan. Have you ever noticed the difference between their kingdoms? Could you tell According to the story, when the white witch was ruling and she had power, and when Aslan was ruling and he had power, what were the different ways? What were their different wills The white witch, in order the the C. S. Lewis, in order to mark her kind of rule, it was always icy and cold. And there was no Christmas. But then even before Aslan arrives on the scene, when when Aslan has on the front of his mind the plan and it's starting to be executed even just a little bit by way of uh tea time with Mr. and Mrs. Beaver Do you know what starts to happen to the snow and to the ice? It begins to melt. And who's one of the first people that they see but Father Christmas? Because these are two different kingdoms. And one kingdom looks this way, and another kingdom looks this way. One kingdom is the establishment of evil and Satan is on the throne, and the other kingdom is seeking good and beauty. And loveliness. And we can begin to start thinking about that same way too. Whenever we're in any situation of our lives, we can ask: Is this the king in his kingdom? And when someone says to you, well why don't you do why don't you do this? Aren't you so silly for doing it the way you do, I say, What do you mean? Silly? I'm a part of this kingdom. Did you not know that? It would be silly for me to think I'm a part of your kingdom And my kingdom is going somewhere, yours is not. I uh early on my mentor would help me get at this thinking, kingdom thinking. By pointing out that the Christian life is actually far more like becoming a Hasidic Jew or an Amish person than what evangelicalism puts in front of you. And what he meant by that was that there is a clear and distinct kingdom of which you are a part that is manifested in thoughts, words, and deeds that flow out of the heart that has been recreated. If you were to go up to an Amish person and say, aren't you silly for wearing that hat and having those suspenders, they'd say, I don't know what you're talking about. This is what we do. And we have a bunch of good reasons for doing it. And this is what my father does. And this is what my grandfather does. And this is what my great-grandfather does. You're silly. There be no temptation there for them to not be Amish or for the Hasidic Jew to get a different kind of haircut because you think it looks funny. By analogy, that's what it means for us to exist in the kingdom. And so we begin to see that as king, Jesus Christ has enlisted you to establish his kingdom. And though this sounds a bit cheesy, do you know what your kids would be? Kingdom kids. And they'd be set apart as a bright light in the world because these kids are kids of the kingdom. And therefore they think and they do and they act. And they structure even their time in a particular way. Or kingdom marriages or a kingdom diet. Or I will even go so far to say we would have kingdom dogs. Kingdom pets And you know what a kingdom dog does? It goes to the bathroom outside. You know what else a kingdom dog does? He doesn't molest your guests when they come over. Because we as kingdom peoples seek to have dominion in the way that Christ told us to have dominion and by the power of his spirit. And that goes down into everything that is a part of our lives. Everything, everything, unto the glory of God. Whether you eat or whatever you do, do it all unto the glory of God. Now that's Jesus as king, and that's some of the ways we could go on for a long time. If you want to have me over your house, give me some food, we could keep talking about the king and his kingdom. But that's some of the ways in which that is helpful to us in recognizing that Jesus is King. The second point I want to make is that Jesus is the Son of God. We see that here in verse number 8, if we know what to look for. Remember that Jesus Christ of the seed of David was raised from the dead according to my gospel. Now in Romans, it's very important because we're dealing with such a compact statement here I looked outside of the statement for just a moment in Romans chapter one verses three and four and I found a statement that is almost exactly the same statement, but with one addition that helps us out here Romans chapter 1, verses 3 and 4 says this, concerning his son Jesus Christ our Lord, who was born of the seed of David. See that? According to the flesh, and declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the Spirit of Holiness, by the resurrection from the dead. So his point here is not just that he's raised from the dead, but it is a declaration of who Jesus Christ is: that he's not just of physical descent from David, but there's more going on here. It's not less than that, but it is more. The resurrection from the dead declares Jesus to be the Son of God. Now, if you needed to read about Jesus as the Son, In the New Testament Revelation, where would you turn to get a bunch of material about that? Is Jomacus here? Hebrews. Hebrews. Exactly. You would turn to Hebrews. Now listen to this. This is from Hebrews 1, 1 through 3. You could actually we're so close to Hebrews, you could flip over if you want. You've got 2 Timothy Titus and then one more letter and Hebrews. Just a couple pages away. And here's Hebrews chapter 1, 1 through 3. And I just want you to pay attention to the sun language. It continues past this, but I don't have time to keep going on. God, who at various times and in various ways spoke in time past to the fathers by the prophets, has in these last days spoken to us by his Son. Now, who is this Son? What do we mean by son of God? Is it just a repetition of his physical descendant of David? Well, that's not what happens here Whom he has appointed heir of all things, that still goes with the Davidic dynasty. But now listen to this: through whom also he made the worlds. Through whom also he made the worlds. Now listen to this. Who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person, And now listen to the kind of power that he has, and upholding all things by the word of his power. Does that sound familiar to you? And then there was light. When he by himself purged our sins, sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high. What you have here is far more than just a physical descendant of David. This is not another Solomon. It's not just a physical king descending from David. You have here the Son who has been described as he who has made the worlds. And this is why we as Christians have declared from the very beginning that Jesus is not only man, but he is also God. And that is declared by his resurrection from the dead. In this place, the Spirit teaches us that Jesus is the Son of God in the sense of that same Son. Through whom the worlds were made, and who providentially upholds all things by the word of his power. The Son, in other words, is divine And that's our second branch. The first branch helps you to understand who Jesus is according to his physical ancestry. He's the physical descendant of David, the long-awaited king. And the second branch helps you to see That his resurrection declared him to be the Son of God. He is divine. Through him the world was made. In him we live and move, and we have our being. Now let me ask you, how does this help? As you set out to advance God's kingdom As you set out to raise those kingdom kids and to have kingdom marriages and to be a kingdom widow or a kingdom single, whatever it is, because it takes up all of life. Your faith leads into faithfulness in everything. There's something that comes along that Timothy ha that Paul has been telling Timothy all along Is that when you seek, when you start to try to take steps towards the establishment of his kingdom, you will meet enemies in opposition. Most of the time, it'll be you. Because though you know God's will, you are oftentimes not willing to submit to it. So it begins with ourselves. And may Christ refine us and his church at large. But then it goes out. There's not only the flesh, there's also the world, and there is the devil. Opposition at each turn as we seek to establish the kingdom. And push aside the kingdom of Satan. Now I'm sure that that's not news to you because last week we looked at 2 Timothy chapter 3 and saw this huge list of what we face, the enemies and the oppositions. And of course you'll remember here that Paul is literally in prison. That's certainly some opposition. The other thing that I think is important for you to notice here in terms of enemy and opposition is that what we have here is in verse number 8 is another example of hardship, don't we? Don't we have embedded in verse 8 the physical descendant of David who had to go through much pain and sorrow before he was raised from the dead and reached glory? And isn't Paul telling us all that all of our lives will be a life of the cross? Yeah. As we seek to establish God's kingdom on earth as it is in heaven, you will meet enemies in opposition because you, as Christ's servant, are not better than Christ your master. He faced the same things. Well, that's helpful in and of itself to know that that's the way life is. But it is also helpful to know. Given that Jesus is not just the physical descendant of David, but is also the Son of God and is divine, boy is that helpful to us as we face difficult enemies and difficult opposition. Because one of the main things that we as Christians will struggle with is courage to keep moving God's kingdom forward. We can lose sight of our perspective. Do you remember that time when God had led the people and their children through the Red Sea? And that he had through powerful works shown that he will take care of them. Do you remember the first time they laid eyes on those who were gonna the land that they were gonna have to take over? And they came back and they reported and they said, They're like giants. That's the way that they saw them And that's the way that we as Christians can begin to see the tasks that Christ has given to us. This is like a giant. How am I ever supposed to face something like this? Why did you take us out of Egypt so that we could just die? Those kinds of complaints can be resonant within our hearts. And here, hearing. That Jesus is the Son of God is meant to be medicine to the wound of cowardice that it might start to heal over. That we would not have our when they saw those giants in the land, it said that their hearts melted like wax And this truth is given to us that he is the Son of God, that our hearts might not melt, but that they would remain solid and strong and persevering for him. But sometimes our perspective can get skewed. And what we need is to hear this, and then we've got to really believe it, which is really hard to do. We've got to really believe it, and then we'll start to get the right perspective. I wonder if your perspective has ever changed and then you finally realize, wow, I've I really had been misprioritizing things. I remember this story of a bunch of hikers, young uh teenage boys taking a hike, uh out west somewhere, and After about the first couple miles, I know some of you hyped and uh I don't know if you have experience with this, but after about the first couple miles, I think they were on the fifth or the sixth mile There are a lot of complaining started. Oh, I'm hungry. I didn't eat enough at the parking lot. This shoe is really rubbing on the back of my foot. Do we have to keep going? This water doesn't taste right. I'm using a new water bottle and it tastes like a factory. I don't know that we should uh why would I want to do this anyway? I could be back home doing such and such And even one of the dads started to chime in and complain. Started complaining like how could I let my body get this way? I used to be able to do walks like this with one shoe on in the snow. And boy did every little backache and every little hunger pang and every little sh stone in their shoe seem like a giant. And you know if it were to continue, if you're a leader, if you're if you're like a if you're in charge of that crew, you you would need to stop that soon because soon you know their hearts are gonna melt Like wax and they're not going to be able to make the milestone on the hike that they need to in order to complete it on the time that you said you were going to need to Well a leader didn't need to stop them from this. There was something else that happened to put everything into proportion. All of a sudden, when they were on the trail, they looked up a front, up, up, up ahead, and there was a grizzly bear And the grizzly bear, I think just out of curiosity, stood. And I think grizzly bears are at least 10, 12 foot tall. I don't know much about them. But I'll tell you this right now. Do you know what they were no longer thinking about? Do you know what what seemed like giants before? Do you know they became real small? Nobody had a backache anymore. Nobody was paying attention to whether they were hungry. No one paid attention to the back of their heel being rubbed by their shoe. The only thing that put everything else in perspective and relativized the situation was that blasted grizzly bear up on the top of the trail. And I'm telling you, brothers and sisters, that that is what hearing that Jesus Christ is the Son of God is supposed to do to all of your enemies and your opposition. There's this one proverb that I love so much. It pictures an older man in a window of the second story of a house. And he looks out of the second story and he has a vantage point. And he sees a young man walking down a path he's not supposed to. What that tells us in that proverb is that old man, due to wisdom, is able to see the world as it's meant to be seen, especially in moral domain. Well, God has wisdom. God sees things as they're meant to be seen. And do you know what he how he characterizes relative to him all of your opposition and your enemies? He says that they are like little grasshoppers. Little tiny grasshoppers. And he laughs at those who try to fight him. That's another way in which this is meant to be helpful. I wonder if you've looked on your oppositions and your enemies and you've lost your perspective. It could be a medical condition, it could be whatever it is. What you've got to realize is there's no enemy, not even death, that is able to conquer you as you seek to establish God's kingdom. Let's just take a worst-case scenario. Let's say they kill you. Okay, that means you're instantly translated into the presence of Jesus Christ. No longer struggling with sin, and when he returns, he will place you in a perfect body. Or maybe at that moment he'll just decide, like he did so many times with Paul, to just resuscitate you. That's the kind of power that we're dealing with. Paul tells you that the same power that was in Christ that raised him from the dead is the same power that is within you because you have the Holy Spirit. Now what kind of courage and confidence could you have going forward in the establishing of his kingdom, no matter what the opposition and no matter what the enemy? May we do so together. Those problems become small. When we truly believe in our hearts that Christ is the Son of God. then all our enemies and opposition are seen in their true size. The world will give us much trouble, but do not fear. Jesus Christ has overcome the world. We are helped by hearing that. We are helped this morning by remembering, especially in light of the Great Commission, that Jesus is our Christ. He is our King. And that Jesus is the Son of God. Amen. Please pray with me