We're now going to be hearing from God's Word, so let's stand for our scripture reading, the prayer of illumination, and the prayer of illumination. It'll be Acts chapter eleven, nineteen through twenty six, and thirteen one through three. You can see in verse eighteen that it's speaking about the Gentiles receiving repentance to life, which was Now those who were scattered after the persecution that arose over Stephen traveled as far as Phoenicia. Cyprus and Antioch, preaching the word to no one but the Jews only. But some of them were men from Cyprus and Cyrene who, when they had come to Antioch, spoke to the Hellenists, preaching the Lord Jesus And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed and turned to the Lord. Then news of these things came to the ears of the church in Jerusalem, and they sent out Barnabas to go as far as Antioch. When he came and had seen the grace of God, he was glad, and encouraged them all that with purpose of heart they should continue with the Lord, for he was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And a great many people were added to the Lord. Then Barnabas departed for Tarsus to seek Saul, and when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. So it was that for a whole year they assembled with the church and taught a great many people, and the disciples were first called Christians in Antioch. And then I continue in 13, 1 through 3. Now in the church that was in Antioch, there were certain prophets and teachers, Barnabas, Simeon, who was called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Manon, who had been brought up with Herod the Tetrarch, and Saul As they ministered to the Lord and fasted, the Holy Spirit said, Now separate to me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them. Then having fasted and prayed and laid hands on them, they sent them away. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we need your illumination that we might not only hear these words, but that we would truly understand them. We ask That you'd work them down into us, that we would become like a tree that is well rooted by the stream, bearing fruit in good season. In Christ's name, Amen. Please be seated. Has anyone heard the phrase, as a man thinks, so is he? You have? Okay, very good. As a man thinks, so is he. It's a biblical phrase from Isaiah, I believe. And the idea is that if you truly believe something, then it will be expressed in genuine action. It's actually the entire point of the book of James. is that you uh what's the what's the phrase, put your money where your mouth is, that kind of idea. Um as a man thinks, so is he You know, a great image of this throughout the scriptures of someone who truly believes is the person that is well-rooted. Now this of course brings to mind, possibly to your regret, a TV show that I greatly enjoyed, particularly the first season, which was Filthy Riches. The second one, um, well the first one, they're they're all watermen or tree experts or whatever, and so they cuss a lot. In the first one they bleep everything out. In the second one, they got permission to just let it roll. So watch the first season. Maybe not the second. And in the first season, there's two of my favorite uh filthy rich people is a mushroom hunter and someone who hunts for burls. So I'll explain this to you in a second. Anybody here seen Filthy Riches? Am I just standing up here by myself? Some people have. Filthy Riches is basically some people that have jobs where they make good money but it's really dirty. So you're a mushroom hunter You need I mean did you think about that when you attend attended UMBC? You'd become a mushroom hunter. Or that you would um find trees that have deformities on it called burls in order to sell to guitar guitar companies or Uh you know, when you go fishing uh for rockfish and you use a blood worm, somebody dug those out of a Massachusetts mud flat and they're on there. And uh there's other people too. There's a guy in West Virginia that hunts for uh West Virginian uh ginseng. I'm digressing. So Mushroom hunter and burl. And the thing about those two things, it really connects with the biblical passages and the point that they try to make about belief. If you watch the mushroom hunter, he could basically go into any area, particularly in the uh Portland or something like that in those forests, and He could just uh take his hand and hit a mushroom and it would just fall over. And the reason is is because there's no root there. However, if you were to watch the guys who hunt down the burls, A burl is a deformity on usually the bottom of a tree, but it can also be on the side that has interesting grain where you can make artistic bowls or you could sell it to a guitar company for a veneer. If you have veneer on your furniture, it's going to be from a burl from California. In order for that guy to get that burl, he has to have all of this heavy equipment nearly die every single time because it is so well rooted even in sandy soil Even if it were a rotten root, it's so well-rooted still that it takes hours for them to be able to remove the tree. And it's the same thing when we look at belief within the Christian faith. And so here's the question. Are you a mushroom or an oak tree? That's the question. Are you a fungus? Or an oak tree. You see where I want you to go, right? Okay. Yeah. Well, not just in general. I mean, you know, y you you're going through this pilgrimage within your Christian faith, and of course you're a mushroom in some things And you're an oak tree and other things. But just in terms of our series here with witness, with the things that we're saying, I'm laying down this Trinitarian foundation and saying the reason why we witness Why we send missionaries, why we evangelize is because of the Trinity, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. And we do so through prayer, and we do so through community. These are all things that should be fastened down. But if you wanted to summarize everything so far, it's basically that Jesus Christ is working. That's it right there. All of those foundation points connected to the Father. He sends the Spirit. He's doing his work for the Father. We're praying. People are going out. It's summarized in Jesus' working. And that, although it might sound simple to you, let me ask you, when I say Jesus is working, are you a mushroom or are you an oak tree? Because some of us, quite honestly, in this room, do not believe that Jesus is really working. And that's what we're going to be looking at today, is that if Jesus really is working, then we have work to do. And if he's not, then there's no work to do. You might as well go into an existential drunk fest or something. But he is working, and so we have work to do. That's what this whole thing is about. And we're going to look at basically three ways in which he's working here in this passage and the work that it requires of us It's that simple. So the very first thing then where we can start to judge whether we're oak trees or mushrooms is since Jesus is working, And then we work. The very first one is, since Jesus is working through our enemies, we should work as absolutists. Yeah, I know, it's high fluidity. Language. Just bear with me for a second. Since Jesus is working through our enemies, we should work as absolutists. Now take a look at the text with me. This is super interesting, by the way, this whole section is this driving narrative. You can feel the hand of Luke on our back. pushing us as to what Jesus Christ is doing. Jesus Christ as the ascended Lord is particularly working here through his enemies. Now starting in verse 19. Now those who were scattered after the persecution that arose over Stephen traveled. Okay, you need a little bit of background here. You should be able to remember that in Acts um Stephen ends up having to give this speech. And Stephen is the one of the first deacons, and they end up cornering Stephen Stephen gives his speech and during his speech he lays out the entire history of Israel and it climaxes or consummates in him saying that your temple will be torn down, and that you are a disobedient and stiff-necked people. Now the reason why he says this is because God has had control over the nation of Israel for all of their existence. He's the one that called them out and planted them within a father. And then they grew to this mighty nation. And he taught them how to worship him and to live for him. But what would end up happening is as he wanted to move forward within his plan that he had for them, he would send them prophets They would reject any change and they would kill them. Do you remember in fact the parable of the wicked tenants, where he would send one person after another? and they would kill them one after another and then finally he said, I'll send my son. Surely they won't kill my son. But then they do. And that's the speech that Stephen does. Stephen says, You have killed God's son. And of course, they pick up stones at this point and they stone him to death. He's the first Christian martyr. They take off his cloak and they lay it at the feet of Saul. Saul is the one who had gone to the Sanhedrin in order to have warrants to go out and to arrest those who were teaching the message of the About Jesus Christ. And it was right at that point, you can imagine yourself living within Jerusalem, also being a Christian. It was right at that point where they said, it is time for us to get out of Dodge. Would you leave? I mean, I would have too. I would have packed up my family and we would have fled. That's exactly what's going on here within the background. Verse 19 is saying that they scattered. Most believers left Jerusalem and kept witnessing to Jesus' person and work. That was the surprising thing. You'd think after one person was persecuted and died, they would just shut their mouths, but they didn't And so the enemies, in thinking that this would finally silence them, saw going and obtaining warrants if enough arrests happened, if enough stonings happen, then maybe they would be quiet. But they kept going. You know, if you were to think of this, our our one of our um our theologians, John Calvin, puts this He says that if you were to think of this, basically they were going to Jerusalem and they were trying to burn down the barn. So think of Jerusalem like a barn. And they go in and it's a Christian barn and they try to set it ablaze. But instead they didn't realize that there was ammunition in there. The barn was full of seed. It blew up. Seed scattered all over the place. And now fruit is growing for Jesus Christ in every land. And I love that picture of the church. I love that picture because it shows us that Jesus Christ is working according to this text And that he's not just working in ways that we would expect, but instead he's working through his enemies. It's something that you end up seeing really through all of the life of Jesus Christ. You've heard me say this before? If you haven't, it might be a bit surprising, but I think Jesus Christ, in summary, was a jiu-jitsu martial artist. What does it mean for him to be a jiu-jitsu martial artist? It means that in jiu-jitsu jiu-jitsu, am I saying that correctly? You're looking at me straight. Okay. Jiu-jitsu. When someone lunges for you, you use their momentum and their strength against them and you would throw them to the floor. However th however that would work. We see the same thing happening here. In and thinking that this is how they would defeat, and thinking with puffed up chest that this is a demonstration of power. Jesus with this jujitsu move takes them, uses their own momentum, and throws it in such a way to where now It used to be contained in Jerusalem, and now the message of Jesus Christ will go out into every single land. Amazing. You see the exact same thing with the cross. They are nailing Jesus to the cross, and Jesus in his mind is thinking, You think you've got the best of me, but this is actually the last nail in your coffin. And he says that to Satan. himself. Jesus Christ is working through his enemies, and therefore, since he is doing this, since it's established right here We must become absolutists in the way that we make Christian decisions here for witness. Now, what does that mean To be an absolutist is to not be a pragmatist. To be an absolutist is to not be a consequentialist. Clear? No, it's not. This is the language that's handed down to me in books And so I apologize. This is what it means. To be an absolutist means that you, in the words of Stonewall Jackson, duty is ours, the consequences are God's. Isn't that much more clear? Duty is ours, the consequences are God's. That's what that means. Do you see why Because if Jesus Christ is going to work even through his enemies, then all we have to focus on is the right thing to do in our witness Here's the opposite approach, where you would kind of work out in an engineering fashion all the consequences of each particular action. And then you would determine what is the right thing to do. Now think if the Jerusalem Church did that. Here we are preaching the Lord Jesus Each time we do, we're brought before the Sanhedrin. This is bad for politics. They're eventually going to overtake us. We really should just stop and figure out a totally different message in order for this to happen Maybe we should just serve them and keep our mouths shut because love says it all. But that's not what they do. Because Jesus said, You will go out to every tongue and tribe and nation. And you will preach my person and you will preach my works. And that's what they do. Even though they're doing so, you know they were thinking, how in the world is this supposed to be working out? But they focused on their duty And not the consequences. Because the consequences are God's. The duty is ours. And that's one of the first rules that we have. If Jesus is in fact working through our enemies, we are unstoppable. Don't try to dial in on what the consequences of your behavior might be. Just do the right thing. Say the right thing that Jesus has asked you to say. At the right moment. It simplifies things. Now that's the first point. Since Jesus is working through our enemies, we should work as absolutists. Who would have guessed that Jerusalem was a barn when it exploded, the seed would go everywhere? Bet you they didn't see that coming. It's the same with us. Now here's the second point. Since Jesus is working through his word We should work as farmers. You can see this in your passage where they send Barnabas, or that they go out And now those who were scattered after the persecution that arose over Stephen travelled as far as Phoenicia, Cyprus, and Antioch, preaching the word to no one but the Jews only. Except there were a few that decided not to just preach to the Jews, but some of them were men from Cyprus and Cyrene who, when they had come to Antioch, spoke to the Hellenists, and not the Jews, the Hellenists. Preaching the Lord Jesus, and the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed and turned to the Lord. Here you see Jesus Working through his word by accompanying with his spirit. They go and they're originally just preaching to the Jews only. This message from the Old Testament had only ever been given to the Jews, but now things are changing and it's going out in a drastic way. fantastic measure to all of the Gentiles, including the Grecians. They preached to the Grecians and a great number believed. Which is the first sign that we can see that Jesus Christ is specifically working. Now when you hear that, some bells should go off. The great number believed. There are greater things done here by these men than Jesus Christ has ever done. I just went over this with the deacons at the latest deacing meeting. What does that mean? When you read in the Gospel of John, when Jesus says, I must go away and depart and be with my Father, but I'll send you the Spirit, it's better that way. Surprise. What does he mean when he says, And you will do greater things than me? Does it mean that we will do greater miracles? If you were to survey all of the apostolic miracles, they're incidental and and maybe a tie, but I think they're less actually than what Jesus has accomplished. You can think of the teaching. Was their teaching better? Is our teaching better than Jesus'? No. You can go through the whole litany of Well interestingly, Jesus on his forty days and speaking with his disciples, and the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing disciples, after he departs in his ascension, they all go into the upper room and a number is given to us. Jesus has a congregation smaller than ours. It's a hundred and twenty people. Our congregation right now is bigger than this. I'm actually more successful than Jesus. At this moment. That's a joke. Take it easy. Don't stone me. But the point is, though, is that Peter, the one who denied Jesus, gives his first sermon And 3,000 people are added to the church that day. And then there's another 5,000. Thousands are added over and over again. people joining the church daily. Jesus did not accomplish that on earth. So the point that's being made here is that Jesus is working through his word by the Spirit in a way that he had up to this point. Never worked. Jesus is accompanying his word to where when it is spoken, people are being transformed Thousands are coming in. It's difficult for us to see that here within America, but within other countries you can see it happening where at one point Korea is hardly Christian, then all of a sudden it's forty percent Christian. Christian. Forty percent. And uh that's not to mention certain uh areas within Africa There is a an accompanying of the word that is a miraculous that we have never seen before, even in the life of Jesus that is still happening to this day. And so, here again from the text, Jesus is in fact working. He worked amongst the Greeks. He works amongst us. And so we, if this is true, if he is working in this way, then we must work as farmers That's the image that's given to us in the scriptures. We must be those who continually sow the seed Some people say, well, you know, I've tried to sow the seed, but apparently I don't have a green thumb because every time I throw seed out, nothing ever grows here in America. Anybody ever feel that way? Every time you get the opportunity to share about the person or works of Jesus Christ, the seeds don't take? Well remember the first point. Yours is the duty God's is the consequences. You don't give up seed casting because you don't see fruit. That is up to him. That's what the farmer does. He casts the seed. You have to rely on him. Remember that first point for this one And take confidence also in anticipation that he will work. You see here, there's this phrase here. that the arm of the Lord was with them. It's a signal of great power that is accompanying the preaching, and we should anticipate the exact same thing. You know, I I think of um of how we don't anticipate that any longer. I can think of people that that keep ringing people here whenever they meet them in order to hear the gospel and those people are confused. and they go away and then they never come back and that how discouraging that could be. But let me encourage you to just keep going. Keep following the duty. Forget the consequences. Just keep bringing people to hear the gospel whenever the opportunity is given to you. It's the same thing with But not only is there a sowing of the seed, there is a watering of the seed. You see this here, when Barnabas finally reaches Antioch, he goes to them and he says that they should continue with Jesus Christ with purpose of heart. He's going to not only speak to them for a couple days, but he's going to go down and he's going to find Saul of Tarsus. He's going to bring them up to Antioch, and they're going to talk to these folks for a year. Isn't that great? Isn't that a little bit different than what you end up seeing in America and maybe where we're going wrong? You receive a track on the street and you never see the person again But this passage here says if you're going to hand out a tract, if you're going to give a witness, you better track that person down and figure out a way to have them over for dinner so that you can see watering the seed that you have planted. It's the same thing with our children. We keep watering the seed that has planted. You go and you recruit friends, like he had to with the Apostle Paul eventually. But we would spend our time in discipleship, not just in this handing things out, hoping that they'll do well on their own. We're to gather them into our specific community. And so not only if Jesus is working through our enemies must we make decisions on our duty and not our consequences, and not only if Jesus is working through the Word, must we become farmers by planting and watering, Jesus Jesus is also working through not just you as individuals, that's the picture you have right now, but as you as an entire congregation together, pulling resources, whether tangible or intangible. Jesus is working through the congregations. And therefore, surprisingly, we should work as senders. And now we have to turn to chapter 13 for this. You can see in 1 through 3, it's really um 12 and 13. Let me pull a couple pieces together to show you how Jesus is working through congregations. Jerusalem, the church at Jerusalem hears that there are a bunch of Hellenists that have accepted the gospel. And so they decide to send Barnabas to help him. That is one congregation sending. It's Jesus Christ working through that congregation and sending to another. They establish that congregation. We didn't read this part, but there's a prophet in their midst. That says there will be a famine. So they take up a collection and they send Saul and Barnabas back to Jerusalem in order to minister to that church so that they're not stuck in poverty. That is another way in which Jesus Christ is working through that congregation to help another congregation. Then when you go back to Antioch, You find in chapter 13 another ascending that is getting ready to happen. There is a uh uh assortment of ascension gifts, such as prophets and teachers and missionaries, that are labeled here with this in this church and another. Antioch, and here you see that Jesus Christ is going to use them to launch the Apostle Paul across the Mediterranean Sea to plant churches in every known area. And from those areas it will creep westward until the whole earth has seen the gospel. Right from Antioch. Right from Antioch and before that Jerusalem. And so you can see here that Jesus is certainly working through congregations. And so therefore we need to have an identity that we are not only farmers, that we are not only those who stick to our duty, but that we are also senders. Now what does this mean? There's some ways in which we are already doing this and being a part of our denomination. I'm hoping that this will inform us a little bit. One of the ways in which we accomplish this as being a sender is through our major missions agency in the Presbyterian Church in America. We have a mission to the world, which will go across seas, and we have a mission in North America or MNA. Which will remain nationally. And this is a way in which we can constantly send people out. When we send as an agency from the Presbytery or from the highest level, when that agency sends, that is you sending. We give money to that. Two hours on nomination in order for these things to be able to take place. It's not only at that level, but we also have uh presbytery collecting. Did you know this? That our specific presbytery is a very important thing. Has a great desire to plant churches all across our area and is taking donations from individual congregations to plant churches like Brian Lapiccolo's church in Westminster, or to plant like Tom Jr. 's church over in Crofton. Annapolis EP was basically able to plant that. Or there's a church called Downtown Hope in Annapolis. Has anybody heard of that? Downtown Hope basically fell apart. Annapolis EP came in alongside of it to help them bring things back together and to benefit from our Presbyterian ways in order to remain in order. And now they're working and they're growing and offering the gospel to young families of Annapolis. And we're contributing to those things, just as being a member of the Presbytery. I d I didn't did you know that? Isn't that interesting? All the different ways in which we can think of ourselves as senders? And then of course we have, as a church, we have in our budget that lovely document that we only see once a year, a list of missionaries that we are funding to be able to send out to do this work because we are senders. That's what we are. It's not a spreadsheet These are our convictions. This is us fulfilling our duties and forgetting the consequences because we are ascending church. The other thing that we could be doing, which is where my heart and soul is, you have these higher levels, of course, and I'm a fan of Thornwell, who didn't really he argued against some mission agency. And what our seminary teaches us is that not only is there that the denomination can offer and what the presbytery can offer, but there's no reason why individual congregations can't send out church planners on their own. Why can't we raise up someone and send them through seminary to get the training and lay hands on them and send them out with thirty people because we know the gospel needs to be in that area? Why couldn't we do that? You know, the the McMahon family, um hopefully they won't be embarrassed by me saying this, are they here? Okay it's well at any at any rate, they have sola de agloria stables. They're horse trainers, if you didn't know that. And they're always down at the track and they're always evangelizing, and there's all these different opportunities where people are interested in the gospel. What if we were severed run at the racetrack? I mean think of being able to commission Hugh and s I know, he's I'm dreaming. Think of think of somehow commissioning Hugh that he wouldn't be out there all alone evangelizing to all of those different people at the racetrack, but he knew that we were behind him as a church. That we would be praying for him. That he would be our missionary because we love to send. And that's what we do. You know, it's always been a part of the DNA of this church and has yet to happen really. That we would be a church planting church. As soon as we hit particular numbers, we would send out. We'd always send 50 so they could have a good start and be financially responsible on their own into an area that needs it. like around the Arundel Mills Mall. There's no PCA church. That's what it would mean for us to be ascending church in one way, which is to send out for the gospel. To be preached in all of the different areas. Our seminary even teaches that we, as congregations, should be sending people to other lands Which is taking place. There's a church, as I've mentioned to you before, in South County that has decided that instead of supporting a um a bunch of missionaries, they were going to drop some And they were now going to buy a village in Africa, start a Christian school and a church there, and minister to the entire area. And they did it. And those are the kind of things that we can do as ascending church. And you know why? Is it because I can stand up here and dream big for you? It's because Jesus Christ is working. Otherwise there is no foundation to stand upon on any of these things. What duty do you have if Jesus hasn't commanded you? You're a minister. You take from seed that He has made. You don't make your own seeds. You take from water that He grants to you. As the farmer. The farmer is reliant upon what God has made because God took something out of nothing. And now we use it as his stewards. It's the same thing as the church. We rest upon Jesus Christ working, and therefore we work. And you can see within this passage, I hope that you can see it, the ascended Lord In 11, 12, and 13, although not physically present, has sent down his spirit, and boy, is he at work. And he is at work today, he is at work today. He is at work within our midst. If there's anything good amongst us, it comes from only the good giver of gifts. The father of lights. Allow that to be another argument for you. Since Jesus is working, we should work. These are three ways that we see the passage. The question is, in regards to these, that you should be an absolutist and focus on your duty and not the consequences. And that you should be a farmer sowing seed and planting, even though it doesn't seem like you've got a green thumb. And that we should be ascending church. Are you a mushroom or an oak tree? That's the question And I don't care what you say, I want to see it in your actions. Because that's what truly speaks in this situation. And you know that's true. Evaluate your life, examine it. And say, based upon the way that I live my life, do I believe that mine is the duty and God's is the consequences That I am a farmer that sows seed and waters, and that I am to be sending, that I'm to be sending, that I'm to be sending Is that what you see within our life as a congregation? I'm not going to answer the question for you. I had my own realization, and you need to have your realization. Yesterday I attended a um a funeral for Catherine Wilford. It was a memorial service rather. It was lovely. It was lovely, lovely, lovely. I'm repeating a lot of words, but it was lovely. And the most marvelous thing, Catherine Wilford is Elaine Wilford's sister. She left a note. of farewell to her friends and her family and her and her congregation. And this is what she says. And boy did it take me back. As I'm considering these things right here. My precious he she died on March 24th, and and this is what it says in the farewell. Elaine, I hope you don't mind me using this. But she's still working, right? Yeah. My precious brothers and sisters in Christ, it is amazing to think that when this is read to you, I will finally be with Jesus. Now think about that. She is with Jesus. He is not a figment of your imagination. He's not the cornerstone of your philosophy. He is real. He is God and He is man and He is working amongst us. We need to feel that. We need to be able to have roots into that That Jesus Christ is present with us right now by his Spirit. I understand that it is difficult to relate when He is present by Spirit, and that it would be easier to hug him or to shake His hand. But he said it is better for you if I leave you now and go and prepare a place for you. He knows what is good. He said it's better if I send my spirit to you, but I'm still working. Can't you see it? Can't you see that I've been working up to this point and I'm working now? I'm working right now in this sermon. She is with Jesus. Are you an oak tree or are you a mushroom in relation to that? Is she with Jesus or is she not with Jesus? If he's with Jesus, then what is Jesus doing? If the apostles tell us what he's doing, then Jesus is working, and it is our foundation. If you and I believe that Jesus is working, we will be at work doing our duty and leaving the consequences to God. We will work as farmers planting and watering, and we will work as senders to the world and in ministering to our sister churches. Let's pray, let's pray, please pray with me. That's the best conclusion I could give. Please pray with me