Good evening, everyone. Good to see Thank you in the back. All right, let's go ahead and open with prayer. Father, we thank you for regathering us. We pray that as you reveal yourself That we would give you praise, that we would take great joy in our relationship with you through Christ and His Spirit. We pray, Lord, that we would not just be hearers of the Word. That we would be doers. We ask, Lord, that all these things would accumulate to where this world can see your excellence and that it would draw them to you. In the name of Christ. Amen. Let's stand for our call to worship from Psalm one hundred five. Oh, give thanks to the Lord. Call upon his name. Make known his deeds among the people Peoples. Sing to him, sing psalms to him, talk of all his wondrous works. Glory in his holy name. Let the hearts of those rejoice who seek the Lord. Seek the Lord in his strength. face forevermore. Remember his marvelous works which he has done, his wonders and the judgments of his mouth, O seed of Abraham his servant, you children of Jacob, his chosen ones. Amen. Let's sing together, holy God, we praise thy name. In the ceasing for Joy life's sacred thing to have those prophets well the glad refrain And go by from more, and from more to stand upstone Through the church the song goes on, holy father, holy son. Holy spirit free we need thee oh with only one On divine God we thank thee and glory and Amen. That's a good summary of the Sunday school lesson, was it not? Let us now hear the Luke chapter 3, 7 through 14 in preparation for our confession of sin. Then he said to the multitudes that came out to be baptized by him, Brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Therefore bear fruits worthy of repentance, and do not begin to say to yourself ourselves, we have Abraham as our father. For I say to you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham from these stones. And even now the axe is laid to the root of the tree. trees. Therefore every tree which does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. So the people asked him, saying, What shall we do then? He answered Then tax collectors also came to be baptized. Be content with your wages. Amen. You may be seated. Please join me in a time of confession. Father, we thank you for a passage like this. It reminds us of what repentance is supposed to look like look like. And it is striking that in each of the examples it is about relationships. It is about how we are to be with With our neighbors. Lord, when we think about the wisdom that you pour out on us by way of your spirit, and even in this book of Proverbs, which we're studying in the evening We think about how all of it is about society and how we are together to exist as a household. We see these examples as fitting well within that tradition. We see the examples of the soldiers, for example, and how they are to relate to those with over whom they have authority. authority that they are not to exhort to extor extort the population. We think, Lord, also of the teachers. We think of the tax collectors rather. And Lord, we thank of those that are given elsewhere within the scriptures where you pour out your wisdom and show what it means To be a neighbor. Lord, we thank you that you've given us this day, which is a day of rest, to be neighborly and to remember What it means to worship you and to love the household of God and even our enemy. But Lord, as we meditate on these things, we can't help but to notice That we have sins to confess. That when we were supposed to be thinking of those around us instead, we figured out ways to only think of those of ourselves. We pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that you'd bring things to mind that we keep pushing off, and that you'd help us to come to grips and to truly acknowledge The sins that we have been performing. I ask, Lord, that you'd be with your people now in the silence of their hearts as they confess their sins of being Poor neighbors. Lord, we confess these sins to you in the name of Jesus Christ. Christ. Amen. Amen. It is good to hear an assurance of pardon, and it is also good to remember that The Lord Jesus Christ by His Spirit is working in us to where we are becoming far better neighbors over time. As I was confessing my sins during this time, I actually was thinking And giving thanks to the Lord that I'm a little better with my neighbor than I was when I was 16 years old. So I'm thankful for that, and I'm thankful that He forgives me. Hear this assurance of pardon and remember his work of redemption in your life. 1 John 4, 9-10. In this the love of God was manifested toward us. That God has sent his only begotten Son into the world, that we might live through Him. And this is love, not that we loved God, but that He loved us and sent His Son to be the propitiation for us. Let's respond to this by standing and singing the solid rock. My hope is killed on nothing less than Jesus God and righteousness. I never trust us Jesus pray for me on Jesus' name. Or Christmas falling from Christ and all around his thinking set, all other round is thinking sad. When darkness bears his lovely face, I rest on his unshaking face. In every air, for we get by him. On Christmas thought, progress, all the other ground is seeking sad, all other ground is seeking sad. It's so pistol, so for me is all walking button. When all around my open way, even for my open day. On Christmas all in rock and stand, all the crown is sinking sand, all the crown is sinking sand. When we shall come with promised down all maybe come. Trust in his price just for must stand before control. Oh Christmas dolly rock I said, all the round is seeking set, all the round is sinking set. Amen. Let's open our scriptures together to Proverbs chapter three. And I'm going to begin our reading tonight in verse 21. And I will go to 30, but I'll only exposit up to 26. This evening, but it's all so intimately connected. I'm going to keep reading. Beginning in verse 21 of chapter 3. My son, let them not depart from your eyes. Keep sound wisdom and discretion, so there will be life to your soul and grace to your neck. Then you will walk safely in your way. And your foot will not stumble. When you lie down, you will not be afraid. Yes, you will lie down, and your sleep will be sweet Do not be afraid of sudden terror, nor of trouble from the wicked when it comes, for the Lord will be your confidence and will keep your foot from being Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due when it is in the power of your hand to do so. Do not say to your neigh neighbor, Go and come back, and to morrow I will give it when you have to do it. it with you. Do not devise evil evil against your neighbor, for he dwells by you for your safety's sake. Do not strive with a man without cause, if he has done you no harm. Let us pray. Lord Christ, we know that we cannot understand your will. your holy will unless you permit it. And so we pray that your spirit would enlighten our hearts and our minds this evening, and that this word would be used by you as an effective means for us to be conformed into your image, an image wherein we worship God and love our neighbor. In the name of Christ, amen. He may be seated. Well it's been a couple weeks, so I'll just by way of review and reminder uh reacquaint you with chapter three, especially verses thirteen through twenty, which we've read prior to this evening. Verses 13 through 20 are a kind of motivational interlude between the main lessons in wisdom and these introductory lectures from the father and the mother. And this interlude is solely focused on motivating us to continue in the pursuit of wisdom. The proverbists accomplished this in verses 13 through 18 by listing all of the benefits of wisdom. It's like a friend trying to talk you into. going on a trip with them and you don't really feel like it because it will be long and arduous. So what are the kinds of things that your friend would say to you? This is what we're gonna get when we get there. Those are the kinds of motivations that we see in 13 through 18. Silver and gold and rubies are worth working toward. But the proverbist says wisdom will give you greater benefits and profits Than even that wealth. You can buy a house with money, but through wisdom you can not only have a house, you can have a home. Having wisdom is like owning the tree of life, another image that's Those are the kinds of arguments given to keep the youth pursuing wisdom, especially when all their friends are off having fun, but they have to stay at work working for wisdom. It is worth it to keep striving for wisdom, secondly, in those in those verses, because it is by wisdom that God created and providentially sustains the heavens. That was something else we saw in the beginning of chapter 3 there, beginning in 19 and 20. The Lord by wisdom founded the earth, by understanding he established the earth The heavens, by his knowledge the depths were broken up and the clouds dropped down dew. Don't you want wisdom like that? That's the kind of wisdom it takes to build a house, to build a life. Then if you want to build a life like that, get wisdom. That's the argument. Now for tonight I'd like to begin by just making some observations, just like every other sermon and then we'll move into um quite a few applications actually. Here's the first thing I want you to notice in verses 21 through 26. That we're beginning a new lecture. In the Proverbs, these things are tied together, so we never leave the old behind. It's building on each other They're in hand in hand, but it is proper for us to say that there is a new lecture that we're moving into. And as you would expect, the father, who is the The teacher starts with a command and then a motive to obey the command. My son, let them not depart from your eyes. Keep, this is all in the imperative, sound wisdom and discretion. And behind the command is, as I just read, not to let wisdom and discretion escape. That's the main image that you really want to have here is Don't let it go. But it's to embra you want it to embrace and you want it to keep it. And that's a really important observation that the parent Is making as we seek to gain wisdom. Here's a reality in the world. In general, wisdom seems to slip Through our fingers. And so the parent rightfully says to the son, to the daughter, hold on to it. Keep it. Don't let it go. The likelihood of the loss of wisdom and discretion increases in difficult circumstances, especially. You can see some of the difficult circumstances in 21 through 26. When it talks about sleep being sweet, obviously there's some trouble, but if he holds on to it, that trouble can diminish. But when we end up in those difficult circumstances, that wouldn't end it when we need wisdom the most, that's when it slips through our fingers the fastest. That's the insight, the moral insight of the Father. For example, when we are tired, when we are under stress, or we are feeling disappointed When we are feeling depressed, or on the other side of the scale, if we're feeling angry, if we're feeling frustrated, we tend to let go of wisdom and discretion. And it's no wonder that when we're feeling those emotions, the scriptures talk about that as a kind of intoxication. Because when one is intoxicated, they let go of pretty much all If we really want something, it would be another example, when we really want something and we are we bec we've become narrow focused, we can lose our grasp on on wisdom. That would be another example. We can become impulsive. I wonder for you, when does wisdom, something you want to keep thinking about as we're going through these proverbs, When does wisdom and discretion go out the window for you? What are the circumstances where you it tends to slip through your fingers The Father says, at especially those times, don't let wisdom escape. Keep it. That's the first observation from 21, is that we are To keep sound wisdom, and the fact that he's giving that command gives us an underlying reality of the nature of wisdom being able to slip through our fingers. Observation Number two. The Father promises that keeping wisdom results in widespread security. That's the heartbeat in the center of this section of scripture. Verse 23, you will walk safely. Verse 24, your sleep will be sweet. Wasn't that good news? when you heard that. Verses 25 through 26, even with sudden disaster from the wicked, the Lord will maintain your foot from being And now those motivations are in the heart, but the emphasis is really the outer portions of this proverb. Did you hear the word play? The last statement is emphasized in the proverb. In verse 21, it says, keep or grasp the wisdom, and then at the very end like a bookend in verse twenty six the Lord will keep you from being grasped. That's the that's the kind of the riddle. That's being laid out. Well, if you see and pull if you pull together these different options or these different observations about how wisdom can slip through our fingers, but we We are and we should be aware of that, we should make sure that we keep it, especially in different cult circumstances. Doesn't this remind you of a parable that Jesus Christ gave in the New Testament? It should remind us of Matthew 7, 24 through 27. Therefore, whoever hears these sayings of mine and does Them, I will liken him to a wise man who built his house on the rock. You hear the emphasis? Let me try to say the emphasis again. Therefore, whoever hears these sayings of mine and does them You see the the the keeping reality that's present there? They weren't like mists that went in and one air and out the other. They became a part of the person, so much so that now I will liken him to a wise man who built his house on the rock, and the rain descended, the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat on that house, and it didn't not fall, for it was founded on the rock. All those same kind of elements are present in the proverb also with the circumstances that they would face, but instead they'd be able to sleep. But everyone who hears these sayings of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man, a wisdom term, who built his house on the sand and the rain descended. The floods came and the winds blew and beat on that house, and it fell, and great was its fall. And I'd like that to just be our doctrine this evening, that parable, that image that we have. of what it looks like to hold on to something. It's like building a house on a strong foundation, not just hearing things and moving on. Now, with that parable in mind, as a good summary of what the Father is encouraging the Son to do, and when I say son, I just mean child of God who's being raised up. I want us to consider a few applications. First, I want us to look at a connection between what I've just said And the preceding verses in Proverbs. I want us to look at an example that'll help us get our heads around this just a little bit more. And then I want us to consider a distinction And then I want us to consider the Christian hope: a connection, an example, a distinction, and our hope. So let's start with the connection. Matthew 7 is even more fitting than you may realize if you have forgotten about verses 19 through 20. Please remember that in verses 19 through 20 of Proverbs, God with wisdom was building the house of the cosmos. After the sermon two weeks ago, there were several children who were brave enough to ask me for the handout that shows the Hebrew cosmology. And um we got a chance to talk about that a little bit. And I gave out copies. And if you ha yeah I still have copies if you'd like some, but if you look at that copy and that and you can maybe bring up that picture again in your mind. pillars that it would never collapse. It is a picture of God building a house. That's the illustration that we have of Him building the heavens and the earth What I'm trying to say to you in this first point by saying, please notice the connection is that the proverbist is still working within that framework. The proverbist is still working within that framework, and so too is Jesus in the parable. Life is like building a house or a state or ranch. It must be built with wisdom, or great will be its fall. To go even more into the emphasis of what we have in our verses, hold on to the wisdom, or great will be its fall. Well, that's the connection that I think is worthy for you to notice, but I want to give you an example to hopefully clarify this even more. We all agree that in certain domains we should not let wisdom slip through our fingers. In certain domains, we all believe that we should build our house on the rock. I want you to consider farming, for example, and imagine that your dream Has come true. Maybe this isn't your dream, I don't know. But uh let's say that you have a dream to own a farm, and the dream is going to come true. I think we can all agree that establishing a farm should be done in wisdom and on a rock. What I mean by that is, imagine buying a farm and letting all of the farming wisdom just simply slip through your fingers You ignore the condition of the soil. You ignore the water the plants need. You ignore the threat of pests. You ignore when you should plant and when you should harvest. We all know that if you let wisdom slip through your fingers or if you don't build that farm on a firm foundation of those agricultural practices, then the homesteading endeavor will fail and great will be Can we all grant that? That's pretty obvious, right? We didn't need to um have a sermon about it. But that's an example of how we acknowledge this kind of thinking. that the Father is relaying to us in certain domains of life. But here's the thing, and here's the distinction, which is the third application. Here's the distinction. that you I want you to to just think about. Yet we make some kind of distinction between that analogy of our natural lives and our moral lives. We do this because we see that God upholds the natural world. If you do not water the plant, the plant will die. But when we look at the moral world, we don't seem to see laws at work. Is it really true that if wisdom slips through your fingers, then the how Plants always need water and sunlight. There are no exceptions. Yet we don't see the same regularity in the morning. moral order of the world. We see evil thrying thriving with seemingly no consequences. Think of all of the evil people that you just in the media Who just seem to be living the dream. There are there is no wisdom in their hands, or hardly any. God is gracious even to them. There's hardly they just they want it. They try to push it through their fingers to not hold on to it. They try to do every evil thing imaginable and create new ways of doing evil. And yet they seem to be having a great And we make note of that and we can feel the tension that maybe We can let wisdom slip through our fingers. We observe this enough and begin to conclude that maybe God does not really uphold any kind of morality. order as it is assumed here within this proverb. Let me start by saying this when we s when we have this kind of thinking that we need The first thing I want to say is that God is aware of this tension that we feel. God is aware that a whole host of people throughout the world have built their houses on the sand. He's aware of that. God is also aware that we see those people living the dream with seemingly no consequence. He is aware of that also. In the face of those realities, though we're not there yet, I want you to look at verse 31. Of this same proverb. Do not envy the oppressor and choose none of his ways. That is an answer To this kind of reflection that we're doing right now. In verse 31, for example, this is why he tells us not to envy the ways of the oppressor. God knows that our great temp temptation is to see others ignoring him and conclude that it does not matter if his wisdom slips through our hands. or not. And he tells you in verse 31, do not envy the oppressor. Even though it looks like it doesn't matter, it does. And that's where I want us to start talking about our another application point here, which is our hope. It brings us to the importance of Christian hope in a proverb like this. Christian hope is the hope wherein we keep thinking and acting in line with the promise that God has not abandoned his creatures But through Jesus Christ and His Spirit, we'll one day permanently restore good order. An important question, however, is. Does God give us motivation to keep up the hope until that happens? Because in the meantime, it doesn't look like he's a So how can we in hope keep acting that he will one day judge the earth? And that is a an interesting question. Does God give us motivation to keep up the hope. To help us keep the faith, he gives us all of the scriptures. He gives us all of the scriptures showing that he has always acted faithfully in the past. But let me ask one further question. Does he give you in his providence events in our lives so that you can see that the moral order actually matters? And he is upholding it. And that you should continue to build your house on the rock because it matters. And that you should not let wisdom slip through your fingers. You should hold Are there anything things that He does in our lives to motivate and convince us of these things? Does God give us little reminders that every Every deed we do has a God-given destiny in either ruination or blessedness. I wonder how you would answer that. I answer it this way. God gives reminders that holding on to his wisdom really matters. Let me give you one. For example, this is so strange that we know technical words like this, but does everyone here know what a comorbidity is? Isn't it weird that we know that word? Do we all know what comorbidity Amanda? A comorbidity is a medical term, and I think it's euphemistic as most Most medical terms are dealing with public, with the public. And it's been given to us in the context of COVID, though the context is much broader than that. It's been around before COVID. But it's given in the context of COVID for those things that if they accompany the illness of of COVID, increase the likelihood of your downfall. Okay? So what we would see, someone would go to the hospital and they'd say, look at the devastation that COVID has done in this life. Then they then they ask the question, what are the causes? For that? Is it because the disease itself or the virus itself is so strong, or are these other things working with it? And those would be comorbidities, right? And one of the things that came out in the news very early on, dealing with viruses, especially with COVID, is comorbidities like this. Do you eat poorly? Do you barely exercise? Uh all of a sudden all of those McDonald's stops that we had started to strike fear in our hearts because all of those moral decisions were now all of a sudden going to matter because you are at a higher risk if you're overweight. We eat poorly, we barely exercise, and we think that it doesn't really matter, but then one day God in his providence permits a virus to show up. Every choice that we have made in how we process our food as America Americans every choice that we have made and the kinds of foods that we eat and our activity levels, to use an old pr American proverb, I think, all of those decisions have come home to roost. And it is it did cause um some deaths. Those are the little kinds of examples that are given to us in God's providence that it really does matter whether you hold on to wisdom or if it slips through your fingers. Think of other examples within your life. Where has it borne out that in your youth you said it does Doesn't really matter if I follow the wisdom of the Father, only to see a few years later that you wish you never let that wisdom slip through your fingers. That you will Would have kept it and had sweet dreams, even now. What are some other examples of God reminding us that he does not uphold that he does uphold the moral world of his creatures. We'll not see the fruition of that until his return, but he gives us little reminders so that we don't forget. become careless. Right now in your life, of what wisdom are you tempted to let go of? Are you lonely or angry or exhausted Or resentful or depressed or enthusiastic. What temptations arise when you are in those states of mind? What wisdom Wisdom do you neglect when you are in those conditions? Let us be careful, especially in those times, to keep wisdom, for as it says in the proverb, The Lord will keep you. Make no mistake, whoever hears these sayings of mine and does them, I will liken him to a wise man who built his house on the rock, and the rain descended Descended, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, and it did not fall, for it was founded on the rock. But everyone who hears these sayings of mine and does not do them. Will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand, and the rain descended, the floods they did come, the winds they did blow, and they did in fact beat on the house. even though we didn't think it was going to happen. And you know what the house did? It fell. And great was its fall. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the emphasis here in this proverb for us to keep the wisdom. Lord, we know that coming up in this proverb would be wisdom on how we are to relate to our neighbor and that we are to hold tightly onto that, our neighborliness. as we get into the next set of verses. But we can see wisdom throughout your scriptures, especially the wisdom of salvation. Oh Lord Jesus Christ, give us the wisdom To hold on to you and your redemption. Give us the wisdom to persevere, in other words, through thick and through thin. Give us the wisdom that we need in the various circumstances that we are faced in our lives at this time. There are many different life stages present in this room, all of them with different demands. Oh Lord, give us Give us wisdom and let us keep it in those stages. Those of us who are in transitions from one stage to the next, give us wisdom for the transitions. And let us keep it. We ask, Lord, that you would give us the grace to help each other to keep it also. We ask these things in the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. Let's stand and sing together, may the mind of Christ my Savior. For instance, I control me all my conference. Make the word of God dwell richly in my life call not to us So that always triangles. May God peace of God, my father, who might in everything. Then I may be come to conversion We love love Jesus will be as the waters will not be May I want to raise before me strong and pray to make strong Glory, glory unto Jesus and I always go. Made his beauty rest upon me as I think he thought to me Amen. And now receive the Lord's benediction. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God the Father and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all. Amen.