27 through 30. Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due, when it is in the power of your hand to do so. Do not say to your neighbor, Go and come back, and tomorrow I will give it, when you have it with you. Do not devise evil against your neighbor, for he dwells by you for safety's sake Do not strive with a man without cause if he has done you no harm. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for this resurfacing of wisdom that you are giving us through your book of wisdom. I pray, Christ, that from your wells of wisdom and by your spirit you would pour out wisdom on this congregation. In your name, Amen. You may be seated Well, last week we were encouraged by the words of Matthew seven, twenty-four through twenty-seven. Whoever hears these sayings of mine and does them, I will liken him to a wise man who builds his house on the rock. And the rain descended, the floods came. And the winds blew blew and beat on that house, and it did not fall, for it was founded on the rock. But everyone who hears these things of mind and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand, and the rain descended, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, and it fell. And grace what is fall. We used this parable last week to highlight the importance not just of wisdom. Not just of gaining wisdom, but of keeping the wisdom that we have gained. We made the argument that in certain circumstances wisdom slips through our fingers. And he encouraged us, the Lord did, through his Proverbs last week, to hold on, to keep the wisdom that is given to us. This week we're looking at 27 through 30, which we just read, and so I'd like to start by just making a few observations, and then we'll have a brief application and then a time for prayer. Here's the first thing I want you to notice. This week in verses 27 through 30, we can start to answer what the Proverbs meant by wisdom and keeping wisdom. last week. Last week, because of the way that I was dividing things so we didn't have too much to chew on at one time, we inevitably had to speak a bit in generalities. And uh it would not have been unusual for you to ask in your mind, well, what wisdom does Christ want us to keep? Is there anything in particular at this point in the book of Christ? of Proverbs that the Proverbist has in mind. Well, surely keep all wisdom, but is there anything specifically in this part of the book? And the answer is yes. And the answer is, are you able to look in 27 through 30 and see what the answer would be? This is the wisdom he wants us to keep. And you can summarize it in one word, and it's this: neighborliness. Neighborliness. Have you ever had the opportunity to look at the history or the etymology of the word neighbor? It's a pretty interesting word. Nay is from the, it's like a development from the word nigh, which means near. And that really starts to answer some questions, doesn't it? Who's your neighbor? It's well the word literally says the one who's near you, who's in your proximity. And the word has in fact always referred to someone near. In God's providence, you are near some people, and in God's providence, you are not near others. And so some are your neighbors and in this sense some are not. That's the first observation. You don't have a direct influence on on them anymore. Anyway, the second thing I want you to notice is to help us be neighborly, the proverb is gives us four do not. And that's what each of the verses are taken up with in 27 through 30. So you see in 28 the word neighbor is used explicitly. In the other verses, it will talk about folks in general. Well, in 29, it's neighbor again, the word man is used, but it's still just talking about the neighbor in 27 through 30. And it started off with, do not withhold, do not say, do not devise, do not strive. You see that? So there's these four do nots. that he lays out so that we can have some structure and start to understand what does it mean to be neighborly. Of course we've been learning that all along. Proverbs is about living in society under Christ. So let's just begin and go through each one of these do nots. First, you have in verse 27, do not withhold good from those to whom it is due. when it is in the power of your hand to do so. This is exceptionally interesting, the way that this is phrased Please be sure to catch the distinction. You are used to hearing this kind of phrase with reference to the poor, drawing on your mercy and compassion. And that is not what's actually happening here in the the way that this language is used. That is true. We should never forget about the poor, but the focus here is not your mercy or compassion. but the kind of built-in moral order and rights that God has given to your neighbor. You owe them something. Look at the language in 27. Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due. Certain things are due your neighbor. Boy, do we need to hear that today. They are due certain things from you. That's still a part of our language. Have you paid what is due. Here's an example, for example, from Exodus. I think it's chapter 34, if I'm not mistaken, or 32. If you meet your enemy's ox or his donkey going astray, you shall surely bring it back to him again. That's an example. Even if it's your enemy, if he's in proximity to you and you notice he's lost one of his livestock, you're to bring it back. In Christ's order, in other words, Neighbors, even if they're enemies, should have expectations of how you will relate to them That's what's going on here. We have obligations to each other in society. That's the first thing I want you to note. Second in verse 28 is the second do not. Do not say to your neighbor, go and come back, and tomorrow I will give it when you have it with you. This warns us against unnecessary temporizing. Have you heard that? Have you ever heard of the temporizer? Don't be a temporizer. Could be a a could be a concise way to say this proverb. A temporizer is someone who delays. Who bides their time at the expense of other people. Leviticus and James both draw on this and they give examples For example, of withholding the wages of your workers. You can read that in James and the latter chapters. And then listen to this from 1 Timothy 6. 8, how it makes its way up into the basis or the root of the And of the New Testament under Paul, let them do good, that they may be rich in good works. And listen to this, ready to give. You hear that? Ready to give, not delaying to give. Ready to give, willing to share. You see the posture where you're just set up to do it as opposed to holding things back and making people so Suffer under your temporizing. Well, that's going on here within verse 28, and it's a part of what it means to be a good neighbor. It's to look out for the interests of others. And be ready to give. Now we have number the third, do not, which is verse 29. Do not devise evil against your neighbor, for he dwells by you for safety's sake. One person wrote, I thought this was You know, a good saying, so I'll just quote this person as one scholar. It is especially nefarious and underhanded to scheme to injure someone who trusts you. Isn't that true? A foundation, in other words, this is real simple, the the a foundation of society and from neighbor to neighbor is trust. That we could trust. And then we come to the fourth, which is verse 30. Do not strive with a man without cause if he has done you no harm. And this is really a more narrow or specific instance of the previous do not. It narrows the command in verse 29 and is essentially saying we must not unnecessarily disrupt society with unceasing and unnecessary. complaints. Don't have a litigious spirit with your neighbors. It is to your glory actually to overlook. Thick skin is a commodity in the kingdom of God. So really, you can look, look at your scriptures again in 27 through 30. You can look at 27 as the fountain or the headwater from which all the other verses flow. Neighbors are due and should expect certain things from us. Well what are some of the certain things? Well, look at 28, 29, and 30, and we can keep going. There'll be many other places in the Proverbs that show you what it means to be neighborly. And so I I think that our doctrine uh this evening is this. I'm sure that it is. This is the wisdom we must keep. Remember, let's go back to last week. What was the wisdom that he He wants us to keep? Well, here it is. Of course it's everything said in the book, but he has this uh on his mind right now. What is the wisdom that we must keep? We must keep what we owe our neighbor. The wisdom of being a neighbor. Isn't that a delightful little thought? That Christ, by the power of the Holy Spirit, wants you to take time in your day to become a better and better neighbor. I love that. I love that that he wants us to do that. We must keep what we owe our neighbor. That's the wisdom we must keep. Well, let's move into um just a short application on this doctrine this evening. I'm sure that you're aware just from the study that we did in Jude together, the Sunday school that we've done, and just many of your other experiences and things you've listened to That Christians have been handed down their way of life. We don't uh invent things. We receive them One of the problems that we've seen surface, which you've heard come out of my mouth quite a few times now, is that we've lost the treasures that we were supposed to receive. And we've all been scrambling to try to dig up the treasures again that Christ has given his church that we might serve him. And serve one another, that we might know his will. Well, let me give you one example of what I'm talking about here. Well, one example would be the meaning of the symbolism in Christian weddings. that has largely been forgotten. For example, what is the root? Or could you point to scripture on why the father gives the hand of the bride? Does that make sense to you in terms of a Christian understanding and system? What is the basis for the congregation agreeing that it is lawful for them? them to marry. I mean in our culture in in some sense there's this little nagging voice in the back of our heads like, which business is it of yours? This is my private relationship. But that's still a part of our weddings. Where does that come from in the Christian wedding? Why do we have the bride and the groom's guests on either side? Why is it that there is some kind of acknowledgement from the groom's parents even and even the pastors in the marriage? Why is all of that there? The basis for all of these practices, if you took the time, are actually in the scriptures. But they have been buried, that's my point. And they are treasures that must be restored. In a recent wedding, actually in Noah Donas Donovan's wedding, I had the privilege of being able to explain that the father giving away the bride And the presences of the groom's parents and the congregational participation are largely from case laws that are in Deuteronomy. And those case laws are there. The equity of them for the church throughout time, the important point is that you have multiple layers of consent to keep young people from getting into bad situations like abuse of relationships or the destruction of one family or another. You could see how important that would be throughout all of history, really. And so you can see how valuable that would be for us to resurrect that and and to not uh think that it's just some arbitrary motions that we go through. Well, here is another opportunity in our passage in neighborliness to find the roots of our practices. Our culture is still largely operating on Christian presuppositions, believe it or not The practices that they do and expect that they take for granted are not rooted in secularism. They are rooted within the revelation from God Himself. Uh I want you to take for example the baking of a cake for a new neighbor. Did you know that one was coming? Has anybody done that lately? I've had it done for me once. It was cookies. Somebody brought me cookies I'm glad that you did. The baking of a cake for a new neighbor. My guess is that practic that that practice arises from an impulse from a culture-based on the Christian revelation of what life is to be like. The cake ends up being a symbol to the neighbor that we notice them. It is a symbol to the neighbor that we wish them well. It is a symbol to the neighbor that we care for their well-being. You could see how such a practice could flow out of a passage like we have here within our scriptures this evening And how many other thousands of practices used to be a part of our society in being a good neighbor besides just the cookie or the cake baking for the neighbor? Tell me, for example, that the neighborhood watch is not also fundamentally based on the basic instincts which God has given to humanity on what it means to be a neighbor within his moral Order out of his common grace. When your neighbor is away, you keep an eye on their property. If you see weird cars or weird people, Somebody in that neighborhood is watching the kids because that's what it means to be a good neighbor. Think about other examples besides neighborhoods that are based on, that flow out of, and are applications of verses 27 through 30 tonight. When society had its had the opportunity to work these things out, thousands of th sermons working these things out and becoming a part of society, what would have been the other things? Well school is about to start. What about school? I noticed that in good schools, upperclassmen take responsibility and for the well-being of the lowerclassmen. There's some kind of mentorship going on to help the students transition over into the rhetoric periods. Is that not a practice based on what we owe each other as those who or near each other. Is that not a good application of these verses? We could say that all these examples are common sense, which I love that we can say that because our culture needs to hear that right now. They need to see the common sense nature of the Torah and recognize that God's moral order is the way to go. These are common sense. And they are, in one sense, rooted in the basic impulses and instincts of how God has made us. And yet, since we are fallen, we cannot just trust our instincts or our impulses. You know better than that. But here you have confirmation by way of the revelation of God as to his moral order in Christ. We must turn to God's wisdom to confirm and even discover what the good life looks like. And thus Proverbs 3, 27 through 30 ends up doing that kind of confirmation and being the root or the basis of all of the neighborly practice That perhaps you grew up with, that maybe are still a part of your neighborhoods. Some of you grew up with this kind of neighborly wisdom, did you not? And remember how this sermon is tied to last week's sermon. Here's the question. For those of you who by God's grace have been given those neighborly practices, will you keep the wisdom? Will you keep the wisdom of what it means to be a neighbor? Will you keep the faith handed down to us and pass it on to the next generation? Will you hold on and keep what it means to be a good neighbor? I grew up when I was younger in a world where neighbors would shovel shovel each other's sidewalks. It was like a race to see who could do more among the kids anyway, who could do more of the driveways and sidewalks, especially for the elderly folks, than the others. That practice finds its roots in God's revelation. Remember when we used to stop to help each other with our flat tires? And didn't just drive by saying they probably have triple A. I grew up in a time when we always stopped to help someone with a flat tire. And young people were trained to put tires back on. Do you remember loaning someone your jumper cables How many times did that happen? Another neighborly act, which would just be a simple application, common sense application that comes from God's revelation. And the main point is that you would not let that kind of neighborliness go. That there would be a retrieval of those kinds of things. Don't let it go. Just because you have folks living around you who you never see and don't know what it means to be a good neighbor, do not let it go. Don't let that wisdom go In fact, all of us have this inner desire here in this congregation to be a light in the world. Think of the kind of light you could be in just being a good neighbor. By the power of Christ, by his Spirit. It is to be a light in this world of folks who have lost what it means to be neighborly. I think we'll need more and more wisdom because when you bring the cooks the uh cookies and cakes over, now they're gonna be um have gluten allergies and peanut allergies. I don't know I didn't have there were no allergies when I was growing up. I don't know what happened But that's not old. But Christ will give us his wisdom. This is the wisdom that we must keep. We must keep what we owe our neighbor. That's the way that it's phrased in 27. I encourage you to meditate on that. What we owe, or what is the due of the one who is near us And may the eternal Son of God in the flesh, Christ Jesus, fill us with his Spirit as we seek to be neighborly. Amen. Please pray with me.