Well last week we had a series of observations and some conclusions as we began our series in judges. One of the things that we mentioned was that we are often not watchful, and the church tends to step in traps. The church is often an institution or a community or a city which often takes the bait. As a remedy to both, we must take careful heed to love the Lord our God. Christ has given us the book of Judges for many reasons. But one is to address those issues that I just mentioned about the trap and the bait. It is not just that Christ cares for us personally. He does. But there is so much more at stake. We have a larger vision and a larger commission than just a personal commission. We have been given the Great Commission. And the Lord graciously commissions the church to bring his kingdom to this world. And yet here is the thing, the underlying reality presented by the book of Judges. The church has the habit of becoming like the world. Well, we continue with more of this kind of thought and the observations that we have in this passage before us. You can tell that this passage is still very general. You're not hearing a lot of specific names yet. And so this is all just an introduction, moving us and orienting us before we get to the specific narratives of the specific judges. I want to make a few observations with you, and then I want to dig deep this morning in some application. The first observation is I want you to notice in verses 6 through 10 that we see here the roots of Israel's apostasy. There are many ways to talk about this, but this is how The Spirit speaks about these things in the book of Judges. Here are the roots of Israel's apostasy in verses 6 through 10. You can see this with the presentation of distinct eras. I know you heard it. There are three distinct eras beginning in verse number seven. The first era is during the time of Joshua. The people served the Lord in that time. The second era encompasses all the elders that outlived Joshua. They had seen and to note is they remembered All the great works which God had done for Israel. And then we have a third era, and I know you caught this The third era consists of a new generation that did not know the Lord, nor the work which he had done for Israel. This last generation holds the root problem. Somehow, Israel did not keep the knowledge of God and his grace before the eyes of their children. Now that's pretty tragic. According to Leviticus 10, verse 11, the priests were partly responsible for their education. According to Deuteronomy, the whole community under the leadership of the family was also responsible That no matter where you went, you would see the evidences of who God is and what he requires of his people. Israel, in addition, had a calendar to remember every creative and redemptive act of God throughout all of history And yet somehow with the teaching, somehow with the parents and the community, some time somehow even with a calendar being present. A generation arose who did not know the Lord, nor the work which he had done for Israel. And that is the root problem. A kind of amnesia amongst the people of God Now there's a second observation, and this is the character of Israel's apostasy in verses 11 through 13. Verse 11 gives us a summary. The children of Israel did evil in the sight of God and served the Baals. When he says evil in the sight, what he's getting at is that Israel, although in covenant with the Lord, who just delivered them from slavery to Egypt, And gave them his moral order to obey, they have in fact abandoned him. They have turned to other deliverers, and to others and their moral order. Later in verse 17, this is characterized, note that the harlotry discussion. In verse 17, this is characterized as adultery or prostitution. That kind of language actually runs through this whole passage of an unfaithful wife. Now, there's also a key word here besides evil in the sight of God, it's the word served. You'll recognize these keywords from our Deuteronomy series. When Joshua's generation served, whereas Joshua Joshua's generation served Yahweh, this new generation served the Baals. Verse twelve describes this as following or walking after other gods. This is an entire lifestyle change. Verse 12 also says that they bowed down to those gods. Now this is the language of prostration before a superior. They're not after a religious experience. That's sometimes we see pictures of certain churches with their hands raised and the fog machine going off And and they're they got this tremendous religious experience. That's not what's happening here. We're talking about the prostration before someone that you know you owe your dues and your homage and your respect and your honor. In other words, like a king. That's what's happening here. Bowing to a superior to show allegiance has switched from bowing and showing allegiance to Yahweh as the great divine warrior, now to these other gods in the land. What you have here is a generation that forgot the real creator and redeemer, and now they have replaced that creator and redeemer with other gods. To whom they vow allegiance, and they are upholding their glory, and they are upholding their moral order. They are a part of a different household that is at enmity with God Himself. And that brings us to observation number three, is God's response to Israel's apostasy. I'll just re brief with this. I don't want us to miss it, though I'm not going to develop it this time. The first response is seen in verse 14. The anger of the Lord was hot against Israel. Picture flared nostrils, because that's the language. James speaks about this as the jealousy of God, and that's with reference to the adultery imagery and wife and husband. God, in other words, will not sit by and watch competitors snatch his bride from him. And then you see the second response in verse 16. The Lord raises up judges who deliver them out of the hand of those who plunder them. Which is, of course, but a small foretaste of our great deliverer, Jesus Christ, who shall deliver us from every evil thing. When you pull all of this together, you can see with that last observation there's a basic statement that's something like this: our God is a jealous God. There are songs that communicate that. You can read that in James chapter 4, for example. But there's something else that is present here too, that's more a part of the communication. And that is that God is greatly displeased when his people give their love, when they give their allegiance, and when they give their obedience to any other besides him. And I want to repeat that because that's our teaching this morning. We're gathering up all the streams, so to speak, and here it is. Our God is a jealous God. He is greatly displeased when his people give their love, allegiance, and obedience to any other. A key lesson from the book of Judges. It will be the lesson almost of every story I want to ask a few questions and then answer them for the application portion this morning. I just have a few questions that I think are helpful for us as we start to get around this. Our God is a jealous God. He is greatly displeased when his people give their love, allegiance, and obedience to any other. And here is the first question when you hear something like that. As contemporary people, What should you think about idols and false gods? And I have to ask that question because it's not a regular part of your experience. unless you have some really pagan friends who are into crystals or whatever Part of our culture has in fact returned to religious practices, especially the New Age movement, you might actually find some idols in their home. Or Buddhism, you might find some idols in their home. But we don't usually literally find idols in their home. So it's an important question to ask if there's any relevance to this kind of thing for today. It would seem by just talking about idols that that's a past era, we're in a new one, and we have to look at this differently, and we can't really use idolatry to help us any longer. Maybe it was useful to the people of God during a certain time, but not anymore. Yet if you think that idolatry is no longer a problem, then you have mistaken. The Lord gives us the concept of idolatry to understand fundamental realities that exist through all time. Idolatry, if you look through the scriptures, and I'm just going to focus on idolatry as it's revealed within this section here, going back to Genesis and up to Judges. The Lord gives us the concept of idolatry, and it is captured in two main ways: marriage and political loyalty. When you look at idolatry in the scriptures, you're going to see the language of idolatry connected to the language of husband and wife. Or you're going to see idolatry connected to political loyalty as in king and his subjects. And they're often crossing over all the time where it is a king and his bride who ends up being the queen in a sense or the princess or however you want to think about that. Yahweh, for example, in the book of Exodus is captured in a song as a great warrior king who delivers Israel from Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. And as such, the Israelites owe him their exclusive service and devotion. Now, almost in the same breath in Exodus, with the repeated phrase, let my people go. That's divorce language, by the way. Yahweh is also a great divine husband to his bride, the church. And in that Exodus account, when he says, Let my people go, he is calling for Pharaoh to give up the bill of divorce because he has been abusive to the woman Israel. And he is going to take her. Yahweh will take her in as his wife. And they shall both give allegiance to each other as long as they both shall live, to use our wedding language. And thus, if you take that imagery of marriage, or you take the political imagery of king, generally speaking, what we see is that idolatry is this. Idolatry is an attack on God's exclusive rights as king and husband to our love, to our trust, and to our obedience. I'm gonna say it one more time. Idolatry is an attack on God's exclusive rights as king and husband to our love, trust, and obedience. As contemporary people, we should be thinking about idols and false gods in this sense. Idols and false gods are applicable in every age because they communicate a fundamental reality about life. There are things out there in the world that attack and compete with God and his exclusive rights as the king and as our husband who deserves our love, our trust and obedience. What are some of those things that attack and compete? That would be a great lunchtime conversation among the family today. What are some of the things that attack and compete? That's the first question, and we've answered that. How are we supposed to, as contemporary people, think of idolatry? And we answered that. Here's another question. At this moment in history, who or what is competing and attacking God's exclusive claims over, I'm going to say the world? Who or what is competing and attacking God's exclusive claims? Now I'm going to pick one that I think is major because I only have so much time. There are plenty. That are competing and attacking. But I want to give you one that I think when I look at my own life and I look at the lives of many others, I can see this present. I could smell it. It's there almost in everything. Like uh smoke from a campfire in your hair. Philosophically speaking, they call it expressive individualism. And I'm gonna boil that down. I know that's all fancy talk. But that's what they call it. If you ever want to look it up, there's more and more literature being published on it. expressive individualism and it is expressed in fundamental truths about reality that sound like this. Are you ready? There's seven of them Here's some fundamental truths according to expressive individualism. And I want you to think about not just what I'm saying, but have you ever seen this in your life or within your culture? Are you ready? Number one, the highest good is individual freedom, happiness, self-definition, and self-expression. There's no way you're getting out of here without being convicted, just to let you know. Number two, and I can give you this list later if you're trying to write all these downs things down, don't even try. It's too many words. I can give it to you later. Number two, traditions, religions, received wisdom, regulations. And social ties that restrict individual freedom, happiness, self-definition, and self-expression must be reshaped, deconstructed, or destroyed. In other words, don't get in the way. Number three, the world will inevitably improve as the scope of our individual freedom grows. Technology, in particular the internet, will fuel this progression towards utopia, especially the metaverse. Number four. And the reason why I say the metaverse is because if you want to be a cat, you can be a cat. It's up to you. Number four. The primary social ethic is tolerance of everyone's self-defined quest for individual freedom and self-expression, and it is repeated in this phrase that I hate so much, you do you. I hate that. I do. I feel like breaking somebody's nose, but I'm a pastor. I'm just gonna tear down strongholds with words. Any deviation from this ethic of tolerance is dangerous and it must not be tolerated. Therefore, social justice is less about economic or class inequality. and more about issues of equality relating to individual identity, self-expression, and personal autonomy. Which is why the LGBTQ movement tends to be a kind of symbol of many different social movements at this time. The next one is number five, humans are inherently good. Number six, large-scale structures and institutions, including the church, are suspicious at best and evil at worst. And lastly, forms of external authority are rejected and personal authenticity is lauded Now I've recently heard a story that illustrates this really well, and I can give you that list of seven another time. I grabbed that off of a website from a researcher who's been doing some work on this. But I recently heard a story when someone came to me and they were lauding this story as a great story. In the sense of it's a kind of a social vision that maybe we want to adopt. And here's the story, and it gets tricky. If you would have watched this story or read this story You would have been crying at the end and cheering for the protagonist, which tells you that they got you. Now here's the story. A husband and wife, they're both deaf, and they have two children. One child is born deaf and the other is not. She has her full hearing. The whole family owns a fishing business The daughter who can hear is quite useful from a very early age. The family can sign, but she's the only one that can translate the sign. To other people in the community. And so from a very early age, she goes out on the boat and translates, back at the dock when weighing in the fish for the final sail, etc. And there's two main developments that take place that start to bring the narrative tension into play here. Here's the first. The first is that the fishing industry starts regulating the fishery at the same time that the price of fish goes down. And what this means for the family is that they can barely make enough money to pay for gas and ice. So the family starts a business that will give fair pricing. pricing to the whole community of fishermen and they will fight against unjust regulations. But there's a second thing that emerges. Are you ready? It is discovered that the daughter has a beautiful singing voice, and she has the opportunity to go to a prestigious music school. And this creates a conflict. The business relies on the daughter. The family and the community depend on her for their existence. But if she stays with the business and her family, then she cannot realize her individual freedom and self-expression. Should she stay or should she go? That question the clash asked long ago. What is more important? The home family and community or personal authenticity These narrative tensions are resolved in this movie, though in other movies or in books they're resolved in different ways These narrative tensions are resolved by painting a new vision for human society. I know some of you are saying, Jesse, aren't you ever just entertained or amused? Why do you see all this stuff? I don't know what to tell you, it's there. The larger hometown community, this is what they all decide to do. The larger hometown community and her family decide to make the sacrifice In order for her to chase her individual dream pursuing a singing career. That's interesting as a societal vision. What we're learning about is what is the place of each thing? What's the place of the family? What's the place of the larger community? What's the place of the individual What are the place of our desires? And they're organizing those things into a location and telling you what's the most important of all. And they're saying in this story, her chasing her dream is more important than the needs of the family and the community. That it would be in some sense a loss for her if she stayed back home and let them thrive in their fishing. I want you to contrast to a story that I told about a year ago trying to explain the vision that is put in the book of Proverbs, and it's this. A Nigerian farming community gathered all of their resources to send a promising student away to an American university And that American university specialized in farming practices. The student developed his agricultural wisdom with land and livestock. He returned home so that his entire family and community could benefit. That is a different societal vision with a different location of the individual and a different communal good. The highest good in the first one is self expression. The highest good in the second is the well-being of the community, presumably for the sake of this discussion, that they might continue to glorify God. Those are two very different visions of why we would unite together and do anything. Do you see that? We're talking about cities all of a sudden. Cities can go under the name of commonwealth. If you were to look at the etymology of that, it talks about the common well-being or the common good to which we all agree that we are all going to combine our resources to accomplish. For the Christian, that is the kingdom of God, and it must be ordered in a particular way. In both stories, I want you to notice something further. That they could use the mantra, love your neighbor. Both social visions could use the mantra, love your neighbor. But only one would truly be love your neighbor according to the kingdom of God. This is how idolatry shows up among us. It is the inordinate or mislocation. Of those things that God has given to us. It is the mislocation of the individual above the family. It is the mislocation of our desires. We are out of order or disordered rebelling against the order of God Himself. And that is happening among us in every single family, and it is called expressive individualism. I bet you in those stories you heard a little bit about yourself and what you have chosen to do. But here is the point. These visions compete and they attack Yahweh in his vision. I'm not saying there's not something good in them, but as a system. They attack and compete against Yahweh and his vision. I'll say I'm the there's not I'm not saying that there's something not useful. I I wouldn't say good. They compete and attack against Yahweh and his vision. This is how the book of Judges starts in order to orient you with the kinds of questions that you should be asking. We haven't gotten into the specifics yet. But you need to be asking who or what competes with Jesus Christ in your life. And it can be tricky. You can, in the name of God, do things against his kingdom. Let me ask you a few questions here. Why do you want to get married? What fuels your desire to get married? Is it a vision of the kingdom of God or is it expressive individualism? If it's expressive individualism, really marriage is being put on the shelf. They don't see any reason to be married any longer. Why do you want a raise at work? What is it that you want the money for? Is it expressive individualism or is it for the kingdom of God? Why do you want a degree? Why are you going to put so many hours into the bachelor's and then the master's? And then the PhD. Why? Is it for expressive individualism? Or is it for the kingdom of Jesus Christ? It could be for either one What is the common good for which we should all be united? Now that's a theological question. Let me ask you a functional question Why are we functionally in real life united? And are we united by the common good that God has set for us? Those are questions that need to be asked throughout the book of Judges and around your dinner tables and your lunch, and you need to do some serious, serious examination of mind and heart and action. Who or what attacks Jesus Christ? And are you willing to use the attack language? Or do you just think everybody's nice and they are not really attacking Do you not really think that they are subverting the kingdom of God? Look at how it happens. Watch your children. And I want you to look at when they look at certain people in their lives that are symbolic for a social vision. And then I want you to look at Yahweh and his symbols that are symbolic for a social vision. And I want you to ask a question, which one do my children find more compelling? And you will be frightened. It should bring us to our knees to pray that Jesus Christ would deliver us. that our children would not forget him and be blinded by the God of this age. This is serious business. Who or what inspires your love and your devotion and your obedience? Who or what inspires the loves and the devotion and the obedience of your family? Who or what inspires the love and the devotion and the obedience of your church? Who or what inspires the love and devotion and obedience of the civil realm in which you live in the county? And at your jobs? To what end are you striving? These are important questions because our God is a jealous God He is greatly displeased when his people give their love, allegiance, and obedience to any other. He is, on the other hand, greatly pleased when his people make their common good him. His kingdom, his moral order, that has been placed under the rule of his son, whose name is Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Let us pray