Timothy chapter 3. Nate, I'm one, right? You can hear me okay? Okay. 1 Timothy chapter 3. We're interrupting Deuteronomy again because I do want to give a sermon. And so we're looking at a prime text for considering officers of the church in 1 Timothy 3, 1 through 15, and then we'll go to to the Lord's Supper, the one who truly chooses the officer. So let's stand for the reading of God's Word. This is a faithful saying. If a man desires the position of an overseer or bishop, he desires a good work. An overseer then must be blameless, the husband of one wife, temperate, sober minded, of good behavior, hospitable, able to teach, not given to wine, not violent, not greedy for money but gentle, not quarrelsome, not covetous. One who rules his own house well, having his children in submission with all reverence. For if a man does not know how to rule his own house, how will he take care of the Church of God? Not a novice, lest being puffed up with pride he fall into the same condemnation as the devil. Moreover, he must have a good testimony among those who are outside, lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil. Likewise, deacons must be reverent, not double-tongued, not given to much wine, not greedy for money, holding the mystery of the faith with a pure conscience But let these also first be tested, then let them serve as deacons, being found blameless. Likewise their wives must be reverent, not slanderers, temperate, faithful in all things Let deacons be the husbands of one wife, ruling their children and their houses own houses well. For those who have served well as deacons obtain for themselves a good standing and great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus. Jesus. These things I write to you, though I hope to come to you shortly. But if I am delayed, I write so that you may know how you ought to conduct yourself in the house of God which is the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth. Please pray with me. Father, the truths that are given by you to us from this passage are sweet. They are orienting. They are too much to cover in one sermon. But what is coverable? We ask that you would bless it. We ask that it would be, there would be words that would build up your house, and that it would, by your spirit, move into people. That long to build up your house. And may your name be praised in your house. In the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. It is only the beginning of August. And so I don't know if you know this or not, but false sports have begun. Practices have begun Some of us signed up for fall sports not knowing that practices would be three times a week. But children across Anne Reynold County have been working hard In hopes of a single thing, especially these last couple weeks. It's not like when I grew up. You have to, even as a small child now, work to qualify, to be selected for a team To be qualified means that you would be entitled to a particular benefit or privilege by fulfilling a necessary condition. If you were to look in my area, which is Saverna Park, the Green Hornets have this listed. The process of selecting a player for a team takes into consideration several areas. These include, but are not limited to certain qualifications. Player skill, potential, game understanding, experience, possible position placement, size, and speed This is all for Green Hornets football. But it's just an analogy to lead to a question that you have to consider, whether you play football or not. Have you ever had to qualify for anything? Have you ever had to consider yourself and your qualifications? Have you ever had to consider someone else and their qualifications? Because that's what we're doing this morning. This morning we're considering qualifications. That's the main, that's a key word throughout this whole thing. We're taking a break from Deuteronomy in order to begin the season of nominations. That is to say That you are going to be proposing who you think is qualified as an elder or deacon of this specific local congregation. Not a person that would do well in Boston or in New York City, but a but a man who would do well here. And to help in this task, we're this morning going to look at 1 Timothy 3, 1 through 15. And to see who was qualified for nomination. You heard all the little details, those of you who have a lot usually have a lot of engineers here. You saw all those details. I'm not going to hit on all of them. I'm trying to give you the main thrust of the passage. to orient you so that you can, as you study this passage and pray, be more and more educated as to who to not And so that's what we're doing. That's the question that we have to consider this morning. Who is qualified to have a formal position of authority in God's church at Severn Run? And I want to look at two main things, a controlling image and qualified men. Just two points this morning. A controlling image and qualified men. So first, let's take a look at the controlling image. I haven't counted all of the verses within this letter, but it does not surprise me that verse 15 is very near the center of the letter. Makes me wonder if that is on purpose. Because verse 15 is a gives us the controlling image, which is far more than an image. But it is the controlling image to understand the entire letter. Let me read the verse to you again. But if I am delayed, I write so that you may be able to know how to conduct yourself in the house of God. And then he gives the equivalent, which is the ecclesia, or those who are called out, or the church, not the building, of the living God, and then notice the architectural language, the pillar and the foundation ground or protection. protection of the truth, depending on how you translate that. But the controlling image in 315 is the is the the set of glasses that you need to put on And you need to look through these glasses, which I'm going to call the house of God, in order to understand any of the other sentences that are a part of the entire letter. Everything, in other words, should be rated related back and referred to the house of God. Because of that, we have to do a kind of brief history, and I mean brief. A brief history of the house of God. The first house of God is when. This is the kind of congregation that usually shouts out at me. This first house of God, yes, that's right. The first house of God is in Eden. It is presented in the scriptures in the Garden of Eden, which really, if you were to, this is getting deep real quick, okay? Are you ready? It's just like a lake. You don't wade in, you just kind of drop, and it's 10 feet. The Garden of Eden is a replica of the entire cosmos that God has made. That's how temples or tabernacles are, with the earth being a total temple. The order and the hierarchy within this cosmos Or within this temple was perfect. And notice the order and hierarchy present in 1 Timothy. God made each creature, and he assigned them in a perfect hierarchy. The very structure of the genocide Genesis account should remind you of the hierarchy and the order of the entire cosmos. The problem that we see with this first house of God is that through the sinful neglect of Adam And the deception of Eve, and Satan's deception of Eve, the house of God was broken. And that's what we experience. Marriage has snapped Adam's relation to living creatures is out of order. Eve, although still the mother of the living, tell me this isn't true, ladies. You scream in childbirth and you grieve over your growing children. What was once an ordered hierarchy of perfect relationships amongst all of creation is now not only disordered, but disordered. order Lee. That's the first house that has in part fallen into ruin. With the promise, however, not of ruination, but of restoration. There is a promise that we see by the end of the Genesis account, the creation account, the restoration of Eden, of the cosmos. God eventually Would provide a copy for his people, that they would always remember this. And the copy was called the tabernacle first, and then the temple later. And anyone with time to observe will see that this too is a kind of house of God. And that it in fact is a replica not only of the cosmos, but of the Garden of Eden. If you were to just spend time comparing temple and tabernacle to what's going on within the Garden of Eden and the language that is being used. And the prophets point this out quite often, you would see many similarities, and that the tabernacle or the temple are like a miniature Garden of Eden. The activity of the Spirit and the creation of the world. And the creation of Eden, and the activity of the Spirit in the creation of the temple, and the tabernacle. They mirror each other. The Spirit hovered over. Moses pronounced the temple to be good. There's so there's so many parallels. For you to be able to observe. The tabernacle and the temple are filled with items that would be present in the Garden of Eden. The tree is present there. The angels are present there. God is present there. A priest is present there. But like I said, the tabernacle and the temple were just temporary replicas of the real house of God. In 70 A. D. , as Jesus predicted, the physical temple was torn down. And you have to ask yourself a great question. If the providing of this temporary solution, the tabernacle in the temple, was to show that the cosmos would be restored when the temple was torn down, is it saying that God has given up in the restoration of his house? That he's laying down his tools and he's not willing to work any longer. That can't be the case because if you look at this New Testament message, look at verse 15 again. We've moved through this very brief history, right back into this passage in 315, because God now reveals that the house of God is not that physical temple, it is not that building but those whom Jesus has gathered into his house. Look at 15. The house of God, which is the church. Now you think that is a word for building. It's not. I told you it's ecclesia. It's those who have been called out to Jesus. It's the church of the living God. This is the great revelation that Jesus is gathering, let me put it this way, a household. Isn't that beautiful? What's happening? And in fact, there's still such a connection between the house and the people of God, that when you look at verse 15 very closely, notice that Paul retains architectural language to describe us. He says, pillar. That's architectural enough for you. That's what's going on. Now, if you were to go outside of this context and look at Hebrews chapter 3, verse 4 through 6, we see this author Saying this explicitly again. For every house is built by someone, but he who built all things is God. You see this cosmic dimension? And Moses indeed was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony of those things which will be spoken afterward. But Christ as a son over his own house. Now listen to this. Christ is the one over the whole house, whose house we are, if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the host. Firm to the end. That's the great transition. Is that we are the beginning of a cosmic renewal? In other words, another other language used throughout the New Testament is that we are the new creation. The first fruits of the whole cosmic restoration. Now, what I'm telling you is deep You can get into the the depth of the economic work of the Trinity, but this is deep. Here. God made a perfectly ordered house. Our representative Adam, he put it in disorder. The new Adam, Jesus Christ, is doing everything necessary to put God's house back in order. He has begun this work by gathering and reordering a group of people to begin living as the restored house of God now. This is the big picture. And later, this entire cosmos will be put back in order. You, the church. Are the beginning of this great act of salvation. That's at the center of this letter that Paul is trying to give to orient Timothy in all of the tasks. Now some of you are familiar with the Narnia series. I used it last week, and I'll use it briefly again this week, in case you're not following the brief history. If you're familiar with the Narnia series, I want to use that as an analogy. Narnia has fallen under disorder and evil with the white witch, and ice has covered the land. But Aslan has returned to restore his house, and so he gathers a household, Edmund, Lucy, Susan, and Peter, to begin the restoration. Evil still exists in the land, does it not? And therefore those four with Aslan and others must fight the good fight. Light, a phrase used within this very letter. And likewise, God the Father, through Christ, is restoring his household Evil still exists in the land, and so the church must, verse 15, acknowledge that it is the pillar, it is the ground, it is the protector of the truth of reality. That's the identity statement. It's the center of the letter, and it is the orienting device for the pastor Timothy in keeping the church decent and in order. It is at the heart of what Paul wants Timothy to know, and he wants us to know as you have the nomination slipped inside of your hand. It's the key to knowing who is qualified. We must know that we are the household of God, and therefore we must know how to conduct ourselves accordingly, because believe it or not, all of reality is at stake. All of reality is at stake. This is why I've told you all of this. This teaching about the household of God is the controlling image to understand the rest of this letter, especially when it comes to the nomination. an election of officers in the church, which happens in verses 1 through 7 in chapter 3, right before this, and 3, 8 through 15. And this is the question. Sometimes brief histories can be boring. I just found that brief history very exciting. But sometimes you can lose your focus. Here's the main question that we're led to with that brief history. Are you ready? Can you look at me? Make eye contact. Here we go. Okay, here we go. Are you ready? Here's the main question. If God the Father has adopted children into his household, And they are very precious to him. What kind of people should be leaders maintaining the order in that household That's the question. Do you see the seriousness of the task? Of what is at stake here? The main answer to that question is qualified men. And that's what we see going forward in the next uh point here is that after we're considered this brief history and this orienting image is that you see the main answer to that is that it must be qualified men. And what I'm going to do, because I'm not going to go through all the details, is I basically want us to look at the similarities between the office, and then I'm going to show you one main difference between elder and deacon. But I want to look at the similarities between or the similar qualifications between those two men to help us understand this in relationship to them overseeing the household. So let's go ahead and begin our next point, qualified men. We've seen the orienting image or the controlling image, and the answer to the question is qualified men. So you can see in verse 3:1, take a look with me there, orient yourself. And then if you were to compare that, hold your finger on 3-1 where it says, if a man And then if you look at 3. 8 and you hold your finger there, this is the first similarity between the elder and the deacon. They must be a man. That makes me extremely unpopular today. Not really me, God, because he's the one that said it. But to hold office you must be a man. If you were to I just am reading here the text. If a man desires the position of overseer, and then in 312, I'm sorry, in 312, let deacons be the husbands of one wife. And in our culture, some wonder if this is just some kind of cultural lull that Paul was following. And yet, if you look at the paragraph earlier in the letter, take a look at verse chapter 2, verse 12. And I want to show you the argument that Paul just came off of that he's now moving into with the church officers. And let me read 2. 12 to you. And I do not permit a woman to teach or to have authority. That's the issue with the officer. They have authority over the household of God. They're heads of houses of a house. And Paul says here that I do not permit a woman to teach or to have authority over a man, but to be in silence. And then he gives his reasons in verse 13. For Adam was formed first, then Eve. And Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived fell into transgression. And I'll stop there. Apparently, God did not just flip a coin on which gender he should create first. He didn't say, well, I wonder if it should be man or woman. Well, oh, man. No. Everything was according to an eternal purpose, and although you may not be able to recognize it by looking at the genders, And that's mostly because you suppress the truth in unrighteousness. God reveals to you through his word the truth of why he created Adam first and then Eve. That's what Paul is saying here: if you turn back to the very first occurrence of a house of God, it is in the very nature of creation itself that we should see that man should have authority over the household and not woman. He created males first on purpose to be a sign that males are meant to be leaders. That's what he's saying there. Whether you understand all of the details or not, that's the obvious argument. God did not create two humans at the same time, and he could have if he wanted to. He did everything on purpose to prove a point. As to who was going to command and to and to tend the garden. And so he does. He creates Adam first, and he says, You are to tend the garden. Those were the words to the man. And then as the man was for the first time said to be not good, at least his situation. God realizes that man needs a helper. And so then God takes the woman out of man and makes a helper for man. And the man looks at woman and says, You are bone of my bones and flesh. Flesh of my flesh, together, and with you as my helper, we can glorify the Lord. And that's the order. And thus the very facts of the creation, the difference in Gender shows that men are created to lead and women to help. This may be a very unfamiliar argument to you, but it's present here and you need to be familiar with it. And I understand that men may abuse their creational privilege, and they often do. But that does not change the reality. Both offices, authority within the church, consolidated in both the elder and in the deacon, are for men only, because both offices of places are places of authority and leadership. That's the first similarity that we see. And so there'll be no nomination of women, nomination of men. That's the first qualification. Now there's another similarity here, which really gets to the heart and starts to help us to understand the details of the passage, and it's in 3-4. And then also again in 3. 12. And let me read that for you. For the elder it says, one who rules his own house well. Having his children in submission with all ref reverence, and then in verse five, it gives you the logic. For if a man does not know how to rule his own house, how will he take care of the you could even say house And then in verse 12, you can say see the same thing for the deacon. Well. So you see the statement of the similarities, you see the qualification that must be present, and you see the logic that's going on there. Do you see what's happening overall though, based on three fifteen on what I showed you? Paul is connecting the different levels of household. You have the cosmos, which is a kind of level or of household. You have the church itself as a household. You have the household as a household. That's what's going on. There are these fractals or levels of meaning that run through the text. Marriage itself with the family is a kind of fractal. Fractal of the church, and that church is a fractal of the entire cosmos. Paul is connecting all of the different households. The church is another kind of household, and so it would only make sense in this analogy That they're so closely related that if a man is faithful and effective with his family, then he is qualified to work with the gathered family of God, namely the church. Do you see the logic there? That's what's present. But here's the thing that you have to understand. The word here for household, and the way that it ends up being used is oikonomos or namos. And that is where we get our word economic. And the reason why that would make sense if you were to understand the ancient household is because the ancient household and the ancient head of house acted very much like a small business, which is why we see Proverbs 31 the way that we do. The mother warns the son and says, You better have a woman that can help you in this small business of life And that's what we see. We see woman warrior in Proverbs 31. But that's what's brought in here. The household, if you want to understand who needs to be nominated, it's the head, it's one who can run their own household well, and it's a household understood as a kind of small business. When Holly and I and the children visited New York City, we wanted to see some of the historic sites. And they had this tour where you could go into the apartments of a very old Jewish community. Has anyone ever done this besides myself? You can take these uh these tours and we actually got to see how they celebrated their Sabbath How they set up their apartments, how they took their baths, and where they had to go to the bathroom. And we saw pictures of how the street used to be lined up. They showed us the typical apartment. And this is how they laid the whole thing out. During the day, the whole family took over the apartment with the family's working trade. The son would run, he would return from running down the street and carrying back the fabric on both of his shoulders. Because the family made clothes. The daughters would stretch out the on the table the fabric for the cuttings, that would happen over in the kitchen. And they wouldn't let the fabric get too close to the wood stove so that the fabric didn't catch fire within the The sewing machines would be over in the living room next to the windows, breeze coming through, three or four setup with the other children going through and and and sowing what had already been cut into its form. And above the whole operation was the father with the mother as the helper. That was the picture that we had within New York City, within this tour, and that's the picture of a household. Do you see all that is going on there and all that is requisite for that to go well? The kind of man who can wisely work with all those age levels of his family, the kind of man who is good at the management of finances so his family doesn't go under, things are already tight in that neighborhood. The kind of man who stands as a pillar within his community because he works so hard and manages his family and his jobs. and their jobs so well. The kind of man who can make a quality product, who can keep his word and pay the person who provided the fabric. The kind of man who can keep deadlines and work through disputes when the fabric was torn but sold for full price. That's the picture. Do you see the kind of man that is emerging? This is a manly man The understanding of the ancient household ends up making sense of the rest of the details, does it not, although we don't have time to go through it? Tell me that if you're going to have that business in your home and the husband's drunk all day, that it's going to go well. And so that's why it says here in this list, they should not be given That's you know what's another way of saying they shouldn't be a drunk. That's the understanding of the ancient household, and it ends up making Sense of the rest. You cannot be drunk, verse 3, and do well as a head of household, not for long. If you do, it means that your wife is picking up all your slack. You cannot be rash and impulsive. You better be sober-minded. You better know exactly how much fabric you need. How much food it takes to live through the month. That's the impression that I got with that tour. You cannot be greedy for money defrauding others because the businesses that sell you stuff will shut you down. You'll no longer have a tab at their place. In a community, someone with those descriptions that we see here, all those negatives, you shall not, you shall not, you shall not. Someone who lives in a community and does all of those things, they don't deserve any respect and they don't deserve any authority. And that's what's being said here. They're a poor head of their own house. They shouldn't be over the house of the living God. The gathered people of God. Let me put a point on this point. You have the little form in front of you. You're supposed to know who to nominate. Let's just put it into the form of a question. Here's the question for you. If you needed someone, use your imagination here, please, if you needed someone for the glory of God to watch over your bank accounts. And to watch over your wife, and to watch over your children, or The children of people that you love, and the wife of people that you love, and the finances of people that you love, people that are dear to you. Which men in this congregation are qualified to do that? That's the kind of question that you should be asking. And if there are none, then so be it. But don't violate the scriptures. Those are the similarities. You must be a man, and you must be a man who rules his household well because it is a replica. of the household of God, which is a replica of the entire restoration of the household of the cosmos. Everything is at stake. Those are the two similarities of the qualified men. Let me point out one main difference. I'm most excited about this point. So if you have Haven't been listening, please listen from here on out. There is one main difference I want to point out between the elder and the deacon, and you can see this in chapter 3, verse 2. An overseer then must be blameless, the husband of one wife, temperate, sober-minded, of good behavior, hospitable Able to teach. The able to teach part is one difference that I see, and I'm going to seek to make this point very short. Paul writes to Timothy, if you were to read through this whole letter, I want to be as specific and honest about this letter as possible. Paul writes to Timothy partly because men. were seeking to be teachers that had no business being an authority or a teacher. Their teaching was, if you read through the letter, their teach what was the effect of their teaching is the question you were supposed to ask when you read this letter. Their teaching was tearing down the house of God and not edifying or constructing or building up the house of God. And that's an excellent help for us. And who is qualified for the eldership? The proof is in the pudding. Have you ever heard that? It means you taste it and it's either good or it's not. You need to look for people, for men, through whom the Holy Spirit is building up the church You're not asking, are they a professor? You're not asking, do they use abstract language and are they capable of understanding Kirkregard You are asking, what is the fruit of their teaching when they open their mouths and what they demonstrate with their life? Does it build up and bring health to the community, or does it do nothing or deconstruct? That's the question that you're asking. There are many professors throughout the land that should not be an elder There are many business leaders that can teach an executive meeting very, very well and run it by Robert's rules of order, but they should not be an elder in God's church. They don't bring any benefit. That's the overarching criteria that you must use. Who is the Holy Spirit using as a teacher to bring health? Or do you when you're around them and they try to explain something to you just remain sick? Or do you get sicker That's the question. That's the overarching criteria that you must use. Which men in this congregation at Severn Run teach in a way to where we would have a healthier church? A healthier household. It's not about who is a professor and who can engage in abstract thought. It is about who can teach in such a way that builds up the house. And therefore, if you look through the letter, they must know the truth, the mystery of godliness They must be able to teach that truth. They must be able to make it clear. They shouldn't confuse you most of the time. They, when they speak, there should be some kind of power present. They must be able to defend the truth, especially towards things that are attacking us at present, not things that were attacking us in the 14th century. century, unless they're still attacking us today. They must have experience with this. You must see that they have sat at the feet of Jesus themselves. That Jesus has taught them, and that Jesus has equipped them to give you what Jesus gave them. That's the ultimate. That's the teacher. That's very different than if we were a college trying to hire a professor. That's not what we're trying to do. We're seeking the glory of God through his household. In Enron County, sports are in season. And so it is a season of qualifications. And at Severn Run, it is also the season of qualifications. But it's a different set because we are not the household of Anterona County, we are the household of God. Who is qualified to have a formal position of authority in God's church? Two things. Men who rule their household well. That's two parts. And elders have one more qualification. They must teach in such a way that builds up the house. I want you to remember, and I've placed that emphasis at the end on power, because I want you to remember that ultimately the ones who should be nominated are not powerful in and of themselves. What is being shown is that they have an anointing or unction from the Holy Spirit. A true elder will know that any good works that he does, a good deacon knows that any good work that they do is not from themselves. themselves, that they are rotten to the core without Jesus Christ and the Spirit. And they understand that the words that come off their lips would never be powerful or effective unless the Holy Spirit accompanied those words. And so really we remember, we remember that Jesus Christ is the one who's king and head of his church. And that Jesus Christ has done the gathering He has gathered us together and he has made us members of his household, and then he did not take a vacation Jesus continues as the head of his household to send his spirit to men who are in this congregation and to make them and remake them into people who are capable of taking care of this household. That's the question, and that's the answer. You have the privilege, as the congregation, whether man or woman Starting today to acknowledge whom Jesus Christ has given the Spirit for that task. Not the potential for the task, but who already has it. This isn't abetting. This is an acknowledging of what's already present. But I have to remind you that whoever you nominate They have got to be qualified. Amen. Amen. Let's go before our Lord in prayer, and then we'll consider the work of the King and head of our church. In his Lord's Supper. We have an invitational song, and then I'd ask the elders to please prepare the table.