We are in chapter nine today, and I will read chapter nine all the way to verse 6, but I'll point out key verses throughout the rest of the chapter. It's really a sermon on all of chapter 9. So it's obviously a survey of that chapter, but we'll get to the heart of exactly what's being communicated. Deuteronomy chapter 9. And you'll need your Bible out. We're going to also look at the book of Acts, chapter 7, in a little bit. I'm going to take you through some verses. So make sure you have your Bible out, whether in reality or virtually. Chapter 9 Here, O Israel, you are to cross over the Jordan today and go in to dispossessed nations greater and mightier than yourself. Cities great and fortified up to heaven. A people great and tall, the descendants of the Anakim, whom you know and of whom you have heard it said, who can stand before the descendants of Anak Therefore, understand today that the Lord your God is he who goes over before you as a consuming fire. He will destroy them and bring them down before you. So you shall drive them out and destroy them quickly, as the Lord has said to you. Do not think in your heart, after the Lord your God has cast them out before you, saying, Because of my righteousness the Lord has brought me in to possess this land. But it is because of the wickedness of these nations that the Lord is driving them out from before you. It is not because of your righteousness or the uprightness of your heart that you go into possess their land, but because of the wickedness of these nations that the Lord your God drives them out from before you, and that he may fulfill the word which the Lord swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Therefore, understand that the Lord your God is not giving you this good land to possess because of your righteousness, for you are a stiff-necked people. Do you get the point? You may be Please pray with me. Father, we thank you for your word and this truth. It is a difficult truth to swallow, but we pray through your Holy Spirit that we would be able to do so and that we would give you praise in the name of Christ. Amen. You are a stiff-necked people. That is the main point of this text. It was it is the main point of all of chapter 9. If you leave here and someone asks you What was today's sermon about? You are a stiff-necked people. That's what it's about. We're going to talk about how you are a sinner today, totally depraved, and all of your faculties and depressions parts. If you have a complaint against that, I was telling someone earlier, I do have a complaint box. It's a it's a silver can right out in the northx that has a little swinging That's a joke. It was the trash can, sorry. Seriously. It's fine. Come complain to me. The book of Deuteronomy is made up of three main sermons. We need a review because we're well along into this book now, and we're really taking chapters It consists of three sermons and basically a song. The whole book recounts the death of Moses at the very end. In the first sermon, which covered all the way from chapter 1 to chapter 4, Moses made clear That God was giving his grace to the Exodus generation, and he was going to continue to give them grace by giving them the promised land. That was the point of all of those chapters. He just gave one motivational sermon after the other, recalling past events so that they would remember and take heart once again in the promises that God has given them. And the second sermon, which begins in chapter 4, verse 44, it goes all the way to chapter 29. It's very long. That's what we've been studying for a while now. It included the Ten Commandments. In fact, we saw that with the prologue to the Ten Commandments, it's still a discussion of the grace of God. It's a gift. The law is a gift. And the law is explained to us. Then there was the gift or the grace of Moses as a mediator to be able to explain all of the details and the inworkings and outworkings of those laws. We've seen this. And last week there was the grace or the gift of all of the privileges that Yahweh would give once that particular group of people entered the land. Land, which was a type for us as we enter into the new heavens and the new earth. Not an excuse for the prosperity gospel, if correctly understood. There was a temptation that accompanied being brought into the promised land. When they had their pomegranates or whatever it was, the temptation was given in chapter eight that when they became rich they would forget the Lord. I imagine the argument going something like this based on all of the content of the chapter 8. Look at what we have accomplished Look at all of our farmland and crops, all of our industry and power. Certainly that did not come from the Lord's hand. And I want you to remember something. When we were in dire straits and our stomachs were growling, who put us in that position? Wasn't it the Lord Himself? Didn't He take us into the desert so that we wouldn't die in Egypt? But Instead in the sands of the wilderness? You could hear someone saying that based on those experiences that they've had, that that's how they would eventually think Think about it. Knowing these arguments, last week we saw that God, through Moses the mediator, revealed his true God's motivations. That's quite a privilege. We don't know the mind of God unless he revealed. Reveals it to us, and he not only revealed to you his thoughts, but his motivations. What a privilege you have to hear that. And these are the motivations. He did not let them feel hungry because he's a s he's Dingy. His motivation was to refine them through the experience, bringing them to repentance and faith. Faith in what? That every word that So this grace continues this week. It is another argument that is very similar, but is not dealing with pom The grace continues. If you look at verse one of chapter nine, you'll see that we've moved into a new section And it's a it's a new uh subsermon within this larger division. And I say that because the Shema is announcing Hear, O Israel. That is the marker of a new section. And now into Moses' second sermon. in this section. The best overall way I really need you to pay attention here. It's going to feel like you're in a Bible study, and that's a good thing. I need you to pay attention. And if you want to take notes on this, I'm going to drop a couple terms for you to be able to understand exactly what's going on. I want you to read your Bibles in a healthy way. The best overall way to look at this chapter is to understand that this chapter nine is best categorized as a kind of Old Testament literature used primarily among the prophets called disputation literature. You got it? Disputation literature. Now let me read to you something from the prophets. This is from Malachi. If you want to turn there, you can. It's chapter 1. I'm just reading the first two verses. It's up to you. You can just listen. It's called disputation literature for a reason. Now listen to this. This is Malachi. The burden of the word of the Lord to Israel by Malachi And now this is in quotations. I have loved you, says the Lord. Now listen to this. Yet you say, in what way have you loved us? Do you see that? The dispute that's arising. Now, there's going to be a counter-argument back against that argument that the Lord gives. Was not Esau Jacob's brother, says the Lord, yet Jacob I have loved. Okay, now you may not understand his argument, but you can see that there's an argument, a disputation that is now happening between two groups of people. Notice how the Lord announces a fact, I have loved you. Then a counter-argument is placed in someone's mouth. That's key. You'll see that throughout the scriptures. In what way have you loved us? Then the Lord answers back by contradicting that person was not Jacob w Esau, Jacob's brother, yet Jacob I have loved And it is the exact same structure in chapter 9 that we see. It is the same kind of dispute or argumentative dialogue. And if you can see that, then you can see the clear division of exactly what Moses is doing here. There will be an announcement of the fact. I'm giving you the Outline right now. There will be an announcement of the fact from God's perspective and reality. There is then going to be a counter-argument placed in the mouth of the people on how they would reject what God says, argue with him And then the Lord's going to come back and contradict them through many mo many arguments that Moses will lay before them, and we'll just look at them in summary. So let's begin and just understanding this chapter, then I'm going to take you to the New Testament to see the continuation of the truth. And then we're going to drive it home. Don't worry. It's far worse than you ever thought. Okay, so announcement of the fact, first three verses. Fact number one. You were to cross over the Jordan today and go in and dispossess nations greater and mightier than yourself. If you were to keep reading, you would see this first fact that is being announced from God by Moses. Here's the basic truth. You will face people who are stronger than you. I'm talking about this group of people. I'm not trying to To talk to you about living your life yet. I'm just talking about this text. You will face people who are stronger than you. Notice how all the terms prove that. Israel will cross over the Jordan and go in and dispossess nations what? Greater and mightier. Cities, what are they? Are they small and easily walked into? Nope, they're fortified. They are like fortresses. Difficult to break down. And the people, are they small? Are they weak? No. They're great and they're tall. In fact, in order to substantiate this fact He says, remember where some of these people come from, the descendants of Anak, or the Anakim, or the giants of Anakim. Land that you have heard of earlier within the chapter. That's fact number one. That's fact number one. You will face people who were stronger than you. That's he was making clear to them. Here's the second fact. Although they are stronger, although they are giants God will make you stronger because God is with you. He will accomplish the victory. That's what he's saying to them. But the Lord your God will go before you as a consuming fire. Remember the images that we saw earlier within these chapters that they were to go into these cities and leave nothing. And here we see the same image given back The consuming fire will go in and burn up all of the dross. He will destroy them and bring them down before you. The subject of all of the verbs is God God, not the Israelites. And those are the first two facts. That's what is being communicated as the actual fact. So this is how the Lord presents it. And now that we know that this is in the form of a dispute, what we should expect is for Moses to put in the Israelites' mouth a counter-argument, which is exactly what we see in verse 4A. Do not think in your heart. After the Lord your God has cast them out before you, saying, see this now we have quote Because of my righteousness the Lord has brought me in to possess this land. What were they thinking? They were thinking this Moses anticipates what the Israelites would say. Because of my righteousness, the Lord has brought me in to possess this land. Now let's be fair-minded. Everybody will Everybody likes fair-minded people. And so let's make a few observations. They were not full-blown atheists, were they? They did not deny the existence of God or the hand of God because they mention him as bringing them in. The Israelites didn't take full credit. They weren't atheistic. They admit that the Lord brought them in to possess the land. Nevertheless, why did the Lord bring them into the land? The Israelites thought that their righteousness was the governing cause of gaining the land Righteousness means the specific word that is here, you can't miss it. Conformity to an objective standard. Guess what that standard is that they think that they have The Ten Commandments. Can you believe this? You're supposed to say, no, I can't believe this. This is this is horrible. Yeah, they're really not getting it. They they believe that they have met the standards that were communicated uh to them. And so this is the way that this goes. If they believe that the land was given to them, that they are possessing this inheritance because of their righteousness, do you know it changes categories immediately? The land is not a gift. It is a wage earned. Do you see that? That's the shift that takes place in their mind. You see, now they're partners The Israelites did their part, righteousness, and God did his. And most people read the Ten Commandments as if that's what he is communicating. And we already know, because this is set up in a dispute, that God's going to tear this down. You're never supposed to think that when you read the Ten Commandments. I'll do my part and God will do his. Ha! They worked and God paid them what he owed them, is the thought And therefore, in their minds the land was not by grace, but by their works, and they were entitled to the land. Now you need to seriously consider this because do you know that our culture is becoming known as those who the entitled ones that we struggle with entitlement. Perhaps we have a little bit of legalism within us Does God owe you anything? Do you feel that way when you're suffering? Perhaps we're more like these people than we realize. But that's what he places in his mouth. So there's the the the fact announced in those first three verses and a little and and then we see in 4A. That Moses anticipates the dispute and the counter attitude that the Lord did give us the land, but because we obeyed his laws, that's the reason why he gave it to us. And that's exactly what he does in 4B But, right after that semicolon, it is because of the wickedness of these nations that the Lord is driving them out. From before you. So now he's going to start disputing and saying, no, you've got the cause wrong. It's for other reasons. And that's going to be the rest of the chapter, all the way really even into 10 a little bit Is God contradicting that thought through Moses? Let me show you the heads of the argument. First, 4B through 5. God did not give them the land because of their righteousness. He took it away from those to whom he had originally given it because of their wickedness, the wickedness of the current population. That's number one, is that he's riving ridding evil from the area as as he said that he would have. Second, second reason he's going to give is in finding five B. Second reason is not because of their righteousness, but so that Yahweh would fulfill his promises to the fathers Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He is always faithful to his promises. That's the second reason why they're going in and he's giving it to them. Not because of their righteousness. And then, third, you see in verse 6: the Lord is not giving you the land because of your righteousness. Actually, do you want to really know the truth? You're a stiff-necked people. And that is going to be the main point that he proves throughout the rest of this chapter. To be stiff-necked, do you know what that means? It's not the picture exactly of like someone my age Trying to play football in the backfield and then what I look like afterward. It's an agricultural analogy, and it referred to an animal who was unwilling to take the yoke of their master and work for him as the the master directed and commanded. And it is particularly throughout the scriptures associated with an unwillingness to receive instruction. Even if you say you're going to do something, you don't end up doing it. It's like the parable of the two sons, and you can figure out which son that was by looking at Matthew again. That's what it means to be stiff-necked. Here's an example from Jeremiah 17, 23. But they did not obey nor incline their ear, but made their neck stiff. That they might not hear nor receive instruction. So they're claiming to conform to an objective standard, namely the Ten Commandments, and God disputes and says You don't listen to a word I say. Now just in case they've not they are not convinced, he will now go through the rest of the chapter to prove to them On a kind of guided tour of their stiff-neckedness. I was just in DC the other day and I saw these buses barreling at me where the tops are open and you can Sit up there on the top and the guy would with the microphone and say, And over here we have the Washington Monument. And here in the rest of chapter 9, you could think of going on a tour, and over here you sinned And over here you were stiff-necked. And over here you were stiff-necked again. Oh, and here, you never listen to me again. That's exactly what's happening through all of Chapter 9. Verse seven of chapter nine, stiff necked from the day they departed from Egypt. Remember, do not forget how you provoked the Lord your God to wrath in the wilderness from the day that you departed from the land of Egypt until you came to this place, you have been rebellious against the Lord. In verse 8, in Horeb, stiff necked, specifically speaking about when the law was given to them on Mount Sinai. In verses eight through twenty one he recounts the entire incident of the golden calf. We got the land because we're righteous. Oh oh oh yeah, there was the golden calf. Calf, now I remember. You can see how this argument's turning out for them. Verse twenty two, they're stiff neck in all of those geographical locations You can get the picture, whether it's the tour bus or you know, this reminded me, this whole chapter of of taking a long car trip with children. And the children in the back are are uh I'm not touching you, I'm not touching you, or pinching, or flicking, or whatever it is that they're doing, and then I decide to stop and feed them because they're hungry, and they say in the back seat, it's because we were righteous. That we are being fed. Exactly. You got it. You really understand yourself. That's exactly what chapter 9 is doing through all of those different geographical locations. So you would think that after chapter 9, that all God's people would learn that everything is a gift. You would think that that would be the continuing history because we're at the beginning of the book, and that if we just keep going further, they would slowly learn their lesson, and eventually we'd start seeing the word gift show up a lot out of the uh out of the mouth of God's people, but it's actually not what we find. So I want to move out of chapter 9 of Deuteronomy and start moving into the New Testament so that we can see that this stiff neckedness is a common trait of the entire human race. So if you turn to Acts chapter 7 with me, I want you to look at Stephen's speech. Do you know what the point of Steven's speech is? You are stiff-necked. That's the whole point, if you've ever wondered, that's a summary of everything that he's trying to say. Stephen actually, before his death Filled with the Holy Spirit, it is very clear that God is trying to show us you really need to listen to Him. He gives us a history of stiff-neckedness. So take a look at 6. 10. And I want you to notice that there is a motif or theme going on here, starting in chapter 6, verse 10. And they were not able to resist the wisdom and the spirit by which Stephen spoke. So that we're in the context of someone who's speaking by the power of the Holy Spirit, and they're not able to resist his argumentation as he Contends for the faith in Jesus Christ. But then you see that they secretly stir up dissension so there is some kind of resistance. They can't do it lawfully, so they do it unlawfully The whole context is about resistance, about being stiff in your neck. And so Stephen decides to launch out in a speech that will result in his death against stiff-neckedness Showing them that they've always been stiff-necked. He begins in verse 9 of chapter 7. The patriarchs, take a look And the patriarchs, becoming envious, sold Joseph into Egypt. Do you see what he's doing there? He's saying, Your fathers Your fathers were envious as the promises were made to Joseph, they tried to kill him. That was a jab if you didn't pick that up. The patriarchs became envious and sold Joseph. That is to say, they had a resistance to Joseph's dream that everyone would bow to him, who is a prefiguration of Jesus Christ. Even in slavery, excuse me, verse 27. But he who did his neighbor wrong pushed him away, speaking of Moses, who made you a ruler and judge over? Do you see what's happening again? Even as Moses was sent to God's people, they resisted the one that God sent and said, Who made you ruler over us? And you will see that as a continued story in verses 38 through 4 43 when you get home. And now look at the conclusion of the whole speech in verse 51. You stiff necked And uncircumcised in heart and ears. You always resist the Holy Spirit, and here's the clinch, as your fathers did So do you. Do you see how he just did that? He pointed out major patriarchs throughout the whole speech so they could see. Every time. You have been stiff-necked in your entire history. Stephen makes the argument that it wasn't only in the wilderness. It wasn't just from the time of Egypt to And now we know that the Jews Stayed stiff necked as they crucified Jesus, who is the Christ. And do you know what happened after that when he had invited these people to attend His wedding when he gave him an invitation to dine at the table, and they refused to take the invitation, but rejected his word because they were stiff Neck. You know what he did. He then offered the promises to the Gentiles. But here is the question: because now do you realize that we have just arrived? And are talking about you. Because most likely you are a Gentile. So here is the question. Why do you think God offered you the grace of salvation? Why has he offered you to inherit the new heavens and the new earth? Why has he offered to atone for your sins and to sanctify you from all sin? Why did God offer redemption from sin and misery? Just go through all of the nations To the Greeks, to the Romans, to those in Asia. And now we're going to start heading home to the Irish. To the Germans, to the English, to the Spanish, to the Africans, to the Native Americans To you, wherever you're from, wherever your culture is, why did he give you the grace of salvation? Why did he press it so firmly upon you that you could not resist his grace? You have to ask that question. Before Christ, listen to this. Do you know your history? Doancestry. com. Look at where you're from. Look at your own personal history. Just look at your journals or ask someone to remind you what you were like in elementary school or high school or whatever it was. Before Christ brought his preachers filled with his spirit to those lands that I have mentioned and into your own life, into any nation, do you realize what the natural religion is of all people? It is idolatry. I just heard yesterday as we recited times of history in the history fair recitations About Greek gods. That was a real thing. It was idolatrous. Although our ancestors and you could witness through the creation that you should worship Yahweh alone. We did not, but we gave praise to creatures, making totem poles, and worshiping trees like druids. The whole world. Do you see where I'm going? It's the same place that Paul arrives at. Listen, if you think you have room to speak, you're going to be silent in a second because the whole world is stiff-necked. Stiff-necked against the Creator. Not just the Jewish people. All of your clans and your tribes and your nations. And you personally, if you were just left to yourself, you would reject the triune God every single time. If God would have played out the life of Jesus on the streets of Severn or Saverna Park or in the city of Baltimore, the same would result every time. You would crucify him out of hatred and rejection of what he says. You have a natural enemy, and enmity against your Creator because you, Gentile and Jew, are stiffed necked against him, and you would rather murder him than hear any words out of his mouth any longer. That is the history of the human race. That is our condition. So let me ask you, O Gentile Was it because of something you brought to the table that he brought redemption and salvation to you and your nation and your clans and your tribes? What was it that you had on your resume that suggested yourself to him? Couldn't we drive around Anorano County and recount your sins? Let's do a little, let's do a tour. I'll get the bus. So let this be known. Not only those in the Deuteronomy passage, not only the Jews of Jesus' day. But the entire world is stiff-necked against the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. You have resisted him from the beginning Now place yourself in the position of those who are about to enter the Promised Land, overcoming your sin and your misery. Who you are in and of yourself, your Irish roots, honey, to overcome those things is greater and stronger than you. Your own heart is like a fortress walled off against God. Your thoughts and your inclinations are like giants fighting against glorifying and joying God forever. Yourself like Satan, want to be supreme. And yet God is a consuming fire. He burns through the land. Through Jesus Christ and His Spirit, He conquers your sinful nature. Nature and actual transgressions and all of the evil of this world. Everything that you have, every part of your redemption Even your belief, every single belief that you have, any understanding that you have comes from God through Jesus Christ and His Spirit. Because he is a consuming fire. Just like he was in Deuteronomy. But you have to be warned also, Christian. Do not say to yourself that because of your righteousness, because you are a nice person, because you came from a particular family, because you are more studious, because you study John Calvin and Martin Luther Or because you're down-to-earth and organic, and you use essential oils, or you're open-minded, or you're polite, or you went to a university instead of a college, or you just were schooled by the school of hard knocks, or because of your race. That the Lord gave you salvation. Those are all ways to try to meet some mythical conformity to an objective standard of why you think you would be righteous. We could turn anything into a way for us to gain some kind of credit and salvation. It's all legalism. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit gave you salvation because of the promise. Not because of anything that you have ever done. Don't forget the point of this sermon. You are stiff-necked people God would have spoken to you till he was blue in the face, and you would never listen until he gave you ears to hear, and faith to repent and believe Unless he preserves your faith every day and gives you mercies every morning, Satan would sift you like wheat. Everything that you have is a gift from God. In and of yourself, you are morally perverse. Is that hard to hear? Do you cringe at that? Do you cringe at that in the specifics when people start to point out your sin? It's difficult for you to realize that truth. Morally perverse is the same thing as I'm going to read something to you and I want you to put yourself in this place. I want you to ask which picture fits you. Then Jesus told this story to some who had great confidence in their own righteousness and scorned everyone else. Two men went to the temple to pray. One was a Pharisee, and the other was a despised tax collector. The Pharisee stood by himself and prayed this prayer. I thank you, God, that I am not like other people, cheaters, sinners, adulterers. I'm certainly not like that tax collector. I fast twice a week. I give one-tenth of my income. But the tax collector stood at a distance and dared not even lift his eyes to heaven as he prayed. Instead, he beat his chest in sorrow, saying, O God, be merciful to me, for I am a sinner. I tell you, this sinner, not the Pharisee, returned home justified before God. For those who exalt themselves will be humbled. And those who humble themselves will be exalted. John Newton, reflecting on these kinds of thoughts, says this Christian, you have one hard lesson to learn. That is the evil of your own heart. You know something of it, but it is needful that you should know some more. For the more we know ourselves, the more we shall prize and love Jesus and His salvation. I hope what you find in yourself by daily experience will humble you, but this is key. But not discourage you. Humble you it should. And I believe that it does. Are not you amazed sometimes that you should have so much as a hope that poor and needy as you are, that the Lord actually thinks of you? But let not all you feel discouraged. For if our physician is almighty, our disease cannot be desperate And if he casts none out that come to him, why should we fear? Our sins are many, but his mercies are more. Our sins are great, but his righteousness is greater. We are weak, but he is power himself. Most of our complaints are owing to unbelief and the remainder of legalism. And these evils are not removed in a day Wait on the Lord, and he will enable you to see more and more of the power and grace of our high priest. The more you know him, the better you will trust him. The more you trust him, the better you will love him. The more you love him, the better you will serve him. And this is God's way. You were not called to buy through your righteousness, but to beg the mercy of God through Jesus Christ. Not to be strong in yourself, but in the grace that is in you. In Christ Jesus. Cordially yours, John Newton. Please join me in a time of prayer, and then we will go to see this in the Lord's Supper. Father, this is quite the journey from geographical place to geographical place spanning From the depths of Egypt, even into North America, as we travel with you to see the journey of your gospel. And seeing every tribe and tongue and nation before your preachers arrived, all our mouths are silence. Silenced. We have all sinned. We all deserve your condemnation. Although in and of ourselves we are not even capable of believing, you have given us the gift of faith to believe. And upon believing, you have given us salvation. You have given us repentance unto life. Lord, we need humility. We need to learn how to realize our moral perversion and for it to humble but not discourage. Lord, we need to learn not to buy, but to beg. We need to learn what it means to be strong not in ourselves, but in the grace that is in Christ. Jesus. You have promised that you would be our teacher of such things. I pray for all of us here that you would teach us. I ask these things. That you would teach us, that we could teach. That everyone would know about the grace that you offer through Jesus Christ. We ask these things in your name, Amen.