Of your Christ. We pray that that would be our those would uh characterize our affections, that uh of of beholding uh the most excellent. We ask that your word would seek deep into our hearts that they would not just be information but that it would be sealed. In the name of Christ. Amen. Please be seated. It's uh lovely to just even think That the Schaefers will be having another child. It means I'll be able to hold a little baby again, and whenever that happens, it immediately makes me sad for a certain time in my life uh that I don't have present any longer. Uh Addie's two years old now, so it's not the same. It's just not the same. I can't keep Addie on my lap for more than a So to hold a baby again and to just uh enjoy that is is lovely. And then the time when they get a little bit older and they're just learning to walk and you have the mom Mom on one side of the room and the dad on the other side, or or vice versa, holding out your arms, waiting for the child to take those few steps that they can. It warms my heart To think of that. And it warms my heart in thinking of it as a picture of grace, at least one picture of grace. But is it every picture of grace? Is that the picture of what it looks like to be a Christian in its essence? As we see all that Jesus Christ has done? Is that the story? The story really, you know, uh the one of the fathers of the Protestant Reformation, Martin Luther, was asked that same question by one of his co-workers in the gospel ministry, and he said that's not the that's not the essence of the story. Now he's a very passionate man, so he might have just been trying to to be um flashy, but he said that's not the story. And I've given you this image before. The story is of a caterpillar stuck in the center of a ring of flame or a ring of fly fire. And the only way for the caterpillar pillar to escape that ring of fire is for someone to reach down in the center and pick them up. You see, the other picture with Martin Luther got on his nerves because there was some human ability present that could take a couple stumbling steps across the floor to the fine. And Martin Luther had no room for that. Martin Luther said, we may we can take no steps. We are like we are like humans without legs Or even a heart, because we are dead. He's been pointing out that the only reason why Epaphorus is having success on Colossae is because the Spirit of God has descended and allowed the truth to become real to them. And he continues in showing us the excellence of Jesus Christ so that we could realize who we need in order to solve our human condition. The human condition is like that ring of fire, and you are the caterpillar. What are you going to do? Your Savior must be pre-eminent amongst all spiritual authorities. He must be the creator of heaven and earth. And this is the Christ hymn that we see at the end of chapter one. And then Paul starts to lay out over and over again the different excellencies. of Jesus Christ, also that we as Christians would not give up the hope of the gospel and turn to something else, thinking that we need something more. In Jesus Christ. Last week we had this phrase in him. And it wasn't just two words, it was an emphasis. You are full in him, not in something else. You are full in him, not in something else. else was Paul's emphasis. And the in him continues with the sermon tonight. If you look at verse 11, we write we start right again with in him. And the emphasis is still What I want us to see from this passage is that only Christianity can take you out of the ring of fire. Only the plan of the Father, the work of the Son, and the blessing of the Holy Spirit can't be able to do that. And take you out of this ring of fire. And whether you are a Christian or a non-Christian, that is true. It is true for everyone sitting in this room. And you can see I've provided for you on the bulletin, especially you students, there's three parts. It's the black heart, the debt, and the devil, and there's three rings of fire. And if you want to take Notes under each one of those headings. I hope that's helpful to you. You can let me know afterward. So let's look at the first ring of fire that we cannot escape unless Christ does something to take us out of it. Let's take a look at what Paul says here about this ring of fire and how it happens. And we see this in verse eleven. He said, In him you were also circumcised with the circumcision made with This is a very difficult sentence. And the other sentence after You'd have to sit here and meditate on these things because of all of the different prepositional phrases and participial phrases and all this different grammar. But just because we can't get all of it at a first reading, when you're looking at your scriptures there, it might be difficult to make sense of it. You can't get all of it, doesn't mean you can't get some of it. And he is saying some things very clearly here. He is saying that we need a circumcision, a kind of circumcision. But notice that he says it's not a circumcision that is given with hands, it is a circumcision that is given without hands. He's trying to make a point here, and he's developing a a a metaphor that derives But he is to be in his inward self as God's person and as God's people, as that sign is spread to all of his children. It's an outward sign showing an inward reality. It says in Romans chapter 2, verses 28 and 29, speaking of the Jews, that a Jew is not one who is one outwardly, nor is circumcision that which is outward in the in the flesh, but he is a Jew who is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, not in the letter, whose praise is not from men But from God. That was the whole point all along. And that's really where there began to be the breakdown. If you remember your readings in the Gospels, you see Jesus confronting people over and over again. And the most typical thing that he says is that you have cleaned yourself up on the outside, but you have allowed the inside to remain rotten and stinking. And you're trying to trick everyone. And if you remember, what's the name that he gives those people? It's hypocrites. Those who put on a mask so they look one way, but really they are totally different. underneath. That's what ends up happening with the the uh Old Testament saints as they struggle through this. It was it was never meant to replace heart work. It was supposed to be a sign of a heart that was cleansed, but we see a whole history of the human race who was meant to be the crown of creation becoming the armpit of the earth. It's exactly a a very good description of uh of humans. And their relationships are described by some literary authors as a boot stomping on a human face forever. It's encapsulated there. What is present within the human heart is allowed to play out within the nation of Israel so that we can see exactly what the ring of fire is. The first ring of fire, which is present Within you is a black heart. A heart that inclines itself toward evil always. And it's deeper than what medicine can fix. Meaning taking pills. It's deeper than an education, and it's deeper than what a psychiatrist can handle. We are unable to change ourselves, and other people are unable to change ourselves So what we end up doing is we do exactly what all people do when they don't turn to Jesus Christ to get out of the f flame. If we are the armpit of the earth and we put on moral deodorant, it is such an unpleasant discussion to talk about an armpit. But that really it really is just the perfect image for what is going on. The armpit has glands that are naturally do not smell good, and we put deodorant in our armpits to make something Something that what it is, what it is not. And it ends up being the perfect picture for the moral record of humanity. in order to not have to deal with what is really going on within our hearts. But we know that if Jesus Christ, who reads all of our thoughts and our words and our attitudes, what would it be like if he Posted every one of your thoughts and every one of your attitudes and every one of your actions on Facebook. What would people think of you? Would you be embarrassed? First ring of fire is a black heart. And that is why there needs to be more than a circumcision made with hands. That doesn't do it. No physical constructive surgery. Is going to take care of the depth of the evil within the human heart. There needs to be a circumcision made not with hands, as verse 11 says, and it needs to be the circumcision of Jesus Christ. And look at what it does cut off. It cuts off, he says here in eleven, by putting off the body of the sins of the flesh, by the circumcision of the It is only Jesus Christ who can reach down into the ring of fire of our evil heart and pull out the sinful nature that we can become a new creation, who is no longer continually in Inclined to evil, but actually loves God and loves our neighbor. It is only Jesus Christ that is able to do that. He is the only one that's able to change us. Inside out. There is some false representation that psychologists and psychiatrists can do this, or that for you remaining better chemically balanced through drugs, and I'm not against all drugs for remaining chemically balanced that but that is not a true inside change that Jesus Christ offers. There needs to be a change inside out so that sin is no longer reigning in you is what the what the scriptures end up teaching. It does no it no longer reigns, but there are pieces of it that does that do remain, which he which he will The picture that he ends up giving here is brought out a little bit fuller if you look at verse 12. He ties in because circumcision and Baptism are so related. Circumcision being the Old Testament sacrament, and then the baptism replacing that now, which is why you see Christians being baptized. He brings this in as an image for you to see what is taking place upon conversion when Jesus Christ does his circumcision. And he speaks about it as dying and then being raised again, which is a bit puzzling, because in what way are you resurrected now? We know some of the attributes. The resurrection would include us being raised with incorruptible bodies prepared for eternity. That hasn't happened now. So how is it that he could say that we have received What we have to understand about the kingdom of heaven is that only some of heaven has been sent to us now, is a way to think of it. There's this beautiful picture in the book of Hebrews. of heavenly Zion, Paradise, the Garden of Eden, is all ready for the uh for God's people to inhabit it, but it's just waiting there until Jesus returns and And it descends, and then we can dwell in the new heavens and the new earth. And all of heaven will be here at that time. But there's another picture with Jesus Christ's ascension that when he arrives at the right hand of the f of the father in all authority. He sends the Holy Spirit, which is from heaven. And the Holy Spirit brings a piece of heaven. And he rejects He makes new life in you. What was once dead that could not walk from the mother to the father, so to speak, has now been made alive and can make This is the Christian story. This is the story of how Jesus Christ enters into the ring of fire. Flame and changes the caterpillar into a butterfly. That's the picture. The problem that we have is that every other religion, and I include atheism as a religion, Thinks that as a caterpillar, you can just walk through the flames. It is only Christianity that supplies the out by someone reaching down Some would deny that there is a flame. Others somehow think that they can get through it. benefit but left to themselves outside of the Christian story, they are characterizing it as if there's no ring of fire that we could just walk around. Or if or somehow we could get through it. This would also include Roman Catholicism, Buddhism, being conservative, being liberal. All of these things are end up being false religions saying Or they're saying that we could somehow, through the might of the human spirit, conquered the Conquer the flames. And this, according to Paul, that's not true. You don't understand the blackness of your own heart if you think there is no ring of fire. Or if you think that you have spite within your spirit. So that's the first ring of fire, the black heart. The second ring of fire is the debt that we see in verse 13. There's a few Difficult sayings here, and you being dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, he has made alive together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses, and here's the image. Having wiped out the handwriting of requirements that was against The handwriting of the requirements, you know what that is? It's a really awkward phrase for us, but it basically means a certificate of debt. So if you if you want to envision, it's like an IOU. Everybody know what an IOU is? All the students know what an IOU is And IOU is i if you owed me money, but you couldn't give me the money, you would write down on a piece of paper, I owe you five dollars, and you'd give it to me, and I could show you that later Explaining to you, remember your debt. Okay? That's what an IOU is. And basically, what this passage is saying is that every time we sin in thought, word, or deed, we write God an IOU. It becomes a credit account that we have accumulated over time. And the passage goes on to say that all of these attitudes and thoughts and words and deeds That these are brought and are nailed as a sign above the head of Jesus Christ, and he ends up being the one that pays for it Do you see the ring of fire here? The ring of fire is the debt that we have accumulated. It is the debt that we could never pay. It was the debt that we would never stop accumulating because we keep adding to the account over and over again with attitude, thought, and word and deed. And the result is another ring of fire. It's this death that we have created. And the only way in which we can escape it, as Christianity lays out, is that this sign must be placed above the head of Jesus Christ. We heard this morning that there's a sign above his head in the crucifixion, King of the Jews. Here, it gives us a little bit of a different picture, and he says That this sign is nailed to the cross. And most uh commentators believe that this is a sign that would be nailed for us to see what were our offenses against God that Jesus is is taking up for us. What are all of the things? If we could write down all of your sins, how many post-it notes would have to go on the cross? I remember being at Saverna Park EP. Um when I first got there there was a little exercise in one of the services where we had to write down our sin during the communion time, walk up to the front and take a thumbs thumbtack and stick the paper with our sin on it into the cross. Now it has become personal. Now I would spend no other time in all of my life if that is what I had to do but sticking pins in the cross. Because I I'm sinning so much. Do you see how high the flames are? Do you see how inviolable the circle is? It is a ring of fire that we cannot escape. Escape the wrath of God, and so therefore Jesus Christ had to bear it for us. There's a wonderful image of a Yellowstone fire across the Yellowstone National Park and the forest rangers go through and they're they're kicking over ash and that's smoldering just to make sure they can put it put it out and they they see another smoldering pile that looks like just a a petrified bird that has been caught in the fire And they kick it, and out from the wings run baby chicks. And it ends up being a beautiful picture of what our Christ has to do for us. In order to protect us from the flames that encircle us, he has to take his wings and cover us from the wrath of God so that we can remain okay. It's exactly what Paul is saying here. And the only thing that provides this is Jesus Christ and Christianity. Now the third ring of fire is the real doozy. It's the devil. As if the ring of fires were not bad enough. If you up to this point, whether Christian or non-Christian, believe that you can somehow say Save yourself and find happiness by yourself. Have you considered that there is a personal devil? Because as soon as you do, and you admit that, the problem is so much worse than you had ever hypothesized. You didn't consider that there was a personal evil being seeking to ensnare you and enslave you to do his will in all evil. The rings are unconquerable by ourselves as caterpillars. You can see this in verse 15. Having disarmed principalities and powers, he made a public spectacle of them, triumphing them over This should immediately remind you of Ephesians chapter six, where principalities and powers are spoken of again. against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places. This is such a beautiful image that I have have given to you before, you can see that if there really is, and there is, a personal devil, the angel of all angels, That you really are a caterpillar in a ring of fire because what chance do you have? The very first human beings having righteousness that we know Wisdom that we know nothing of were tempted by him. How long did it take for him to conquer them with his lies? picture of a of Roman war. A picture of Roman war having disarmed principalities and powers, he made a public spectacle of them. Do you know what that's referring to? There was a part of Roman war where your army would go off and it would conquer a foreign land that had been bothering you for some time. Now here's one thing that you could do. When you're in a foreign land, you could kill everybody. And that would show that you are quite mighty. People would hear of it back at home and they'd be awai awaiting their victorious ones. But you know what would be even better, and this is what the Romans did, is they brought all of the high officials, including the king, back home so they could chop off their heads in front of the Roman city. In front of the citizens, they literally would chop off their heads and have executions to show their might and their power. And that is the exact same image. When we look in literature This time. That is the image that is going on here. That Jesus Christ drags Satan and all principality and power, both as it expresses itself spiritually and all the ways in which it manifests itself Physically in nations and how they rule these days, he brings them all before his people and executes them And all the things that were attached to them, Satan had the power of death and of hell. And Christ conquers him. I haven't even added the ring of death here. What if I added that ring? How are you going to overcome death? How about that for a ring? Do you feel like a caterpillar caterpillar now? Constant Conquering the grave is listed as one of the benefits that we receive from the conquering Christ. The problem that we end up running into this into this point is that we don't believe in a personal devil. We don't Don't consider it very often. Christians can struggle with it. Non Christians, you really struggle with it. But I and I've asked these questions before. I would love for somebody to talk to me about this if they want to Argue about it or they don't see the point I'm trying to make. But the very first one is we as Americans are a very small percentage of the entire Global culture that does not believe in personal a personal evil being. And so if that is the case, is it possible That you are neglecting all of that cultural wisdom in all of those other countries. And therefore, you're culturally narrow. Which is, I know, uh a value that you hold, that you would like to be Or how about this? Most people in America, when taking uh these surveys, which I really don't know about, say that they believe in God. There's some personal supernatural good being out there that controls things. And I don't see why it's so ridiculous if you believe in a personal supernatural good being, why there couldn't be a I think that creates some plausibility for you to begin to realize that the fire is much higher and you're sinking down even lower and lower, as Johnny Cash saying. Here's the problem. Something that I had to discover in my own life, and maybe you need to discover it now. There's these three rings that are listed within this passage, but there are so many other ways in which you are incapable. So many other rings that as a caterpillar you are in the center. Here we have the ring of our natures, which are inclined to evil, which keep accumulating debt, which is that second point And to make it even worse, besides the wickedness of the flesh and the debt that it's creating, we also have the devil working against us and all of his minions. And we seek to solve these problems in human ways. We turn to religion. I remember being in juvenile detention and someone introducing to me Eastern rel the Eastern religion of Buddhism. And I remember trying to fit this that that square peg into the circle hole of my heart, the of that Eastern religion And it just didn't fill. It didn't do what others said it would do. I remember trying to be good at sports so that I could feel like I had a place within the universe. And that sounds ridiculous. But I was trying with everything. I remember uh trying uh the the outlet of uh maybe if I just dress well. Maybe if I look like the those people who are popular, then I'll feel like I belong somehow in this universe. I remember looking for meaning and significance and value within a girlfriend in high school. I remember looking for that in friends I remember looking for that in drugs and alcohol, and in every one of those things, they failed me. It still left me as a caterpillar in a ring of fire. There was one thing I could not deny about my existence, and that's why I was a caterpillar. And the other thing I couldn't deny about my existence is that human existence is difficult like flames. And if you believe those two things, the only place for you to turn is Jesus Christ. If you are a non-Christian, you must turn there because there is no other answer. I've tried them all, and if I haven't, then the author of Ecclesiastes has. Read that book. And if you are a Christian And if you have been turning to friends or girlfriends or boyfriends or clothes or sports or some other way to find significance and meaning, to get rid of the guilt, to get rid of the evil within your heart It will fail you. It is only Jesus Christ that can save you. Even after you are saved, He is the one that must continue to walk with you and to work with you. to sanctify you. These are the rings of our life, and it is only Jesus Christ that can bring us out of these. Amen. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this passage that you've given to us. We thank you for allowing us to see the reality of our human situation. And I pray, Lord, that That you would not allow the evil one to blind us, that we would be able to see, that you would give us light in the midst of darkness. I pray, Lord, that we would not turn to other things to solve our human condition, but only to you, and that in this way you would become more and more and more our greatest treasure. In the name of In your name. Amen. We have a final hymn that I'd like you to stand and sing, and it's Arise, My Soul, Arise. Number 199.