Uh stand again in just a little bit for the reading of God's Word. I want to take a moment to just rehearse God's faithfulness by rehearsing the history of Severn Run since today is our 31st anniversary The Severn Run Evangelical Presbyterian Church began as a work of Jesus Christ using the combined efforts of the Mission to North America MNA Committee. Committee of the Potomac Presbytery, and the Saverna Park Evangelical Presbyterian Church. It was originally conceived as an outreach to the Gambrill's Odington-Millersville community Which at the time, 1990, was the fastest-growing community in the state of Maryland. A telephone call campaign entitled, It's For You Was undertaken and successfully completed slightly under 20,000 calls to the local community to inquire if there was interest in a new local church. Many people responded positively, and some 200 people ultimately came to our first service on the 3rd of March 1991. From those contacted by phone. And I believe, well, I don't just believe, I know that there are still some of them with us. And if you don't mind, please stand. Whoa, whoa, they just left the room. Grab her No, Peggy. Yeah. And if you were here at the first service, I'd ask that of you, please stand. We have one, two, You were here at the first service, right? Where were you going? Never mind. Uh yeah, thank thank you very much. You can be seated. Severn Run started out as a mission church in the PCA, but it became a full-fledged church on our second anniversary, March 7, 1993. Some of you have met Arch Van Devender. He's about six foot eight. At least that's how it feels to me. Whenever I hug him, my head is kind of resting on his chest, which feels weird. But Arch was called as the first official pastor and was ordained on the fourth anniversary of the church, March 5, 1995. After many years in temporary locations, God gave us our current home in February 2000. It was the result of much labor and sacrifice on the part of the congregation and many friends from our sister churches in the area. And in March of 2016, Severn Run called me as their pastor, as the new senior pastor. And even in this year, there is continued faithfulness to God and his people, and that this property and this building is completely paid off and is owned by this congregation. Throughout the years, the church has earnestly endeavored to serve the Lord by being a place where people can find sacred rest. In fact, from the very beginning, the folks around here kept referring to Genesis 8. 15 as capturing their hearts for the folks in the area. encouraging them to rest themselves under the tree. And it referred to the hospitality originally offered by our Lord to his servant Abraham in that Genesis passage. The folks, for the longest time, even continuing to this day, wanted to exhibit love to strangers. Abraham actually ministered to the person of his Savior, and this church has sought to do the same to glorify their God and how they conduct themselves. In the same way, in other words, Severn Run EP Church understands itself as being a community of believers where weary folks who are tired of traveling in a disordered world can be refreshed through the caring love and order shown by God's people Within this vision, there are many and varied ministries that have gone throughout the years. And in each of these, the Lord reaches out his hands to those with whom we come in contact. Worship of our sovereign God is understood as the deepest need for any person, and as such is the cornerstone of this church's hope for bearing fruit to the kingdom of Jesus Christ. It is one reason why we take this day so seriously. The SREPC of today holds hands with the past. ordering all of life to the glory of Christ, especially in Anna Runnell County. We look back with grateful astonishment to what God has done for the history of our church, and we resolve to carry His glory forward. For God has shown Himself faithful to us in all things, sustaining us when we were weak, encouraging us when we were timid, and providing for us when we were needy. He and he alone is the reason for our existence. And it is to him that we look for all that we need in the coming years of service. And he has a lot for us to do. To him and to him alone be all glory, honor, and praise, now and forever, world without end. Amen. Amen. Happy thirty-first anniversary. Joe, will you please say a prayer? Thank you. Let's pray. Our God, our faithful God, we thank you, Lord, that you are faithful to your people. Looking back even to your promises to Abraham that uh there is rest under the tree. We know there is rest under the tree of Christ. Father, we you are you are abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness through your covenant for your people, which includes our church. Father, we thank you, Lord, for for the blessings of thirty-one years of of ministry. I personally have been a part of about half of that. I thank you, Lord, that you are faithful to your people. And we we look forward, Father, to how your faithfulness will manifest it to us in the coming years. May we seek you in in deeper ways, may you be Or everything, Father. May we be comforted. May we be at peace. May we look forward to how you will work through your household of faith, this body, to glorify your Son. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you. You may now stand for the word. Thank you. Let's all turn together to Acts chapter twenty-seven. And I think you please follow along in the chapter. We'll read to verse thirty-eight. And when it was decided that we should sail to Italy, they delivered Paul and some other prisoners to one named Julius, a centurion of the Augustine regiment. So, entering a ship of Adrantium, we put to sea, meaning to sail along the coasts of Asia. Aristarchus, a Macedonian of Thessalonica, was with us And the next day we landed at Sedan. And Julius treated Paul kindly and gave him liberty to go to his friends and receive care When he had put to sea from there we sailed under the shelter of Cyprus, because the winds were contrary. And when we had sailed over the sea, which is off Cilicia and Pamphylia, we came to Myra, a city of Lycia. There the centurion found an Alexandrian ship sailing to Italy, and he put us on board. When we had sailed slowly many days and arrived with difficulty off Sinidas, the wind not permitting us to proceed, we sailed under the shelter of Crete off Salmone Passing it with difficulty we came to a place called Fair Havens, near the city of Lassia. Now, when much time had been spent and sailing was now dangerous because the fast was already over, Paul advised them, saying, Men, I perceive that this voyage will end with disaster and much loss, not only of the cargo and ship, but also our lives Nevertheless, the centurion was more persuaded by the helmsman and the owner of the ship than by the things spoken by Paul And because the harbor was not suitable to winter in, the majority advised to set sail from there also, if by any means they could reach Phoenix, a harbor of Crete opening toward the southwest and northwest, and winter there. When the south wind blew softly, supposing that they had obtained their desire, putting out to sea, they sailed close to Crete But not long after a tempestuous headwind arose called the North Wind or the Northerly Winds. So when the ship was caught and could not head into the wind, we let her drive And running under the shelter of an island called Clauda, we secured the skiff with difficulty. When they had taken it on board, they used cables to undergird the ship. And fearing lest they should run aground on the surchus sands, they struck sail, and so were driven. And because we were exceedingly tempest tossed, the next day they lightened the ship On the third day, we threw the ship's tackle overboard with our own hands, now when neither sun nor stars appeared for many days And no small tempest beat on us. All hope that we would be saved was finally given up. But after long abstinence from food, then Paul stood in the midst of them and said, Men, you should have listened to me and not sailed from Crete and incurred this disaster and loss. And now I urge you to take heart, for there will be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship For there stood by me this night an angel of the God to whom I belong and whom I serve, saying, Do not be afraid, Paul. You must be brought before Caesar And indeed God has granted you all those who sail with you. Therefore take heart, men, for I believe that God will be just as it was told to me. However, we must run aground on a certain island Now, when the fourteenth night had come, as we were driven up and down in the Adriatic Sea, about midnight the sailors sensed that they were drawing near some land, and they took soundings and found it to be twenty fathoms And when they had gone a little farther, they took soundings again, and found it to be fifteen fathoms. Then, fearing lest we should run aground on the rocks, they dropped four anchors from the stern, and prayed for day to come. And as the sailors were seeking to escape from the ship, when they had let down the skiff into the sea, under pretense of putting out anchors from the prowl, Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers, Unless these men stay in the ship, you cannot be saved. Then the soldiers cut away the ropes with a skiff and let it fall off. And as the day was about to dawn, Paul implored them all to take food, saying, Today is the fourteenth day you have waited, and continued without food, and eaten nothing. Therefore, I urge you to take nourishment, for this is for your survival, since not a hair will fall from the head of any of you And when he had said these things, he took bread and gave thanks to God in the presence of them all. And when he had broken it, he began to eat. Then they were all encouraged and also took food themselves. And in all were we were 276 persons on the ship. So when they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship and threw out the wheat into the sea. Let us pray. Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for Luke's faithful recording of this event. We pray, Lord, that you would help us to not only take comfort in his historical recording, but the strength we are to receive as the church in every age. We ask, Lord Jesus Christ, that you yourself would teach us. In the name of Christ, amen. Amen. Please be seated. Well, last week The main point of our teaching was straight from Acts chapter 26, verse 18. Jesus Christ is turning the world from darkness to light. From the power of Satan to God, that we may receive forgiveness of sins and an inheritance among those who are sanctified, sanctified by faith in Jesus. And it is Futile to kick against the goods. Now, as we seek to move into Acts chapter twenty-eight. We know that we always begin by asking the question, how should we frame the passage? Is there another passage that is evoked for us so that we can see how to organize all of the parts and what the main emphasis is. And I wonder what scriptural lens you would suggest to me, if we were just doing this together sitting in the living room, what scriptural lens would you suggest to me? so that we could get to the heart of Luke's teaching. And I wonder if some of you would say, well, Jonah, Seeing this as a sea voyage through the lens of Jonah does in fact bear quite a good deal of fruit for us in our understanding. Jonah was a prophet commissioned by God to preach to a foreign nation. The same may be said of Paul And if you were to read through it carefully, if you were to have Jonah on your left hand and this chapter on your right, you would see other similarities in the way Jonah and Paul speak, even references to third days. Without leaving Jonah behind, I, however, want us to take verse 34 seriously. Because I believe that it is this verse that offers us the door into the instruction for the church of each age. During a meal, I hope you noticed this, during a meal with great similarities to the Lord's Supper. I'm not saying that it was a Lord's Supper, I'm just saying great similarities to it that should have been evoked in your minds. Paul says, Not a hair will fall from the head of any of you. This same phrase is from chapter 1 of Luke, or chapter 21 of Luke. That chapter in Luke includes so many of the same pictures which we see in this sailing voyage that when you study it on your own time, your jaw will drop. I cannot even bring out all of the details for you. I just don't have the time. The last three weeks, my sermons have run longer than I want them to. It's starting to frustrate me. And so I'm not going to do it today. It is going to go long today. It is going to go long. But I can't keep adding these details. I'd encourage you to keep looking at Luke chapter 21 and matching it up with this sea voyage That chapter in Luke, besides that same phrase, includes a number of other pictures. For example, waves and sea roaring. That's actually in the 24-25 of Luke. Apocalyptic signs in the heavens, as we see in this chapter in verse 20, neither sun nor stars appeared for many days. And the most obvious of all is that in that same chapter of Luke is the exact same context in which Jesus Christ has placed Paul. It is persecution for the name of Jesus Christ and the need to keep courage through it all Now, we included the section in your bulletin, and we've already read through it this morning for that reason. And I'll just read it to you again, and you're welcome to open your bulletins and follow along. Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be great earthquakes in various places, and famines and pestilences. And there will be fearful sights and great signs from heaven. But before all these things, they will lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and prisons. You will be brought before kings. Was that not just the last chapter? You will be brought before kings and rulers for my name's sake is exactly what's happening to Paul. He's heading to Caesar. But it will turn out for you as an occasion for testimony. That's exactly what happened to Paul every single time, and it will happen in Rome Therefore, settle it in your hearts not to meditate beforehand on what you will answer. For I will give you a mouth and wisdom which all your adversaries will not be able to contradict or resist. You will be betrayed even by parents and brothers, relatives and friends, and they will put some of you to death. And you will be hated by all for my name's sake, but not a hair of your head shall be lost. By your patience or courage, therefore, possess your souls. It is exactly what Paul tells everyone else on the ship after he receives that angelic vision. That is the first observation that you must realize is we have got to take verse 34 seriously as a framing verse for what is going on in Luke's head as he's writing about a historic sea voyage. From Caesarea to Rome. Now, the second observation is this Did you notice in Luke, and if you didn't, just reread it later, did you notice in that same Luke passage that after the persecutions for his name's sake, nation will rise against nation? They are getting ready to move into a very tumultuous time in history. The ship of state, if you will, is going to sink. I want you to spend some time at another time in Luke chapter 21, and you will see that in that same chapter, Jesus speaks specifically about the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 A. D. Now I want you to pull these things together. Here we are at the end of Acts. How does Luke want to end this letter for all Christians of all ages? This is certainly a historic record of an actual sailing voyage which Paul took, and that's good enough for me. But Luke is doing more. Luke is recording in such a way Where he is fully aware that God is providing providentially a kind of living parable. By which for us to understand who God is, what He is doing, especially through the church in the world. This would have been very helpful, especially for them as they prepared for the collapse of Jerusalem to get out of Dodge. But it is also meant to be helpful to us as we continue on the same kind of trip The sea voyage embodies that fact that Jesus Christ has given the church the Great Commission. Sometimes the waves will roar, the northeasterly wind will blow, but it is still true in every age that not a hair of the head of the church shall be lost, and we therefore must let courage possess our souls. But there is another thing, based on that second observation, with the collapse of Jerusalem. There is something else that must possess our souls besides courage. And it is gravity and sobriety. You need to tune in, Christian, to just how serious your calling is. Jerusalem has been destroyed. If we could get on a plane and go there, it is still in ruins. The temple We are the new Jerusalem. We are the new temple. We are the new vineyard We, Jew and Gentile, are the new light of the world. Do you understand the gravity of your situation? Do you understand your role across the face of the earth? That in some sense you as a congregation are the center of the earth, together with every other congregation that has been raised up by Jesus Christ. Now that's a lot. But we could boil it down to just a single statement this morning that really captures it all if you were to unfold it. And it's this. Because Jerusalem rejected Christ, you have been given the Great Commission. You have it. It's yours. You're on the ship. You're on your way to Rome. Now, what I want to do to try to bring out some of that sobriety that we need and the gravity, and to also think about our future since we just hit 31 years old. is I want to look at the parable of the landowner. I'm just going to paraphrase it for you. This is from Matthew 21. I want to give you an interpretation of the parable of the landowner, and then I want to raise some questions for you about that parable. The parable of the landowner. Have you read it? Do you know what I'm talking about from Matthew chapter 21? Jesus tells a parable about a certain landowner. This parable clarifies our main message this morning. It's in the background of exactly what's going on in Luke's mind. And it goes like this. A certain landowner planted a vineyard. Children, make sure you're listening. I'm telling you the story of your life. A certain landowner planted a vineyard. He leased it to some folks who specialize in taking care of vineyards The landowner left the land and he traveled to another country. Now, harvest time came. It was time for the grapes. They were ripened, and it was time for them to be removed from the vine. Those which had already been removed from the vine, it was time to gather the fruit of the grape. And so the vineyard owner sent his employees to gather the grapes and the juice from the grapes from those to whom he leased the property. When the employees arrived, however, those who held the lease had planned the murder of those employees, and they carried it out. They killed every single one that stepped foot on the vineyard. They hid their bodies in the sand. The landowner reasoned, well, they've killed employee after employee, but if I send my own son, certainly they would never kill him. But they did not honor the sun. They said to themselves, This is the Son. He will inherit this vineyard Let's kill him, and then we can inherit the whole business operation and have the vineyard to ourselves for our own purposes. And so they killed him Now, let me pose a question to you. How do you think this is going to work out for those who lease the land? Well, it worked out as you thought in your head, and as I heard in your it's not really a laugh, right? It's just a realization. The Landover traveled back to the vineyard and destroyed those wicked men. And he leased the vineyard to a new group of people This new group of people is now responsible to bear fruit for the landowner. You now hold the lease. Now this was told by Jesus in Matthew 21, and it is also the same message that I have Attempted to share with you from the Acts chapter 27. The landowner is God the Father. He leased his vineyard to the Israelites. They were commissioned to bring him great fruit. They were to be a light to the whole world of his fruitfulness. The nations were to look on to them and say, Who is your God? He is a God of blessing. I want him to be my God. But they became self-focused and they became self-interested, and they used the juice from the grapes to just get drunk and party with each other. You can read about that in Isaiah 28. When God looked for the fruit, they killed his servants. And as we all know, when God said, Surely they will receive my son, they crucified him on a Roman cross. So, God took their vineyard away. And he did so beginning around the year 70 AD with a great Roman army leveling their temple, and their temple still lays in ruins. And at least in the meantime, God has given the least to you as Jews and Gentiles. We are now stewards of God, and God looks to us for the same fruit Our whole lives, even as a community, as it says in Romans chapter 12, picking up the same kind of imagery of farming, are to be living sacrifices. Holy, acceptable to God, which is our reasonable service. We are his orchard. And with that picture in mind, we hear over and over again from this pulpit or from podcasts or wherever Jesus Christ decides to bring his message That we cannot, everything is at stake. We therefore cannot be conformed to this world. We cannot take its shape Do you see why? That it's not just about you and your individual piety, that there is everything at stake since you are the light. That we instead must be transformed by the renewing of our minds, realizing who we are in the world, and that it's worth fighting for It's worth you giving up your life for. Whether it's mortifying sin or giving up your actual life for the sake of the name of Jesus Christ, which some missionaries are doing probably at this moment. Well that's the interpretation of the parable, and guess what? The whole thing just landed on your lap. And it landed on our lap on our 31st anniversary, which gives us a really great opportunity to regroup And figure out what Jesus Christ is calling us to do in the Great Commission for the next 31 years, beginning this year So I just want to raise a few questions for you. Because I cannot find all of the time I would need or create enough committees, and neither can the session to just do all of the work and set it up for you. You are a member of the church, and you have to take responsibility for the vineyard just like we do. And so let me raise some questions for you. Happy 31st anniversary! Oh you love me, come on. And I love you. A lot has happened since the beginning. God has given us this land and He has permitted us to build this building and now the whole thing is mortgage-free. The property, therefore, is acting like a kind of symbolic vineyard for us. It is a kind of vineyard which God has given to us But it represents not only what takes place on this property, but a kind of central location of the purpose of all of the work that happens outside of this property, which is most of the work. We all leave here and we go, and by the grace of Jesus Christ and his work of the Spirit through us, we are filling the world with good works. And then we return. We are gathered together every week as a great sign that together as a community we are farming and fruitful for God. And we offer up our praises to Him from whom all blessings flow. Over and over again, in the cycle of one week, is the representation of what Christ is doing through the church throughout the entire world. Good works. The Lord's Day come to the praise of God. So, with that image, let's say, I want you to do a little thought experiment with me. Let's say that when we took the offering. Like we had this morning. Let's say that we do the offering a little bit different and that God lets us take the offering with bushel baskets. Collecting your good works from the weak that have been created through you by Jesus Christ and His Spirit onto the glory of His name. We're going to collect all of those things As an offering to him, and we're going to say, thank you. Thank you. And look at your work, Jesus Christ. Thank you. Many of you would have brought in the fruits of your vocation as family. You spent a lot of time working on the family. As parents and grandparents and as children, I do in fact know that God sees your fruitfulness and he smiles I know that for a fact, that he is quite pleased with the work of the Son through you and your families Several of you have brought the good fruits of widowhood. We know that the seas are rough And that the winds sometimes feel very cold when you are doing work without your spouse. But take courage because I know also And as a matter of fact, that God sees your fruit. He sees you, and he is well pleased. He is well pleased with the work of the Son through you. Many of you have brought in the good fruits of caring for the sick and the aging Now, this is not something that all of you know because it's not a ministry that has like a sign above it or something where you could see the ministry for the sick and the aging But if you were in my position and you could see what a lot of folks are doing in the private times of their homes or driving in their cars. You would see that there are a number of people throughout our congregation that are diligently ministering to the sick and the dying and the aging. God has shown me that a number of you visits and call and send cards to each other for encouragement. And I'm here this morning, and I'm looking at that bushel basket, which is really overflowing with good works through Jesus Christ. And God is pleased with you. Please keep up the good work. Be encouraged. God sees the grapes of your care and he smiles. I see also bushel baskets of the fruit of Christian education, and this basket is getting a little out of hand with the amount of teachers and administrators and that kind of stuff that are present. Jesus Christ has gifted many of you in this congregation to administrate and teach as a support to the parents and the nurture of our children. And God is pleased. I also see the fruit of mercy in the pop-up pantry, and boy is God smiling. And I am sure there are many that I could keep going and say that we are fruitful in these ways also, but I'll just summarize it by saying. That even at this one moment, not even counting the f the the bushel baskets that have been brought forward for the last thirty-one years, just at this moment Take stock for just a moment. Look at the inventory and how productive of an orchard Jesus Christ has made you. All praise to God the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. But I wonder if you notice something. I wonder if you notice that there is a bushel basket and I'm not seeing much fruit in it. Not communal fruit. I know there's all these things that you do as individuals, and I'm not talking about that right now. I'm talking about a concerted, orchestrated effort in the union of us as a community effort. There is a bushel basket still before us, and on the side is written the first fruits of Anna Runal County And it would include all of the fruits of those across our county who are new believers Having heard and understood the gospel message of what God the Father is doing through Jesus Christ and His Spirit, And they have repented and joined the church in their devotion to Jesus Christ. I've been here for a little while. And we must include the covenant children in the basket as fruit that belongs in there, as first fruit of Anorano County But we it's supposed to be a basket that's full of apples, and there's a few apples in there. And we should have multiple baskets filled with apples Now that is a very difficult thing for me to say before a bunch of reformed people who understand the sovereignty of God and that salvation is out of our hands. But I did it anyway. I imagined, as I was thinking through this with the Lord, that some of you would say, Well, we just can't make the fruit. Haven't you read R. C. Sprof? God is the only one who can make it grow. 1 Corinthians chapter 13. Read your Bible, Jesse. And I agree. But I have a question for you. The same chapter in 1 Corinthians 3 says that you can plant seeds and you can water. And where are your seeds and your watering cans? As a collective community, as an orchestrated movement, where are they? Where are you attempting to put the seeds in the water? Is there any seeds being cast forward in Anoreno County and watering taking place? And here's the second thing that pops into your mind. Jesse, God has given us a land that is dry and does not receive the seed. We could water it for days and nothing would pop out. Do you not realize that we live in a desert? I do realize that. I do realize that the ground is hard. I do realize that there have been individually some seeds cast and the birds came and they picked them up. But I also realize that God, in the midst of a desert, makes gardens of paradise. That is what he has been doing from the beginning. And all I really hear you saying to me when you're complaining about how hard the dirt is, Is that we have got to figure out a way that Jesus Christ, by way of his power, wants us to farm this land. There is not a choice for you to not farm the land. It is your responsibility to figure out a way to farm the land. Maybe the land will never produce like another land. I keep hearing stories about uh South Korea and China and people in droves coming to Jesus Christ. Arch visited those places, and when they found out he was a pastor, there was a line going out of his hotel and into the street of people wanting him to pray over them. I understand that there may be more fruitful seasons and more fruitful lands, but do not tell me that we are supposed to stop farming because of the kind of dirt that Jesus Christ has given to us. I just think that we are on the cutting edge of having to develop a new kind of farming practice, and I don't even know what that is yet. But I know that we're farmers, so what else are we supposed to do? Even if it's just a little bit I've already said that we're seeing the apples of covenant children piled into the bushel baskets, but I believe that we could do more. And here we are at our 31st anniversary with a passage like this, and that's God's providence. Now I have one more thing to say. I said I had a bunch of questions, but I made a lot of declarations. at you this morning. But I think they're good. And they should be motivating. Because I know you all want to get to work, so let's do it Here's the thing though. Guess what? They are all not going to come running to 1624 Millersville Road There's no way that you can just sit here and have everybody show up and then deliver the gospel message. Guess who you have to be like? You're going to have to be like Paul and get on the ship and go to Rome And here's what I can promise you. The seas will be rough. A northeasterly wind will blow when we start to become effective. You, my expectation, will be hated for Jesus' namesake And yet, I still ask the question: what else can we do? What else can we do based upon the identity that Jesus Christ has given to us? And if that is the case, and we know who we are, must we not at this moment receive this message from Jesus Christ? 7 run. Let courage possess your souls. Not a hair will be lost from your head That is the message that Jesus Christ has for us this morning as a church that is having its birthday. And that is his present to you, that you might know how to serve him for many years to come. And the bushel baskets that need some work. And I do hope that you also heard his commendation on all the work that has been done. Don't just focus on the negative and what we haven't done. We're not in a rush. Just know the work that lies before you. We know the parable of the landowner. We have heard the interpretation of the landowner. We hear the questions and we see the fruit. And it is a good thing for us to acknowledge this morning that some of our baskets are a little empty. And so I'd ask that you'd hear our doctrine again. Jerusalem rejected Jesus Christ, and you, Severn Run, therefore, have been given the Great Commission. May Christ give us boldness as we bring the gospel to Anorano County. May He fill our baskets to overflowing. Let us pray.