This morning, we'll be hearing from God's Word in John chapter twenty in a It'll be verses twenty-four through thirty-one. I will usually ask you to stand, but you've been standing enough today. So I'd ask that you would stand in your heart for this reading of his word. Word this morning. It's John chapter 20, and it's 24 through 31. John had just relayed to us prior to this two appearances of the Lord Jesus Christ. He had just appeared to the eleven disciples, and now he'll appear to Thomas. So then now that there's twelve. Starting at verse 24. Now Thomas, called the twin, one of the twelve, was not with them when Jesus came the first time. The other disciples therefore said to him, We have seen the Lord. So he said Unless I see his hands, the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and put my hand into his side, I will not believe. And after eight days, his disciples were again inside, and Thomas with them. Jesus came, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst and said, Peace to you. Then he said to Thomas, Reach your finger in here, and look at my hands, and reach your hand here, and put it into my side. Do not be unbelieving, but believing. And Thomas answered and said to him, My Lord and my God. Jesus said to him, Thomas, because you have seen me, you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. And truly Jesus did many other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written, that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing Heavenly Father, we need your spiritual illumination. These words have gone out for thousands of years. Some take them to their hearts, and others put them to their We ask that we would not be those who reject, but that accept, that we would be added to your number, and that we would be perfected in Christ Jesus. Amen. I imagine some of you have heard this story. If you grew up in the church, or if you didn't, maybe you've heard it somewhere else, but there is a story of a man on a deserted island. He is stranded there. He can't get off. And so he drops to his knees in the sand. And he cries out to God. And he says, God, I need you to Save me from this deserted island or I'm going to die. And so he's not even finished his prayer, and there's this low flying biplane that comes by and And so he continues praying. Starting to feel more hungry and famished, his lips are becoming parched from being on the island for so long, and then there's a helicopter, and the helicopter actually lands on the island and offers him a ride and he says, No, I don't need the helicopter, God will save me. And then there is a boat that come by comes by and he pulls up to the island and offers him a ride and he says, No, I don't need a boat because God will save me. And then the man Died on the island. And when he gets to heaven, he asks God, Well I thought you were going to save me. I thought you were a child. And and you know the punchline here. I sent you an airplane and a helicopter and a person. I think a lot of us can connect to that story with a mentality that we can have. I've heard more than one teenager and even adults, whether you're Atheist or agnostic or just a struggling Christian, you can say I would get myself off the island of unbelief. I would get myself off of the island of not having convictions About Jesus Christ if he would just do things or send things my way in the way that I want them. If he would just personally appear to me, if I heard a voice out of the clouds, then I would give myself over and become a follower of Jesus Christ. The thing that we end up discovering throughout all of Christianity, if you haven't figured this out, is he is not going to do that for you. And it's revealed most clearly within this passage today that God has chosen chosen something different, like a helicopter or a plane or like a boat. He's going to work through means and not speak to you In some kind of theophanic vision. Instead, he will reveal himself to you through apostolic testimony, through what the apostles say to you. They will be the foundation uh with Jesus Christ as the cornerstone upon which every truth and every action of the church will be based upon. God reveals himself through apostolic Testimony. Don't just look at it as a mere helicopter or as a mere plane or as a mere boat because this gets you off the island. Don't die there. This passage. It's going to be a long sermon. Eleven testimonies, and then we've got three conditions. That's 12, 13, 14 points in the sermon, and then one apostle, 15-point sermon. Just kidding. Just I'm just kidding. Eleven testimonies, three conditions, and one apostle. You see here right in the beginning in four in twenty-four there's this beautiful moment that it you could see the power of Jesus Christ in God. Using history and situations to just spell out his kingdom. It's so beautiful to see a person in total uh sovereignty and in complete charge. In verse twenty four There are only eleven disciples prior to this appearance to Thomas that saw Jesus. Now I want to point something out to you very quickly. If you go back up to verse 19 and following, uh and then Verse twenty, he appears to the eleven disciples. Thomas is absent, and in verse twenty, when he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side, and then the disciples were glad to see that he So they had what Thomas had never had. So Thomas enters into the room and the disciples already having this experience with Jesus Christ. Thomas called the twin, one of the twelve, was not with them when Jesus came, and the others disciples therefore said to him, because they had just done Now Thomas is before his time, apparently, and has attended the University of Berkeley. Because he says to them, Unless I see his hands, the print or mark of the nails, and put my finger into the print or the mark of the nails, and put my hand into his side, I will not believe. Now, when we begin to look at what's happening here, and if you had been attending our Monday, Thursday, and our Good Friday service, you would know that this is a huge series that we're doing, total of five sermons, where Christ is who he says he is. The whole context of the Gospel of John is legal law language. And so when we see in verse 24, we have seen the Lord, we should immediately begin thinking Thinking in terms of legal language, seeing the Lord should think you should be thinking of witnesses and of testimony. This is confirmed to us down in verse 30, and Jesus truly And truly Jesus did many other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book, but these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ. Do you see what John is doing there? Some of you might flinch at this a little bit, but this is a perfect argument for you to see that John is not giving a biography of Jesus Christ. He has purposefully selected certain stories in order to prove a very important point to you throughout the entire gospel. He has arranged These facts and laid them in a particular order so that he can prove something to you as if he were a uh someone giving testimony in a court of law. You know, this shouldn't surprise us if you follow the story and you go back to chapter 19. It's very interesting. Jesus has the ultimate trial in the Roman court with Pilate. Everyone familiar with that? You would think that once Jesus is crucified, the Jews have had their way, that the trial would be over and there would no longer be any need for testimony of any sort. But what you end up finding in chapter 19 is there's a soldier who sees that the uh that Jesus was stuck inside and that water flowed out. And look at listen the way John's Describes this soldier, knowing that he's collecting the parts to try to make a point. This is nineteen, verse thirty-four. But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out, and he who has seen has testified. And his testimony is true, and he knows that he's telling the truth, so that you may believe. Scripture says they shall look on him whom they pierced. John is once again looking at that situation and this one as the testimony can Continues as a court of law or as a lawsuit. So don't read verse 24 as just any old words or verse uh yes verse 24 as any old words these are tis is technical terminology we have seen the lord imagine them saying that in a court of law We have seen him. We are eyewitnesses to this fact. That is what's going on here. That brings us to the three conditions of Thomas. Once we set this declaration that we have seen as a an eyewitness testimony within a trial and that corresponds with everything that has been going on, the entire flow of the Gospel of John, you can see the three conditions that Thomas lays down, he says, unless I see his hands, the prince of the nails, and I put my finger touch, in the prince of the nails, and I put my hand into his side touch, I will not believe. might sing some kind of all five senses jingle at this time to see the print, to touch the print, to touch the side. Do you see, if you're philosophical you'll like this term, Thomas's epistemological Do you see Thomas's epistemology? What Thomas is doing here is he's struggling with how can I be sure that I really know what I know No, he has certain evidentiary criteria that he brings into the law court. And he says, we can accept certain kind of evidences here, and we can't accept I dec I declare that this evidence should be thrown out and therefore we have to render this decision How can we be sure about things? Why do I believe some things and not others? And this is the exact same question that many of us bring, whether you are a Christian or a non-Christian, you bring these kind of questions to the Text. And you say, how can I be sure? That's really what it all ends up boiling down to. How can I be sure that I'm actually standing on a rock and not standing on sinking sand? No one wants to stand on sinking sand, much less build your entire life upon it. And so although epistemology might sound like something abstract, it ends up being the very core of our lives. What evidence will we accept? Now not many of us realize that every single one of us accepts evidence No matter if it's the rising of the Lord or whatever it might be, it's all based upon authority. I don't care if you think you're the smartest science scientist in the world, it is based upon authority The scientist right now is saying, no, mine is based upon reason, and I say upon the authority of reason. I am hungry. Not really, this is an example. I am hungry. Are you hungry? Are you hungry? Anybody here hungry? Klaus, you're saying you are hungry. I'm sorry. You really are hungry. How do you know you're hungry, Klaus? You can feel it. Yeah. Now, how do you know you can trust Your stomach, Klaus. You've been trusting it all your life. It's never turned on you. It's all it's always been right. That's exactly right. There's a biological authority within us that testifies to us like a law court, and we accept the testimony. I shot a deer with my father when I was a teenager. How do I know that? Because I trust my memory. It rests upon the authority of my memory. Every one of you Trust the authority of your memory most of the time. Prove to me that I'm standing here. You would say, I see you, I hear you I could go up and touch you. I trust my external senses. So you're telling me that you not only have internal authorities that you trust, but you also have external authorities. Now if you were in the bathroom or you were out in the narthex and someone said to you, who's here? And you said, Pastor Jesse. And then they'd say, How do you know? And you'd say, Well, because I just saw him. Touched them. I just heard them. And they'd say, okay, I believe you. So not only do you believe your internal authorities, you believe your external authorities and the authorities of others. And that is how you live your normal human life And if you were to deny that, you would never be able to live again. Those are all of the authorities upon which you base your life. The mistake that ends up being made within our culture is that we deny that That fact, but we live it. We deny it with our mouths, but we live it. Which means you have fallen into the Thomas error here, which he'll be corrected of in just a moment. I remember having a conversation about science with someone as a Christian, and when you think about faith and science, that is a big uh debate these days. And we have different ways of trying to get the two back together and to be friends again. I don't think we're enemies. I I really like science. He's a good friend of mine. Uh And they say to me, well, uh because I believe in reason and thinking things through and you're just by faith. Faith. And I say, well that's interesting. You yeah, I I guess I am by faith, but let me understand what you're trying to say here. Do you do you what is science? Well I guess it's using strict methodology, we observe things. I say, oh you observe things, like with your ears and your eyes. Well I just do. Oh so by Faith. Oh, okay. I get it. So he so here what we're saying is that it is by faith. That is to say, d don't lose the word here into some mysticism. What we're saying is that the reasoning has to stop somewhere. There's some ground level truth that we do not question beyond. We accept it upon its own authority. You do it in your entire life and what Thomas is saying here Is he saying the only authority that I will accept in my life is if I personally see and touch and hear Jesus Christ, the risen one, I will not accept your testimony, apostles. Which is also exactly what we do with In this culture, we want God to reveal Himself to us. We do not want the apostles telling us something. We want to see it ourselves. And what's being declared here, uh apparently, which we'll see in just a moment, is that That is not true. That can't be how you continue within your life. Thomas would not accept the authority of his own eye he would only accept the authority of his own eyes and his own feeling, and he would not the And so now we move from eleven testimonies to uh this apostolic indulgence Eleven testimonies to the apostolic indulging. Eleven testimonies, three conditions, and now you see the Lord Jesus Christ indulging Thomas as he's going through this kind of mindset of epistemology. Epistemology. And this is in verses 26 through 29. And after eight days, you can imagine the disciples trying to convince Thomas for eight days long. There's an argument for that. That he's c they're continually presenting to him, bringing other witnesses into the court so that he would believe. And then after eight days his disciples were again inside, and Thomas with them. And Jesus Came, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace to you. Then he said to Thomas, Reach your finger here, and look at my hands, and reach your hand here, and put it into my side. Do not be unbelieving, but believing. And Thomas answered and said to him, My Lord and my God. Jesus said to him, Thomas, because you have seen me, you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have seen have believed. Jesus indulges Thomas' desires. Did you expect that? Wouldn't if if I if Jesus was trying to make the exact same point, or if I'm trying to make the exact same point as Jesus, which is that we should accept other people's testimony. Why is it that Jesus enables Thomas? That's the ultimate question of the text. If it's so bad to be an empiricist With just your own authority in your own eyes, why is it that he indulges him? Why is it that then Jesus rebukes him? indulges and enables, but then he rebukes him. Is Jesus being passive aggressive? Is he doing what we do within our marriages when we would end up saying to our wife or saying to our husband, uh Is it okay if I go out tonight? I'll just use my example. Is it okay if I go out tonight? And and um, sure, that would be fine. No problem. That's great. Would love to see you go out. Now what What's being communicated there? Yes, you can go out, but no, you better not go out. And so now you're in a really bad situation there. Is that what Jesus is doing? Forbid that our Lord would be doing that. That does not explain the passage. Most try to say what's going on here is that all why eyewitness is improper in Christianity and that You should just take a leap of faith and Jesus is all over them because they're not doing so. All eyewitness authority, whether it's yours or another person's, you should just have some kind of leap irrational leap into the dark and And just have faith in Jesus Christ. And that's what it means to be a Christian. All your life long you were taught to be wise, but when you get to Christianity, throw your brain out the door and just feel everything That is not what is going on here. I stand here with the greatest conviction to confirm to you that Jesus Christ would never ever say such a thing. Jesus Christ is here telling you Jesus Christ does not ask him to take an irrational leaf into the dark. That is not another explanation of the passage. The truth is that Jesus indulges Thomas because Thomas is an apostle. If you are I read the passage to you Is now the risen one. So why would he have a problem with the year? He does in one sense, but in not another not another. The problem that he doesn't have is that he does understand that the that Thomas is going to be the twelfth apostle. And that therefore as an apostle he must see with his own eyes and with his own and touch with his own fingers that Jesus is risen. It is the death Definition of an apostle, an eyewitness of the resurrected Christ. For instance, in Acts chapter one, in the upper room, since Judas has betrayed the Lord Jesus Christ, they need to And therefore, of these men who have accompanied us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, beginning from the baptism of John to that day when he was taken up from us, one of these must become a witness with with us of his resurrection. And so they cast lots and they choose the next apostle. The apostle Paul was not around. Jesus had already ascended. So how is it that Jesus can how is it that Paul can be an apostle? Because Jesus appears to him on the road to Damascus and he sees the risen Lord. He becomes an eyewitness himself. Or if you think of the same person that wrote this gospel, also wrote 1 John And he says, that which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled, concerning the word of life. The life was manifested, and we have seen, and we bear witness to you. It is by definition what an apostle must do, and so that is why he is enabled because Thomas is an apostle. That's the explanation. The real rebuke to Thomas is not because he he shouldn't see, it's because he downgrades or rejects that which everyone else in the age of the church. Will receive. The real rebuke is because everyone but the apostles will rely on the eyewitness testimony of others, namely the apostles. The Lord will not appear to you like he did to Paul on the Damascus road. He asks and commands that you would trust his authoritative apostles. Your faith is to be based upon Apostolic testimony. That is the teaching of this passage. Thomas was rejecting how the Lord has chosen to be known to millions across tongue and tribe. and nation. It is through the apostles. Or, as in verse 29, blessed are those who have not seen But believed. Not in irrational faith, but in context. Blessed are those who have not seen like the apostles, but believe the apostolic testimony Do you see that? Eleven testimonies, three conditions, the apostolic indulgence, un untie And we can see clearly what it means. Thomas, as an apostle, needed to see the resurrected Jesus, but he should not have rejected apostolic Testimony. Blessed are those that believe, yet have not seen, but rely on the testimony of the apostles. The grand truth of the passage. Final testimony. As we come to an end, there's a final testimony. It's the clearest testimony that has been given about Jesus Christ in all of God's John's gospel up to this point. The climactic final apostolic testimony is seen by Thomas once he realizes that this is the Lord, and Thomas answered in verse 28. And said to him, My Lord and my God. The trial just took a turn. It's been present throughout the entire gospel. Now, I want you to follow me because you're getting ready to go into a corner. If you accept that the apostolic testimony is God, God's way of choosing to speak to you. And the apostle here has just made the declaration that Jesus is both King and God, then what does that mean for you? Are you starting to see the ramifications that are manifesting out? That if Jesus is in fact God, what that would mean of you. Thomas is claiming what Jesus has claimed all along, Jesus throughout the gospel has a Identified himself with the God of the burning bush by saying, I am who I am. It's a declaration that he is Yahweh. Jesus' works and a demonstration of supernatural power demonstrate his divinity. Do not be an American Christian or think that you're a Christian by accepting an American message The American message and so many other nations' message, particularly in Europe, about Jesus Christ is not that he is God, but that he is someone who is inspiring, someone who can come alongside of you and teach you how to love other people. people really well, how to keep people from fighting and to keep us from war. Now that is in a sense very, very true, but they strip him of his supernaturalism. They strip him of being a member of the Godhead Incarnate. Jesus never portrays himself that way, and neither does any other apostle. You can't just call Jesus a nice guy who helps us love each other. You must either crown him or you must kill him. You must either worship him or you must wash your hands of him. There is no neutrality. On Easter. He is either a joke to you, or he really is the risen Lord. He is either just a tradition that you celebrate with your family, or he is really God. And we truly worship him. I want you to picture, and I've used this many times, I want you to picture a crowd, because this is very helpful for us. Picture a crowd following Jesus, going through Jerusalem as Jesus gives his teaching. About being God, or picture the disciples as they start to go out around the Mediterranean Sea. And because of the healings, you have crowds following him. You see the crowd, and you can see in the crowd those who are at the forefront. Who are really excited. And you can see those who are kind of hanging back because they don't want to give too much commitment too quickly. We all know those. And then there are some that are just staying where they were They were buying apples or oranges or whatever it is that they would buy at the market and they see something going by and it's caught their interest. And they've stopped buying for a moment, but they see. This is a picture of where you could stand with Jesus Christ. Either you're committed, or you're unsure, or you know, I don't even know if he's worth my time. And you have to evaluate that in light of what Thomas is saying here, my lord. Lord and my God. If you are outside of the crowd, not sure if you want to even join the crowd, If you are outside of that and you say, and I've said this already in the sermon, if you say, I will only join the crowd if God Himself shows Himself to me, then it is never going to You will never enter the crowd. That is not Christianity. If you are hanging back in the crowd and you're not sure that you really want to give your whole heart, Or you're just backsliding. Then you say, but if God would just show himself to me, if he'd just do this and do that, if there could be a light from the sky or a voice It's not going to happen. He will speak to you through his apostles. He will not violate it. That is not Christianity. If you are hoping for something like that, then you will not be a Christian. That is by definition not Christianity. In fact, did you ever realize when you look through all of your books, I'm fully aware of the doctrine of inspiration? Have you ever looked through all your Bible? You ever see the book of Jesus? Jesus never penned one of these. I understand that the Holy Spirit worked within these men. But there's no one where Jesus wrote down as the author. He has chosen to put in here apostolic and prophetic testimony. He didn't write his own, but used other people to write about the words that he said. Third person, he, he, he, never I Blessed are those who don't see and yet believe. Those are the Christians. Not your rational faith, but those who believe in apostolic testimony. But I can't believe the apostles. That's what it comes down to for so many people. I just can't believe Well maybe we need to go out to lunch. I can take you out to lunch and we can talk about that. The church actually gives me money to take you out to lunch to talk to you about Jesus. Let's go out to lunch. Let's talk about the aspect. Apostolic testimony and work through the problems that you may have with it. But even after that, if you say, I just can't believe in the apostles, I want you to understand the consequences of your decision. Whether you're pondering This as a Christian, or you're pondering this as a non-Christian. The consequences of your decision is then either you're having a real moment of weakness or a year of weakness as a Christian, or you're just not a Christian It comes down to those two things. The Apostle Thomas says, Jesus and King is God. It obligates complete devotion to him. All authority has been given in heaven and earth to Jesus Christ. He is king and he is God. That means every one of your desires must be Be subject to the desires of Jesus Christ. The apostolic testimony is before you. Jesus is King and He is God. In the trial, you now have the decision. Do you accept it or not? The Apostle John has told us, and so too has Thomas. Now, this has been pretty intense, at least for me. I just want to back up for a second here. Because when we were worshiping just earlier, I was watching you as I was singing, I was watching you sing the songs. A lot of you had your eyes closed. And you were worshiping Jesus Christ. You are worshiping Jesus Christ because you accept apostolic testimony. That is a miracle. It is a miracle, and it shows that Jesus Christ has sent his Holy Spirit. And so I'm not going to leave Easter in just an apologetic. The apostles came to you and you believed. Now, I've only been the pastor for such and such time. uh it's all been kind of a blur. I've I've been th thrown right into Holy Week services as the pastor. Feels like I've been well I've been you know I've been here for a long time anyway. And I have had just in that little bit of time, I read the prayer cards, I have more phone calls come to me, more news. And I gotta tell you, when I was praying this morning about Easter. I was telling the choir this earlier. It wasn't the same kind of feeling that I had when on my thirtieth birthday my wife bought me sumo wrestler suits for all of us to wrestle in. It didn't have that feeling. It was different than that. It was still joyful and exciting, right? But I want you to think about this Easter. This is an Easter in the midst of that. You've been working really hard for him. Some of you are discovering him more fully than you ever have in your life. And yes, it's been joyful, but isn't it difficult to get to know Jesus Christ? Isn't it hard? Doesn't it make you sweat? It really does. Some of you have lost husbands. Some of you has have lost wives. Some of you have lost children's children Some of you are undergoing severe and deep sickness. Some of you are watching other people in sickness. Some of you are just plain lonely and can't figure out relationships That is the circumstance in which we celebrate Easter. It's not that the joy is taken away, but the joy becomes so much more profound. Because of the implication that if Jesus is God and He has and He has chosen to come to us, He is incarnated, and He has chosen to embrace us physically and to send us a spirit. To always be with us, then the fact that he is not dead on a cross and not some legend of a man, that he really has risen and that all the power is within his hands makes all the difference for us. There's a story of Hagar. She's kicked out. I don't know why they came up with this idea to begin with, where Abraham could not conceive a child with And so Sarai says, Well maybe it's a good idea for you to just sleep with the servant girl girl Hagar, and Abra Sam's okay. And then that turns into where Sarah ends up despising Hagar and treats Hagar very harshly. I don't know if she smacked her or she just could they could not live together. But Hagar flees through the wilderness. She is lonely. She is dealing with And in the Hebrew, she says, From now on, because of what has happened here in this wilderness, I will call you El Roy. Usually he's El Roy. Elohim. Now he's Elroy. Do you know what that means? Some of you know what that means. It means the God who sees me And that is the promise that we have right now on Easter: Jesus Christ is not dead, his eyes are not closed, but they have opened and he sees you. He sees you. He knows your innermost pains. He knows that you have lost. But he has resurrected, which means there is every hope for you and for your family. His eyes were closed in death, but now they are open. The gates of hell, therefore, shall not prevail. Jesus is king in God and is with you till the end of the age. He sees your faithfulness. He sees your pain. The world is difficult, but Jesus has overcome the world. He has risen in triumph over all, and you will rise with him. Do you know how I know every single one of those assertions? Because the apostles have told us so. That is the apostolic testimony. Lo, Jesus meets us, risen from the tomb, lovingly he greets us, scatters fear and gloom. We're getting ready to Are you ready? Let his church with gladness hymns of triumph sing. For her Lord now liveth, death has lost its sting. Amen Ten. Let's stand and let's sing to our risen Lord.