While you're eating and and then you'll be done by the time I I start asking you questions. Uh we already gave thanks earlier today. If you need to give thanks by yourself. can do that. And um but I would like to pray and ask for the Lord to teach us through this talk. So let's Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for this morning and the health that you've given to us. And not even just the physical health, but the health in terms of the faith and the love and the hope that you've given to us. Lord, we lost those things in the fall, but you have uh redistributed them to us in the resurrection. And we thank you and we pray that the lesson this morning would make us stronger and that we can work for the peace and the purity of the church, all that you would be glorified. In the name of Christ. Amen. Alright. So uh did we meet last month? No. No. I don't know why. Why didn't you? How are we mad and um Narfax and have that discussion. Yeah well whatever. So it wasn't last month, but the month before I was not in attendance. I don't remember what I was doing. I think I was spending time with my uh parents. And Brad, I believe, led a discussion with all of you. and just talked about different topics. And when I saw him on Sunday, he said, hey, the guys really want to talk about primary, secondary, and tertiary doctrines. Uh it's all yours. Go for it. So I thought all you're such a thank you for blessing me. But such an easy thing to talk about. So uh that's what we're going to talk about this morning is your request. of primary, secondary, and tertiary doctrines. And all that means, if that's an unfamiliar set of categories for you, is it's just first, second, and third And I'll talk to you about how that came into being and for what purposes. Why would people ever t make a difference between A first order teaching, a second-order teaching, and a third-order teaching. I want this morning as we uh consider that schema I want to look at some recent uses of the of that division. I'm going to look at two men, Francis Schaefer. I don't know. Raise your hand if you're familiar with a guy named Francis Schaefer. He was a pastor and uh theologian, I guess you'd say, mostly focused on culture Uh he has a pretty big he's a pretty big name in our circles because he was a major part of the joining of two different denominations which uh can you know, um contributed greatly to the expansion of the Presbyterian Church in America. Uh and then he was also one of the first to use multimedia in order to get the Christian message out there. He has you should if you get a chance you should see his videos and and um and that that really set the stage for others like RC Sprohl and all the different ways in which we use media now. I also want to you see um take a look at how this division among doctrines was used much earlier. In the 14th century. And of course we could go further back than that, but I'm just going to take you back to Calvin. John Calvin is a um actually a theologian. And uh he's French from a long time ago. We at the General A Assembly had the French A Protestant, one French Protestant church come in and greet us at the General Assembly, and they said to us, and we all started laughing, that they know that we love one of their favorite theologians, Jean Calvin. And it was a good reminder. that uh that they gave him to us. Then I want to look at can we find this same concern and division in the scriptures? And my answer is yes, and I'll point some of that out to you. And then I want to look at um you know when things first get started In pretty much any area of life, it can be, it can work, but it still can still be kind of messy. Well, it's the same thing with this division of primary, secondary, and and third order doctrines. But over time, when they're used enough, we tend to make things better and better and more refined. And uh and that's what we're gonna find in the church also. So by the time we hit the sixteenth and seventeenth century, within a theologian named Francis Turitan, we're gonna find the same division. And he's going to give us a criteria, actually, that they used to determine what are the fundamental articles of the faith. And then I have a couple case studies for you. I'm just going to ask you a couple of questions like given a certain issue based on everything you've heard. where would you rank these teachings? And that will be fun for us to do. It'll be interesting for me also to see where you put them so I can see if you're in error or not and what I have So um okay so let's just uh start and if you're a little still a little fuzzy about what we're talking about this morning I think you'll be less fuzzy by the end. I just need some time to flesh it out for a minute. Okay? So let's start with a recent use of people using this kind of division in the church. between primary doctrines, secondary doctrines, and tertiary doctrines or first, second, and third order doctrines. The first one I want to give to you is Francis Schaeffer. just recent uses that I found in the literature. Do much of you do any of you know what Francis Schaeffer was dealing with in his time where he would need a tool like this? Do you know what the church was really struggling with at that time? Anyone know? They were struggling with all kinds of stuff, but there was one major inrush from Germany. What year? What year would that be? Yeah. Trying to think specifically I don't remember. Mid sixties. Yeah, mid six thank you. Yeah, mid-sixties. It was um uh German um liberal theology. The German liberal theology, um, I imagine, Bill, you lived through that, brother. And so you know this first hand. Whereas I'm just looking at it in books, we were required to do readings on German liberal theology in seminary based on the experiences that you had to go through and others And my understanding of it was that though it started among scholars, it quickly went down into the general populace, came over into the United States, and especially what we would consider the mainline churches started picking it up as a part of their major doctrine. I'm not sure what environment prepped them to be so willing to accept it, but um for example many churches and the PCA went ahead and started adopting the German liberal theology. Now when I say liberal, I'm not talking about the same way we use that word today. For liberal versus conservative. German liberal theology is going to deny the divinity or the deity of Jesus Christ. They're going to deny the inspiration. and authority of the scriptures. They're going to deny even the resurrection of Christ. Actually it was There were five major fundamentals. Has anybody heard that before? There were f it was b basically boiled down into five major fundamentals that were at issue here of and here's the language that starts to connect to our our talk today that were of primary or first order concern. And it was biblical inerrancy, the divine nature of Jesus Christ. The virgin birth was also denied in German liberal theology. The resurrection of Christ was denied, and so too was his return. Because of course If he's not resurrected, he's not coming back. Right. They looked at it more along the lines of You could hear a sermon, for example, on the resurrection of Christ from one of these churches that had adopted German liberal theology. And the applic and the way that they would understand the resurrection is that we should all aspire to resurrect to a higher form of life. and be better than we are right now. So they looked at it really as kind of like a parable pointing us toward a higher truth or reality, not a historical fact. And that's where s uh you'll hear in the church today even great concerns about making sure that we know these things are historical. It comes from that argument that Bill had to go through. He had to lead people through this kind of And so did Francis Schaeffer. And during that time, therefore, they, like I mentioned, they came up with these fundamentals. There were many scholars that sought, and his is key for you to know, they use this tool of the what are the fundamentals of Christianity. They use the tool to defend the church. And for Christians to be able to decide, am I in a healthy church or am I in a church that will kill me? Spiritually, right? Uh there were many other scholars that Francis Schaefford relied on. One was named Gersham Macon. Has anyone uh Oh Gresham Macon, I'm sorry. Gresham Macon. And he wrote a famous book. Does anybody know the name of that? You know it? Yeah, Christianity and liberalism is how it's termed today, what it's how it's published. But there were many others both in the United States and also in Britain. that scholars that rose up in order to uh reaffirm uh these fundamentals for the church that were being called into question. Um you know, uh this may surprise some of you, it may even make you angry at me, but um you know who today reminds me of a German liberal Theologian, Jordan Peterson. Because I don't think he's interested in affirming the historicity of the resurrection. I think he's I don't think he can. I think he's working more with it like German liberal theologians would have worked with it. Proving some larger truth or something. Not saying he never says anything true. I'm just saying we're gonna need to watch him. Um you can see how f uh you could see how popular he is. And the same thing happened in the church. So these guys, including Francis Schaefer, used the distinction between first order and second order doctrines in order to help the church. Here's a quote from Francis Schaefer in one of his books. As time passed, however, um So that's that's what I wanted to mention about the fundamentals with them. But here's a second thing that ended up happening The church took the fundamentals that they were meaning to protect the church with from German liberal theology, and then they said, these are the only things that really matter. And there was a move from a published book called The Fundamentals to a religious movement called Fundamentalism. So listen to Francis Schaefer on this, because this ends up being an another problem, but it's in the same context of first, second, and third order doctrine. As time passed, however, the term fundamentalist took on a connotation for many people which had no necessary relationship to its original meaning. It came to connote a form of pietism which shut Christian interest up only to a very limited view of spirituality. In this new connotation, many things having to do with the arts, culture, education, and social involvement were considered to be unspiritual and not a proper area of concern for the Christian I would say this probably is true also for politics. It's not for Christians to think about politics. And we're still living with that today. Spirituality had to do with a very narrow sphere of Christian life, and all other things were considered to be suspect. And Francis Schaeffer points out that a problem and I I can't speak for all fundamentalists. I'm just saying from his experience The one problem he saw with them is that they made no distinction between first, second, and third order doctrines, but made every doctrine first order. So if you and I disagreed over whether women should wear jeans or not, they would turn that into a first order doctrine and would not be able to fellowship with you if you held a different belief than them. And Francis Schaeffer pointed out that this did a very great damage to the church, especially its unity, when you when you're unwilling to make a uh distinctions. So um so that's interesting. That's an interesting observation that both German liberal theology and fundamentalists, in the way that they handled first, second, and third order uh ended up both doing damage. Did you uh have much experience with fundamentalism that grew out grew out of it? Oh yeah. Yeah. Okay. Do you care to share any personal experiences with it at all? It's up to you. Not now, okay. Very good. All right, so that's Francis Schaefer. He actually has a a lot on this for other areas too, but he definitely used first, second, and third order to mostly defend the church. and to help Christians make decisions. Well, another recent author uh who has used this division is Albert Moller. Does anybody know him? Yeah. Brandon about who Albert Moller is? Uh I know he's especially with one of the Baptist theological seminaries. uh daily um podcast on the news from a Christian also from the Christian worldview. And so he sums up a lot of things and and shows everyone that These current events often have uh significance from the Christianity perspective because of X, Y, and Z Yeah. Any other comments you want to make about Albert Muller? Uh he's the president of Southern Baptist Theological Seminary. I believe he still is. Is that true, Jeff? Do you know Yeah, I think he is. Uh does anybody know his history? I think he used to be the editor of a major news corporation. Is that true? Do you know Doug? No, he used to be an editor. Yeah, yeah, pretty prolific writer though. Yeah. Um so anyway, that's uh Albert Muller has used this in an article to try to help the church also. And he gives a really interesting, well I'll say he gives a really helpful analogy in thinking about first second Second and third order teachings. And he gives the analogy of the hospital emergency room and of triage. Have any of you read this article? His article on triage? All right, well I'm going to read a couple paragraphs for you. I think it will be helpful for you to understand what we're talking about here. So here's the analogy. A trip to the local hospital emergency room some years ago alerted me to an intellectual tool that is most helpful in fulfilling our theological responsibility. In recent years, emergency medical personnel have practiced a discipline known as triage, a process that allows trained personnel to make a quick evaluation of relative medical urgency. Given the chaos of an emergency area reception area, someone must be armed with the medical expertise to make an immediate determination of medical priority. The word triage comes from the French word trier, which means to sort. Thus the triage officer in the medical context is the frontline agent for deciding which patients need the most urgent treatment. Without such a process, the scraped knee would receive the same urgency of consideration as a gunshot wound to the chest. The same discipline that brings order to the hectic arena of the emergency room can also offer great assistance to Christians defending truth in the present age. Isn't that a helpful analogy? So he goes on to say then, a discipline of theological triage would require Christians to determine a scale of theological urgency. That would correspond to the medical world's framework for medical priority. With this in mind, he then goes to suggest three different levels of theological urgency. First level theological issues, second level, and third level. It's the same thing we're talking about here. So here's his estimation of each one. First-level theological issues would include those doctrines most central and essential to the Christian faith. Included among these most crucial doctrines, according to Albert Moeller, is the Trinity. The full deity and humanity of Jesus Christ, justification by faith, and the authority of the Scriptures. That's a li that's a he's not trying to give a a a list of everything. He's just giving you a a sampling. So that's all first level stuff for him Second-level doctrines are distinguished from first level by the fact that believing Christians may disagree on second order issues The first order, therefore, according to him, if you do not believe these things, you cannot consider yourself a Christian. The second order, he says, believing Christians can disagree about these things. He goes on to say about the second order. This second order disagreement, however, will create significant boundaries between believers. When Christians organize themselves into congregations and denominations, it's because of second order issues usually We just we know we're each we're brothers, but I just can't s we just can't keep doing this together. It's not gonna work. I want to baptize the baby. You don't want to baptize the baby. Maybe we need to have different worship services in a different building and do other things together. That that's that's the idea. Um yeah. And then there are third order issues. And these are doctrines over which Christians may disagree and remain in close fellowship, even within local congregations. And he gives an example here of uh post mills and amills. And and if you don't know what that means, it it's it's just uh talk talking about um how do we think God is working in history Where how's he going to unfold things and when? And um we we have both in this congregation and and we both get along quite well together. I'm sure you can think of some other third orders. So that's Albert Moller's take on it. And I think the the major contra we already had the distinction, first, second, and third. He didn't give that to us us. But I really liked that he gave us the word triage and that if we were to use the medical field as a way or an analogy to understand what we're doing. Now that has a really long history within the church. Pastors have been have been called physicians of the soul from a very long time ago. And so it seems right to me that Albert Mueller would find an analogy within the medical field as to how the church should operate. How do we determine what's most urgent to deal with? Well, perhaps we could look at the medical field and see, well they've come up with first order cases, second order cases, and third order cases. That the gunshot wound is different than the scraped knee, maybe we can learn something from that, that same paradigm. And uh and that's what he presents to us. I think that's really helpful. So we could think about uh one takeaway is we could already say, well, we really need to be good at triage. We've already seen that if you're not good at triage, you could become like a fundamentalist and start to to destroy the church. And if you want personal experience, ask Bill. Alrighty. So now I want to pop back further in time than Albert Muller or Francis Schaeffer. I want to look at a theologian named John Calvin, who's real popular in our midsts, though he is not Jesus, and he does say things wrong. Wrong. So uh John ex John Calvin is considered a reformer, which means that um uh in the history of the church there According to some, including myself, the church accumulated a lot of different errors. They became quite corrupt. And there were people that noticed these corruptions and they wanted to reform the church. They began to call themselves Reformed Catholics. And that because they were trying to reform the Catholic Church or the Roman Catholic Church, they would just call themselves Catholics with a lowercase c. That's fine. Which is just another way of them saying we believe we're a part of the true church and not the false church. So uh that argument is still going on today between what is now called Protestants and Roman Catholics. Protestants come from the word protestas, those who were protesting against corruption in the church. And now there are so many different kinds of Protestants, I cannot even list them to you. But they're all different than the Roman Catholics. Alright, so John Calvin was a reformer. Starting off that work, and reformers are those, a lot of times we talk about reformers as someone who holds reform doctrine. But that's not accurate. Reformers are those who are going to be in like the 14th or 15th century. Okay? Then you're going to have what's going to be considered the post-reformation. All right, well John Calvin is um right there as a reformer. And during this time, as they were separating from the Roman Catholic Church. They were trying to figure out as Protestants who could join together and say that we are brothers in Christianity. Now think about the entire continent of Europe. You've got all of these different countries. They're all leaving the Roman Catholic Church. And now they one country from another has to figure out Can we say that we're united with that country, the Reformed Churches there, or can we not? Well, in order to determine whether they can unify as a ref what they called a pan-Protestant movement, they used first, second, and third order distinctions to see if they can They can get together. They primarily just try to determine what do we consider to be the fundamental articles of the faith. If we can agree on that, then we can unite. Many of the reformers were able to re unite their countries in a pan-Protestant movement. Interestingly, uh Calvin was never able, even on his uh deathbed, though he was still trying, uh Luther's deathbed, he he was not able to unify with the Lutheran churches. They kept disagreeing to essentially over the Lord's Supper. Now that's kind of interesting. that essential, but that's why they couldn't join was uh Lord's Supper. So here are I just want to give you a few uh paragraphs from Calvin as he said thinking about these things. He titled these, this is a pretty ancient way of putting it, the fundamental articles of the faith. And they uh use this distinction to help them determine which church may be unified, as I mentioned. He summarized the fundamentals. This isn't all the fundamentals, this is a summary of the fundamentals. He summarized the fundamentals into two categories. He said, if we're going to unite as churches, or if you are going to consider yourself to be a part of the true church, The purity of the word must must be preached in its purity, the word, and there must be a right administration of the sacraments. That distinction is still present in our book of church order today. He says this, the pure ministry of the Word and pure mode of celebrating the sacraments are, as we say, a sufficient badge. And guarantee that we may safely embrace as church any society in which both these marks exist. The principle extends to the point that we must not reject it so long as it retains them, even if it otherwise swarms with many faults So put that in your own words, because that was really significant what he just said. What did he say? If you need me to reread it, I will. What did he how did he put the whole issue? Would you rebrate it for the Mr. Yeah, sure. The pure ministry of the Word and the pure mode of celebrating the sacraments are, as we say, a sufficient badge and guarantee That we may safely embrace as church any society in which both of these marks exist. The principle extends to the point that we must not reject it so long as it retains them, even if it otherwise swarms with many faults. So Alvin was writing in Roman capitalists and it's a company. kind of say that well um anytime we're just going to church well we're just gonna skip them and skill and schizo and skill and how it positive is that um that the church has those two distinctive uh elements of pinning those other errors important as they are not the same. We can still call them churches, but they normally have the church of the general that even the Yeah, and then if you were to look at uh What you looks like you have read, he has a long list of all the errors that can be in the church and you still should stay in fellowship with each other. Really Interesting. He even says, you know what all these errors do for the church? They provide us with the opportunity to forgive one another. That's what he says. Isn't that cool? This is why we like Jean Calvin. It's the only Frenchman I like. No, just kidding. Yeah. I'm not sure what that means, but great is true believers, but we're gonna if you're not believers Yes. Yes. It means a distinction between a true and a false church. That's a schism. Yeah. Or we're saying that's o that's only when a schism should take place. I can't speak to all the ways in which that word has been used. I don't know if you are aware of it, but I was understanding it. Yeah. Yeah, I can't answer how people have defined that word. Um, but it was a movement where people were called schismatics. And I and Calvin was saying, well the only w that's wrong. Being a schismatic is wrong, but there is a true way in which you can move in You could be a schismatic, but only in this criteria, which is the two marks that the church, if they don't have these two marks, then you should leave them Yeah. About the schismatics. Yeah. We wouldn't consider that a schism in this context. Well, that isn't true, those are sacramented It takes wisdom. There's no pancake recipe for us to follow You're going to have to draw from all of the wisdom and how you understand all of the scriptures to make determinations on whether something is fundamental or not. That's the interesting part here. If you get in t if you you can't I don't think there is a list that you can you can just do. But um Yeah, so it would end up in a debate over over the baptism thing. There is a distinction. The denominations are happening at a second order issue, like Muller said. Really denominations in terms of how I've read in the history, denominations happen in order for the As a means for the church to remain peaceful. So that we're not arguing all the time. Yeah, okay. Uh other You're good, you know. I thought that's so good. Well I so that word schism is ambiguous uh because it has multiple meanings. And so both of both of your understandings are correct. In the sense that there's a thick meaning too, and that's what the Roman Catholics would say. All Protestants left the true church. Yeah. Left the true church Yeah. Yeah, that's a yeah, you could break break into waves. You know, we we've broken these disk box and therefore and that's another way that sometimes I think Protestant change is schismatic in the church. Protestant church is someone's someone's calling process in the church cause it's broke apart. So I think the thicker term is the way that it's certainly calm. Yeah, yeah. Wait. I just need uh you repeat a term because I didn't have my pen out of the second that you said when we went and five So I understand primary and secondary doctrines to an extent I've never heard the third term. What was the third? Tertiary. Yeah, it's just another word for three Okay, thank you. But I I think there's cardinal and ordered ordinal numbers and then you talk about one cardinal. So I just don't get the same thing. So you said there were uh two distinguishing factors I think which are pure. Yeah I did. You want me to say it again? No, it's fine. It's the pure ministry of the word and pure mode of celebrating the sacraments. He says if you don't have those, you're not a true church. So those are summaries though. All right. Obviously that's subject to interpretation. Well, what's the pure teaching of Discipline? Discipline, yes. I wasn't, but um it's not in this part of the Institute. Uh yeah, in his doctrine of the Church in cha in Book Ford, he doesn't list discipline as a primary mark. Oh interesting. Yeah, neither does our book of church order. How about that? 'Cause that's that's part of the conversation all the time. So I thought it was interesting. So again, putting the own words that word first especially about the teaching of the word again. Yep. I think the way you how we would say that now is like if we are in church or we're looking at a church and we're trying to say, hey, is this group is this something that I need to be concerned about to the extent of I need to Or uh I need to encourage somebody to not be there or hey how can I help out if like if they're not using the Bible or they're like trying to cut out parts of it and say, hey, you know, popular culture, uh, politics, medicine, whatever is kind of overruling the Bible here. be like his major um that would be a major problem with with what he's saying here and then I'd have to say look you know and clarify Are are you really saying that this is one of the Bible? Because if so, I don't think that's the place that that um a Christian ought to be uh Yeah, I think so. And and um I'll get to this a little bit later. But you're really I've already mentioned do not use these things like a recipe. These are divisions and distinctions for you to use in wisdom on a case-by-case basis. So in Jeff's case, if the guy then, if the pastor then returned a response and said to you, well I was quoting medic medical statistics as one way to support my point, of course it's not more authoritative than the scriptures. Then you would need to say, oh, okay, I see what he's doing there. And then it would maybe just be a matter of prudence versus a matter of breaking off from fellowship or something. Okay, let me keep going. So then Calvin continues and he says After he says that even if your co if your church is filled with a swarm of bees that are errors, if it's not these errors, then you shouldn't Then we can't say it's a false church. He says, what is more, but then he goes back and he wants to talk about these two fundamentals. What is more, some faults may creep into the administration of either doctrine or sacraments But this ought not to estrange us from communion with the church. For not all articles of true doctrine are of the same sort. See that? And that's where what what we're doing. We're saying, yeah, you're right. There's a first sort, a second sort, and a third sort, if you want to put it that way. Other people would say the foundation, about the foundation. and uh against the foundation or something like that. You'll see it differently listed in different literatures. So then he says, some are so necessary, however, to know that they should be certain and unquestioned by all men as the proper principles of religion. Such are God is one Christ is God and the Son of God. Our salvation rests in God's mercy and the like Among the churches, there are other articles of doctrine disputed which still do not break the unity of the faith. He then goes on to say this. He ends up going on and saying that what we want to use as a model is 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verses 11 through 15. Instead of him using the emergency room and triage like Mueller does, he uses 1 Corinthians 3, 11 through 15. So let me read that to you. For no other foundation can anyone lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Now if anyone builds on this foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw, each one's work will become clear. For the day will declare it, because it will be revealed by fire, and the fire will test each one's work, of what sort it is. If anyone's work which has been built on it endures, he will receive a reward. If anyone's work is burned, he will suffer loss, but he himself will be saved. fire. So he wants to look at now, instead of talking about it as first, second, and third, he wants to look at foundational issues and then issues that are built on the foundation that May not break the unity of the faith, but but certainly when it's tested, it'll be found that you weren't right. Mark. Yeah, I would um just something that's engineering perspective and from a construction perspective, there is a very close relationship between primary, secondary, and tertiary. In that where Christ is our cornerstone, the purpose of a cornerstone, or when you position a cornerstone, you need those three positions to be able to place it. You have the base, which is the foundation, you have the secondary surface, which positions the first, and then you have the final tertiary surface. which actually positions the cornerstone in six-axe position. So there is a very close relationship between this particular way of communicating um truth or the position of uh or the accuracy of truth in the idea of information. Your analogy sounds more dissimilar. Um because you're connecting everything back to the cornerstone. Where with these, they seem to be saying that if you disagree on a third order doctrine, you're not really affecting the cornerstone. And so the way I the way I um But I don't understand engineering. I'm not an engineer. It it it gets you it it establishes that your foundation gives you your um your primary positioning. Secondarily, if you hit your second mark, you're closer to the absolute position. If you miss your third mark, you're just a little bit off of your primary position. And so it's all about positioning. You know, imagine if you will, a target that you're that you're hitting, you have this second ring and the third ring. Well Well the focus is on the very center, the second and third ring are primary and secondary in a way. But particularly with this uh cornerstone idea, I think that ultimately Ultimately, um the closer you maintain all three actually gets you on the mark. So it's it's just something that I I'm really relating it to. Yeah. Maybe it's just the way I process it in my own mind, but consideration. What you want to do is um Stay within the medical profession. Even if you go over into the engineering profession. One of the problems we have is if a doctor This is how doctors make decisions. They don't open up a textbook and then make a decision for you. I mean that's I guess that's a possibility. But even when they open the textbook, all they're really doing is looking at all of the cases that have come before and looking and seeing that your case looks just like this case. And so they start to diagnose and they say, oh, I've seen this before. You've got this. And then they and then it's confirmed as they start to treat you because it gets better or they cure you or or or whatever it is. The problem that happens in medicine is if they say, Oh, I've seen this before, and they start to treat you for something you actually do not have. And then later on down the road, they're going to go, oh, I thought it was this, but actually, now that we've been living with it longer, you actually have this. Do you do have anybody ever have any of those kinds of stories working with a doctor and them trying to figure out a diagnosis? Um it's diagnostic. So you want to be really careful with the choices of the cases that you use to understand the thing that is in front of you So look at what we're trying to accomplish and see if the engineering example has enough similarities to really be helpful in the way that you see the church once you you use this paradigm. And then make sure you're also paying attention in which where the engineering example may not be helpful. if it if it starts to twist what we're actually after. I don't I don't know if that's if that's helpful, but I I hope that it is. Uh I'm not speaking theoretically. I'm I'm speaking from exp from experience there. You gotta really make sure you have the right example. Otherwise you're gonna misdiagnose. Yeah. But that's uh that's interesting. And I think part of my problem is I just don't understand the and engineering whereas I have experience going to the doctor. But it sounds like uh with you since you do that all the time, that maybe there's something really there. I'd love to keep talking to you about it really. I'm gonna keep going 'cause I have things I gotta say and I gotta I'll let you guys go soon. So sorry. Okay. So um hi Calvin will a little bit later also use the image of those things which are fundamental fundamental articles. If the church does not have those things, it is like a mother trying to take care of you, but has no ability to give you life. Or, he says. It is like um someone who comes up to who and the picture that he gives of the mother is a mother who has had her throat slit and her heart pulled out. So she's just not capable of giving life anymore. That's that's the picture. So She doesn't have any light. So that's the image those are the fundamental articles. If any of these fundamental articles are missing, the woman's throat is slit and her heart is pulled out. That's how serious he Wow. Yeah. But not this case with the swarm of bees known as secondary or or third order. If there's no life in the church, how's the church going to give somebody else life? Yeah, of course, that's what he's talking about. Yeah, the Mother Church from uh Galatians, when it talks about our mother of us all who is the New Jerusalem. Yeah, that's what he's talking about. Okay. So since I quoted First Corinthians three, eleven through fifteen, let's now move into the next point I wanted to make, which was, well, do we see the same kind of division among doctrines in the scriptures? And the answer is yes. That first passage that we saw in 1 Corinthians 3, 11 through 13, we argue that Paul is already making or sorting out different kinds of things. Some of these things are foundational. Others of these things are worthy of our consideration, and other things are just going to get burned up because Alright. So we already start, we see the the um apostle already uh sorting these things out. Now I want to turn to Francis Turritan, who's collected all of the uh uh much of the teaching of the church in his book Elentic Theology. And here he points out, like Calvin did, 1 Corinthians 3, 11 through 13. But then he also turns to Philippians 3, 15 through 16, and I'll read that for you for the sake of time. Therefore, let us, as many as are mature, have this mind. And if in anything you think otherwise, God will reveal even this to you. Nevertheless, to the degree that we already have attained, let us walk by the same rule, let us be of the same mind. Now if you go ahead and you study that, you're going to find that he's saying That these issues that we're dealing with right now over time will grow in our understanding, and in the meantime, we can still keep living with each other. That's what he's saying. So we're already starting to see him sort these things out. With this example, Turitan hopes to show that some doctrines are not fundamental and therefore allow for differences among Christians without destroying peace and love. If the doctrines are fundamental, however, then the scriptures witness to quite different measures. For example, we do see a this kind of seriousness in Galatians 1, verse 8. And it says this, but even if we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel to you than we have preached to you, let him be accursed or So apparently there are some things that are quite serious. Again, some cases in some cases, however, there's room for forbearance, according to Romans 14:1. Receive one who is weak in the faith. But not to disputes over doubtful things. So there's a distinction right there. They're weak in the faith, it's acknowledged, but you're still to receive them. Okay, so there is a sorting. So besides fundamental, primary, secondary, and the others, the Spirit reveals, Turitan goes on, that actually there's all kinds of different doctrine for different kinds of things The Spirit reveals other kinds of doctrines. There are doctrines that lead us to perfection, Hebrews 6. 1. And some doctrines are meant to exhort, some doctrines are meant to convict those who contradict. So not only are there fundamental doctrines and secondary doctrines and tertiary doctrines, but there's convicting doctrines and maturing doctrines and you could come up like post-Reformation theologians would do with an entire map of all the different kinds or species of doctrine. And that'll be right up your alley. Logic teacher one and logic teacher. So that's interesting though, Darren, because now he's taking and he's saying, well, first, second, and third is just a part of a larger schema as we map out all of the species of doctrine. Interesting. Am I using that okay? The word species? Okay. You don't like genus species though? That's more science, biology. Oh, okay. Gotcha. Okay, category, yeah. There you go. Yeah, I was trying to think though I was trying to think of the word doctrine. Yeah, which is itself a category. But then how do you talk about those things which are different kinds of that category? Classes and subclasses. Okay, yeah. So there you go. Classes and subclasses. And the uh programmers like that There you go. Classes and subclasses of doctor. There you go. Alright. Now, uh with only a few moments left, let me Okay. Oh I do? Yeah. Oh I thought I only had until nine thirty. Oh man, you guys I could have let some of you all talk. Oh well let's keep going. Yeah I'll I'll end here soon so we can just have conversation. Okay, well now I want to deal with um so there's the scriptural witness to even the apostles themselves sorting out classes and subclasses of doctrines. Yes, I got it. Okay. But there's also a set of criteria that they develop from the scriptures on how do we determine what is fundamental? That's a really important question. Okay, so what are the criteria that they use for the fundamental articles? I didn't see criteria for secondary articles or third. Just seemed like they wanted to know know what's the first and then we'll figure out the others I guess. Okay, so a doctrine is fundamental and here are the different here's the first criteria which is a bit abstract. But just deal with it. A doctrine is fundamental if it is a cause or a means unto salvation. A doctrine is fundamental if it is a cause or a means unto Salvation. And the way that they talk about this is to say, if you take away the cause, then you will not have the effect. And the effect is salvation. If you take away the means, then you cannot reach the ends, and the end is salvation. So that's the whole thing. point that they're trying to make there. So you wanted to then what they would do is they would ask, okay, well what is necess what's a necessary cause in order for a person to have salvation? Can you have salvation if God does not choose to be gracious to sinners No. And they would point out that the mercy of God is the cause of man's election, and then election le is with the idea you'll see there's a lot of wisdom there. And it's the same thing with the means. So this could go to the means of the word. If a person is not able to hear the word preached, but salvation only comes by the preaching of by the means of knowledge of Christ, then you can see how those means are necessary. So they um so he he says that we are elected by the mercy of God or that is the cause of it. The merit of Christ causes our redemption, so you can't remove that. The Spirit is the cause of our sanctification, so that's fundamental. And faith is the cause, an instrumental cause cause they called it of our salvation. Can't remove that one. And they would go on down these lists to point out what's really important and that you should fight over these things. F well what I mean is you should fight for these things. You should fight for these things. So that's the first criteria. Is it a cause or a means onto salvation? They talked about approximate causes and remote causes, and you have to make a judgment call on those. That just means causes that are really close where you can see a direct connection or it's real far removed but it eventually would make a connection. You have to make a wisdom call on that for the criteria. The second criteria is do we see uh the scriptures themselves speaking about some things as fundamental. Now what they're going to do is they're going to look through scriptures and they're going to see, okay, well how do it doesn't use that language. The scriptures don't use the language. They don't come out and say, and this is a fundamental article of faith. But they say something like, if you don't have this, you die. Or you may you may not have salvation if you don't have this. It says that kind of stuff. It uses this real So what they've done is they started to collect those different verses, and I want to give you a few. A doctrine of is fundamental if the scriptures declare its necessity in one way or the other. The first one that he brings up is that the scriptures declare that it that a fundamental article of faith is that God is one and triune. And he points to John 17, 3. And this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. And they and this is going to be an argument that you'll see a lot of these theologians make that that the whole is understood by the part. So by just pointing to the sun, it's a reference, not it's a reference to the whole triune relation. Right. That's John 17, 3, and his argument is going to be that, and this is eternal life, that you would know both that God is one and that is he is triunic. And the thing argument he's trying to make is if you don't know that, and we have to talk about what it means to know something, if you don't know that, then then you have uh this is very serious. This is of fundamental importance. I don't want to say more than that. This is a fundamental importance. Second one he gives us from 1 John 2, 22 through 23, this is still talking about the the Godhead. Who is a liar but he who denies that Jesus is the Christ? He is antichrist who denies the Father and the Son. Whoever denies the son does not have the father either. He who acknowledged the son has the father also. That's really serious. That's really serious. You'd have to understand exactly what uh John is making the argument for there, but uh at least Francis Turitan is saying this is again talking about that God is one. But he is also three persons. So it's the oneness of God and the tri-unit the trinity of God. That this is a fundamental article of the faith. So this, you know, this is really serious. Um there are some who deny that to today. Uh the second category that he gives is sin. So this this is the fundamental article, sin. And he and he quotes 1 John 1 10. He says, if we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. Okay. And then he moves on and I'll give you another one. He says that it is Christ and his person, his nature, and his offices are all fundamental articles. I'll give you a couple with that. The one was the 1 Corinthians 3. 11. The second one was Acts 4. 12. Nor is there salvation in any other, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. And then 1 John 4:3. And every spirit does not confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh, is not of God. And this is the spirit of the Antichrist, which you have heard was coming and is now already in the world. So you can write these down and you can just look at them and see w exactly what they're talking about. But there's it would be a fundamental article of the faith would be the incarnation. nation. Right? That's what that just said. Next one that I'll give you is Ephesians 2, 11 through 12. Therefore remember you that you, once Gentiles in the flesh who are called uncircumcision by what is called the circumcision made in the flesh by hands, that at that time you were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise having no hope and without God in the world. So the point there is that if you're without Christ, and the argument is going to be in his office as king or prophet or priest, which is being unfolded there, then you are without hope and you're without God. That's the whole point. So the doctrines of Christ end up being fundamental articles. Next one is what whatever we mean by the word gospel, it's fundamental, because I just read that to you in Galatians 1, 8, and 9. If anyone says something different than this gospel which I preach to you, let them be anathema. Which is essentially you know saying let them uh go to hell, that kind of idea. Okay. And then there's a faith ends up being A fundamental article. But without faith, it is impossible to please God. Hebrews 11, 6 For he who comes to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of those who diligently seek him. Another one is Mark 16, 16. dealing with faith. He who believes and is baptized will be saved, but he who does not believe will be condemned. Another one from Galatians 2, 2 through 3, has to deal with justification without works. You can't be justified by your works. And I went up by revelation and communicated to them that gospel which I preach among the Gentiles, but privately to those who were up who were of reputation, lest by any means I might run or had run in vain. Yet not even Titus who was with me being a Greek was compelled to be circumcised. So the whole point here is, is your faith in vain if you're not circumcised? And he's saying, No, because it's not circumcision that's It's the one that the that justifies you. And they discovered that. They were not compelled to be circumcised. That's one of those third level things. It it depends how they're using it in their in their systems of thought. Because in Galatians the um legalists were used Using circumcision as a way to deny something essential and therefore it became a fundamental article that had to be Urgently fought. Yeah, yeah. Isn't that interesting? You really gotta use wisdom on this stuff. Yeah. Yeah, it's like, well, you know, butter knives, they're not that dangerous. fine. But then you're like in the wrong hands, I mean some you're gonna have to treat it urgently. That butter knife just took on a different different look. And as I was saying people were saying Gentiles couldn't be believers That's correct. What did Christ say? Yeah, exactly. Yep, yep. Okay. And then sanctification. Fundamental article, according to Turkin. Pursue peace with all people and holiness, without which no one will see the Lord. Lord. That also goes to one who's being sanctified. Resurrection, fundamental article. First Corinthians 15. But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ is not risen. And if Christ is not risen, then our preaching is empty, and your faith is also empty. And then I'll give you a couple more for the resurrection. 2 Timothy 2. 8. Remember that Jesus Christ of the seed of David was raised from the dead according to my gospel. So now that becomes a gospel issue. And we know what happens if you don't preach his gospel. Romans 10:9, also dealing with resurrection. That if you confess with your mouth that the Lord Jesus Confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. Became a fundamental Okay. So that's just a sample. You want to hear something interesting? Don't tune out on me here. Something interesting is that uh when Francis Church and went through all of this different literature of the church he found that they refused to number all of the fundamental articles. They will not do it. They think that number one, it is rash to do so because God never does such a thing. And it's totally useless. Because as soon as you discover that there's one fundamental article, then your purposes are pretty much met. in most situations. So they don't go on it doesn't mean that they don't try to figure out what's fundamental. They're just unwilling to list and say to the child church, there's 27 fundamental articles to which we must affirm something like that. They're not going to do that. Though other branch other um branches of the church, the Lutherans tried to do that, and then um the I don't consider the Roman Catholic Church a true church. But um The Roman Catholic Church did uh start to enumerate how many there are. Okay, there's one more sense that I want to give to you that I don't know how you want to categorize this. But I think it's important for you to remember. So far, fundamental and primary articles are those things which are deadly. The throat is going to be cut. We have, moreover, shown that the errors which ought to be pardoned are those which do not harm the chief doctrine of religion, which do not destroy the articles of religion on which all believers ought to agree. and with regard uh to the sacraments. And then um Oh, here's a direct quote from Calvin. But as soon as falsehood breaks into the citadel of religion and the sum of necessary doctrine is overturned. And the use of the sacraments is destroyed, surely the death of the church follows, just as a man's life is ended when his throat is pierced or his heart mortally wounded. idea. But another sense of primary or fundamental refers to those doctrines which in our time must be taken with utmost seriousness for the peace and purity. So there's also a sense in which doctrines become fundamental in a different sense than what I have talked about, based on the time in which you live. God in his providence shows you This is very serious for this time and you need to handle it. You need to be working with us. In Francis Schaefer's time, it was liberal theology. Which pressed hard and deserved much energy from the church. And in our time, perhaps, it is other things. Right? And we have to determine what those things are in wisdom. And you can even get at a local level. Is there something happening in the specific church where God is saying, this is very serious for you all? You need to you need to deal deal with it. So that's another sense. Now would be uh under an argument of the timeliness or there's something that becomes important based on the times in which you live. Right. Okay. Um few observations then. The division into first, second, and third are used mostly for triage or sorting for defense. Calvin used it to see if yoking should happen among churches. Here's an interesting observation. I did not, when I was reading this literature, I did not see these lists used to act as a checklist to determine if someone saved. I didn't see that, though I think that it could be used in wisdom to help along the church in that matter. It is used as a framework for wisdom in evaluating the faith of others. Uh and in fact, all of the articles that I just read to you as being shown as serious within the scriptures, every covenant child that's admitted to the supper can affirm all of this. They do so in the meeting. We hear every one of those. And here's in my research something else that I found that was really interesting. that they kept repeating a principle that kept going way back into the early church, which was when we talk about these things, it's not that we're saying that people have to say these exact words. It's that they have to understand the sense of them and communicate the sense of them. And that happens with covenant children all the time. I'm not going often I'm not going to get a covenant child who says it exactly as the theologian would say it or even exactly as the scriptures would say it, but you can hear in their words that God has given them the understanding that Jesus Jesus has come, that the Son has taken upon himself human nature. Now they would not say it like that unless they just memorized something. But we can listen and we can say, yeah, God has given them that. You know, they have it. And then as they mature, they can learn how to speak about it more precisely. That's an important thing that I saw. Here's another observation. Those who were not good at triage did much damage to the church. Liberals uh fundamentalists damage Christ's body by making everything a first order issue. So that seems like we shouldn't do that. Um and then another thing I'll just again I've already said this to you, but another observation is that second-order doctrines are usually the cause of continued fellowship, but oftentimes they result in other denominations. So we've had uh Baptist preachers preach from this very pulpit, but we still have not managed uh to just merge and have worship services together. It's tough. It's tough. So all right. So um I do have some case studies I wanted to throw out at you. Let me just name a couple things and I wonder how you would categorize these things. Now that you've heard a little bit of a history lesson on all of it, where would you put the doctrine of the Trinity if you had to make the judgment yourself before God? First, second, or third? Infant baptism. First, second, or third. Ordained women as elders. First, second, or third. Second. Second. Postmill versus omill. First second. All right. So we can and we can talk about all that. Alright, we we have like fifteen minutes, so so floor is open. Yes. Go ahead there. Please. So there is a between first and second and second Right. And and what I find interesting about the Western Confession of Faith is that there is no they do not it It's not broken up into first, second, and third. You read the Westminster Confession, and you get the sense that the frameworks of the Confession said at some level these are all connected. and in their connection all of primary importance. Do you agree with that or do you think that the Westminster Confession clearly has issues of primary documents that we would call first order. And then are there things in there that that they would they would not have categorized as primary as second or third, but that we ought to category. And if that's the case, how do we also hey I got a lot of questions in this whole one big question. And if that's the case, how do we then talk about subscription to Sure. I think that you need to make first a distinction between the Westminster Confession of Faith, the shorter catechism, and the larger catechism. Sometimes we lump all those together, but it seems to me like they're doing different things with each of with each each of those documents. Uh w I don't have the expertise to answer that, but I can tell you a movement that happened in the church. where you could sh um see that it could be either, that these are fundamental or not. And one way what so what they're trying to do is they're trying to give you the theology that has been revealed to us from heaven. And they're trying to educate an entire nation as well as keep nations together. So it's a kind of consensus document. Alright. So um when they were putting together theologies at that time, sometimes for the sake of education, they were just giving what they considered to be the major points of all of the theology. And and by major I mean like um the main the main topics that God reveals to us. They're not trying to say all of these are essential. or fundamentals of the faith. That happens a little bit later when in theologies they start to include a section where instead of giving all the theological topics or local They also have a section where they give the fundamental lokai. So I'm not sure that The confession, the shorter and the larger, is giving all the only the fundamentals. I think they're giving all the theological topics for us to be fully educated, not just in the essential. One of the ways you could see that is you could turn, for example, to the section in the catechism on baptism, and they already start to make some distinctions. between the mode of the baptism and the substance of the sacrament itself. And they seem in my reading to be saying this mode is not fundamental, though they still bring it up. Right. So they already seem to be making a distinction even in the Catac catechism itself. So then how what subscription to confession? How do we how should we think about that? Because certainly in some circles subscription means every jot and tittle. And and and and yet if we have these distinctions of of primary and subscribe Secondary tertiary and then subscription must mean s ought to mean something else perhaps in that sense on I think so, because I I think the discussion about fundamentals is trying to figure out what are the essential articles of the Christian religion so that we know how to do tr So let's just say it's what do we what should we sink money, resources, and time into? Well these things that that that would be in the context of the defense of the church. Right. When we say that they subscribe to that It seemed like the purpose for them doing so was so that they could be unified together as a nation. Okay. Or as nations. Or as a denomination. subscription to the Western what distinguish this you in this particular denomination is that is that fair and you're saying at some level your subscription is saying at some level I I I think that this sum summarizes accurately what the scriptures teach about these things. Right. So it's not saying I believe these are all Yeah, I don't think we're saying I believe these are all primary, but we are saying I can enter into a voluntary contract with you on all these issues. We together can uphold as the we can together uphold these things. Right. And then you have like Lutherans, for example, who were not who would not be able to get underneath of the Western Minster confession during that time. So then if that's the case, would we say they're not our brothers? Well, Calvin was not able to unite with them. That's interesting to me. But still calls brother. Yeah. Well I don't know if he I don't know if he did or not, because they kept wanting to talk about the Lord's Supper in a particular way. So that was that's that's over my head. Okay. But um so so I would say those documents were used for particular purposes in England and Scotland. They are now they have now been adopted by American Presbyterianism and they seem to be at one time using them for one purpose and then another time maybe they're you you still using them for the same purpose but they've modified how they view the document to where we can now have exceptions. So I don't know how to put that all together though. Oh I think that's good, I mean. Okay. I think if we're saying what we're doing, but I think it's helpful to hear, at the very least, it was helpful to me that there is a history of listing all of the topics which are not necessarily just fundamental fundamental and then listing just the fundamentals. In fact, do you have this copy? I do somewhere in the right. Okay. So this is really interesting. After this is handed out to the to their nations, okay? And In the table of contents, you have the confession of faith, the larger catechism, the shorter catechism, and then here's this. Right after they finished that, they published something called the summary of saving knowledge. Where they have one. Yeah, it's right in here and they've reduced it to basically like four points. Isn't that interesting? Yeah, so I think that is the fundamental scale. And and so there's another argument saying, no, I don't think that's just the fundamentals. But they did think it they needed to list it and they created something called the sum of saving knowledge. That's why that adjective is there by the way, saving knowledge. Because this is knowledge that's essential for salvation. That's cool, right? So then they made sure that every child knew these articles. The entire nation. It was their responsibility to make sure no men or woman didn't have these things in front of them. Nice. So your your definition of fundamentalist um was different than what I perceived it. Ma mainly because the first time I was accused of being a fundamentalist was from a uh a Catholic That was very upset that um their daughter had left Catholicism and I had left Catholicism for the Protestant faith. And um What they they had an issue with was that we believed that God's word was inerrant and true Yeah. So thus they called us fundamentalists because you believe what the Bible says. So it's it's so I I I I wore that as a badge of honor. Right. until you described it today as saying that you st fundamentalist in its true definition sticks all those um doctrines as primary and that's not all but I said yeah what about primary doctrine is that God's And yeah, that thus makes me fundamentalist. And if that's what the uh Catholics saw as bad, I go, well, hey, uh God's word is in error Well, I'm not saying that that's the true definition of fundamentalists. I'm just saying that historically speaking, the words started to take on different meanings in the Culture. At first, Francis Schaeffer called himself a fundamentalist. And what he meant by that was: against German liberal theology, I affirm these fundamental articles of the faith. the deity of Jesus Christ, the authority and inspiration of the scriptures. Okay? It's only un later that a movement forms that call that that um take their stand on what they would call the fundamentals, but they become a group that is misunderstanding what they were originally doing with those fundamentals. and they become known for being overly, this is a redundancy, but I don't know how else to say it, overly rigorous. They're not willing to make distinctions on things. That seemed like the distinctions you should make. Instead, they just hit everything with rigor. So for example, so they said no, secondary and third, it's all truth. It's all truth. That's true, right? But if you read between the lines there, then they're saying it's all truth of uh it's all essential truth. Now that's a different And it's the same thing with the way that they would apply their ethics. It's all true. I don't care if they're four years old or thirty, I'm gonna treat them the same. And we would say, that's not wise. Like he's four. Right? You see what I'm saying? So I would say they are taking their understanding of fundamentalists as those who are inappropriately rigorous. And lack mercy, but are cruel people, and they applied it to you because they thought that you're being too rigorous with how you view the Bible. a valuable thing for our society. But then you seem too rigorous to say, no, it's not just valuable. Like this is the only rule for faith in life, you know? And they they somehow lumped you into that category it just seems like it seems like what they did. And I've heard that before too. Well you know it's no it's Progression of terms to my understanding historical. Fundamentalist was a term that was valuable at the time and then became what and then evangelical became the next term. Yes to meant those who were Bible believers, blah blah blah. Now evangelical. I don't know what the next turn is gonna be, but we're at that spot where now many folk don't want to be uh associated with the label evangelical either. Because uh evangelical has meant things that we don't want to be we don't want to be associated with. So that's why we have the word evangelical in our name. We're severing run evangelical Presbyterian to separate us from the Presbyterians. that had taken on German liberal theology. If you came to an evangelical church, you'd know what we thought about the Bible, what we thought about Jesus. Exactly etcetera. And um Big Eva or Big Eva. evangelical which is just non-denominational churches across the board that are are pretty watered down in what we in our opinion. Exactly. So now we're questioning well should we be associated with that name and you're seeing churches planted by EP churches which only ever used to have EP after them just call themselves Trinity. Well evangelical is now a political party. Is it really unregistered? Oh okay. What I'm saying is it's treated in popular media And el elsewhere as as a political block. Oh okay. And obviously the people don't know what they're saying. Yeah. Uh but uh Yeah, so it's the term has been used for different things over time. Yeah. People who are not Christian don't have any investment in being Joshua, you've been so patient, brother. Okay, case study. So you read You're gonna list it and then we're gonna have to go. But you guys can keep talking about it afterwards. people is a primary matter, right? Well I just said th the the means unto salvation. So in terms of salvation That's what Turitan said. Yeah. So interesting thought. The different soteriologies like Calvinism, Arminianism, Molinism, where exactly does that fit? Because I think you know In some cases that can devolve into a primary issue. So teleophy, oh, where's the line? Well what what would be in some cases that you're Okay. Well if you developed a soteriology that was let's say salvation by works. Okay. If if you became too adamant that well I'm saved by something I do. Uh huh. I I have I have an essential part. It has to be something I do. Uh huh. Does that devolve into a primary issue where I can no longer call you a quote? That's That's the case. That's the case study of I'll I'm interested in. So Joshua's case study is um can we call Um can we say that they are our brothers and sisters if they say that salvation is by way of works? No, because it does away with the reason purpose of Christ and his death and resurrection. There's no need for that if we can do it on our own. So it is a primary issue. So I would agree and say it is a primary issue, but I think the more difficult question that we should pertain to jobs is, okay, how should we think about certain lines of Armenian thought. Um the Kansas Dorf would say Armenianism is a Pharisee. And we would maintain that the consistent Armenian is a Palaesian and would therefore not be a Christian. But people like Arch would say that Armenians are semi, a very small S. They're like semi-semi They're not consistent enough. Many most I mean you can talk to are not consistent enough in the theology for them to be considered totally outside of the big O orthodoxy. But they're Yeah, that was my thinking too. Yeah, so if we're gonna so we can still regard them as brothers. Right. So I think if we it depends really depends on the ominion you're talking to. and how consistent they are with respect to how they understand God's role and their role and their coming to faith and the assistance or lack thereof that's needed. So I think But I do think, you know, if we're gonna talk about the works righteousness, you know, if they're neonomians, then obviously we're not we can't consider the prosecution if Paul is very explicit in his epistles that anything as works to Say is not a Christian. Uh but I do think it can be complicated when you're dealing with people who are Armenians. Well you you could stop right there. It becomes complicated when you deal with people. You can just stop right there. Because here's the thing that we there's a distinction in the church that's very, very important. There are discussions that are in hypothesis and there are discussions that are in thesis. A hypothesis is a hypothetical case. study wherein for training purposes we may learn more about the ethical principles that may help us. But then you actually have to go and apply it to particular cases of people, which is what they called emthesia. And when you get out on the actual surgery field You will find that you cannot apply what you did in your hypothetical, like it's a pancake pancake recipe, where you just put two eggs, some flour, and some sugar. and now you're just going to end up with a pancake. You have to have wisdom in working with these people and knowing how to discern exactly what they're saying and whether we're brothers or sisters. Or not. There's just too much that goes into it. It's the same thing with the doctor. That's why the medical profession is such a great analogy. You can read all you want about cancer. But I do not want you to be my doctor if you've never seen a cancer patient. Because there's a difference between theory and practice. And the knowledge that comes from both and the kind of wisdom that you have have to exercise in each one of them. If you take your hypothetical discussions and start applying that to people without knowing those people, you're a fundamentalist. I think they have the same marks. They're not willing to make those kinds of distinctions. You're a and more importantly, I would say you're a legalist. You're a fair statical legalist. And I got problems with you. Blanket statements are never good. No, but it that to solidify your point is that you have to know the truth I had the same conversation with dog trainers. People they tell me that clients come to them and they say my dog won't sit when uh I tell him to sit What should I do? Well I don't know. I mean every dog's can be different. I mean it's like I need to see your dog. I can know all the theory about dogs, but until I see your dog I won't be able to apply the medicine. So anyway, so that case study would be good for students as they learn how to put together systems and learn moral principles and that kind of stuff, but you still haven't actually become a position of the soul by doing so. You need to work with people. And what you'll end up finding, for example, is that you could run into is let's say they say, uh salvation is uh is by works. Then you find out that um They only say that because that's what their father said. But do they really believe it or are they just repeating things? I can't say that this person isn't my brother, but I could say it sounds like they need to s like think through some things. You know? Sounds like they're immature. So now I've gone from a declaration that they're not a Christian to then they're probably just immature. But over time I may find n no, actually this person is like from Satan them himself. interesting point about the difference between the Arminianism and we can think about Arminianism Yeah, there you go. That's the distinction, brother. That's it. They're two different issues. Yeah. That's right. Yes or no? Yeah. And then So we have different levels of education, right? In the sophomore year of college or in high school, oftentimes It's a year where you've had the opportunity to consider lots of hypothetical cases. And the problem that happens in those students is they think because they've considered hypothetical theory That they now have wisdom. And you know, I think that's one of the reasons why we call it the sophomore year. It means wise moron. Authority. What's that? That's really what it means. Sofos moron. For us, yeah. Oh yeah. Just enough you know just enough to hurt everybody. Have you ever said that to a sixteen-year-old? No. No, it's my first week and I I you feel free to come back at me hard on this one. Oh it sounds like you're gonna come at me. fundamentalist I'm I'm grateful for in certain contexts because the history especially with the history of the church there were people who stood up and said we We're going too far. And and and so we have to be careful. I mean, I just want us to be careful, because for instance, the guy comes in with a straight knee when we're doing triage. That straight knee un left untreated can and get infected because gangrene and then that left untreated will destroy the entire body. Sure, gotcha. So and so balancing that is is a challenge, right? And and figuring out Now one, two, and three. Even when we go one, two, and three, we say that's a third. Well maybe third not so much, but second level at some especially when we talk about things like our minimumism. There are Things that left untreated as it as it spreads into the church box. Think about the whole church as a body that has a script meal here Uh and again I don't want to be I don't want to be the fundamentalist like we I I hear you that because that is an unwise application of things. But I also think that and as you look at culturally as things have gone over the years. There was a time when it was truth, truth, truth. And I I kind of feel like we are living in an era that's about Uni uni uni. Yeah. And don't don't cause problems, so called Discord. Don't don't I hear you saying is that though you think that they apply things wrong sometimes I do admire their courage. And Francis Schaefer said the same thing. He said, um, but even after these things I say about them? We still have to we we basically they still know when it's necessary to have a confrontation. So I love that you brought out that point. where we're at particular space and time. And again, this conversation is hypothetical. Exactly. Uh-huh. What what about it? The definition of it. What it is. Because you you you said something like that. Well you could just but you want to do specific actions of human beings that we're meant to judge and put and So what about marriage between the Bill, I mean as a doctrine, and here's the reason why I asked the question. You said there's context every time generational context for when when someone has That this is more important than that. We are now in an era where that has become, and the definition of male and female has become so important that it made moving up in its where where where we find it as far as the level of uh of uh what kind what what Where we put it in the triumph. Well what you might need to look at there are what are the causes of the new definitions of marriage and if they're denying God as the creator, then you have a fundamental article on your hands. So are you saying that because of the specific time period we're in right now, the definition of marriage and how it's conducted is higher? in the doctrinal trinity. Um fighting against that was a higher problem during the Protestant Reformation. Right. Yeah. asking that question, but it it feels like it is. It it seems to me that that is becoming a another thing to put on the matter of fact at our school we put it on our list of what we believe. We had to, right? What we believe. That's the question. You know, if somebody came to me if my kids came to me and said, Dad, we woke up this morning, there's a raccoon on the back porch. But then if they said, oh and dad, it's got all this foam all over its mouth. Like, okay, we're gonna deal with it right now. And I'm gonna call someone else Yeah, but even still I just have this picture of this rabbit raccoon attacking me while I'm trying to shoot it. Not gonna work. Okay, we need we need to end. I hope that that has been helpful. Um obviously once again the message is you have to have wisdom with these I hope that what you heard you can uh through prayer and discussion with one another, may I hope it can turn into wisdom uh for the glory of God. So let's pray. Lord, we thank you for um what you have given to us. We pray that all of the good gifts, which are in fact good gifts, that we will would uh use them uh to give ourselves. You gave your only begotten son. You are the great Giver. And we are in your image. We are to give also. Pray, Lord, that we would take these gifts you've given to us and use them for the peace and the purity of your church and her strength. And and and many other things that move to to your glory. May you be honored. In the name of Christ. Amen.