And uh thank you not only Pastor Crutchley but also the session uh here at Severn Run for the high honor and privilege of a welcome uh to uh to this pulpit. Um it's a joy to be back among dear friends, and to come under the life-giving authority of God's Word with you today. Our uh text this morning is in Genesis, the first book of the Bible. The text is printed for us. in the bulletin. Uh let's remain standing as the text is read, please, and then we will um uh come under again this life-giving uh and authoritative word as uh as the Lord's people. The first eighteen verses of Genesis chapter twenty-two And now, friends, let us hear these words as they truly are, the words of the living God. Now it came to pass after these things that God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham, and he said, Here I am. Then he said, Take now your son, your only son, Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you. So Abraham rose early in the morning and saddled his donkey and took two of his young men with him and Isaac his son. And he split the wood for the burnt offering, and arose and went to the place of which God had told him. Then on the third day Abraham lifted his eyes and saw the place afar off. And Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey. The lad and I will go yonder and worship, and we will come back to you. So Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac his son. And he took the fire in his hand and a knife, and the two of them went together. But Isaac spoke to Abraham his father and said, My father, and he said, Here I am, my son. Then he said, Look, the fire and the wood, but where's the lamb for a burnt offering? And Abraham said, My son, God will provide for himself the lamb for a burnt offering. So the two of them went together. Then they came to the place of which God had told him. And Abraham built an altar there and placed the wood in order. And he bound Isaac his son and laid him on the altar upon the wood. And Abraham stretched out his hand and took the knife to slay his son. But the angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham. So he said, Here I am. And he said, Do not lay your hand on the lad or do anything to him. For now I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me. Then Abraham lifted his eyes and looked, and there behind him was a ram caught in a thicket by its horns. So Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up for a burnt offering instead of his son. And Abraham called the name of the place The Lord will provide, as it is said to this day, in the mount of the Lord it shall be provided. By myself I have sworn, says the Lord, because you have done this thing, and have not withheld your son, your only son. Blessing, I will bless you. And multiplying, I will multiply your descendants as the stars of the heaven and as the sand which is on the seashore. And your descendants shall possess the gate of their enemies. In your seed, all the nations of the earth shall be blessed, because you have obeyed my voice. Amen. Let us pray. Ever-living and blessed God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Having named you in this way, we pray that your word would disclose to our ears, to our hearts, to our very selves the wonder of the truth. And may We, in the ministry of your most Holy Spirit, not only receive your word well, but walk in it to the glory of the living God, as we ask this in Jesus' name Amen. Please be seated. We know this story, don't we? Or do we? Genesis twenty-two, one through eighteen. What's this story about? What do you think your neighbors and your friends think this story is about? It's likely to be among the most familiar stories in Genesis at least, the Old Testament generally, to those who do not make it a regular habit to know Bible stories. In fact, this passage has enjoyed something of a life on its own in culture, pop, and otherwise, in the history of literature. To some extent in film and drama, and certainly in the history of philosophy This is an ancient story that has been told and retold and retold again in so many different ways. That one would think we know it very well. But it has been told and retold so long. That it has become a main strand in the fabric of European and more generally Western civilization. As especially in the last few centuries, that civilization has propelled itself more and more deeply Into self conscious rebellion against the God of the Christian faith. Of those who are persuaded God has no defense. Like most stories that are retold that often, think of the telephone game. It has suffered the process of oversimplification and reductionism. The Jews have traditionally used it as an explanation for why they don't participate in human sacrifice. After all, God spared Isaac and provided a lamb, and so should we. That being the basic point of the story. Christians, too, though with arguably more biblical support, have seen this as a story about Isaac, as most people tend to see it. Isaac was to be sacrificed as the only son, but was spared because he was not, in fact, the redeemer of God's people, but only a type. of the real Redeemer to come, a type of the real sacrifice, Christ. And so this becomes yet one more example of what is ultimately an Isaac-centric reading. of this among the most famous passages in all of Scripture. Perhaps as we read it moments ago, you fully expected you'd know what the sermon would be about. Not Isaac, but Jesus. Isn't that the good news of the gospel? In fact, I'd like us to appreciate this morning how the central figure of this story is not Isaac. And that, in fact, the text is telling us so on several different occasions and in several different ways. This isn't a story about Isaac. It is, in fact, as I hope we will soon discover, a story about Abraham. And not simply along the lines of look how strong and real his faith was. To be sure, that's a key part of our story. But it's not even Abraham's special relationship to Christian faith that makes Abraham the central figure of this story. It is particularly the fact that Abraham is Isaac's father. And as Hebrews chapter 11, verse 17 puts it, it's by faith that Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac. Abraham, even as an example of faith, is the example of faith he is, because that faith has taken this particular form that he offered up Isaac. So what if this story isn't in fact as much about Isaac as a type of Christ, but about Abraham as a figure of God the Father? What difference does that make in how we hear how this among the most famous passages in all of Holy Scripture Functions as a deep sounding in the depths of the biblical ocean, reaching deeply into truths about who God is As Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, and how this passage puts something remarkable, even stupendously marvelous, about God on display. What if this passage so often used as an accusation against the Christian God as horribly unjust? Is specifically given from the outset to meet that accusation Well, to avoid our own oversimplification, we need ourselves to attend carefully to our text. One that is especially well crafted in order to get us picturing things and not only hearing them. We're supposed to imagine the scene and the way that the details are are given to us. We are to feel the increasing tension and and the the d unsettling discomfort as each stage in the story moves further and further along. Even though we know how the story ends, we cannot help but feel a little off put By God saying such a thing under any circumstances. We're drawn in by the way our story is told. in Moses' pen under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. As right at the very beginning, Abraham is called out by God with this language that recalls the Garden of Eden, the Edenic sanctuary freshly after Adam and Eve's sin, where God, who knows all things, as we were reminded earlier, and is everywhere, still says, Where are you? Only to get a response of self-acknowledgement, self-recognition as one before the face of God. Where am I? I'm here. I'm here I am before you. God calls out to Abraham, where are you? Here I am. Okay? Let's see how before me you really are. Take now your son. Now note the language here. There is no English translation of these few words in verse 2 that sufficiently capture what probably only the Hebrew can do. This is how languages work in our experience sometime. It's not just take your son. It's Please, Abraham, with an accent of gentleness, almost suggestive of reluctance As though he knows what it's going to cost Abraham to hear this request and act on it. The way a father As only a father or mother can say something to their child that they know their child is not going to want to hear, and yet must be said. It's not a request for permission, but an expression of tenderness. Abraham. Abraham, please. Hear this, but remember remember who I am, remember who we are. Abraham, please please take take your son. And to show he knows what he's asking, take your only son. Take your only son, Isaac, whom you love. Take your son, please. Take your only son, Isaac. Take your only son Isaac, whom I know you love. These opening words of verse 2, the opening words of this request are nothing less than saturated with paternal, fatherly tenderness, even as they say the most brutally difficult thing, arguably, in all of Holy Scripture. Please take Your own your son, your only son Isaac, whom I know you love, and go. Go to the land of Moriah, offer him there as a burnt offering. on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you. Now the future tenth of verse two, go do this And then I will tell you which mountain to do this on is telling Abraham, among other things, I'm going to be going with you as you do this. And as I go with you while you're doing this, along the way I'll be telling you things you need to know so that you know what to do when the time comes. This is not Abraham, go and come back and tell me how it went. But go, I'm going to be coming along as well, and I will continue talking with you. Along the way. We're not told Isaac hears God at any point in the story. We're not told Isaac has the benefit of hearing Yahweh's voice to Abraham talking him through things. Isaac is the one we're all prepared to identify with here. Alright, uh Abraham, uh Dad, we're we're we're on our way. You said we're going to sacrifice. I'm old enough to know what usually goes into such things. And here you've taken the fire. This is probably a reference to uh something that would ignite the fire when needed. We have the wood to be lit. We we seem to have just about everything, Dad. Except for the one thing that is probably central here. Where's the lamb? How many times would Isaac have gone with his dad to sacrifice by this time? Who knows? This would be a very familiar practice though. We're told Abraham is one who makes sacrifices, offers himself and his family to the Lord as in service. Isaac will have done this with dad before Maybe dad's getting a little old. Maybe he's getting forgetful. And there's almost a hint of respect and uh the way a son can gently say to his dad, You is everything all right? We have everything, but he uh you know I know you're getting older. Maybe we forgot the key thing here. Do you need me to run back and get the lamb? My father. Here I am. Look, the fire, the wood, but where is the lamb for the burnt offering? Abraham says, My son. God will provide for Himself the Lamb for a burnt offering. One of the reasons why the church has long recognized that there's a complicated picture here. Abraham apparently has not yet been told exactly how this story will end, but he's walking in the kind of faith that has to be the faith not sight type. God will provide for Himself the Lamb. Whether it is you or a sheep He's going to provide himself a lamb. He tells the servant, of course, before he and his son go up, we're going to return to you. Does this mean Abraham is confident that A Isaac will not be killed? Does it mean that he's confident that even if he is slaughtered? God will raise him from the dead and they will both still come down the mountain one way or another. At least one of those two options seems plausible, maybe more than plausible. But once again, while we tend to notice those things in the story We don't want to miss what I suggest as the central point of this story. Not Isaac, but Abraham. Soren Kierkegaard. The Danish, not the uh pastry, but a man from Denmark. The philosopher, existentialist thinker, and writer. One of those writers who is profoundly insightful and helpful and at the same time terribly frustrating. Whose highs are very high, whose hits are hitting hard, and whose misses are baffling. And what is probably his most famous work, Fear and Trembling. It was Kierkegaard who took this story and made it the key focal point for the questions every human being has about a god like this who would do such a thing. The difficulties Sular and Kierkegaard himself had with Genesis 22 were not a one-off set of concerns, but a lifelong struggle. that he had with this passage. And he concluded, faith must therefore be a matter of choosing obligations over what is right. Choosing obligations over ethics. Because we have to, in light of Genesis 2, choose the absurd, which bears no relationship to reality. Because we simply have to. Isn't Genesis 22 proof that sometimes God calls you to do things that are just wrong? And you do them anyway, because right and wrong are not, in fact, controlling realities. Just what you're told in obligation terms is our interest. Unsurprisingly, Kierkegaard becomes the father of existentialism, because that's exactly what existentialism concludes. Why does Kierkegaard and so many others, why do they struggle here? Because even as we're reading this, we wrestle with what seems like an inconceivable request. That only becomes even more inconceivable the more we learn, the more we hear verse 2 in these words of tenderness, where God clearly knows what Isaac means. to Abraham. The more we imagine, as we have suggested, Abraham cutting the wood with his son, walking this dusty road, thinking for three days, where the three days are certainly no coincidence. Against the backdrop of the gospel. Thinking over three days about what? Well, about Sarah. Boy, is she gonna be upset when she hears about this About Isaac and how are we going to have this conversation when it's necessary? But about God. I don't understand this request. Is it not merely possible, but extremely likely, maybe even importantly likely, that we account for the fact that Abraham is not immune from what the psalmists have to do, what the Apostle Paul had to do, and that is, in the confrontation with God's ways being infinitely higher than ours Wrestle with the distance between his wisdom and ours and ask, now what? The Apostle Paul over and over again, please relieve me of this thorn in the flesh. The psalmist, how long, O Lord, I don't understand how to combine all that you have revealed about yourself with the pit that I am stuck in and the fortunes of your people Is it impossible, in fact, in the light of Scripture as a whole Isn't it impossible to miss how much of biblical piety is being folded in to the three days that Abraham is called? To journey toward the sacrifice, the sacrificial altar? Only if we discount the role of Good Friday And the silence of Holy Saturday on the way to Easter Sunday. An instance of putting on display of Abraham's resurrection faith, verse 5, as he is followed by Isaac. Bearing the cross wood on his shoulders as he makes his way up the final ascent to his own Golgotha As Isaac is willing to obey his father's will, a hard command A hard request, though gently given, as we've said, please take your son. And yet Abraham, more inconceivably than the request itself, obeys it. Where we are brought to the very precipice of astonishment by the fact of the request, but we are pushed over the edge by Adam's obeying, Abraham's obeying it. Can you imagine the pastoral counsel he will have received if he had sought it? What his psychologist would have suggested And certainly, what philosophers would have said if they had a moment opportunity of conversation with Abraham in between the request and his response. But obedience to the Lord of all things does not satisfy the criteria for earthly wisdom, but instead sometimes seems simply to defy it. Having no answers yet given to him, he acts in faith of resurrection, he refuses to press beyond the content of his faith at this moment, and by refusing to demand sight when God has asked for faith, he therefore becomes the father of those who walk by faith and not by sight. Okay, we're thinking. So this is why Abraham is the center of the story. No, we're not there yet, but we're closer. Now we zoom in on verse 12. Now we focus in on what God says to Abraham in the very moment of highest drama. He said, do not lay your hand on the lad. Don't do anything to him. For now I know That you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me. Now does God learn things? No, God does not learn things. In fact, God's knowledge is wholly unlike yours and mine We are creatures of space and time and history. We, in our knowledge of anything, move from not knowing to knowing, or knowing in one way to knowing in a different way. We acquire new information, we learn new things, we are sensitized to new contexts. But God, who is apart from time and who has made time knows all that is, which is the work of his creation, as it were, in a single instant Not in the before and after sense. So then why would he represent himself as learning something? Well, because of what it's supposed to mean for us as we think of who he is. Well, what does this passage say about God that we need to know about Him, that we can only know with this language in mind? But now I know, Abraham. Well, now I know what. Now I know, says God to Abraham, that you fear God. Why? Because he has not withheld his son, his only son, from God. God says in so many words, Abraham, you have here represented the very apex of devotion, the very apex of love. How? Because the one thing that was your absolutely everything, you have proved to be willing to hand over, to lose in the form of a horrific death of this sort because you love Now I know that your devotion runs that deep and wide. Because you have not withheld your only Son, who is your all, who is your very life. And you have handed him over as love. Now we're getting to the point we can hear what the Apostle Paul heard in these words. You remember that passage we read a little earlier in our service? Can we go back there now? Go back there in your bulletin? I want to start our reading of this same passage in Romans 8, just a slight bit earlier. And ask us to notice how when Paul writes these words, he is thinking specifically about Genesis 22. That when he uses the words he uses, lifts the language that he does from God's word, it's from right here in Genesis 22. So how does Paul read the passage we are reading as though it's about Isaac? Or about Abraham, and because it's about Abraham, be therefore about God the Father Start in verse 28. You know these words, but now I want you to listen for the expression now. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good. for those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers And those whom he predestined, he also called, and those whom he called, he also justified, and those whom he justified, he also glorified. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? But how do you know that? Because he who did not spare his own son But gave him up for us all, how will he not also with that son graciously give us all things? Now I know This is what God says to Abraham in Genesis 22. Alright, now that you are not withholding your only son, now I know Not just what kind of man of faith you are, but here's the point of it all, friends. What kind of father you are And in the scene of Genesis twenty-two, Abraham proves to be the kind of father That is at the center of the gospel. Abraham is the kind of father God is. Rather than this being evidence of God's capriciousness, that God is horrible, unjust. Reckless, sinister, selfish, torturous, unkind, unthinking, Cruel. It proves instead the opposite. Without the Abraham story of Genesis 22. Paul doesn't say what he says in Romans 8. But don't you don't you need to hear what Paul has said in Romans 8? That when you wonder if your heavenly father is like human fathers Who, I'm afraid we all must acknowledge, routinely fail in their vocations as fathers. Uh as I've told classes over the years, when we are reciting together the words of the Apostles' Creed, I believe in God the Father Almighty, Maker of Heaven and Earth, do not assume that that's great news for everybody in the room The notion of a father with limitless power. That may sound great to you because you've had a good dad. How about the many who did not and do not? The very notion of a father with no limits on power and ability is horrific to imagine for many people. We need this word. Precisely because no father lives up to this, and precisely because we need a father like that. And we need to know in a life, in a calling, in a context, in a world where we do know tribulation and do know distress and do know Persecution, famine, nakedness, danger, and sword. We do need to know that even here, now we know What we otherwise would not know, but only hope, that God is that kind of God and not another And Abraham puts the character of God the Father on display Is Isaac still key to the story? Yes, but only but Isaac's role in the story is to, as it were, exegete his father. Isaac's role in this story is to put the reality of the father's character on display. If that sounds familiar, it's because that's exactly what John thinks. John chapter 1, the famous prologue to his famous gospel, ends the prologue in John 1, verse 18 by saying, of the Son Jesus Christ No one has ever seen God, the only God who is at the Father's side, this is the Son, he who is at the Father's side has, in English, made him known. in Greek has exegeted the Father. You want to know who the Father is really like? You want to know what he's really like? Look at Christ and what happened in him for you, and you'll know what God is like. Now you'll know. Without Moriah's altar, without the Galgotha, the cross, of which Moriah's altar is a figure and a picture, so that so that even Old Testament saints Are being conditioned to know this is the kind of God the Father we have. Without Moriah's altar, without the cross on Golgotha, we will hope, but we will not certainly know That it is ever possible for such a God to be for us, especially when we feel like He is against us. When we feel like Abraham might have felt on his way up the mountain, and which many philosophers, lay and professional What many human beings for many centuries ever since have struggled in thinking. Surely this is a story of how God is against us. And in fact, it proves to be the reason we may know for certain that he is for us. In Romans eight, what starts in verse twenty-eight with the assurance that this we may know becomes in verse 32 why we know it. Why do we know that all things work together for good for those who are loved by God and called by Him Because God is not like our failing fathers. I speak as one myself. But because God is the true Father, God is in fact the true Father Abraham. Verse 32. Romans 8. 32, friends, is a one-verse commentary on the whole of Genesis 22. one through eighteen that God the Father did not spare, did not hold back his own beloved son. And so you may know that if he's not going to hold that back, It's because he is devoted to your good and will hold nothing back How will such a father who would give his beloved son to secure your good not with that son give you anything and everything? Paul is saying, look at the Father's gift of the Son. And say to yourself, Now I know. Now you know what Now you know that the father did not need to be persuaded to save you. Now you know the father is not your reluctant and ashamed father. Now you know your father did not need to be cajoled into accepting you as a son of inheritance. But that precisely because the Father loved you, he gave his only begotten Son. The son does not make the father love you, a very common mistake in thinking about the gospel. The Son shows you the Father always loved you. The Son is the proof that the Father loves you, is not ashamed of you. Is not ready to pounce upon you, is not looking to crush you on the sidewalk. Would that earthly fathers acknowledged how in these ways we are taught what a father is supposed to be like? Would that we would learn more about our Father in heaven from Father Abraham along those lines? And notice, for example, how every single time God calls God that Scripture calls God Father. It is in order to accent tenderness, protection, and provision, not harshness, even punishment, and certainly cruelty. When the Bible accents God as Father, even when discipline is in view, it is with a view to discipline which makes whole and saves. And yet it is ordinarily that he is called father precisely to put on display the thoughtfulness, the tenderness, and the love that we have in him. When you think of what a good father is like, are those the things that come to mind? Or there are other things like bare exertions of power, unlimited authority, my way or the proverbial highway, and look at how my house runs like a well-oiled machine. How does God reveal himself as Father? By giving himself so that we have life with him. Friends, sometimes, maybe not today, I pray not today, but sometimes we all need to know what our flesh suggests can't be true. Among the simplest things our children learn remain the hardest things for adults truly to believe. God loves me. And the truth of the gospel is not that God loves me because of me as me. But he loves me because who I really am, I am in his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And in him he has loved me And loves me still, and will love me forever. This I know because the Bible tells me so, and this I know because this Father did not withhold. But gave and gave himself. God be praised. Let us pray