Hey. And welcome to a service of celebration for the life of Harry O'Haver. It is our great privilege to be able to hold this service for him, and it is our great privilege, Kathy, for you to be here as his family. Thank you so much for being here. Your father means a great deal to us. There are many things that can be said about a man, and the greatest is that he dwells in righteousness with the Lord Jesus Christ. And we may proclaim that now of Harry. Please pray with me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you have given us this opportunity to gather, to honor really you and your work. Lord, we know that your servant Harry would have it no other way. He was about honoring you also. Lord, we ask that you'd help us to celebrate the life that you gave him today. Lord, we know that he did not want frowns, though grief is appropriate, but wanted a celebration for his life The life that you gave him, which is eternal. We thank you that you have gathered him to yourself, and he now worships you face to face with the angels. In perfect righteousness, he dwells in justice We ask, Lord, that you would pour your mercies on us. Help us as we continue on our pilgrimage, as we continue to run the race that is before us. And at the end. May you pronounce that we are your good and faithful servants. In the name of Christ. Amen. Let's stand for our call to worship this evening from Isaiah 55, 6 through 9. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts Let him return to the Lord, and he will have mercy on him, and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, nor are your ways my ways, says the Lord For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. Let's stand or let's think together how great thou art Oh floor. O Lord my God, when I in authome, consider all the world violence have made. I see the stars, I hear the rolling thunder, thy maruha, thy universe. Then say twice so to me I'll break the law I'll break thou law and sing my soul, my Savior God to thee. When through the woods and forests wait, I wander and hear the birds sing sweetly in the tree. When I look down from lofty mountain grandeur and give up road and feel a gentle breeze Please make my soul, my Savior God to thee. I'll break up I bring our seeds by Savon. And when I believe that God is not not weary sent him to die, I scarcely take it in. That on the cross I burned gladly marry he had and died to take away my sin. Better saves our soul, my save or continuity. How break thought then since I saw my savor come to me When Christ shall come, we shall come back for me, shut, and make me home, what joy shall fill my heart. Then I shall bow in unfold adoration, and therefore claim my God I bring along. Then speak twice oh my stay or God to thee our great thou Amen. Please be seated. You can see in the bulletin that our next heading is scripture readings chosen by Harry. These were all dear to him. And we begin with Matthew chapter 22, verses 35 through 40. Then one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question testing him, and saying, Teacher, which is the greatest great commandment in the law? Jesus said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind. This is the first and great commandment, and the second is like it. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. Amen. He also chose John 14, 15 through 21. If you love me, keep my commandments. And I will pray the Father, and He will give you another helper, that He may abide with you forever. The Spirit of Truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. But you know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you as orphans. I will come to you. A little while longer, and the world will see me no more, but you will see me Because I live, you will live also. At that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. He who has my commandments and keeps them, it is he who loves me And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him. Amen. Please stand again for our second hymn, which is The Battle is the Lord's. I'll do the thing and talk to me. Yes, this story is drawn with the face of Christmas. And war perfect for this time to But his alone is sovereign Christ to work his will. I'm counting the board on day through all day And it is time is for me on top in Most travel is so piss All God all will come there, and all God will be done To every soul who has to try to Of great salvation comes from before you And resting in his life lives on his joy of song For now being done taking the strength to Christ me Amen. Please be seated. We wanted to give friends and family a brief opportunity to share remembrances, and we'll begin with uh if any friends would like to say a few words. in remembrance of Harry and you can come up to the pulpit and and say those words. Is there anyone that would like to? Please Good evening. There are a few things that have uh we've already sung and read that I think uh capture the spirit of of uh my good friend Harry in a very wonderful way. In in How Great Thou Art, there's there's a line I think in the third verse that says, when I think That God that uh God not sparing his son sent him to die. Then there's the line, I scarce can take it I could scarce grasp that concept that my Lord and Savior, the God of all eternity, would enter his own creation and And would sacrifice his life because of my wrongdoing. That I think was something that Harry really, really grasped. He was a serious, serious Christian. Um I had many wonderful conversations with him and one of his one of the kind of touchstone phrases he would come back to and we would come back to in conversation was Well if you love me, keep my commandments. And the the uh I think the Th the brevity of that, because the conciseness of that, the precision of that was uh very comforting to him and very uh meant a lot to him. He would say that not infrequently. If you love me, keep my commandments. When um when Harry uh I I'm gonna say became a Christian, was born again. There were a number of things I think he regretted about his former life. Well, what which of us one of what of us don't don't do that, right? Um uh but his new understanding I think he wore uh like a garment that he was humbly um but very proud of uh you know we shouldn't boast except in our savior, right? And I think that's where how he boasted. So I am um I'm saddened by the loss of my friend. You know, uh uh I will remind you if you don't mind me, Pastor, to s to say this. Um What choice do you have, right? I'm gonna do it anyway, right? You're not gonna know whether you just prove it until after I say it, right? Um one of the things uh Harry wanted in addition to uh uh a celebration of his life was was uh or as part of it was a good old fashioned wake. He even wanted green beer. He specified that in his parting documents. He's he was clear about the green beer thing and all that imports. Um So on the Ides of March, on March fifteenth at uh Cornerstone Evangelical Free Church, we're gonna do that. And you're all welcome to to be there. Thank you, Fibs. Thank you, Pastor. Thank you, sir. Any other friends like to say a a few words? Great. Hi, my name's Emmanuel. Um I I worked for Harry for for a couple months and stuff and I I knew well, just like the old movie The Good, Bad and The Ugly. Um I I've seen like all parts of Harry. And but w the the the good part that I remember about Harry is In the morning when he got up, you know, he had his coffee or tea and he and he and he read the Bible. Um and he did that, you know, regardless of what what I was doing. And just the The perseverance i i uh like you know it's like Harry, do you know how old you are? Um you're you're you're you're you're planning to do these these same jobs that you've done twenty years ago you you're getting contracts signed and you're you're setting up people and and you know you just had a house you just bought a house and now you have me moving your stuff in it and moving it around it and setting up a business. It was sort of like I I I guess nobody told him how old he was. You know, he just uh he just kept going, you know. So that just that that that drive an initiative um regardless of the environment, you know, in in reality or whatever. It was just like, you know, God said go and do it and, you know, he just went and did. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, please, Jess. I just have a little bit. A beautiful Christian man and a beautiful gift to our church. Yeah. Yeah, thank you, Mother. Um my name's Joseph Delamator and uh I met Harry actually when I was a very young Christian, just came to Christ uh and um we would go the Bible study and all and he he was the one encouraged me to really get in the word and read the word every day. So I'm actually now, because of Harry encouraged me to do that, I've read through the Bible now for eight years now. So every year and I'm on my on my way again. So um so so that it was very encouraging from Harry. And also um at about that time actually decided because I seen how bad the the the country was and I felt like something had to be done and I stepped up to run for sheriff. And stood right beside me was Harry to be my treasurer. So he he stepped up and he at at that you know, as Emmanuel said, at that age he stepped up and did all that. So I felt like we always had a a kinship and we were both in the Navy and we used to talk about you know, the stuff in the Navy and then uh the other thing is when he hurt his back he couldn't drive to church so I would go down and pick him up and just the conversations we had driving the church every Sunday And just being in the presence of a a man who really feared God and understand what God was. And then for his family, he was always just praying for you guys and he loved his family. He loved his kids and his grandchildren. kids. So and it wasn't a time when we were driving to church that we weren't praying and for for you guys and talking about you guys. So but he he definitely loved his family. So God bless and thank you for all the encouragement you gave me, Harry. Good to see you, girl. I've never done this, so I'm just really surprised that I am. I uh I was with Harry a number of weeks just keeping him company and watching him and I really loved him. I didn't know him that well, but we just clicked. And um it's true. He he loved the Bible, he loved God. It was such a pleasure for me to go there whenever I did, just to sit and talk about the Bible and about God and everything in it. He just He just was full of life. I I just really, really enjoyed it. One of the main things I I I really want to tell you about is funny. So I thought it would you'd get a kick out of it One of the days we went he kept talking about uh going on a trip to um Oh, I can't think straight. Um Yart fails. Does that sound familiar to anybody? Yeah. Well, uh I always liked yard sales, so I didn't think anything of it. And um and I was the drive, we took his car, and he had a couple of papers with addresses and names and all this. Well, living down in Bowie where he did, I wasn't familiar with that area at all And of course he was, but we were going to places I've never ever been, towns I've never heard of. And just kept going and going. Thank goodness it was a nice day because it it was actually beautiful, I think it It was like seventy or something, I don't know. But he even said that at the end. Well, at least we had a nice day. Nice weather. But um we went I think probably the four or five places and there were no sales there. So he was definitely mixed up. And I realized that, but I didn't say anything and I thought, well, how about another one or Let's go to the next one or well we finally ended up one one and I don't and it was actually near his house. And um it was a good one. He bought a lot I mean he's he was thrilled to death. He just you know, his in his wheelchair was just going right by and picking this and picking that and it was It was just it was fun to watch him, it really was. And he got something really heavy and I don't remember what it was, but the gentleman at the at the yard sale was nice enough to come help put it in the car and his wheelchair So that was really neat. But he really enjoyed it and I said, Harry, where are you getting what are you doing with all this stuff? He said, Oh, it's for my grandchildren. So he's you know, he was always I guess thinking about everybody else but himself. But I just thought you'd get a kick out of that. I know I did. And I thought for I a good part of that trip we were lost. And I think I think he I think he was too. I really I honestly do. But we finally came across a place 'cause he kept saying, I guess we'd better turn around and go back. So I just I just love that. I thought that was really fun. It was like an adventure, you know. It wasn't anything that I would be upset about or or cry about. And he was just a really neat guy and I really enjoyed the time that I spent with them. I really did. Thank you. Thanks, Carol. We have many of those stories. Yes, ma'am. Uh we have we have three people coming at one time. We're gonna start with start with this. Thank you. Hi, my name is Sue Ann West. I am uh blessed to have known Harry on three dimensions. Uh my my most favorite is to have been blessed that he was there. to participate on the day of my baptism, uh only a little over four years ago. Um that I myself recently came to Christ and and Harry uh was selected to make the offertory prayer and it was about two minutes. And he told just a little story about uh the need for us all to wear not a bulletproof vest, but a devil-proof vest. And if if you know Harry, he he he just had a unique way of correlating, talking about God. It it it was it was very uh I'm fortunate that I still have a clip and it it was a story that uh only Harry could could relate and I'm and I'm blessed for that, blessed that he was there that day to help me share that experience. Uh the other dimension is that uh I was privileged to help organize a research project on the Federalist Papers as part of the Institute on the Constitution, and Harry participated in that and I was just amazed at his knowledge level and ability to take something as dry as the topic of or sometimes don't get mad at me, Michael, but the the founders and studying the Federalist papers and incorporate God in into that I just sat there amazed when we were sitting at the table and calling Harry to give his input, just totally amazed at his knowledge. Uh and then the third was I was blessed to uh enjoy Bible study uh with Harry there. He clearly walked with Christ and it was evident in every everything he said and did and thank you God for the privilege of knowing him on all those three levels. Thank you. We'll do uh ladies first. So Peggy, would you like to come up and then we'll invite Gordon? No, you were just standing. Okay, very good. Good evening. And this is just to the family and to their friends. And I just want to say I'm one of those men that I have a long friendships with people And then I have some short ones that feel long. And Harry fit in the latter. I'd only met him a couple years ago, and I was incredibly blessed to get to know him as well as I did. We spoke of Vietnam, we spoke of our military experiences, because I'm an Air Force vet, not Navy. And it was just a a pleasure to s to sit with him here in the church, after church or out outside, and just speak of things that guys speak about And uh he's one of those men that a lot of times guys don't really snap right away as friends, but he was one of those men that just it was just an immediate bridge. He just it just felt like you'd known him for a long time. And it was easy to put the shields down and just start talking like people. And so I just want to tell you that I thoroughly enjoyed the the time I had with him. I just prayed and wished that it was a lot longer because he certainly would have been one of those longtime friends. I know that without question. But he was a blessed man that blessed me for the few times I had. And I just want to tell you, you had an awesome dad. He just I just wished I'd had a lot more time with him. Would the family like to say a few words? Okay. Um I will try to do this without crying, so I'm the youngest. I'm Kath Kathy, or my dad would say Kathleen or Kath. Um my he has four kids, um, my brother Mike, Michael. who's here. My sister Judy, who really wishes she could be here, but she wasn't feeling well. My brother Pat lives in Atlanta, Georgia. And then myself. And then his first grandchild. Sarah is here. So my dad has a brother, Marty, who lives in Tennessee, and he had a sister, Nell, who actually passed away three days. days after he did. So and she was ninety four, I think. Yeah. Um he grew up in Detroit. Yeah she was He always said she's older. Um and they communicated and they talked on the phone. Um just just probably just a few months ago they were they were chatting. Um he grew up in Detroit. He loved to talk about Detroit. He loved to talk about, you know, his cars and his girlfriends and things of that. He loved to talk about um him going to college, becoming a sharpshooter. He has a pin that my brother Mike found and it was just amazing that it was in this box and it was his award for being the number one sharpshooter. Um he loved golf. I'm sure I don't know if you all know he was an amaz He won many tournaments. He was won the champion over at the um Country Cup of Maryland, right? And then he won many, many other tournaments. Um and that was a bond that he had with both my brothers, with both my brother Mike and myself. He tried to teach me how to play golf because he thought I could have a scholarship and um and he gave me a test on how and then I was like no. I'm not I'm not doing this because my father always loved to test. He actually would give us a driver's test before we actually had to go take our test. Um He has uh six grandchildren, so he has Sarah, and then he has uh my three, um, Alec, Grant, and Bryn, and then my other brothers two, um Gabby and Jake. And then he had two great grandch has two great grandchild children, um, Sophia and Shay, and um Sarah's pregnant again for uh his third great grandchild, which is a boy, which he knew before he passed. So my dad, um he was a doer. He never stopped doing. He never stopped making lists If he we were going through some things at his house and there was lists everywhere. And that was something he passed on to all his children. And I tell you, I make lists all the time and it really helps me. So thank you. dad for forcing me to make lists. He loved um root beer floats and when he He was thinking um he was almost there at the household of angels. He was going to assisted living, and he had made a list before he went to the hospital. And we still have that list of things that he wanted to ask them. Do they have movie nights and will it be a Christian movie? Do they have Bible study? Do they have Roofier Float? Can he and I know Mike Mike is like he always the healthy eater and And and um do they have an ice cream bar? You know, would he be able to bring his bed and his like he was just so excited to go. But we said that He is in the true household of angels. So he's there. But he um his last week with Mike and I was a blessing. Okay, I'll take a deep breath. Uh played lots of cribbage with my brother. Um I must say I played one round of cribbage and I beat him and he was very We watched lots of movies. The Christmas Chronicles he loved. And we were also watching Jesus of Nazareth. And he loved it. He was staying up till you know, one, two o'clock in the morning, um, you know, just watching these movies and um and eating having root beer floats and reading them the Bible, um talking to his friends. Um his birthday was on January 5th and he turned 92 and we had a cake and Mike brought this cake and he ate almost anything Um he talked to his friend Izzy Hoffman that he's known. Izzy is also ninety two, is one of my dad's best friends from Canada, from the Census Bureau that he worked with him. And Izzy called every day when my My dad was sick, and they had these long conversations. And I think Izzy said, um, we were talking to him about how he was feeling, and he said, you know, you live until you die. And that's what my dad did. lived until he died. So another deep breath. He lived in his home and he and he died surrounded By his family. And I felt blessed that the nurses let us be there. And um hold his hand. And my brother Mike was so kind To bring his Navy jacket, his Navy blanket, his Missouri hat, and that's how he passed with those things. And Mike, um putting anchors away. And he did not like he wasn't taking deep breaths. He was so silent and peaceful. And he was so ready. He was doing scripture with the nurses, um, the night before he passed. And and that was my dad, you know, always teaching. He was teacher. And um oh I miss you guys. Thank you. Mike or Sarah? Would you like some time? Okay. Yeah, thank you. Mark, would you like to um say a few words and lead us in a prayer? Thank you. Good evening. Mark Donovan. Um Uh strange as it is, um I was his uh shepherding elder. He's double my age, um, which is really odd. And it was. Um over these last two years, um getting to know Harry was Um I've been a shepherding elder for eight years now. And uh having uh met with so many folks, um Harry was uh about a special is a person that can come. He was on my Tuesday calendar every Tuesday for visitation. Um and I I I would drive from north of Towson all the way down and uh it it was never at work Because I knew that every time we would be together, two things would happen. Number one, he would feed me Cheese. Every single visit. I told him one time one of my favorite childhood things was this little thing called all things together, which incorporated um kind of what you would find in a lunchable. There they were. There they were. And there was one other. There was some mention about ice cream. Well I too have this little fetish for ice cream. And he he and I um shared one time. He uh he said, You like ice cream? I said, Yes, I love ice cream. He said, Well you just you just go over there and he he would point in this direction and and I would I would get up from my seat and walk over to the to the refrigerator and he had everything situated just perfectly. He would open his fridge and everything would be in its nice little category and its little plastic containers and right down at the bottom where it was most convenient you'd open this door up. He He had it must have been thirty containers of that nice expensive gelato ice cream. He said, what flavor do you like? That one you've got it's all one flavor. I pull it out and he and I shared the whole thing. The whole thing. His the blessing was his stories. They were never the same. And yet I couldn't, if I were to spend all day I couldn't write like he spoke. It was original. It was thought-provoking. And you know when you're reading scripture and you hear these parables that Jesus Would communicate. They would have this great truth behind them. Harry spoke and told his story. in parables. They had amazing truth. And I'm sitting there scratching my head saying, Harry, I know there's something there. I I didn't always get it, but boy, when I did, I should have asked him for an interpretation, is what I should have done. But I never had the heart to, because he just carried on with one after another And it was it was really a a treasure. It really was. He loved his scriptures. And um he wanted with all of his heart. to obey them. With all of his heart. He had in his last days the greatest desire to run Reconcile in every way with everyone. And He felt this burden to do so. And it was hard. It was hard to see him go through that. He did it well. At 92 years old, I've never met a more humble man. As he seeked to receive instruction, guidance in the scriptures. He did not waver. He would hear correction and he would turn and just humbly submit to the scriptures, to his Lord, to our God. He loved his Heavenly Father. He loved his bride. And it was an amazing, an amazing testimony. And something that I will never forget. Yes, Adrian. I will. I need you with yes. How you doing, Mike Bull Waiver? I know you're not. I'm not either. Thank you for looking at me for one minute. People kept coming up to me saying, it's a good thing you're doing. Uh a little bit about me. I've done a long lot of wrong in my life. I've committed crimes. I've hurt people. And I always say, I wish I could go back and change, you know, a hundred things But it was put to me, if you could change one thing, you go back and change one thing, I remember I would do anything for my grandmother except go to church with her. Her pastor, I thought he was a disgusting human being. I thought he was a pimp. He was a he was a whoremonger. He was just and I and I refused to go to church with her. And Once she passed away, you know, I thought about what my life would have been without her, and it was it was nothing but a horror show. And I realized that I hated her pastor more than I loved her. I loved her, but not like I hated her pastor. And it nagged me and it nagged me and it nagged me. And I said, God, is there, is there any way I could redeem that? Cause if I could change one thing, that would be it. I would have went to church. All the scars that I got scars, you know, I've been I've been I've busted in the head. stab, you know, where I I had to be revived twice because my heart stopped. I lost so much blood. You know, and I even saw the guy who stabbed me six years ago. I hugged him. I said I was sorry. He said he was sorry. But That is the the one thing that nags me most. And when I uh attended Cornerstone, I attended churches many times. I wasn't going in that church to Get baptized. I wasn't going to that church to give my life to Christ. I just was going to visit. And before that church I had never visited any church more than three times before I said, Okay, I done seen enough. Same old, same old. But I got pulled back in the cornerstone. I never really knew why I had been pulled in, but something voice in my head said, You gotta go back there And I went back one more time and then I got locked up. I spent thirty-nine days in jail. And the people of Cornerstone rallied around me. I mean, that's not what I was looking for. It just happened. Some some some some godly things took place. And this was about uh August into September and I got out and the next thing you know, uh November I'm being baptized. And as time proceeded, you know, I I I had kidney failure, I lost my vehicle, it was a lot of hardship. And during that hardship, after I lost my vehicle, for two years I caught the bus and a gentleman named Neil Morland took me. to church because he live not far from me. He's sitting in the back right there. Neil, let him see you. Stand up, Neil, let him be recognized. And I periodically would call about once a month. Uh Neil would go places. He had to go to out of town. And I would call Harry and say, Can we can I get a ride? And he was like, sure. I said, meet me at Earl uh Maggot Bridge Road and and and Route 2. And he'd be sitting there, he had a white vehicle, he'd be just as happy as he could be. He I mean, he enjoyed picking me up. And we'd show up at the church and and we would be uh the first ones there and he'd be uh so happy. And it you know, his back was messed up, so he walked a little crooked. And we got to be buddies We I mean we we was we were just happy like two little two little boys at the playground and we found out we liked the same things. We like to read the history books we And and and he loved to talk about the Navy and I love to hear from from about the guys in the Navy. And then uh Over the course of uh two years we became very good friends. And then uh another person in church Blessed me with he gave me a a a vehicle to drive. I'm not gonna put you on the spot because you're a real humble dude. But you know everybody at Cornerstone knows who he is and and Things started happening for a reason. And as I got my vehicle, because I I I prayed for it. I said, God, I need a vehicle now because people in the church needed me to be certain places where I couldn't catch the bus. And mm and I was blessed. And then Harry's uh his back started to deteriorate and He was unsure of driving himself to to to the church And different people started going to his house and driving his vehicle. And I mean selfish or not, I knew, okay, that's gonna be my job. You know, I'm gonna get my turn to pick Harry up and when it may maybe out of pure selfishness, I knew that was gonna be uh I I I needed a job and I said, I'm when I get that job, I'm not giving it up. I'm gonna make that my job and and I did it out of pure, you know, I can it's love and it's selfishness. Because I kept asking God, God, can can I redeem myself in any way? for just not going to church with my grandmother. You know, I'll suffer for every other sin I've ever had. I'll I'll I'll eat that because is there any way I now know he gave me that opportunity to to to to serve Harry. You know, and and I didn't look for any any any benefit, but the benefits came You know, I and I tried to to deny, but the benefits came. And, you know, I learned that Harry, you know, in the last six months, Harry started to confess to me. You know, I was not a great husband. I was n not a great father. And and I started to say things to Harry. I said, Harry. Oh, you know, going to church, singing the songs and praying, you know, that's that's fine. I said, but you got to uh You got to make at least an attempt to reconcile with your sons. And you know I I th I I really thought because I know that uh uh between me and my grandmother and my family is it's not I said, if you can do one thing And in the last months of Larry's house, when I went there, I would always see his son's car. Now maybe Michael O'Haver didn't know the difference, but Harry really started to look bad in the summer and I and I'm I would come in and he's like, don't don't worry. And but I could tell when Michael O'Haver was there. He looked good. He was clean, his face looked good. Because he started to deteriorate. He couldn't he couldn't take care of himself. And Harry was so proud. He I can do I said, No, you can't. I and and and just to know one day I changed the battery in his car and I left and I went to Walmart and I did the whole battery thing when I come back. He's laying halfway out the doorway on his side I said, how long you been like that? He said, about a half an hour. I said, I gotta pick him up. And I said, Man, you look, you gotta r recognize you cannot do the things you cannot do and and and at some point he relented to coming in in the wheelchair. I said, It will make you I said, Man, you'll be a celebrity People will talk to you more. The kids will talk to you. And that's what he said, you know, about a month went by. He said, you know what? You're right. So but You know, I believe God gave me a chance to redeem myself for not going to church with my grandmother. And I had asked for it. I kept asking. You know, I Every now and then, something will allow me to see her. I mean, really see her. You know, I can think about, I can remember, but I'll feel her presence. And You know, that's that is like the greatest thing for me. And and you know, I I I believe God has always let me know when I've asked. And That was why, you know, you see me being with Harry, because I I needed to redeem myself and and In the last uh month, you know, I was I was looking at him because he shriveled up and he he would grab my hand, he said, Okay, this is it. This is it. I said and and we knew, you know, the end was near. And when he finally shut down his business, he accepted, you know, I said, Harry, we all gotta go through this Every one of us, even the little babies you see, we all will find this day. It's not it's where you are with God when you go. And Uh I didn't think that his family wanted me around, but on the day he passed His son, Michael O'Haber, his oldest son, sent me a text message and he answered the questions that I needed. He said he was peaceful and all four of his children were with him. And that was a miracle For for me, from my point of view, that was American because there was some turmoil. I'm not gonna go into it. It's not necessarily my business, but he he he did confide in me and you know I I I just say uh I wanna thank you Michael and Kathleen for being with your dad. You know, regardless, you know I it it it it it helped me. So that's that's that's my testimony, confession. You know? Thank you. Thank you, Mark. You're welcome. Let's pray. Our Lord and our God, and we we thank you. We thank you that even with all the various ways that you work through us, your creation, It pales in comparison to the the amazing remembrances that we have That you have revealed in your word through your son and through the ways that you have worked through our own lives. We thank you for your servant, Harry. We thank you for revealing yourself in small measures and in ways through Harry. I thank you. For his warm comforting hand. We love you, Lord. And we love the amazing things that you do in and through your servants, even your servantary. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Thank you, Mark. And thank you, everyone, for sharing. Sharing. And ask if you could, if you could please stand. I'm going to read God's word and I want you to stand, please, in honor of it. In honor of him, this is a continuation of the passage that Harry chose for this service. And it is Romans chapter 8. You can find it in your bulletin. 18 through 39, and I'll say a few closing words on it. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy. To be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. For the earnest expectation of the creation eagerly waits for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope. Because the creation itself also will be delivered from the bondage of corruption and to the glorious liberty of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation groans and labors with birth pangs together until now. Not only that, but we also who have the first fruits of the Spirit. Even we ourselves groan within ourselves, eagerly waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our body For we were saved in this hope. But hope that is seen is not hope. For why does one still hope for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we eagerly wait for it with perseverance. Likewise, the Spirit also helps us in our weaknesses. For we do not know what we should pray for as we ought, but the Spirit Himself makes intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered Now he who searches the hearts knows what the mind of the Spirit is, because he makes intercession for the saints according to the will of God And we know that all things work together for the good of those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose, for whom he foreknew, he also predestined, to be conformed to the image of his son. that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he predestined, these he also called, whom he called these he also justified, and whom he justified, these he also glorified What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Who shall bring a charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is he who condemns? It is Christ who died. And furthermore is also risen, who is even at the right hand of God, who makes, who also makes intercession for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword? As it is written, For your sake we are killed all day long. We are accounted as sheep for the slaughter Yet in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loves us. For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other created thing, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our own. Lord. Please pray with me. Father, we know that your servant Harry drew strength from this passage. And we ask that you would give us strength too. In the name of Christ, Amen. Please be seated. I'm a little upset because he never gave me any ice cream. Or cheese. And in each visitation, uh we'd wind our way through the garage and out into an outer conference room. Some of you know what I'm talking about. And he would wind his way all the way down to the end of that long conference table, and he would look at me with a pen in his hand, ready to create a list. And he would say, How does God want us to serve him today? And I watched Harry seek to serve God in the reality of life. Which I thank you, Adrian, for giving us a picture of that. Harry labored under some heavy burdens. He labored under a failing body, just like you, Will. And he groaned under his own failings and his sins. He even was burdened by the sins of this nation. And the culture that he lived in. It was a struggle for him to watch. But in all of that, sitting there with the pen, ready to create the list. In that body, he still had that twinkle in his eye asking the question, how can we serve the Lord today? And that was him. It was really a profound question, really. It's a question that keeps coming back to me. How did Harry really live in the world to be able to continue to serve God? How did he keep hope and how did he keep a smile? Well, the way that he answered that for me when I would meet with him is at least in part Romans 8. What we just read. He really believed it. I'm sure you noticed in that passage, and it's in your bulletin. If you didn't notice, you can look at it later. But I'm sure you notice the suffering and the groaning all through the passage. groaning and laboring throughout Romans 8. And the reason why that's there is because Paul is writing to Christians who are suffering. If you were to go a paragraph up in the Bible, you'd see that Christians are suffering with their indwelling sin. Who will save me from this indwelling sin, Paul asks. You'll see that they are suffering, really. The context is they're suffering under the sins of others. We are slaughtered like sheep all day long. That's what was happening to Paul. and his partners. They were under severe persecution. That is what Paul meant in Romans 8. 22, for example, when he says For we know that the whole creation groans and labors with birth pangs together until now. What Paul is doing there is he's picking up on a metaphor that is used within the major and the minor prophets. used uh quite a bit actually the idea of groaning and labor pangs and the creation itself groaning. It's a little unfamiliar with us in our culture, but it wasn't to Jeremiah, for example, in chapter 12, verse 4. How long will the land mourn, and the herbs of the field wither? The beasts and the birds are consumed. Why? Because of the wickedness that dwells there Because they said, God will never see our final end. The land mourning or growing is a biblical way of talking about the effect of evil people on the land. Humans were made to cultivate the earth and bring blessing just like their father in heaven did. In the creations of the heavens and the earth, in the space of six days, and all very good. We were to be like Father, like Son. And yet, as Jeremiah's mourning with the land, human race had the habit of becoming a curse instead. They would decreate. And yet that's just one kind of groaning. Did you notice that there was a specific kind of groaning in the passage? It was groaning like in the groaning of childbirth. It would be almost entirely hopeless if it was just anguish. But it wasn't just anguish. It was the anguish that's like childbirth. Now that's a different kind of anguish. Surely you either are an eyewitness or you have seen on movies the dramatization of the pangs of childbirth Two main things happen. I've seen it in the movies and I was there in person four times. The woman screams in the movies. Doesn't exactly work like that. Yeah She screams and she looks like she's feeling the worst pain ever in her life. And then number two, once the baby is born, it seems as if she was never in pain. In comparison to the glorious child she holds in her hands. That's the picture of the kind of anguish that the creation is in. Paul says that the Christian life is like that. In summary, really, this is what had Harry hang on with that pen in his hand, ready to make a list. It's verse 18. It was deep in his soul. only by the grace of the Holy Spirit. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. Do you hear the birth pangs? Can you see why Harry loved the passage and wanted us to read it and to preach on it in his service? It reminded him that though he groaned under his failing body and his sins and the sins of others, redemption like a newborn child is worth it. And that's what God was doing with the world. We had the privilege of joining the family. Thank you so much for letting us be with him in the hospital. Mark Donovan and I prayed over Harry with the family present. And then a few hours later we received a call that Harry had gone to be with the Lord. I was sorrowful for myself because he was very kind to me. He always said hello to me. He made a point of it. I enjoyed seeing Harry each Sunday and I will miss him. But I am happy for him, because his groaning is over. The labor is gone. The child is born. His body is laid to rest, and he awaits his new body. That's the Christian teaching. Harry's body of indwelling sin is dead. And he stands sinless with the Lord Jesus Christ And being face to face with the judge, the Lord Jesus Christ, Harry has full assurance that the evil ones of this world that make the creation mourn will never prevail. He knows that justice will be prevailed. brought. But as I read this passage to you, it is not only because it was Harry's favorite for himself. He listed it because he wanted it to be considered by you also. You too are burdened with sin. If not now, then later you too will groan under your mortal body. You too groan under the sins and evils of others In all of this, the message is clear. You must turn to Jesus Christ from deliverance from it all. And until that day, when deliverance is full, you must get your pen out and start to make a list on how you are to serve God. That is what you're made for, through Jesus Christ and His Spirit. For those of you who are not Christians, the first thing you must do by God's grace is to repent. And to seek forgiveness for your sins from Jesus Christ. Be redeemed by Him. For those of you with failing bodies, put your hope in the bodily resurrection of Jesus Christ. For those of you who see evil in our age, then serve Christ by seeking the good of our age And I will, in the spirit of Harry, tell you, please, in that seeking that good, do not forget about the unborn. Remember like Harry remembered that in all of our groaning, the Lord is there. What Christ started, he will complete. As I was working on this homily, I received an email from a congregation member who was close to Harry, and they thought that this captured Harry's spirit. And his doctrine of life. If the Lord is with us through life, we do not need to fear death For when we come to die, we will find that the Lord is there. Amen. Please pray with me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that we are able to celebrate the life of your servant. You were the one that recreated him. You were the one that gave him the new birth. You were the one who made him your servant. We thank you, Lord, that as the author of his faith, you are also the finisher. And we do pray, Lord, that you would continue to be with us as a congregation, really as congregations. Since we have several representatives here that loved Harry, and I pray especially that you would be with his family. I pray that you would show them the love and the grace of Jesus Christ. In the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. Let's stand and we'll sing our closing song together. I love to tell the story. I love me of the bigger. Of Jesus and this morning, of Jesus and his God, I love to tell the story. Because I go to satisfy all these. And nothing else can do. I love to tell the story to tell me my need. To tell the whole story of Jesus I tell us story for wonderful encyclopedia And all the golden valleys are all the golden greens. I got so much story. It is so much for me And that is also reasonable. I love to tell a story, Twilight Gory to tell your story. A Jesus thy love himself story is fair to repeat. What seems he might have wonderful mysteries? I love itself for some and never On the message of salvation from God. I want to tell a story, will be my glory to tell the story. Oh Jesus sent his love. I want to tell the story for those who know it best. Seen oversee through their reason for And when in seeds of glory are seen the new soul. Twill be the old world's story that I'm also I love to tell a story till me playing in glory to tell the old story. Amen. We invite all of you to please join us in the Narthex, just out those doors, for a dessert reception. And I'd ask that you please receive the Lord's venediction. And now may the peace and the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ