Anyone who's three and under, you're welcome to go to the nursery. And let the rest of us open to the book of Jonah. And I'm gonna call a little bit of an audible today, and then I'm going to read and preach from verses one to ten. Chapter three, one to ten. Please follow along. Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah the second time, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and preach to it the message that I tell you. So Jonah arose and went to Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. Now Nineveh was an exceedingly great city, a three-day journey in extent. And Jonah began to enter the city on the first day's walk. Then he cried out and he said, Yet forty days a Nineveh shall be overthrown. So the people of Nineveh believed God, proclaimed a fast, and put on sackcloth from the greatest to the least of them. Then word came to the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his throne, and he laid aside his robe, he covered himself with sackcloth, and sat in ashes. And he caused it to be proclaimed and published throughout Nineveh by the decree of the king and his nobles, saying, Let neither man nor beast, herd nor flock taste anything. Do not let them eat or drink water, but let man and beast be covered with sackcloth and cry mightily to God. Yes, let every one turn from his evil way and from the violence that is in his hands Who can tell if God will turn and relent and turn away from his fierce anger, so that we may not perish? Then God saw their works That they turned from their evil way, and God relented from the disaster that he had said he would bring upon them, and he did not do it. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I pray that you would, through your preached word, reveal to your congregation how they fit within this story Lord, most of all I ask that you would act in great power to move within this congregation here in repentance. And that you would lead us into calling for the repentance of the communities around us. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. If you're a psychology major, or you actually if you entered into neuroscience, you're likely to have to study perception. as a way to try to understand human and animal perception really They have an old uh psychological experiment that they perform in order for you to see some of the mystery and the limitations within human perception. If you took a Sunday school class with me a a couple quarters ago, then you'll have heard this before, but and and I'm going to ruin this experiment for the rest of you. But there is an experiment, if you're a psych major, then you would see you'd probably end up seeing this where a professor would, the way that the experiment is conducted is first for them to film something What they would film is let's say that I called 12 of you up here to the front and I handed you a basketball and I told you to get into a circle. You would pass the basketball around and right in the kind of the middle of it, from out of the corner of the the camera, a per we let's just say uh we get Ryan Lynham to dress up in a gorilla suit And he would walk into the center of the circle, stare at the camera, beat on his chest, and then he would walk out of the circle That all would be filmed. You would then take this film and you would show it to students or an audience And you would ask the audience to please make sure you pay attention to how many times the basketball is passed from one person to the next. You would conduct the experiment. They would count. They would say something like, it was 10 times that the basketball was passed. 11 times. It was 12 times that the basketball was passed. And then the experimenter would ask, did you notice that Ryan Lynham in a gorilla suit walked into the circle, pounded on his chest, and then left? And most of them would say, no. This is an experiment in perception, is that when we are focused on something, we tend to make blurry or not pay attention to other things. Now, the reason why I bring this up to you is because when we're looking at Jonah, I am seeking to lay before you by God's grace things that God wants you as a congregation to pay attention to. It's quite possible that you don't see the right things. I mean if you could miss the gorilla, then maybe you could miss what God is saying to you. Well so far, and especially if you're just joining us for the first time, so far, the first thing that God wants us to pay attention to is that there is a problem with us. And that problem is, is that we have a disinclination away from God. That we are born to where if he calls us to him and his purposes, we say no and we run away. You can see this, for example, in the garden when walking in the cool of the day with the Lord, what do Adam and Eve do? They hide. That's just like us. The second thing that God wants us to pay attention to, the kind of gorilla in the room, if you will, is that even if you say no to God and his commission, you cannot stop God and his plans. And we have been focused on his plans of giving mercy to the nations. And so we have said we must pay attention that we cannot stop God in his mercy. This is what will happen. If you say no to him, he will either goad you and prick you until you relent. That's called discipline. Moving you into his commission, or if you continue to rebel, he will just replace you, and you will not have the commission any longer. We see both things happening within the scriptures. And then last week, the third thing that God wants us to pay attention to from the book of Jonah is that it is God alone who can deliver humanity from their deepest problems. The symbolic representation of that in Jonah is the bottom of the sea, the moorings of the mountains, seaweed wrapped around our head, and he called it the pit. You cannot escape God's Judgment. You cannot escape what is causing God's judgment inside of you from any fixes of your own. Humanism is a failure here. This is where Jocko Willis is not strong enough Instead, it is only God who delivers, and that is what Jonah has to discover. Now there is another thing that God wants us to pay attention to. which I'll announce in just a moment, but I want us to look at Jonah itself so that we can gather some information to see what's the next lesson within this book. As I had just gone through, I read chapter three to you, but I want to back up just a little bit into the poem when Jonah is at his best, writing this psalm, it's really a Thanksgiving psalm. from chapter two, just to remind you of a a little bit of the details so that we can then launch in and understand chapter three a bit better. Please remember, number one, that the pit that we saw, the moorings of the mountains, the Drowning and going to the bottom of the sea is a living parable. It's a living parable. It is both historical and it has significance beyond itself, in the same way that the triumphal entry is not just Jesus on a donkey And that it's not just the fact of the history of it. Jesus is trying to communicate to you who he is in the history of redemption. So too, the drowning stands for more than a drowning. It is a living parable of our rebellion, not just Jonah's rebellion, our rebellion and what it gets us and the only way out. It is a living parable of our rebellion against God and being under his impending judgment. It is a dead man walking, the death sentence, the sword hanging over our heads And you remember we saw that especially with the foreshadowing, the mirroring technique. The storm was showing forth God's wrath, and the only way out of it is to call upon God, like we see within the sailors. And then we see it here in this living parable with him drowning. Second thing I want you to make sure you don't forget is that Jonah in that poem And in repentance, that's very important for you to see, that Jonah in repentance called out for mercy, and it is God that delivered Jonah from the judgment. Now where did God where did he cry out? for mercy from God's wrath. Well you see it in chapter 2, verse 1, just as a reminder, I cried out to the Lord because of my distress or because of my affliction. And he answered me. You see that there. He finally got to the point. This is the first time that Jonah is willing to pray to God in the book. Even before, he just talked to the sailors, and it's the sailors that prayed. And then we see it again elsewhere, but I'll just mention also in verse number eight, he says in chapter two, those who regard, thinking of the sailors again, those who regard worthless idols forsake their own mercy. Jonah in repentance calls out for mercy. Him calling out is a part of his repentance. Him not turning to idols, but turning to God is a part of his repentance. And you can see even further at his repentance in verse number 9, he says, But I will sacrifice to the Lord with the voice of thanksgiving. I will pay what I have vowed. We're no longer in a state of rebellion. We have moved and we have he has he was running away from God. God said, you're going to do this. He said no And he ran away, and now we're starting to see him turn, even if it's just a little bit, and he cries out. Now that's what we see in this poem And the reason why I'm backing up a little bit is because now we can build and we can see that the continuation of Jonah's repentance begins in chapter 3. This is him working out his repentance in deeds done in the name of the Lord. Jonah was delivered from the pit, in other words, not to continue in rebellion But in repentance to take up the commission and to go. I pointed out how he said he was going to pay his vows, but now he's vomited up onto the dry land. And I just want you to notice what happens in chapter 3. Take a look with me in verse number one. In verse number verses number one through three, tell me if this sounds familiar to you. Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah. Have you heard that before? Yeah. And now it just mentions it again. Here it is a second time. Here it is. It's as if the story is starting all over again Except what we see if we keep reading is that Jonah is not, when Jonah tells him to go up, or when God tells Jonah to go up, Jonah's not going to go down. And said, you can see, arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and preach to it the message that I tell you. And so Jonah arose. Then he went to Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. And there it is. There's the switch. We see that something happened at the bottom of the sea, that God had to kill something in Jonah in order for something to be alive in Jonah that lives to God. It is addition by subtraction. God took something away out of Jonah that Jonah would be able to live. He took him from death and he took him into life. And now that life is starting to work itself out. We're going to have a little bit of a surprise by the time we hit chapter four. But that that uh life is starting to work itself out and that Jonah did not just get rescued from the pit and then vomited on the dry land and then order a rum drink. Instead, he was vomited on the dry land and he knew that he was not only saved from something, but he was saved to something, so he got right to work with the original commission that was given to him. And boy is that a picture of what we're supposed to do as God's congregation. As Brad has already mentioned to you, you're not just saved from something, you're saved to it. Now we continue to see the exact same thing happening in the rest of chapter three. I don't need to get into all the details of the story again, but do you see that the same experience that the sailors sort of had, and the same experience that Jonah is having, is now going to happen to the Ninevehes themselves. Even the king, if you take a look here, this is very important. Jonah preaches and he says, yet forty days and Nineveh shall be overthrown. The Ninevites seem to know way more than just that information. They know about repentance and all that other stuff, so I wonder if this is just a very brief summary of his sermon. And then when we get to verse number five and speaking, just looking at this same repentance process in verse number five, just take a note of how the people go through the same thing. So the people of Nineveh Believed God. I'll just stop there and say, do you know the difference between believing in God and believing God? I mean they're not just saying, well, we believe God exists. They're saying what he says, we believe it. And you can see that they believe it. Because now they proclaim a fast, continuing in this verse, and they put on sackcloth, from the greatest of them to the least of them. They believed God, verse 5. differently than believing in God, and now they're going to start symbolically representing their repentance with sackcloth and ashes from the greatest of them to the least of them. That means Every single strata within their society, you'll if you read carefully, from animal to child, all the way to all of the different areas of society. society and the relationships from the greatest of them to the least of them, they're now going to move into repentance. And this is going to be inspired especially by the king. We actually have a royal edict or declaration recorded for us here in the scriptures and mine is set off as a s as a kind of royal document. I wonder if it's set off in uh a paragraph in yours. You see how mine is set off. There is yours like that. It's showing you that this is a royal decoration that continues to be preserved throughout history. So then God comes to the king of Nineveh and he and the king of Nineveh check out the symbolism here. He arises from his throne. Because who's on the throne? Not him. And if you think that's that's uh me making stuff up, he laid aside his robe. Because who's really in charge and who has authority in this situation? Who's bowing the knee to who? Think of Psalm 2. This king realizes that he is under the authority of the God who has created the waters and the dry land, as the sailors discovered. And he doesn't have any business being on the throne. He doesn't have any business wearing royal purple or whatever color it was. What he needs to do is he needs to step down and he needs to bow the knee to God, and all of his city needs to do the same. And that's what he ends up uh saying to them. He he takes off his robe, he covers himself in sackcloth and in ashes, and he caused it to be proclaimed and published throughout Nineveh by decree of the king saying the things that we had already read. What you end up seeing here is uh and I'll I'll read uh especially verse number eight here What we end up seeing is that not only do they recognize that they have God's judgment uh uh over them But and they cry out for his mercy, but they're also now going to turn in repentance and actually take up a commission from God Himself. Take a look at this royal edict. Let neither man nor beast, herd nor flock, taste anything. Do not let them eat or drink water. Verse number eight But let man and beast be covered with sackcloth and cry mightily to God. Yes, and here it is, turning towards the commission. This is what God called them to. Let everyone turn or repent. from his evil way and from the violence that is in his hands. Now what would that look like, not stated in the negative, but how would they how would the king be able to look out at his city and say, yeah, they're doing that? There must be a positive contribution from this time forward, at least for a little while. You can read more about Assyria and the minor prophets But at least for a little while you are going to see a positive contribution and healthy relationships within this society as opposed to what is whatever is going on among them. They're actually picking up a commission. And that's my whole argument to you, is just for you to be able to see that there's a pattern. That when there is a crying out, God saves, he delivers us from the pit. He delivers us from something to something, and that is his commission. We see that especially within Jonah as he ends up fulfilling the commission in chapter three, and then we see it within the Nineveh themselves. when they receive the they receive the commission and start moving forward no longer in violence. So you could guess what the teaching and the lesson is today. That God rescues us from the pit in order to serve Him in our callings. Now in Philippians we heard this under the walk worthy of your calling and be a colony of heaven. It is also summarized, especially in Ephesians chapter 2. I would love it if you spent part of today in your rest reading Ephesians. If you can't make it through that whole letter. Then, which is like four pages long. Let me know what I think of that. Let you know what I think of that. But at least read chapter 2. And I'm going to read to you chapter 2, verses 7 through 10 right now, so that you can hear. The same message from the Apostle Paul that we're learning from Jonah, the prophet Jonah. He says this In Ephesians 2, 7 through 10, that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. Well, how's that going to happen? For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is a gift of God. And I could add if I wanted, as a non-inspired speaker, just like you saw, God give grace to Jonah. It was a gift to come up from the bottom of the sea. And I'll continue, not of works, lest anyone should boast, even Jonah. And then verse number 10, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. It's the same lesson. And we could point to a bunch of other scriptures where it's the same lesson, where God takes you to the pit for there to be a transformation. In his mercy and his grace, he brings you to the surface in one way or another. He vomits you in on the dry land, and then you pick up the commission and you go. You go in your personal life, you go in your family life, you go in your congregational life, you go in your civic life. Now your life is just full of great works. Done in the name of Jesus Christ and by his power, because you are indwelt by the Holy Spirit. There it is, right there. So I hope you can see that that lesson that we have in front of us from Jonah is all over the scriptures. I hope that you can say, yeah, that's definitely true. What I want to do, instead of spending all of my time trying to establish that this is true, I think we all should see that, I want us to Ask the question, okay, if that is the path that we're supposed to take, we've all as Christians, this Christian congregation here, have been brought up from the pit And I want us to think about, as we seek to move out on a commission in these different areas of our life, I want us to especially think about the most prominent theme in the chapter, which is repentance. Have you had the opportunity to think much about repentance? I think it's true as Christians that repentance is supposed to happen every day. There is another sense in which repentance happens once unto life. There's a translation from darkness and death into life. That's a kind of repentance. It's called repentance unto life. And then when you're on the path, you're supposed to be in a continual repentance as a congregation. In fact, I could go ahead and categorize it this way. Let me just back up for a moment In Ephesians chapter 2, verse 10, which captures the lesson from Jonah, it says this, For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus to do good works. I just want to say to you, repentance. is a good work given to us by the grace of God. And it's something that should not just happen once, although that is a special kind of repentance, entering into the kingdom of God. It should continue happening through our lives. Now, how is it that I can say that? Let me give you a couple of examples from the scriptures where you can see that it is God's expectation that his congregations would keep moving in repentance. Number one, Revelation chapter two, verse five. The church at Ephesus Remember, therefore, from where you have fallen, repent and do the first works, or else I will come to you quickly and remove your lampstand from its place, unless you repent. This is Jesus Christ in the book of Revelation walking among his churches. And these are the things that he has to say to them. Unless you repent, I will remove your lampstand. Remember how I talked to you earlier in the sermon series about he will replace you. Here it is. He's not playing around. Example number two, Revelation, I gave you Revelation chapter 2, verse 5. Now Revelation 2, 16, to the church in Pergamos. Repent, or else I will come to you quickly and I will fight against them with the sword of my mouth. Example number three, Revelation chapter 2, 21 through 22, to the church in Thyatira or Tyra. And I gave her time to repent of her sexual immorality, and she did not repent. Indeed, I will cast her into a sickbed, and those who commit adultery with her into great tribulation, unless they repent of their deeds. And then I could keep reading to you from Revelation chapter 3, verse 3, which is another church. And I could read from you Revelation chapter 3, verse 19, which would be yet another church. But you can just go ahead and read Revelation chapter 2 and 3. What we end up seeing here with Christ walking among his churches is that he's pointing out something. In terms of us understanding repentance. And I'll tell you why I want to talk about this in a minute. In terms of understanding repentance, as he walks among his churches, there is something that happens in you as a Christian. And not just as someone who's not a follower of Jesus Christ. And that's something is that you are continually, because of the The influences of the old man still upon you, the world, the flesh, and the devil. You drift. You drift. Now I just had someone give me a the an image of drifting that I thought is super helpful and I thought, well I'll just share that with the congregation. The image that they gave me of thrifting is they they would they were telling me that when they uh were driving their car, they have a tendency, especially if in their a scenic area, and I wonder if this is you, where they're always like looking and oh I think I will I see a bear today or will I see a deer or look at the beautiful mountains or if the mountains are over here, look at the look at When you're heading up to um towards Deep Creek and um there's this area that you hit once you go through this place where they've drilled through all of the stone where there's this beautiful vantage point which scares some people But you look out and you can see out over the whole valley and you're tempted as a driver to look over there and when you do you drift. You go like this and you have to you have to keep catching yourself because you're going over the yellow line or the white line and eventually uh you end up hitting a rumble strip, right? How many times in a scenic area do you hit a rumble strip? That tells you uh how many times you've drifted outside of those lines. And this is a good image of what it looks like to live as a Christian and and the reason why we have to repent is because we keep Drifting. And I think Jesus Christ's point through many of the letters, through his apostles, is if each day you could go ahead and wake up and have the humility and have the brotherhood and the sisterhood around you to keep checking it. If you could be my rumble strip, then we could go ahead and correct the path and not too much damage has been done. But let me just tell you this. And I think some of you already know this. When I was a senior in high school, I was really looking forward to playing senior lacrosse with my best friend, but he didn't even make it to the end of the year. Because on the way home from a soccer game, he drifted across the median strip, hit someone head on, and died And he had other people in the car and they died. And that is an image that sobers us to see what happens If you don't have the check and get back in, if you don't have that rumble strip, if you're allowed to just keep going over and drift and drift and drift Imagine all of the damage that can be done and how much that affects ourselves and the people that are around us. And that is a really common sense way for us to be able to understand why Jesus Christ lays in front of you by way of Jonah, Paul, and John, here this morning, it is so important that you are paying attention as a congregation to repentance. Repentance within ourselves, but I also want you to notice that Christ also called other people to repentance. And called other people to call other people to repentance. And this might um, I don't think it will really surprise you, but oftentimes we don't pay attention to this. This is kind of another gorilla in the room. That it is even necessary to call the church to repentance. To call certain congregations to repentance. I was thinking about this. I had a lot of questions or some questions after the sermon last Sunday, and the pr and the primary question was this. Uh we're what are we we're convicted. What do you want what should we do? What should we do in Anna Ronaldo County? And you know what occurred to me this morning? That I see where we need to have a call to repentance is other congregations. I just talked about us as a congregation. That's where I want to start. We as a congregation have some repentance to do. But what if other congregations have repentance to do also? You know, I look out at some other, for example, mainline denominations. like the Presbyterian Church in America, or certain branches of Methodism, or certain branches of Episcopalianism And I see that they are flying an LBT LGBTQ plus flag outside of their churches. And then I also see on video that they are They are saying for that c community for them to go ahead and come into the church, which sounds like a a call for them to join Christ's congregation, but then there's never a message of repentance. You ever hear people in the church say it's very important that we let people come as they are? You ever heard that message? Well in a sense that's true. Like if you show up here today and you're wearing flip flops and you've come as you are, that's one thing. But does that mean Stay as you are. I don't have anything against flip-flops. I'm just trying to give a simple example. There's no call to repentance. And what occurred to me is that part of our work in Anna Ronaldo County might be is that we have to set up some meetings First with ourselves, but then we might need to talk to other churches who have no call of repentance in order to let them know something that Jesus said within the Gospels. Jesus said this to the Pharisees and the Scribes. He said, The men of Nineveh Will rise up in the judgment with this generation and condemn it because they repented at the preaching of Nona, and indeed a greater than Jonah is here, but you are not repenting. And then the churches around us that we would have to talk to They would say, Well, from what do we need to repent? And I could say to them, or you could say to them, in the meeting, we could turn to Matthew 23, verse 15, where Jesus says, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For you travel land and sea to win one proselyte, and when he is one, you make him twice as much a son of hell as yourself. In other words, I would have to say to them: when you bring people into the church and there is no call to repentance, all you are doing is you are gathering a congregation that is being instructed on how to remain in hell and under judgment. There is no mercy in this place, even though your flag, you want to pretend your flag is nothing but inclusivity and mercy. It's a lie, and you're lying to people. You don't actually love them. That could be one thing that we might have to do in Anoronal County. And that's going to be a difficult conversation. I wonder, will I be stoned? Will I be let down the wall in a bucket? Will I Will I hear them say, We believe God We are now going to proclaim a fast, put on sackcloth, from the greatest of us to the least of us. We'll never know the answer to that question if there's not a call for repentance to begin with. Repentance that they might have mercy. That's one thing I was thinking in terms of how we're supposed to be Here in Andoronto County, please don't miss my first point, which is that we have to start with repentance ourselves. We then might need to start talking to other congregations rather than just letting them just pass the rumble strip and head off into the landscape. Rather than letting them cross the medium strip and die and kill so many others like my friend in high school. We must constantly call ourselves and other congregations around us to repentance. And now we finally, if we Who go through these layers of the onion, so to speak, we finally get to those who don't claim to be followers of Christ at all. And there's still work for us to do there. And this really starts to bind everything together. Because you are raised from the pit to enter into the commission of God. And part of that commission is not just to yourself. It's not just to your family. It's not just to this congregation and other congregations. It is also a civic responsibility to the communities that are around you that do not know Jesus Christ in his kingdom. And one of the things that we may have forgotten as a congregation is that part of the message is repentance. Repentance? For mercy by way of the work of Jesus Christ and His Spirit In Acts chapter 2, verse 38, we begin to see different paradigms by which we would want to operate in the world and not just in congregations or in ourselves. Peter speaking to the nation of Israel says, repent and let every one of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins. And you shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. In Acts chapter 17, verses 30 through 31, in terms of conviction of what I'm trying to say to you, that it goes beyond the Jew It is not the Jew alone called to repentance. It is everyone. Acts 17, 30 through 31. Truly these times of ignorance God overlooked. but now commends all men, humans, everywhere to repent, because he has appointed a day on which he will judge the whole world. in righteousness by the man whom he has ordained. He has given assurance of this to all by raising him from the dead. There is the gospel. The gospel involves repentance. Our commission revolves the preaching and the talking to and the counseling of repentance Not just for ourselves, the congregation, or other congregations, but the communities that are around us. So let me just let me just I'm not even going to ask the question. I'm just going to go ahead and put it And then you can argue with me later if you want to. As a congregation, we are called to organize ourselves in order to tell Anorono County specifically Millersville and other surrounding areas, we are called to organize ourselves in order to tell Andoron County about repentance and mercy in Jesus Christ. First proposition. Second proposition, we have drifted from that responsibility. Third proposition, this sermon is a rumble strip. Fourth proposition will we repent? Will we repent? That's not a given. Most of the cities to whom Jesus spoke, claiming to be his people, when he preached to them, they did not repent If you read the minor prophets besides Jonah, you will see one thing that is going on, and that's part of what's going on with Jonah, is that Israel has refused to repent, which is why he's going to send the Assyrian Empire. Part of the message of Jonah is that is to shame Israel for them to see even the Nineveh have repented, and you're still not repenting as my people? So we've got to take this super seriously, the rumble strip. And we can begin to ask now, uh if you have any conviction of this or if you want to keep thinking it through in order to have a solid conviction that we do need to repent in terms of organizing ourselves in order to tell Anne Ronald County about repentance and mercy in Jesus Christ. We can begin now to ask the question, what do we need, what what does what do we need to change, or what do we need to turn from? In order to be able to move towards that commission, God says to Severn run, Arise, go. I have been given authority in heaven and earth. Make them my disciples, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, and lo to the end of the age I will be with you. This is what Christ says to you. What is it that needs to change in order for you to make the check and get back into the lane? I don't need you to tell me grand ideas. I need you to tell me what are the little measurable doable things that you could do to start moving in that direction. I have a piece of news for you It is not my calling to go evangelize for you. If you read Ephesians four And you look at my calling and you look at the calling of the deacons and you look at the callings of the elders, it is our job to equip you as you do your good works of service. One of your good works of service is to organize and have a movement forward in the communities around you calling for repentance and sharing the mercy of Jesus Christ with these people. And it would be my job then to equip and to mobilize you to be able to do so. So I'm asking you, what would you like to do? What are the things that you would like to change in order to be able to do it? And that will require all kinds of just little things like what are the priorities that you're choosing in order for you to have time for this and not for that? Priorities are really important. Do you know the pull on myself and my family for my children? to have been from the moment they were born constantly involved in recreational sports. And then if you have four children all involved in recreational sports, all in different leagues and the games are at different places Forget being able to do any other commission except stocker. So very early on, under conviction, we had decided Three of you won't do anything, one of you will do one thing, but only one season. And it's only as our children have gotten cars and can drive themselves to where we can start to expand that But we made those kinds of decisions because we wanted to have time for people in our homes. We had to choose our priorities. And that has meant a great deal of sacrifice for our children. Our children have missed football championships Our children are delayed in their athletic abilities where the other children are not. But we think that it was worth it. And I hope that they do too. It could be your calendar, it could be certain distractions that are in your life, it could be complacency There are a ton of different things. I'd like you to focus in on something really specific and changeable and not just like a grand vision for how you could change. What are like some little tiny things that you could do that would actually make a difference? Go back to the drifting analogy. You've drifted to where you don't really have much time. or enthusiasm for us to be speaking of repentance and faith to this community. This sermon is a rumble strip. So what is it that you could just tap back over so that we're in the path? If each one of you did that individually, do you have any idea what kind of change we would have here? I had one couple come to me and they said that the change that we first are going to make is that we are going to gather for prayer. I think that's a great start. I received an email saying, could we gather as a congregation in prayer? Could we do that? Could we do that? Crying out to God, asking him, what do we need to repent of, and what must we do? Arise and go. From what now here's the second thing. The first is what do we need to change? That is our repentance first. Judgment starts with the household of God. Second And this would be a really excellent conversation. From what specifically do the people and communities around us need to repent? You can't just tell them to repent in general. What are they doing that invites the wrath of God? And it's not going to happen exactly like us walking into the city and seeing an entire city. It will be individuals that we meet and families that are transformed. But from what specifically do these people and the communities around us need to repent? The main point that we have here is I give you just these practical ways of unfolding what's in front of us. is please do not forget that God has rescued you from a pit. And I think he does the whole thing, the whole transformation process on purpose like that. So that when you feel the gratitude that you do, that God has brought you up from that pit, that you would want other people to discover the same grace and the same mercy. And now we're loving our neighbor. God rescues us from the pit to serve him in our callings. And you, Sar and Run, are called to call others to repentance and mercy. Let us pray.