Jude a bond servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, to those who are called sanctified by God the Father, and preserved in Jesus Christ, mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you Beloved, while I was very diligent to write to you concerning our common salvation, I found it necessary to write to you exhorting you to contend earnestly for the faith which was once for all delivered to the saints. For certain men have crept in unnoticed, who long ago were marked out for this condemnation, ungodly men, who turn the grace of our God into lewdness, and deny the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. But I want to remind you, though you once knew this, that the Lord, having saved the people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those who did not believe. And the angels who did not keep their proper domain but left their own abode, he has reserved in everlasting chains under darkness for the judgment of the great day. As Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them, in a similar manner to these, having given themselves over to sexual immorality and gone after strange flesh are set forth as an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. Likewise also, these dreamers defile the flesh, reject authority, and speak evil of dignitaries Yet Michael the Archangel, in contending with the devil, when he disputed about the body of Moses, dared not bring against him a reviling accusation, but said, The Lord rebuke you. But these speak evil of whatever they do not know. And whatever they know naturally, like brute beasts, in these things they corrupt themselves Woe to them. For they have gone in the way of Cain, have run greedily in the error of Balaam for profit, and perished in the rebellion of Korah. These are spots in your love feasts, while they feast with you without fear, serving only themselves. They are clouds without water, carried about by the winds Late autumn trees without fruit, twice dead, pulled up by the roots, raging waves of the sea, foaming up their own shame, wandering stars from whom is reserved the blackness of darkness. Forever. Let us pray. Father, we again petition you that you would give us wisdom. We pray that you would give us the wisdom of moral discernment. That we would be like your bride in Proverbs 31. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Well I want you to notice again in verse one the same thing that we noticed last week. Jude is writing to those. Jude is writing to those preserved in Jesus Christ. One main question we have been answering and hearing from Jude is this: How are the saints preserved? If you are realistic with yourself and those under your care, then that is a good question. How will Christ preserve you from error? How will Christ preserve you from abandoning the faith? How will Christ preserve you from greed? How will Christ preserve you from ambition? How will Christ preserve you from anger and envy? Those are all situations that have arisen in the course of the sermon series on Jude. Doubtless Christ as King will use many ways to look after us to preserve us. Many ways are at his disposal Yet here in Jude, we have learned that one means of preservation is by gaining moral wisdom and discretion. Jude, in other words, taps into the thick wisdom tradition which the Son of God delivered to the church of an earlier age. Consider, for example, these direct connections between moral wisdom and preservation in faith and life. And I've read some of these to you. Proverbs chapter 4, verses 5 and 6. Get wisdom. Get understanding. Do not forget nor turn away from the words of my mouth. Do not forsake her, and she will preserve you. Love her, and she will keep you. Or in Proverbs 14, verse 3, in the mouth of a fool is a rod of pride, but the lips of the wise will preserve them. You see that Within this tradition, this thick wisdom tradition, Jude seeks to preserve us by deepening our moral discernment. He has done so through paradigms. The word is in the scriptures that I just read was examples in the NKJV. He has done so through paradigms, historical figures and places which are exemplary for the church in every age, that we might understand the reality of how God operates in the world. Jude has also, here as of late, used natural metaphors. If you remember some of these, it's been a couple weeks, but you remember talking about treacherous reefs. For example, and so the experience I had with not a reef but a sandbar in Chin Chinkati, Virginia. Did I do that right? Yeah, okay. uh shepherds which eat the sheep, right? And clouds without water. Those are all now natural metaphors that you would have come some kind of keen insight to the nature of reality and especially social reality, moral discernment into social reality Those metaphors, the examples that you were given before in the paradigms, are now all within your toolkit in order for you to be watchful and to walk circumspectly in this evil age that you might be preserved. and that even those under your care might be preserved. Well this week, Jude continues with three more metaphors. Late autumn trees without fruit, raging waves of the sea foaming up their own shame, and wandering stars reserved for the darkness forever. So let's take a look at each one of those metaphors, and then we'll draw some conclusions out of those things, or an application. Let's start with the late autumn trees. Late autumn trees without fruit, that is continuing Jude's point from last week concerning things which are meant to produce. like rain clouds, but do not. You don't want to be a late autumn tree without fruit. Jude adds to this image though and builds upon what he had already said in the waterless rain clouds And he does so by saying that they are turned up by their roots. Now, if you were to do a scriptural study of this imagery of being torn up by the roots, it's an act of judgment. And so he's developing his message from last week and essentially telling us the destiny of these group of people that are like this. And it encouraged us to adopt an imperative, which would be: don't walk down the path of the empty rain cloud or the fruitless tree. Even if it looks promising, the end is destruction. Then he moves on to the second image, which are the raging waves that foam up their shame. And he will repeat what he said in earlier weeks, but then add to the image a bit more. The raging and the foaming waves develop our picture. It builds on the idea of producing, but it's doing so from a negative perspective. The the waves do in fact produce something, but it's not good. A foam of shame is not good The waves produce a foam of shame. I'm not sure if you have any uh analogous experiences to this of uh waves producing these kinds of things that you would consider uh not palatable I experienced this in Florida a year ago when there was a heavy storm. The upheaval kicked up the sands and the shells and the seaweed, and it was not enjoyable. to try to swim through the waves and then have seaweeds slap across your face. I just hung it up for the day. With each new wave Even after the swimming, all of the debris was left on the shore, and under the sun it began to stink. And the same is true of the false teachers. That's Jude's main point. Like waterless rain clouds and fruitless trees, they never live up to their promises. They actually do the opposite. They produce shameful debris, which ends up stinking up the joint. Well that's the late autumn trees and the raging waves, and we have finally the wandering star The last image is the wandering star, and this could refer, and I think there's some fruitful discussion to have about this referring to actual rulers or celestial beings. But whether it's that or just the natural phenomenon, the point would be the same. The point is that God has set the course of the stars. And this wandering stars star has defied that course. It's just like when you were singing earlier the song, By Limits You Set. Everything has its place and everything has its order under the rule of God. And then all of a sudden, we see a wandering star. It's not a beautiful sight to Jude. It's not an astrological wonder. It's a defiance of what it is meant to do. It is a picture of the false teachers. The point is that God has set the course of the stars, and this star has defined that, defied that course. And the same may be said of the false teachers. Those who are meant to live under the order of Christ. but have wandered from their path. That is not a wonder. Now, when you take those three nature metaphors, I want to bind them all up into a single kind of doctrinal rope. And give you a fruitful observation from some study on the passage. One fruitful observation, when we combine all of these nature metaphors, is that it has a close connection with a piece of literature that Jude quoted earlier in the letter from 1 Enoch. I want you to listen to this literature that would have been around when that would have been a popular reading when Jude was originally writing. Here is how things are meant to be. This is from 1 Enoch. Observe ye everything that takes place in heaven. How they do not change their orbits, and the luminaries which are in the heaven, how they all rise and set in order, each in its season And transgress not against their appointed order. Speaking of the heavenly bodies and how everything has a kind of rhythm, just as it always has done from the the day of creation, the six days of creation. But then listen to what happens during the age of sinners as a kind of apocalyptic image in 1 Enoch. And in the days of the sinners, all things on the earth shall alter. And shall not appear in their time. And the rain shall be kept back, and the heaven shall withhold it. And in those times the fruits of the earth shall be backward And shall not grow in their time, and the fruits of the trees shall be withheld in their time. All of the originally established and appointed times and orders of God's creation are being modified and defied. So whether it's Jude or it's Enoch, the same point is being made. That there are regular rhythms and patterns to the natural world. And what Jude is doing in tapping into that thick wisdom tradition, he's really relying upon the model of the creation account. as well as many other places within the canon to try to get to you the reality so that you might understand the wisdom you would need for moral discernment. There is a regular rhythm and pattern under the order of God. When we look around and seasons come and they go, they do so at the same time and in about the same way. You folks have lately been calling this time in Maryland false fall, because it offers you this promise of a fall coming in and then it heats up to 90 by 2 p. m. And the sweatshirt you chose at 6 a. m. is just not working for you anymore. But that is how it always is in Maryland. Because there's a kind of regularity to the seasons. We look around and the trees we grew up with keep acting like those same trees. There is a remarkable regularity to God's creation. That's what He wants us to see. We have to understand when we look out, I think you recognize that as obvious. Now take it over into the moral sphere. Because there is supposed to be a remarkable regularity in the moral sphere also, according to the being of something. Dogs should act like dogs. and cows like cows, because God has given an appointed order for all of the various species. And humans should act like humans. And those who say that they are teachers for your health should act like teachers for your health. But this is what happens in evil times. And this is where the moral discernment is supposed to come in. In evil times, because you understand and have grown up with the regularity of God's moral order You recognize when something's wrong. That's the point. You have a moral sensibility when something is out of accord with the drumbeat of God's regular rhythm for creation. And so you end up within literature and within movies trying to portray this idea to the human race with apocalyptic imagery. Those things which go beyond God's order, a sign that something is wrong. For example, animals born with three heads. It's an apocalyptic image. Rivers running backwards. Barren orchards, droughts, disease. And these are all analogous images to help you with moral discernment He's taking the regularity of nature and trying to help you to understand how God works that you might see irregularity and be warned. So let me try to boil this down into a main doctrine. There are several sentences here. The theme of the section, of this section. Is that the works of God in nature conform to the laws which God has ordained for them Let me say that to you one more time. The theme of this section is that the works of God in nature conform to the laws which God has ordained for them. That is your everyday experience. All the way from puppies to apple trees, by contrast to the wicked who transgress God's law and go outside of his orbit. And that's rather obvious. Now, here's where Jude is going to build on that statement. Jude wants us to take one more step once we realize that about the creation. He desires for us to know the regular order of God so that we may notice when the order is off. Recognizing that something is just not right keeps us from danger. It preserves In a word, what I think we should call these things, without any superstitious overtone, is that Judah is making us aware that God in his merciful providence gives us omens Omens are an event regarded as a portent of good or of evil, and the three-headed cow would be a portent of evil. In fact, you can see documentaries when such things happen, and it usually means there's a DuPont plant nearby and they're pumping chemicals into their stream. But something's off. It's not just about um uh an an abstract notion about chemicals. That's a moral problem that's going on there with that company. Okay, so let me just state that for you one more time, because that's a lot. It's getting really underneath of everything that Jude is operating in. The theme of this section is that the works of God in nature conform to the laws which God has ordained for them, and this is in contrast to the wicked who transgress God's laws. And so they end up looking deformed instead of formed. And this ends up being rather obvious for us in the nature of creation. Yet Jude wants us to take one more step. He desires for us to know the regular order of God so that we may notice when the order is off. We must have a moral sensibility as to the way things are meant to be Recognizing that something is just not right keeps us from danger, and we are preserved by that wisdom. In other words, Jesus Christ in his grace gives us omens. That we can see an event as a portent of the evil around us. So, what I would like to do now is I want to give you some more familiar examples of this And then I want to give an exhortation by what this is our application portion. So here are some familiar examples of a kind of knowledge that operates in this way. Here is an e some examples of when we know when something is on or something is off And here are some in in, for example, eating. We all have developed the moral discernment To know whether a chicken for eating is good or bad based upon the smell and sometimes the color. Some of you have an uncanny ability to determine the ripeness of a cantaloupe or a watermelon based upon the knocking sound. I don't know how you'd do it. If you could teach me, that would be great. I do it by smell, but sometimes that's wrong. And then there's the old trick that my wife uses, and I don't know exactly what she's trying to tell with this, but she spins an egg on the counter. Is it telling me that it's still good? You do. You spun the egg that one time to and you and you said, I'll tell you if this egg is still good and you spun it. Anyway, I think you get the point, even if that was uh a fairy tale. I have this experience in harvesting game, not just in eating, but in harvesting game, knowing when something is on or off Uh oftentimes, well not oftentimes, but at least w one time after harvesting a white-tailed deer, I noticed spots on the liver. And uh also an off color of the internal organs and the aware and um and I could see that they were off because I had an awareness of a healthy anatomy based on hunting before and that deer did not enter our mouths. Same thing happened with me and fishing. You can see if a fish has a certain disease and you choose not to eat that fish. And then there is uh a kind of community safety. Besides eating and besides harvesting game, there's a kind of community safety that has been passed down. I remember My grandmother being concerned when she saw creatures that were meant for the night operating in the day Do you remember that kind of wisdom that would be passed down to us? There's a nocturnal creature and it's showing up in the day and immediately your grandmother says, Has rabies, stay away These are the these are analogous situations to what we're being called to in all areas of life. The assumption is that, you see the assumption. The assumption is that we know the order or the form by which God has created and sustained something. And so we can recognize when there is a deformity, especially one which is dangerous, and then we can take a kind of moral action that is responsible. Responsible relative to that thing. Like pick up the babies and bring them inside when you have all these nocturnal creatures in your front yard during the daytime and they're foaming at the mouth. Not a good sign. They're not cute. That's an analogy that we have to take and extend to the examples of all of the spheres of our lives. And I would like us to do so with a single exhortation And I don't mean this to be a controversial thing that I'm saying to you. But for some of you this might be a bit controversial, and I'd encourage you to just talk to me if you have trouble with what I'm getting ready to say. What I'd like to do is give you an example of an omen that we have within our culture. It would be an omen similar to noticing a nocturnal creature in the daytime, and that is the Assistant Secretary of Health being transgender. As the uh this is the statement that I found on um on the website As Assistant Secretary for Health, Dr. Rachel Levine fights every day to improve the health and the well-being of all Americans. I'm not really interested in a political conversation right now, just so you know. I'm just I'm trying to work out the moral logic that we hear within the scriptures. The interesting thing is that it ends up being an omen in my mind, and I could talk about other omens within the political sphere. We see an omen that our s society has, at least in some ways, lost its sense of what our health and our well-being are. by the mere fact of the existence of the Assistant Secretary to Health being transgender. That's an omen, folks. It's like I'll I'll tell you another omen. I don't choose a dentist that has bad teeth. This should put you on guard in order to preserve yourselves and those under your care and influence. Again, I'm not trying to make a political argument, though we are political beings. I'm trying to show you examples within our own lives. Now that Assistant Secretary of Health may make lots of really good decisions. I would even uh be okay if most of his decisions, depending on how you talk to her decisions Would be good decisions. But it is nevertheless still a kind of omen that God has given to us that something is off with our culture. That they don't really understand what health and well-being is by the very disordered nature of that person which is the assistant secretary of it. I don't want you to draw the wrong conclusion. I am very thankful for medical technology and health services of our nation. I'm not calling us to subvert anything or overturn the government or anything silly like that. I preached against that against that this morning. But what this does is it answers the prayers of many preachers that have come before us. We are finally beginning to interact with discretion in relationship to our nation instead of idolatry And that's a beautiful thing. It doesn't mean you throw the baby out with the bathwater, but it means that you interact with moral responsibility. Or put another way, Christians must not have an idolatrous relationship with the state, with science, or with our military. Any of those things. And state science and military have hardly ever been points that have been accepted from the pulpit in the past. We have always thought that those things are kind of unquestioned and we can just rely upon them. But now, due to the providence of Christ, we've moved beyond that. Not that we don't Thank God for those things as a gift, as they bring and keep His order under His lordship. But that we do not enter into an idolatrous relationship with them. And this is why. Because you've seen the omen. You can see that there is a deformity, and so you can no longer just give yourself over to them. You must have a worshipful relationship with God alone, relying on Him and His power and His knowledge. And keep everyone else in their proper place, even being thankful for them when they are in that place. And so I thank God that He gave us these omens so that we may repent and return to the Lord and King. The one who is the head of all states, the one who has all knowledge, scientia, and the true warrior, full of power. It's actually beginning to be done. His elect are returning to their first love. And it is because he is pouring out a kind of moral discernment that we see here within Jude. recognizing when something is just off. Now, I have to say that it doesn't take too much moral wisdom. to recognize that something is off at present. I mean, the assistant health secretary is just kind of like Jesus saying, you can't miss this one But in the future, maybe it will be more subtle. So let's get to moral training right now so that you can recognize things when they become more devious. I want you to think through your different vocations. I state these all the time. You have a vocation of self-government, family government, church government, and state government. Wherein do you see omens? Well, in order to be able to answer that, you have to already have a knowledge of the way things are supposed to be. And there's only one rule by which you would have such a knowledge, and that is the Word of God. So here is step one: Know how things were designed by God to operate. What their God given path is, what fruit should they bear? That's Jude's point Is that there are a group of teachers that have entered the church saying that they are good teachers, but he judges them by their fruit and the omens which they're showing forth, and they're not what they say they are. And he knows that because he knows what a good teacher looks like. It's the same kind of wisdom he's calling us to. And that would go into step two. Are they fruitless? Are they producing stench? Are they wandering stars? Going back to step one, if you you only know a wandering star if you know the orbit of the star. Again, that takes us back to God's Word. And then step three. If you do see an omen, walk with discretion. Walk circumspectly. Walk as a child of the light and not of the darkness. And of course, this reminds us of Ephesians chapter 5, verse 8 through 11, which is written, For you and me this evening. For you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord Walk as children of light, for the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness, righteousness, and truth, finding out what is acceptable to the Lord. And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather expose them. Let us pray