The bulletin there. Mark chapter six. We'll be looking at verses seven through thirteen. And I encourage you to keep Your copy of God's Word open as we'll be referring back to it periodically throughout the sermon. Mark chapter 6. Starting in verse 7, reading through verse 13. God's holy word for God's holy people And he called the twelve to himself, and began to send them out two by two, and gave them power over unclean spirits. He commanded them to take nothing for the journey except a staff, no bag, no bread, no copper in their money belts, but to wear sandals and not to put on two tunics. Also he said to them, In whatever place you enter a house, stay there till you depart from that place. And whoever will not receive you, nor hear you, when you depart from there, shake off the dust under your feet as a testimony against them. Assuredly I say to you, it will be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city. So they went out and preached that people should repent. And they cast out many demons and anointed with oil many who were sick and healed them. Let us pray Gracious Lord, thank you. Thank you, thank you. Your word is wholly sufficient for all that we need. You have preserved it for us. You have delivered it unto us. And you have given us your spirit, the helper, who would lead us into the truth. We beg you, lead us into the truth tonight. That your word would encourage us as we seek to live lives that are pleasing to you. Father, I pray that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength. my Redeemer. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. Now it's always uh a challenge To preach and to find illustrations that don't come from television shows. It's just the age we live in. When I started uh preparations for this sermon and I called it On a Mission from God, some of you may have recognized that's a quote from a movie, really old movie, from the Blues Brothers. We're on a mission from God. And then I thought, no, that's not really a great movie. Probably shouldn't use that as an illustration. But it does help us see that some people might think they're on a mission from God, and in reality they're just on a mission serving themselves. And then I started thinking about servants. And unfortunately another TV show came to mind because, hey, that's the age we live in. And I've learned a lot about what it is to be a servant from watching a show called Downton Abbey. I don't know if any of you have everything And I won't get into the details of that show because it's kind of gone off the deep end of late in its movies. It's a little weird, but I just want to remind you if you've seen that show of that that point. When the servants and the family are really seen as one entity. And for me it was when Mrs. Patmore the the cook, do you remember when she was having a hard time doing her job, doing what she needed to do? She couldn't imagine how she could keep on being a cook at the level that she wanted to be because she really loved that family and she wanted to serve them But she was losing her sight. She couldn't see, so she couldn't serve them the way she wanted to serve them. And if you saw the show, you know that she doubted The love of the family. She thought they would just shove her out there into the cold, into the darkness, where there's weeping and gnashing of teeth. But instead, do you remember what the family did? They showed how much they loved her. By giving her exactly what she needed. They provided this surgery that she could have never afforded at a time when that surgery would have been very difficult for anyone to come by. And so we see from that show there's there's this love between those who serve and those who are being served. And in many ways that helps me see how we love our Father in heaven as we serve him and how he shows his love to us by giving us all the things we need so that we can go Well, Mark, if you've been with us, and even if you haven't, I'm going to help you Follow right along where we are. We've been going through the gospel of Mark. We've done the first five chapters together. We've been seeing these snapshots from Mark of the life and the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ, and it's proved to us. Mark is proving to us. That Jesus is the Messiah, he is the Son of the Living God. And He's showing us this by having Christ He's delivering to us the accounts of Christ doing what only God can do. Do you remember? Remember what Jesus has done that only God can do? He's cleansed lepers No one can do that. Only God could do that. He's forgiven sins and healed the paralyzed so that they could take up their bed and walk, proving that He indeed forgave their sins. He's cast out demons. And he's healed many of their diseases and their infirmities. This is only the power of God. Only the power of God can do this. He teaches with authority and with wisdom. In chapter 5, we saw that Jesus' power, that divine power, can reverse the effects of the fall and of the curse. He conquers depravity. We saw that when he liberated the demon-possessed man in Ghidara. He conquers suffering and misery, and we saw that in the account of that poor woman who had that 12-year flow of blood. And Jesus conquered it, and he not only cleansed her and healed her of her physical infirmity, but if you recall, he called her daughter, showing that she belongs in his household. She is his Her faith saved her. And because she is his daughter, she went away at peace with God. From the account of Jairus' daughter, we saw that Jesus' power, the divine power, can even conquer death. Last week, as we started chapter 6, we learned that we must beware the path of prejudice, because that path of prejudice can lead to unbelief and unbelief. It's deadly. It hinders our seeking Jesus. It hinders our going to Him for the great power of His Father. to work in our lives. Well, tonight, brothers and sisters, we're going to continue on, and we will see that Mark records for us, Jesus is sending out the twelve, those disciples that he had set apart back in Mark chapter three. And from this account tonight, we learn that the Lord Jesus Christ calls his disciples to participate in his heavenly mission. Brothers and sisters, the Lord Jesus Christ calls you to participate in his heavenly mission. And we're going to examine this passage in two ways tonight. We're going to look first at the mission of ministry. We'll see that in verses 7 through 11. And then we'll examine the mission of the message, which we see in the last two verses, verses 12 to 13. So let's look now at this first section. That shows us the mission of ministry, verses 7 through 11. And the first thing that we need to understand: what is ministry? You may recall from several weeks ago when Pastor Jesse was in uh wrapping up 2 Timothy, he's talking about ministry, it's that word diaconia from which we get the word deacons or the diaconate, and it literally means service. And when we if you were to do a word study of Diachania, in most cases, almost all of them, you'll see that it is service to God's people. And so ministry is serving God's people. Jesus is the servant of servants. You remember when he washed his disciples' feet? And he told them, This is the example for you. I'm your master and your teacher, and yet I am serving you. This is what we, as his servants, are to do. And pretty soon in the morning services we're going to get to Philippians chapter 2. Which is that glorious passage in which we see the humility of Christ on full display. And if you know that passage, do you remember what he does there? He sets aside his uninterrupted divine glory and takes on the form of what? A bondservant. Well, those that Jesus calls Himself are called to that same ministry, that same service and serving. It is to God's people. So let's look. At verse 7 he says, And he called the twelve to himself, and he began to send them out. This is something different than we've seen so far in Mark, isn't it? Jesus began to send out his servants to perform his ministry This is the beginning of the apostolic ministry. Did you guys know that the word apostle literally means sent ones Those who are sent or those whom Christ is sending out for his ministry, they are the apostles. And as I was examining this passage, I can't help but see that this is the answer. To the problem of prejudice that we saw last week. The people that rejected Christ, do you remember? They rejected him because they thought they knew him. And so I couldn't help but imagine Jesus saying, These people rejected the power of my Father because they thought they knew me. They thought they understood who I am, where I come from. Well, wait until they see what I can do through those who love me and are called according to my purposes. Wait until they see what can be accomplished in my name when I'm not even there. And so Jesus sends out his servants to carry on the ministry. Of his Father in heaven, here on earth in his name. And we see this in the rest of verse 7, and through verse 9, we see that Jesus truly is the one who's wiser than Solomon. He knows exactly what his servants need in order to serve him. And we can learn this by looking at those practical considerations that Jesus has here We see some practical considerations for ministry. So let's look at the rest of verse 7 through 9. He says, And Jesus began to send them out two by two. And he gave them power over unclean spirits. He commanded them to take nothing for the journey except a staff, no bag, no bread, no copper in their money belts, but to wear sandals and not to put on two tunics. So let's look at the first practical consideration, which is that Jesus sends them two by two. This might have brought to your mind that passage from Coholas, the great preacher. Solomon from Ecclesiastes chapter 4, where he says, Two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their labor, for if they fall, one will lift up his companion. But woe to him who is alone when he falls, for he has no one to help him up. We can't serve God, and we can't serve God's people alone. No one can Not even the apostles. We need help, we need partners. And we were reminded of that this morning through Paul's opening words to the Philippians, those who were the fellow workers with him in the gospel. So that's the first practical consideration that we see from what Jesus does as he sends out the twelve. We see another one, and that it is Christ's ministry, and to accomplish it, his servants need his power. To serve and to accomplish the ministry of Christ, you need Christ's power. And so he gives it to them. What ask yourself: what could a Galilean fisherman do if he came across an unclean spirit? Take a net, throw it on him. Right? That's that's fisherman power. Or imagine a tax collector, what's the tax collector's power? What's he gonna do? Come across a guy with an unclean spirit, give me your money. It's not going to work. We minister, we serve God's people in Jesus' name for his purposes, and for that we require his power So we must go to Him and beg Him to fill us with His Spirit, that we can do that. That's the second practical consideration. And then we see the third practical consideration, and that's that the ministers of Christ, those serving God's people in Christ's name must be absolutely dependent upon the Almighty God. And this is seen most clearly in verses 8 to 9. Take a look at that with me. Do you see what he says? He commands them to take nothing. Nothing No supplies, no provisions, no money, not even an American Express. Not even an extra shirt. They needed to depend on God Almighty to provide and to supply all that they needed. It's the only way it would work. Notice also that Jesus doesn't say, I'll send ravens to bring you food, just like I did for Elijah. He doesn't say, I'll send my angels to come and minister to you like they ministered to me when I was in the wilderness. Nope. God supplies and he provides for his servants through his people. Have you noticed that? Everything the apostles will need will come from those who belong to the household of Christ, those who do the will of Jesus his Father in heaven. God shows his love to his servants by supplying his provision to them through his people. He shows his love to his people by sending to them his servants, the apostles. This is the mission that Christ has called them on. And now to succeed on this mission of ministry, the apostles They also need to have some realistic expectations. So we've seen some practical considerations from what Jesus says. And now let's look at some realistic expectations which Jesus sets in verses 10 to 11. Verse ten. Also he said to them, In whatever place you enter a house, stay there till you depart from that place. And whoever will not receive you nor hear you, when you depart from there, shake off the dust under your feet as a testimony against them. Assuredly, I say to you, it will be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city. In verse ten, we see that first expectation that there will be those who are hospitable. They serve the same king And they will recognize these men as his servants, as his ambassadors, and they will serve them by housing them, by being hospitable. Matthew's account of this in Matthew chapter 10, it gives us some more details of this apostolic mission. It tells us that this mission is specifically to the Jews. He says, to the lost sheep of Israel. And those sheep as we know, will recognize the voice of their shepherd. They will recognize their shepherd in those men, and they will respond to it And so Jesus has an expectation of his servants that they will serve him And they will be served by his people. But he has another expectation for them, and that is that they will honor those who serve Christ by serving them. Do you see that there? They are to stay there in the house of the one who first recognizes the king they serve until they leave that region. Think about it this way. The first people to respond to the apostles' ministry, they might not be the richest people in that town or village. Might have been the poorest. They may not have the greatest food, but their hospitality is given freely and generously. And so as they stay there, maybe they're there for a couple months, who knows? Who knows how long they're there And they might find another person who responds to the the voice of the shepherd, and they say, Hey, now you know come stay with us. We've got we've got six rooms. We've got plenty of space. It doesn't matter. Jesus wants his servants to honor those who recognize the shepherd in them. Imagine the message that would have been sent if they didn't do this. If they didn't stay with the ones who first recognized the voice of the king. It would have been something like, well, thanks for helping out. I'm really really grateful for you, but you know, something something better has come along, and so we're going to go be served by them. We're really grateful to you. It's just, you know, we're we're used to a more functional air conditioning. It's a valuable lesson for all of us. We should be willing, as the apostles were told to, to commit ourselves to those who wish to show the hospitality of Christ to us and not be constantly on the lookout for something better or a better option. If we say we'll show up to someone's house who's offering us a meal, we should show up to their house. Even if somebody who, man, somebody who cooks that honey garlic chicken, mmm. I know how good that honey garlic chicken is. But even if they ask us if we've already committed to someone else, we should honor that commitment. Do you see how the apostles were commanded to commit to the first Well, we see another expectation in verse 11. There will be those who do not believe, those who will not receive the servants of God. Not everyone is a sheep. Right? Not not everyone will grow into the wheat. There are tares, there are goats. Sometimes there are goatish sheep, and sometimes there are sheepish goats. And though we may be fooled, God is never fooled. On the mission of ministry, the servants of God must leave the outcome of their service to God alone. It is God who knows are his sheep. If they are not received, these apostles, Jesus tells them that they are to treat that place and the people there. Do you recognize this? They are to treat them as though they are Gentiles, as though they are unclean. This shaking off the dust under her feet. You may be familiar with this, you may not. It was a Jewish custom. That if they had to travel through Gentile lands, they would take their sandals off and they would beat out the dirt. And they would take the hem of their garment and they would shake it out. You know why? They didn't even want one speck of dust from an unclean land to follow with them into their homes. And from this, Jesus teaches the apostles, and he teaches us that when our ministry is not received, we don't need to waste another second, not one more minute, worrying about it. God will deal with them. As surely as he dealt with Sodom and Gomorrah. And I think you remember what happened there. God calls those who follow him, his disciples, even us. here and now. He calls us to serve him by participating in his mission of ministry. And we serve God by serving his people. As we serve in Christ's name and with his power, we cannot do it alone. We must depend on God to send us partners in the ministry, and we must depend on God to provide all that we need for the ministry that He's called. We must also have realistic expectations. There are some who will receive our service, and we are to honor them, and there are some who will not, and we are to pity them. Because they do not have a beautiful future in store. Well, now let's turn and look at these last two verses for this last section in which we see that participating in Christ's mission is more than physical. Fleshly service and ministry, it is also the sharing of a very particular truth. And that's why I call this the mission of the message. Look at verse 12 and 13. So they went out and preached that people should repent. And they cast out many demons and anointed with oil many who were sick, and healed them. The apostles went out in obedience to Christ, and what did they do? They preached, and what did they preach? They preach the good news, the gospel of Jesus Christ. From Matthew's account, we see that it's the very same message that Jesus preached all the way back in Mark chapter 1, verse 15. When he preached the gospel of the kingdom of God. This is what Jesus preached there. He says, the time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. The mission of the message is to declare with power and the authority of Jesus Christ the truth of what God has revealed in his word And so they did. That's what the apostles did. We see that in verse 13. That by doing this, by honoring the mission of the message. And by preaching the gospel, the great power of God was seen in these people. It is the power from Christ. It is power like Christ. They were casting out demons. They were healing the sick. Only Jesus could do that. But now his disciples could? This is amazing. This is the power and the might of Christ, present, though he is bodily absent. Do you see the significance of that? That's the foreshadowing of the church, isn't it? This is what the church is, and what the church does. It is still possible for the power of Christ to be at work, though He is not bodily present on this planet. It wasn't the apostles' power that accomplished those miracles. And it isn't the apostles' power at work today. The apostles are dead. It is Jesus' power. He is alive. And even today, he is at work through his servants, through his disciples. We have the same mission, the same message. Repent and believe. Isn't that right? We must be preaching and teaching to all those that God sends us to serve. That they must turn away from sin and from their self-centeredness, and they must turn to the Savior and to service to him Jesus calls us to participate in his mission, and we must serve God's people And deliver unto them the glorious message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so I'd like to close just with some simple applications for all of us tonight. And I do this just by asking you a question. Are you Understanding that you are called to participate in Christ's mission. Is it something you struggle with? Do you struggle to understand how you could do this? How you can be like the apostles? Do you struggle with figuring out how you can be a vessel of God's love to God's people? When you think about serving others, do you think of it as loving others? Do you think of it as showing God's love? And when you think of it in that way, do you boy, do you get worried? I mean simply, let me just say, do you get worried that you don't have what it takes? You don't have enough resources. Do you not have enough time or money? Maybe you don't have enough knowledge? Do you have do you have any fewer resources than the apostles had when they were sent on this mission? If that's your struggle, then I would suggest to you that the problem is not your lack of resources. The problem is that you are not absolutely dependent on your Father in heaven to give you everything you need to serve his purposes. And if you think you need a million dollars to serve him the way he wants, I'll tell you with a hundred percent certainty: this is how you'll know. You know how you'll know that that's what God wants you to have? He'll give it to you. If that's what you need to serve in the way that he's called you. But most of us aren't going to be given a million dollars, because that's not what we need in order to serve God and to show his love to his people And so there may be other things that you are lacking. How is it that God supplies what we are lacking? Through his people. The apostles were lacking in a place to stay and in food and in maybe some extra clothing. They needed somebody to wash their tunics or to To repair their sandals. How did God supply what they needed to the apostles? He gave it through his people. And do you know, brothers and sisters, he will do the exact same thing for you today? If there is something you are lacking, he will supply it through his people. And so I'd encourage you, if you think there's something you need in your ministry to your children, Do not hesitate to reach out to the church or to the more experienced Christians, that God can supply through them what you are lacking. If you don't quite know how you are to serve and to show love to your husband or to your wife. Reach out to those who are in the church. Christ has given the blessing of these kinds of marriages. Go to them. Receive what it is that you are lacking. Perhaps it is just A paradigm shift. Maybe you hadn't thought of it in the way that you need to, or something like that. And sometimes we struggle with ministry because we think it should look exactly like the ministry of the apostles. Right? We struggle because we're gonna go and we're not gonna see people having unclean spirits cast out. We are not going to be healing physical illnesses and infirmities. Most of us are not going to have a ministry that looks like that, are we? But the ministry that God calls you to Is tailored to you. It's exactly the ministry that He wants you to perform. He is going to have you show his love in exactly the way And so if you're wondering what your ministry looks like, I think a lot of the time we say, oh, I can't lead a Bible study, so I can't have a ministry, or I don't know how to I don't know, fill in the blank, something that you see the deacons or the elders do. It's not always going to look that way. But it will look a very particular way, the way that God's designed your life to be. And so, just in closing, for time and simplicity's sake, let's just think about this inside the household. And I just let's just talk about husbands and wives. Husbands, there is One simple ministry that you can't deny that God has called you to, and that is the ministry to love your wife. So how do you love your wife? How do you how do you show God's love to your wife? wife. Well I will posit from my extensive experience, I know for a fact it is not strict adherence to a rigid schedule. That is not how you show God's love to your wife. It is not strict adherence to a set of rules that you've created that she must have dinner on on on the table by a certain time or your sh shirts must be pressed in a specific way by a specific day. That's not how we show love to our wives. It's going to be different for each one of us. But he's given you a specific ministry to your wife. And so you need to get to know her to figure out how she receives love. Because it's not just your love you're showing her. It's the love of God. You're ministering to your wife to show God's love to her. And so that might not mean two and a half hours of Call of Duty or whatever the game is as soon as you get home from work. Would it? It might mean that you don't get to play Call of Duty ever again. There might be things and I don't I'm normally saying Call of Duty 'cause I don't know No. You may have to give up some things that you really enjoyed in order to show the love of God to your wife. And wives, who is God calling you to show his love to? Very particularly your husbands. What does that look like? Does that look like withholding your affections until the garage is cleaned out? Does it look like constantly saying no to the fun ideas he may want to have for you guys because you're just So stressed out about all those things. Honestly, it may mean that you've got to cut some things out of your schedule so you have the time To give the attention to your husband, to show the love that God wants you to show them, to show the love of God to them. And parents. Parents together. Really simple to figure out who it is you're supposed to show the love of God to, right? It's to your children. So how do you do that? Well, we do that by raising our children up in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. In other words, we train them To be receptive to God's rule over their life. So if you want your children to be receptive to God's rule, what's the first step you need to take? You've got to train them to be receptive to your rule. If you allow your children to run wild, what will they do when God starts calling them to Himself? And he wants them to obey the hardest things. Right? Loving someone that doesn't love you, loving someone that is your enemy is a very hard thing to do. It is so much easier to pick up your socks and put them in the laundry sorter, isn't it? And so we need to, with the proper amount of discipline, train our children. To be receptive to authority and receptive to rule, so that they'll be receptive to God's authority and to God's rule. And kids, children, how do you show love. Who are you most directly called to show the love of God to? Well, to your parents and to your siblings And so how do you do that? How do you show God's love? Let's just say to your parents, how do you show God's love to your parents? You honor them You obey them. You obey their wishes. Now sometimes your parents are going to say things to you that other parents don't say to their kids, like you're not allowed to be on social media until you're 17. Or some parents will say you're not allowed to be on social media ever. Your whole life, no social media. It may seem odd to you, but you honor and respect your parents. You show the love of God to them by recognizing that they're not just trying to make your life miserable by telling you you can't go out at 11:30 at night. on Saturday night, if you're gonna expect to be up and going to church. Right? If they tell you that bedtime is at nine thirty and you think that's just not fair, well They have their reasons. They are trying to do what God wants them to do and to set you up for success. And for your siblings, let's think about that. It's harder to show love to your siblings than to your parents, isn't it? Because your siblings sometimes they just really get on your nerves. They take they touch your stuff. Don't they? Did your do your siblings touch your stuff? They touch your Legos. They touch your toys and your models. They use your controller on the Xbox. And they don't put batteries in it. They do all kinds of things. And so how are we to show love to our siblings, kids? Mercy. Mercy. Mercy, mercy. Treat them as you want to be treated. If you happen to violate their rules of personal sovereignty by, I don't know, kicking them. Apologize. Confess that you've done wrong. Recognize that you've done wrong. Confess and seek forgiveness. Because that's how you would want to be treated. We are called to participate in the mission of Jesus Christ. That mission is ministry and message. It is showing the love of God the Father to his people, to the lost sheep. And it is sharing the message, the glorious truth of the good news of Jesus Christ. May our Almighty God bless us with all that we need to participate in that mission. Please pray with me.