I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you to walk worthy of the calling with which you were called, with all lowliness and gentleness, with long-suffering, bearing with one another in love. Endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called in, one Pope of your calling, one Lord. One faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is above all and through all, and in you all. Please pray with me. Holy Lord, make your word true to us by your Spirit who is within us, for we rely on Him. To make all things clear concerning you, what we should believe about you, and what you require of us. We pray that you would meet with us now in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Please be seated. We are most of us very aware of the difference between Jews and Gentiles from The earliest parts of the Bible, there is a distinction made between those who are of the family of Israel and those who are without. The family of Israel is a covenant family. put together by God's grace and mercy, and all those without were known as Gentiles. But in Ephesians 3, verse 8, if you have your Bible still open right over there, you can see, Paul has been called to preach Christ to the Gentiles. And in verse 10, we are told that this is the purpose of the church. Look at what it says in chapter 3, verse 10. It's to the intent that now the manifold wisdom of God might be made known by the church To the principalities and powers in the heavenly places. That God has created one church, one body, is a witness to the powers and principalities of the manifold wisdom of God. This is why Paul praises God for his infinite grace and mercy, calling even Gentiles into that one body, that one family. And you can see that in verses 14 through 19 of chapter 3. But this short passage we have tonight shows us that the Church is one family united around one faith We are one family in our walk. We see that in verses 1 through 3. There's one calling to all Christians, regardless of tongue or tribe or nation. It is a calling to believe the gospel, to turn away from sin. Verse 2: There is one principle of life for all Christians. We must walk in this principle, and that is a principle of humble, gentle, loving patience. And we see in verse 3 that there is one goal: it is the unity of spirit in the bond of peace. We are all reconciled. We are all in peace with God now through Christ. And because we have peace with Him, we must have peace with each other. But how can we do this? How can we, who are so different, be united in this way? Well, God has made us one family In our faith. And this is verses four through six. We see in verse four that we have one hope. We are united to Christ by his Holy Spirit into one body. All of us have the same hope that what God has promised He will do in Christ, He has accomplished in Christ for us. We are called to believe the truth of what God has said he will do. And the reality and fulfillment of his answering that promise in Jesus Christ. And so we see in verses 5 through 6 that we have one faith, that one God who saves us through the same covenant of grace. Has saved all of us in that same covenant. It is that one God who has made us his temple in which he dwells. And so, brothers and sisters, there is but one application for us in this. There is only one church. Only one true universal church, or as we confess it in the Apostles' Creed, one Catholic Church When we evangelize and when we spread the news, the good news that is the gospel to others, when the Holy Spirit awakens a sinner to believe the gospel. No matter where that sinner came from, or who they were, what tribe they were a part of, or what family they were in, God is calling them into one faith, into the one family. It is then that we must remember that not everyone's called at the same speed. Not everyone has the same basis or or uh foundation of privileges and blessings that that faith rests upon. Every one of us is different. And so when we are spreading the gospel, we must be loving We must be humble. We must be gentle. And above all, we must be long-suffering. We must be patient. Because God calls many to him from many different walks of life. And he does this according to his time and his will. May God help us to love each other as one family, united by one faith, the one faith that he has given us. Let us pray.