Who then is Paul, and who is Apollos? But ministers through whom you believed, as the Lord gave to each one? I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the increase. So then neither he who plants is anything, nor he who waters, but God who gives the increase. Now he who plants and he who waters are one, and each one will receive his own reward, according to his own labor. For we are God's fellow workers. You are God's field, you are God's building According to the grace of God which was given to me as a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation, and another builds on it But let each one take heed how he builds on it, for no other foundation can anyone lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Let us pray. Great and gracious God, thank you for this, your word. We pray that your Spirit would show us a truth from it that can be applied to our lives, that we would be made more. like Jesus Christ. We pray in his name. Amen. Please be seated. I hope no one will be disappointed at how short this little sermon is. Paul is very clear here. And what he is saying. But I just want to give you a little bit of that context in case you don't remember. In the Corinthian church, there were people who were taking pride. at their teacher. They were very proud of who was their teacher. Some of them were saying, oh, I'm a better Christian because Paul's the one who taught me. And others are saying, oh no, no, no, no, we are we are better Christians, for we have learned from Apollos. And so Paul writing to the Corinthian church is making sure they understand that it's neither Paul nor Apollos who matters. There is only one who matters. And I bet you can guess who that is based on this passage. It is, of course, the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at what he says very clearly. Who is Paul? Who is Apollos? And I only want to point out from this verse that they say they are ministers, which is servants, they are servants of the Master, and they are doing something. They are called to a task. And it is through them and through their service and ministry that those in the Corinthian church know to call upon the name of Jesus Christ. Paul himself says that he was the one who planted. He was the first one to come there and share the gospel. But then God sent someone else. He sent Apollos. to water and to make that seed which was planted into a into a a a sprouting, budding, crop bearing, fruit bearing plant. So then, neither he who plants is anything, nor he who waters, but God who gives the increase. And so we must be warned never to put our hope in the one that we hear. And the one whom we've listened to. I don't know about you guys, but I used to love listening to Ravi Zacharias. Any of you guys ever heard of Ravi Zacharias and his ministries? A lot of good was done through his ministries, but if you know what happened Shortly after he died. What a tragedy. What a tragic example. And so it's a good warning for us that we should only ever be putting our hope and our trust. in Christ and not in those ministers that Christ calls to service in his kingdom. And as Paul says then in verse 9, he says, For we are God's fellow workers, you are God's field, you are God's building, and this is important for those who are serving in ministry. Whether in a church, as an officer, or in home, as a mother or a father, if you are serving God, you must remember that the congregation does not belong to you. The family does not belong to you. It's God's family. And so He is the one who makes the increase. And if we are going to trust in God to take our planting or our watering, whatever it is he's called us to. We must remember that it belongs to Him. And so the most important thing here is that if we want our families to be increased in Christ, if we want the church to increase in Christ, What must we do? We must only ever build on that one foundation, the foundation that is Jesus Christ. Now if you've have you ever played with Legos, anybody here? Anybody's on the Legos? No? Some a few? Quite a few of us. They've been around for a while. If you've ever had a friend and you were building Legos together and they said, Hey, please come help me, I'm building a house out of Legos. Would you be helping them if you come along and you smash the house of Legos and decide to build a boat? You're not helping at all. You've just taken over and decided you will build what you want. And this is the lesson for us here. Missionaries, officers, congregants alike. If we are going to have a successful ministry in service of the Master who matters, we must be building only on the gospel. Jesus Christ saves. Jesus Christ is the answer to your sin. Praise be to God that there is one who saves us from ourselves, and his name is Jesus. Our God saves. Please pray with me.