Please join me for the pastoral prayer. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ We thank you for this great worship, the way in which we've been able to serve you so far this morning. We thank you that you have revealed your name and your glory to us It is only fitting, therefore, that we would sing to you. Singing for us as human beings captures the pinnacle and the zenith Of who we are emotionally and intellectually. And we sing onto you and have sung onto you. We thank you that we've been able to To confess the truth that you have preserved for us, handed down, that which we need to hear about heaven and earth, about things visible and invisible. You have preserved them and given them to us in your holy scriptures. We thank you that we amongst the church that has gone before us, the church that is with us now across the globe, and the church that shall be be in the future that we all have these same words and we are able to confess the same thing together because we have you as our one Lord and have had one baptism. And one God and Father overall. We thank you, Lord Jesus Christ, in other words, for unifying everything in heaven and in earth under your lordship We thank you that you have reached out even to us. Each of us sitting here has a different story, a unique time and a place. Some of us grew up in the church and always heard the message. Some of us didn't want to hear it, but then finally heard of it. Some of us finally heard your word for the first time when we were. Older, and something like scales fell from our eyes, and we saw the truth, the glorious truth, that we too can be forgiven and be reconciled to you. That we can enter back into the very purpose of what it means to be a human being, to be oriented towards you and to worship you, to live for you, and to be loved by you. We thank you for the gospel as it has gone out and it has affected. We pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that your gospel would continue to go. We are like a group of farmers looking out the window, waiting for the harvest to be ripe enough for a good yield. And Lord, we are so Still looking to you for that, particularly within our neighborhoods, our counties, amongst our friends and amongst our families. We are looking for those whom you are calling to yourself. We pray, Lord, that as your church within this world, that we would be a light, that you would help us to be a light in our teaching. In the things that we believe. Help us to connect and have a relationship with the past, particularly with the apostles and the prophets, and what they have taught, what they have brought out that has been given to them from heaven. We ask, first of all, I ask that you would not let us neglect the deposit that has been handed down once for all to the saints. Lord, it is another way of saying, do not let us just be the Catholic universal church without also being the apostolic. church. Let us be built upon the foundation of the prophets and apostles with Jesus Christ as our chief cornerstone And may we never depart. And I pray that even as the nominations have ended for the elder and the deacon, that those who rise in leadership and who are already in leadership will protect your flock and will guard the deposit that has been handed. down, having no tolerance, no tolerance for false teachings. For Lord, if we are entrusted with the deposit, What will happen if those entrusted become corrupt or lazy or inaccurate? And so I pray, Lord, that instead of laziness you would give Us diligence. Instead of inaccuracy, I pray that you'd give us humble learnedness, attention to detail, awareness of our historical surroundings and connections. Understand understanding of what you have given to us. Lord Christ, you have not just given us teaching, however. The deposit is not just articles that can be written out in propositional form. You have taught us all that we need to know concerning God, but you have also taught us how we are to To obey him. And so, Lord, I pray that we would also at Severn Run, and really your whole church across this globe, that we would not just know the truth, but that we would be the embodiment of it. That we would be the community of truth. Lord, we already see what part of that looks like and that we are here worshiping today. with many millions of other Christians who are worshiping today. On this day that you have set aside, it is a mark of the new New heavens and the new earth, that your church is on the earth and that you are doing things. And may we have other marks. Lord, we ask that you would give us the marks that we see Listed in Galatians and preserved for us that we would know the fruits of your spirit. Lord, would you give us as a community across the globe joy? Patience and kindness? Would you give us love? Love for you and love for neighbor. And would you show us how that works out in all of the specificity of our lives, especially in the love of forgiveness? Lord, let us be a people that do not hold on to grudges and keep a list of someone's wrongs. Lord, may we be a community of forgiveness and may we forgive as you have forgiven us. And Lord, as we think about that list. There is a word on there that we often forget, and I pray it for your church here at Seven Run and across the globe, and that is long-suffering or patience. Lord, the temptation is to join the culture in their hurried ambition, gobbling up everything they can at the moment. But you have told us to be a people that will not have everything now. That we will patiently wait. to the consummation of your kingdom. And even the things that you will give us now, you call us to wait, even sometimes with suffering. We are to be within your rhythms and to run across the grain of the way that you work in history and in your providence, not to be in a rush, not to get out in front of you with our steps, but to instead to walk in the Spirit. And therefore, we are to be a people that is not marked by anxiety, but of peace. Lord, I think as we pray together corporately of how how at peace your servant Paul was while in the fo in the in prison. And he speaks about anxiety at the end and how He leans upon you. He remembers your love. He remembers all that you do and that you are in charge. So that, as he says elsewhere, whether he has much or he has little, he is continuing. Content. Lord, that is what our women were learning yesterday, contentment, which goes along with patience And may our women here at Severn Run and across the globe be godly women in their contentment. And may they set an example for the men and for the children And may the whole community be permeated. May we all be fermented. May the leaven that the women learned about yesterday would leaven the whole lump, and we would become a patient community. A content community. May we live up to the chalkboard by the office. Lord, this is what you're calling us to now. We are able to see through your scriptures the great future that you have for us. That you have given us all things in the inheritance since we are united to Christ, but yet we are not able to have those things now, which will require long suffering. And patience. And Lord, this goes out into many, many specifics of the callings that you have given to each of us here. You have called some of us here to very difficult medical situations. Situations that are trying, situations that are embarrassing, everything that medical situations bring into life. Loss of sleep Loss of family. Missing our families. Having to suffer under the grief of death But Lord, you promise to give us your spirit, and that is why we are crying out to you today with the rest of the church. That we need contentment and we need patience. As we wait for the fulfillment of all things. And just as you were faithful in the past and the deliverance of your people, so too you shall be faithful in the future, and may we We wait for you. May we not consider you slack in your coming, for to you time is different. And we know that you are with us now in your spirit. And Lord, as we continue to the first part of back and connecting to the first part of our our prayer, we ask that this patience, this contentment, that is not full of anxiety, but of rather of joy and peace and kindness and forgiveness. Everything that flows from these graces that you give to us. May this be the great witness, along with your apostolic and prophetic teaching with Jesus as the cornerstone Stone to the whole world that you are present in your church by your spirit. And may the people stream to heavenly Zion. We ask these things in your holy name. Amen. Amen. Let's turn to Acts chapter ten this morning. We're going to stand for the reading of the Word. We'll be looking at Acts chapter 10, verses 44 through 48. Although we will be briefly looking at the paragraph above that, but I won't read that section. It's actually not very long, so I'll start at thirty-four. Then Peter opened his mouth and said, In truth I perceive that God shows no partiality, but in every nation, whoever fears him and works righteousness is accepted by him. The word which God sent to the children of Israel, preaching peace through Jesus Christ, He is Lord of all. That word you know, which was proclaimed throughout all Judea and began from Galilee after the baptism which John preached. How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power, who went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil. For God was with him. And we are witnesses of all things which he did, both in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem, whom they killed by hanging on a tree. Him God raised up on the third day and showed him openly, not to all the people, but to witnesses chosen by God, even to us who ate and drank with him after he arose from the dead. And he commanded us to preach to the people and to testify that it is he who was ordained by God to be judge of the living and the dead. To him all the prophets witness that through his name, whoever believes in him will receive remission or forgiveness of sins. Now, while Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell upon all those who heard the word. And those of the circumcision who believed were astonished, as many as came with Peter, because the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out on the Gentiles. For they heard them speak with tongues and magnify God. Then Peter answered, Can anyone forbid water that these should not be baptized who have received the Holy Spirit just as we have? And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord. And then they asked him to stay a few days. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this glorious passage that shows what we should. We've been learning today. We pray that the truth would come through, and that perhaps even today we would be astonished at who believes on your name In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Amen. Let's be seated, please. If you grew up in this area and those of you who did will know this, uh if you're at least my age. But I just met somebody the other day that has no idea what a tape cassette is. So some of you are younger. But if you grew up and you're about my age in this area, you you when I was a child, you could walk the shoreline and you would remember this. That while walking the shoreline, whether in the Maggothee or in the Eastern Bay, even in the Chesapeake Bay, you would find seagrass all over the place. And in that seagrass, you would see grass shrimp, and then you would see soft crabs and crabs, plenty of blue crabs. Today, if you walk the shoreline, You're lucky if you see a single strand of grass. Or shrimp. Or crabs. Now I want to ask you a question as you think about that childhood memory that many of us here in this room have. Is Christianity like that? Is that the basic story of Christianity, the story of the seagrass and the Maggothi? We remember it because it was a part of our childhood, but now mostly it's all gone. Is that what we think of Christianity? And what's happening in the world and within our own nation. Is that how you think of it? I've actually heard some of you speak of Christianity that way. Here's another one. Here's another example. Last night I had a lovely dinner over someone's house with my family. And outside the front door, I remarked on a small flower that had little black berries on it. And I said, what flower is this? And the host replied, Those are blackberry lilies. I think I got that right. And then the host said, They will take over the whole yard How many people think that this is the basic story of Christianity? It may seem small, but Christianity does nothing but take over everything. Is that the story? I very rarely hear that story any longer. But which narrative is true? We're not, you know, we can't stay in the spin zone. Which narrative is true Well, our passage addresses that. Our passage this morning answers this question, and it shows that Christ, through his word, is interrupting our common understandings of the kingdom of God. That Christ's kingdom is more universal than you have been admitting or that you have realized. In other words, Christianity is not like the seagrass of the Magadhe today, but it is like blackberry lilies. I want to look at this under two parts. Verse 44 has the words of Christ, and we're going to look at really verses 34 and following to see what those words are that Peter teaches. And then we'll have this astonishing reality and interruption for our second point when we see when uh Peter and his friends see what's going on, and that's our second point. So we have the words of Christ and the astonishing So let's take a look at this together. Luke records in verse 44. That's our main text this morning, 34 to the end of the chapter there. And it says this: take a look in your scriptures with me, please. While Peter was speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell upon all those that heard him. Now you have to ask the question, well, what are these words? And that's why I went ahead and called it audible this morning. And started back up at verse 34 because it gives you the content of Peter's words. And really, if you want, when you leave today, if you want to remember what the content of those words are, it is basically what you have to do. Sung already in the bulletin, the Apostles' Creed. If you look at the paragraph above, though, and you just look at the details and the way that Peter phrases it, you can see that Peter was delivering the words Of Jesus Christ. Look at verse thirty-eight Basically, what he's communicating here is that God the Father anointed Jesus as the Christ with power, and Jesus went about healing all who were oppressed by the devil. Do you see that? And now if you're in Sunday school, that is very familiar to you. You can see, in fact, all the specifics of this, especially in the Gospel of Mark. Those who had leprosy, those who were paraplegic, those who were blind, those who were demon-possessed, Jesus healed them with power from on high. And that power was seen in the disciples. Of the Spirit upon him in his baptism. But really, when you read the rest of that, the healings were not the point. The healings were a sign. Letting everyone know that God the Father was with Jesus in a special way. Do you see that in our passage this morning? For God was with him. You see that? Really, what everyone was to see was that God the Father had made Jesus the Christ. Now, do you know what that word means? We've gone over this before, but it can slip out of our minds. What does it mean for Jesus to be the Christ? If you had to, if I put you in front of our kindergarten class here at the Academy And said, all these little children want to know what Christ means. How would you explain it? You can tell me afterward. I'd be interested to hear how you would explain it. If you were to just look at the language of it to begin with, Christ is a Greek word, and it's brought over into the English. And it means anointed. And there's a Hebrew word that is synonymous that also means anointed. Does anyone know that one? Messiah. Okay, the Messiah. And the whole point in God anointing Jesus, what we are to see within for, for example, the Gospel of Mark and what Peter is alluding to here, the whole point in God anointing Jesus was to be clear This one, Jesus from Nazareth, is the Christ or the Messiah. Now, do you know what a a Christ or a Messiah is? Just knowing the etymology doesn't make you know what it is So what is the Christ or Messiah? One way to view this, and it requires a longer discussion, is to see in him the king, to see in him the divine messenger, some someone we call a prophet And to see in him the priest, which is different than perhaps your knowledge of priesthood these days. But it's all wrapped into one person. And there's a familiar phrase amongst us at several and run: prophet, priest, and king. And that captures the aspects that we see of the Christ or the Messiah. And I've used an analogy in the past, and I was going to use a different analogy, but then I noticed more and more people still reading The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe. And so I'll just say although this analogy falls short. If you have seen that movie or if you have read those books, it provides at least a starting analogy for understanding of the Messiah or the Christ, because Aslan is king of all Narnia, and he's king of all other worlds and countries, as you see him jumping from one time and space to the next time and space, the the thing you learn about him is he rules. That's what kings do. And yet he is also a divine spokesman. How many times have they needed knowledge and wisdom? And he brings knowledge, but he brings it from realms outside of Narnia. It's not something you could have just come up with in a university within that land. He brings knowledge that creatures need to hear of the invisible and the visible. And those words are from outside of the created world. And then lastly, we see Aslan acting as a priest insofar as he is depicted as voluntarily, do you remember this, offering his body on the stone table? And why? Because of the sins. of Peter, that he could be forgiven. Edmund, thank you. Edmund. And Al Aslan is just an analogy, and I bet we have better ones out there that you could Share with me. It's just a stepping stone across the river to the reality of what it means to be the Christ or the Messiah. And yet, what we see here within the passage are the same attributes. We see that Christ is the king of all the universe, the judge of the living and the dead, is what Peter says in his words. Christ brings divine words into our earthly realm. Christ voluntarily sacrifices for the remission of sins. The great words of Christ that Peter is speaking, that we saw in our present passage, are the words that Jesus is the Christ. That's the main point. That's the great revelation to all. The Father anointed him with power to rule, you see the kingship, even over the devil. And verse 39 of our passage, Jesus is crucified on a tree voluntarily for verse 43: the remission of sins. And so you see him in his priesthood here. It's a part of the message that Peter's giving to these group of Gentiles. And after God raised Jesus from the dead, Jesus as the king, who had already been anointed to show his kingship. And Jesus is the one who voluntarily died on the tree, the priest, he commands the disciples to go and speak his prophetic or divine words to the nations, so that whoever believes will be forgiven. Prophet, priest, and king. The great Lion of Judah. Now there's much more that can be said about what it means To be the Christ and Messiah. This is maybe even before an introduction. But it's at least an introduction. And what you're to see here is that this is a sermon that is given by Peter, and Peter was speaking. And all heard those words from 34 down to our present passage. It says in verse 44, while Peter was still speaking these words, the words and the message of Jesus Christ. But that brings us to our second point because the way that the text puts it is so interesting to me because it says while Peter was still speaking these words, there is an astonishing interruption. He got all of his words out, but while speaking, something happens An astonishing interruption in verses 44 through 46. While Peter was speaking the message about Jesus, verse 44, Peter was interrupted. And do you see why? Do you see what took place? It says here that the Holy Spirit fell on all those who heard the word The hearing was first, the spirit fell second as a mark. And then we see that the interruption continued because look at what happens in verse 45. Those of the circumcision, notice the language that is given here. This is quite on purpose relative to debates that will happen later on in Acts. And those of the circumcision who believed were astonished. Who were in the circumcision? As many as came with Peter. Why were they astonished? Because the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out on the Gentiles also. That's the big news. The gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out on the Gentiles also. I don't see here this morning any looks of astonishment. Which tells me you're a bit disconnected from the context of what's happening here. Let me see your astonished face. Oh, that was a good one. Very nice. They were astonished. What has happened instead w is a a misappropriation of this passage. Into crazy places instead of understanding exactly what the Holy Spirit intends here. And if there is an astonishment, it ends up being a false foundations respon uh astonishment. This passage has been misread by many in the Christian church and beyond. Some see this passage, and some of you will relate immediately to this. Some see this passage as something that should happen all the time and ordinarily amongst God's people, that the Holy Spirit should fall on people and they should speak in tongues whenever there's the preaching of the word. That can't be farther from what is actually being taught here if you understand and have read through the book of Acts. This interpretation is not only astonishing, what we have here, the correct interpretation is, if you really get it, is not only astonishing, it's unique It is extraordinary in the sense that we do not expect Jesus to be crucified again or to be raised from the dead again. This is a one-time historical act of God for specific purposes. It is not ordinary. Now let me explain what I'm saying here. The Holy Spirit falling and giving the gift of speaking in tongues, and what that means is foreign languages. Perhaps uh maybe Spanish, if that were needed, for those who s who would hear the Spanish language. The Holy Spirit falling and giving the gift of speaking in tongues or in foreign languages was this. It was Jesus' way. The ascended Christ in all power and authority in heaven and earth, it was his way of showing who he was gathering to himself as his own people. That's what's going on here. Now, I want you to follow along with me here so that I can prove that to you. In chapter 2. Which is traditionally known as the Day of Pentecost, Peter preached a sermon, and what happened? The spirit fell upon the Jewish men visiting Jerusalem. That is what happened In chapter eight, look at verse fourteen. There's a report that comes back. Now when the apostles who were at Jerusalem, we've already dealt with Jerusalem and the spirit falling there, particularly in the upper room. Now, when the apostles were at Jerusalem, heard that Samaria had received the Word of God, they sent Peter and John to them, who, when they had come down, prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Spirit. Do you see what's happening here? Peter and John found out that the Samaritans were receiving the message about Jesus. Notice that the word comes first in both cases, whether you're in Jerusalem or in your Judea with the Samaritans. Or in Samaria, that the message came, Peter and John found out that the Samaritans were receiving the message about Jesus, and so they went to the Samaritans in chapter 8, verse 17, and the spirit fell on the Samaritans. Do you know what that means? It means that Jesus was gathering the Samaritans to his church to be his called people. And now, when we begin to see that and we turn to our chapter with chapter 10, Peter delivers a sermon to the Gentiles, and everyone goes out of their mind. Do you see why? The Gentiles received the word. Do you know what that means? The Spirit fell on the Gentiles. Do you know what that means? It means that Jesus is gathering the Gentiles into his church. Now that's everyone who's not Jewish. That means that whether you're Jewish or you're anybody else, You have the possibility that Jesus is gathering you into his church. Tell me that's not the real story of Acts. That's exactly what's going on. That is where the astonishment comes in. The Jewish people understood that Jesus would gather them. They got that. Once they saw that he was the Messiah, the Jewish people knew it. They knew that he would gather them. They had since Abraham been the children of God, the chosen, the elect. And they could even somehow understand that they're kind of half-cousins, the Samaritans. That they were being gathered because they were somehow intimately related throughout history. But no one saw chapter 10 coming. No one saw that Jesus was going to make Gentiles the children of God. And that is the focus for the rest of the book of Acts. And really, many of the pastoral epistles. Because some people wanted to exclude the Gentiles, but of course that was wiped away at the Jerusalem Council In fact, this can come out in the language of verse 45. If you know the Greek language, you will see the plausibility of what I'm getting ready to say to you. The Jews were astonished because the gift of the Holy Spirit has been poured out, and it says in my translation, NKJB, on the Gentiles also. But you know. And just hear me if you don't, that it could easily be translated as poured out even on the Gentiles. Even on the Gentiles. And if you were to read it later in chapter 11 of Peter's report back home to what's going on with the Gentiles, that's the sense that's going on here. Even the Gentiles are being gathered and called the people of God, the elect, the chosen, the new Israel. So let me put this another way. The astonishment is in this fact. Jesus as the risen and ascended Christ. Has a much bigger vision for the growth of his church than anyone ever realized. And therefore they were astonished. In the past, the church was local was localized nationally and geographically. It landed in Jerusalem and among the Jewish people. The Jews were God's chosen people, but Jesus from heaven has gathered not only Jews or nationally similar people groups like Samaritans. but now he is gathering from every nation. Do you know why you should have known this if you have read the book of Acts? Because Jesus says it immediately before his ascension into heaven. He says in Acts chapter 1, You will be my witnesses to me in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and to the end of the earth. And they obviously just didn't understand, or they wouldn't have been so astonished. But those are the words of Christ Himself before the ascension, and we see that in His ascension he accomplished through His apostles exactly what He had spoken. And he had sent the Holy Spirit to do it. Now, whether you are Christian today or you are a non-Christian today, this passage confronts you with something. It confronts you with the global expansion and the power of the ascended Jesus as the Christ. And it confronts you with the global situation of the world being forgiven, those whom he's called, and devoted to him as their king and their prophet. and their priest. Do you accept that narrative? That's the question that comes before you Whether you're Christian or you're not Christian. In other words, going with the front of our bulletin, because of the ancient creeds and us wanting to regain our vocabulary that had been stolen from us, the church is more Catholic than ever. The word Catholic has been narrowed to mean Roman Catholic with a capital C. But historically and properly it means at least, it means several things. But it means universal or comprehensive or global or all-encompassing. Our most ancient creed says one holy Catholic and apostolic church The creed was confessing what you see in this passage. That's why that even the church being Catholic is from the apostles. It's an apostolic teaching. The creed was confessing what we see in this passage: that the kingly, the priestly, and the prophetic work of the Christ was no longer restricted to Jerusalem and the Jewish people. But through Jesus the Christ to the entire world. The whole world. It may seem to our American observations that Jesus is losing power and his church is shrinking. the grass and the magathy. But this passage tells us, if we accept this narrative, that that's an illusion, that the church is not shrinking. That it is growing. And as I have shared before, perhaps it looks like that in the borders of our nation. But if you were to peer outside and across the oceans, Christ is gathering millions still from North America, but also from South America, Europe, Asia, Australia, Africa, and Antarctica. And children, if you want to remember where Christ is working, just remember your seven continents chant. North America, South America, Europe, Asia, and Belshim. Australia, Africa, and Artica, these are the continents. And that's every place that Christ is working on. on earth, and every group of people that he is calling to himself. And so before you this morning, it's not just a sermon from Peter Do you realize what's being said to you? That as soon as I'm singing the continent song As soon as I talk to you about going over the oceans, that we've moved from just seeing the text of the scriptures to what you can read in news articles in your newspapers. You could see on the news or you could you could uh check the census. You could see what is going on in other countries That what Peter is showing here and the astonishment that is happening here could be seen across the world Jesus is the Christ, and he is forgiving and gathering people from across the world. I bet you you could bring me in a news article that shows that. Joe was mentioning the church in Iran. Christ, through his word, is interrupting our understanding of God's kingdom. Christ's kingdom is more universal than we realize. In other words, as we started in the beginning, Christianity is not like the seagrass, but it is like blackberry lilies. He is taking over and calling people from every tongue and tribe and nation. Do you see that reality? Do you see the reality in the passage? Do you see that reality? Can you remember that he's not like the grass and the magazine? You have a question that is before you this morning, because of his global work. If the church is in fact universal. If he's going out to every tongue and tribe and nation, all those whom he calls, it faces you Because you are a person. And so I have to ask you this morning Is Jesus Christ calling you? I don't care. We've already established it doesn't matter what nation you are from. I don't care what color your face is. I don't care if you have been an addict or if you've had a rough childhood or whatever it is. Do you understand the implications? of the Catholicity of the Church, of what Jesus Christ is doing. There is no category that falls outside of his call. And that's my question to you this morning. Is Jesus Christ calling you into his family? Are you hearing the words about him, and you find yourself saying, well, yeah I've still got some questions, but this stuff is making sense to me. And it finally is telling me what I can do about this burning that's been happening in my bones over my sin and the confusion I've had about human life The funny thing is, is that despite the preaching this morning, you could still be a person who says, no, there's no way. Now, that might be for some people But not me. You don't understand where I'm from. You don't understand my past. You don't understand the kind of things that I have done. But I'd encourage you to look at this passage again And I'm just wondering if at the end of the day you're going to have to say with the Jewish brethren who came from with Peter, if if you'd have to say, you know, I didn't believe it at first, but Jesus Christ is calling even me. He's calling even me, as he has called even the Gentiles, and even the Samaritans, and even the Jewish people. He's calling even you. If that is you. And if it has not happened already, we have a strange religious background in America, but if this hasn't happened already, I'd encourage you to look at the last verses. Of our passage, you need to let me know if Jesus Christ is calling you. If you want to discern that, you can talk to me about it. And eventually, if he is, I'm going to say the same thing as Peter Can anybody forbid you and your family water? And may you be baptized in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Spirit. Let's pray. Oh Father, we thank you for how you are working out in all the world through your Son Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ, we thank you for sending your Holy Spirit. We ask that you would act amongst us, that you would help us to discern whom you're calling, that we might move into discipleship And we do pray, Lord, that you would baptize people into your name, showing that you have once again proven that you are calling even them in the name of God Of Christ, Amen, Amen