Paint to Deuteronomy chapter fourteen and stand for the reading of his words. I'm only going to read fourteen twenty two to the end. Uh, twenty-nine. You shall truly tithe all the increase of your grain that the field produces year by year, and you shall eat before the Lord your God in the place where he chooses The tithe of your grain and your new wine and your oil, of the firstborn of your herds and your flocks, that you may learn to fear the Lord your God always. But if the journey is too long for you, so that you are not able to carry the tithe, or if the place where the Lord your God chooses to put his name is too far from you, when the Lord your God has blessed when the Lord your God has blessed you, then you shall exchange it for money, take the money in your hand, and go to the place which the Lord your God chooses And you shall spend that money for whatever your heart desires, for oxen or sheep, for wine or similar drink. For whatever your heart desires, you shall eat there before the Lord your God, and you shall rejoice, you and your household. You shall not forsake the Levite who is within your gates, for he has no part nor inheritance with you. At the end of every third year you shall bring out the tithe of your produce of that year, and store it up within your gates And the Levite, because he has no portion nor inheritance with you, and the stranger and the fatherless and the widow who are within your gates, may come and eat and be sent Satisfied that the Lord your God may bless you in all of the work of your hand which you do. Please join me in prayer. Father, we thank you for these words. We need instruction from heaven because here on earth we are lost. And I do pray that in believing we would be faithful to your word. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. As a review, Moses has reminded God's people of the law stated at Mount Sinai. That is what we have here within Deuteronomy. Those laws were the center of their life with God and with each other. And accordingly, Moses instructed the people to remember those laws. And he used good teaching methods if you remember some of the sermons in the past. He said that you could have uh there are these ten laws, and there's ten laws for each finger. It's the easy way to remember it, whether you're a boy or a girl or a man or a woman. Ten laws. You can remember them on your fingers. Or you could reduce the ten laws to two hands. Love the Lord your God and your neighboring Or you could recount the essence of the law on five fingers. Fear, walk, with love being the center, and serve, keep. God would test his people in how well they remembered these things, whether on each of the fingers or on each of the Of the hands. And you saw that specifically in the commandment that God gave through Moses to perform the first commandment. Now, the first commandment is you shall have no other gods before me. And they were to work this out by their approach to the existing worship sites that were set up for pagan gods in the area. You remember that chapter? They were to tear all of those sites down. They were to remove and burn every religious artifact because God, Yahweh, the Lord God, is the only God. They were to remove any people, the next chapter says, whether leader or family member who sought to re-establish those false gods. And we talked about that as in in terms of removing the plants from the field and then keeping the field bare that we might then plant the right seeds. That's all been in the past of this book that Moses has been teaching us. And you can see how by doing this, those things that I just mentioned, God's people would be in the world, but not of it. Those were specific applications of how that would play out in that day. What does it mean for you to be in the world and not of it? Well, during that day you can look at those chapters and you can see what that would mean If you haven't picked up on that theme, then I I in the the past weeks, I hope last week that it was really clear that we really are talking about a separation and a holiness that God demands among his people And so last week we saw very clear explanations of this. Moses forbade them to practice pagan morning rituals. And he forbade them to eat unclean animals from the sphere of the land, the sphere of the water, the sphere of the air. This was his last week's sermon. And we know that as we move into the time when Jesus Christ has arrived, in his ascended glory, that those dietary restrictions that we saw last week no longer apply in the same way, although it does say Within the Council of Jerusalem, we're still not to drink of the blood. Doesn't take that away. Jesus made this very clear, nevertheless, to Peter in the book of Acts, when the sheep came down and there were unclean animals On the sheet, he said, Take and kill. They're no longer unclean. Do not call unclean what God has cleansed. Is that passage? It's very clear that there is something new. Things are changing. Yet the overarching principle still remains. Although the dietary regulations do not carry forward, there is an overarching principle that came out in the sermon last week That we as God's community are to be a peculiar people. I like that way of putting it. You are to be peculiar. You are to be holy. You are to be set apart. You are to be in the world. but not of it. In 14, chapter 14, 1 through 21, this set apartness was established by what is forbidden You may not mourn this way, you may not eat these things. Now in 1422, all the way really down to 1522, but we'll we'll get to More of that later. Holiness is established by what is required. And again, these are going to be specific applications for this group of people, and then we'll need to generalize out to see how we can, through theological reflection, engage With this passage. But this part of chapter 14, I want you to notice, starts and it proceeds just like last week. Do you remember how last week started in 14, verse 3? Take a look at 14 verse 3 Verse 3. You shall not eat any detestable thing. Do you remember what I said about that? That's a general statement that is then unpacked in the list of land, water, air, or air, water. Well, there is a general statement in this week's passage, and then it is worked out in the specifics also. And that general statement is beginning in 1420. twenty two. What we're gonna see as it's worked out is that there are a general principle with some specifics, just like last week. But then as soon as I give that general principle with the specifics, you're gonna have some general questions yourself. And so I just want to answer those. So let's begin with the general principle and the specifics that we see here within this passage. The general principle is stated in verse 22: you shall truly tithe all the increase of your grain that the field produces year by year. And then we have the specifics listed. So for example, take a look at verse 23 And you shall eat before the Lord your God in the place where he chooses to make his name abide. It's going to happen for this group of people at a very specific place where they shall eat this tithe with the community. It's where the Lord makes his name abide. It won't be until the time of David that the Ark of the Covenant, the symbol of God's presence, will have a permanent residence, particularly through his son Solomon. But nevertheless, whether it's the upcoming temple or whether it's the presence of where the wherever the Lord is in the tabernacle as they are traveling. God's community, it is said here, is to pilgrimage to that place with their tithe once a year. That's what it says. This is an annual tithe. There were other tithes, and we can talk about that later. But this is an annual tithe. It says, you shall tithe all the increase of your grain that the field produces year by year. So there's an annual income, so to speak. But it doesn't just tell us about the place where this is supposed to happen. That's one specific for the general principle. But there's also the substance. Well what is this supposed to look like? What is the tithe? Well it mentions this again in verse 23 It says grain, new wine, oil, firstborn of the herds and their flocks. This is known as the feast of booths. Did anybody pick up on that? This is the Feast of Booths, and in the Feast of Booths, it consisted of 10%. That's actually what the word tithe means. It means a tenth. or ten percent. That's what the word means. Of all of the main products, as you can see through that list, of their agricultural society. The new wine, the grain, the oil, the firstborn of their herds, and you can see behind the oil is another part of their agricultural industry, namely olives, for example. You can see how this is being worked out. There were exceptions if you take a look at verse 24. But if the journey is too long, he says, for you, so that you are not able to carry all of those agricultural products, the 10%. Or if the place where the Lord your God chooses to put his name is too far from you, when the Lord your God has blessed you, then you can exchange those agricultural products for money, take the money in your hand, and go to the place which the Lord your God chooses And you shall spend that money for whatever your heart desires, for oxen or sheep, for wine or similar drinks. Similar drink means any really alcoholic drink of that time. Beer could be specified if you Those are the exceptions that are given to it. And you could see why that would be a practical concern of the pastor, Moses, as people are seeking to make these pilgrimage is to the feast of the So you not only have the uh what he's given us so far, but you now have the purpose in verse 23 also. You see the place, and that will eventually be Jerusalem, where people are pilgrimaging for the feast of booths to go to the temple. You see the substance that it's the agricultural products of that community, but there's also a purpose stated in verse 23 that I saved for last. That you may learn to fear your God always. That when you went there, that's the goal. And you can see in so many prophets. of the scriptures that that goal was not met. Because they started going through the motions, but it was always that as they went to feast with the Lord. Did you notice the celebration language throughout the passage? There would be a celebr a celebration not of your humanism, not how you have accomplished everything for yourself, but what God has accomplished for you, because He's the giver of all good gifts. He is the one that makes you fruitful. Fear in this context, when you you look at all of the language that's being used, is obviously A reverent humility and thankfulness that is to go before the Lord for all that He has given to you, all the practical necessities and beyond I just want to know one thing. When is the last time when you opened your cabinet and you saw the olive oil and you said, praise be to Father, Son, and Holy Spirit? Or when you drizzled it over whatever you drizzled it, or when you dipped into it at macaroni grill with all the spices. That's the kind of thing that was supposed to be taking place It was to recenter you in your place as a human being relative to your creator, recognizing that you are the great receiver because he's the only real giver That's the purpose. The Lord owns the cattle on a thousand hills. Did you know that? And those hills were owned by specific Israelites, but the Lord still owned them. All that we have. I really want you to think about this. Everything that you have, every green Pepper in your vegetable drawer. Every piece of chicken, all the beef, or the sides of beef If you've chipped in with other families, or you have your own cow, or the lamb, or any fish, or shellfish, or duck or goose, land water Water or air comes from the wood. And all of the products that are made from those things, think of all of the products of our agricultural society that is made. Everything is a gift from the Lord. And they were to recognize that. I saw the Apostle Paul bringing this same sentiment in Acts chapter. chapter 14 verse 17 to a group of people that didn't realize it. They didn't realize that Yahweh, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, is the great giver. They were giving credit to Zeus. In this account, but listen to what Paul says. Nevertheless, he, our God, did not leave himself without witness, in that he did good. He gave us rain from heaven, and of course, rain produces fruitful seasons of our agricultural products, and there we make from that everything that fills our hearts with food and gladness. And you know my view that gladness there is obviously wine or beer By bringing a tenth and feasting with the Lord, they in this passage, and you can already begin to see the carryover with us as we say Grace at our tables, as we fill our refrigerators with food, as we go to the grocery store, by bringing a tenth and feasting with the Lord, they were humbly acknowledging that every good thing comes from him. And it was an opportunity to celebrate that he alone gives, and we receive with thankfulness. You know what I think is interesting to do is to take this passage here and connect it to Psalm 25. three. And it's like you in this feast of booths, they were going to that table where everything is spread out before you, as you see in the second part of Psalms. twenty three, that he lays a table out before you, and you get to celebrate that with him. And so we have a general principle that's stated here, and it is unfolded and worked out in very specific ways for this For those people waiting to enter literal Canaan. And that's pretty straightforward. If you were in this group of people, all you would have to do is read this. There really wouldn't need to be Further theological reflection, you would just do exactly what this says. There would be a feast of booths, and you would travel, and you would accomplish that. But we, existing after the arrival of Jesus Christ, need to answer a general question. And it is very similar to how we what we had to answer last. week. Last week we had to ask, do the dietary laws still apply after the arrival of Jesus Christ? And based on the writings of the apostles, we had to say no, and yet the general idea of remaining holy still applied. We saw how to bring the general equity forward, and it could even become more specific. Than what I gave you. This week, as we speak about the Feast of Booth, which brings up the topic of tithing, the same kind of question arises. Does this passage still apply now that Christ has arrived? Should you be tithing? That's a question that is asked all the time. And is definitely asked. asked when you're looking at this passage. And my answer is yes and no. Okay? Let's pray. Just kidding. I just want to make sure y'all were awake. Y'all were looking a little bored there for a second. Yes, yes and no. Let's begin with the no. I want to do a little bit of a tour here. Go go with me to Colossians chapter 2 And begin in verse sixteen, and if you don't want to flip there, you can just listen. But in Colossians chapter two, we can see that the Old Testament festivals have ceased. In the same way that we have a heads up from the experience of Peter as well as other texts that dietary regulations are no longer restrictions for us, so too we see in Colossians chapter 2 that Old Testament festivals have ceased, Old Testament calendar. It says, So let no one judge you in food or in drink or regarding a festival or new moon or Sabbaths, which are a shadow of things to come, but the substance is of Christ. Notice how it says festival, it says new moon, and it doesn't say the Sabbath, which uh we obviously hold here, it says Sabbath, because it's referring to further kinds of festivals For which they would get together. And that means that the Feast of Booths, very obviously, the Feast of Booths in 151 Is no longer celebrated. Or in verse in the festival that we see in our passage is no longer celebrated. Turn back now to Deuteronomy chapter 14. And I just want to show you a a couple of the festivals that are happening. Here. You have in 22 that there is supposed to be a year-by-year festival where there's an annual tithe given. That is called the Feast of Booths. But then when we go down to verse 28, you can see that there is another one. At the end of every third year, you shall bring out the tithe of your produce of that year and store it up within your gates. And then if you go to 15 verse 1, at the end of every seven years you shall grant release of debts. This is a different kind. So you can see the different festivals and different things that they went. would have had on their liturgical calendar, so to speak. And so what I'm saying when I say no is No one here is required to make a pilgrimage to a unique temple in Jerusalem, bringing 10% of their agricultural harvest. You are not required to celebrate a feast of booths. In the exact same way that they were. But here, I also have to say, yes, that a tithe is in fact required. So those specific the specific festival on the calendar does not carry forward. But something that the festival was doing and celebrating does carry forward. And I have to say that not because I I just want us to tithe, but because of the scriptural testimony, when we look through the scriptures, we see that there is to be an offering and a tithe. Still within our lives. As a basic mode of faithfulness amongst God's people, there is heavy evidence showing that we should still be giving a tenth of our yearly income As a basic, it's just the basics. A basic worshipful act of reverence and thankfulness to the Lord. And you shouldn't be ashamed of that. of this. Just on the side. You know, we've talked about the prosperity gospel and and uh how how people use other people in ministry to gain money. And you can begin And maybe we should just put an offering box out in the hall and people can secretly just do it out there. But that's not what we see within the scriptures. Just because someone is abusing something doesn't mean we can't use that same thing in the way that the Lord intended. It says this in Psalm 96, 8. Give to the Lord the glory due to his name, bring an offering, and come into his courts. So the interesting thing about the tithe, I don't know if you've thought about this. Most people have a problem with the tithe because they they say that that has fallen away with the Mosaic Covenant. But did you know that the tithe was be there before the Mosaic Covenant? Those of you who have read your scriptures? If you want to, you can look at each one of these passages with me, but or you can just listen to as I read, beginning In Genesis chapter 28, verses 20 through 22. Then Jacob made a vow, saying, If God will be with me and keep me in this way that I am going, and give me bread to eat and clothing to put on So that I come back to my father's house in peace, then the Lord shall be my God. It would actually be an act of conversion, of faith and faithfulness within Jacob. Listen to this. And this stone which I have set as a pillar shall be God's house, and all that you give me, I will surely give you a tenth to you. That's Genesis 28. It actually goes back further than that. It goes back to Abraham. In Genesis chapter 14, and this is very important for you to listen to, then Melchizedek, king of Salem, brought out bread and wine. He was the priest of God most high, and he blessed him and said, Blessed be Abram of God most high, possessor of heaven and earth, and blessed be God most high, who has delivered your enemies into the world. This is an important example because it is said on the pages of the New Testament that Abraham is the father of all the faithful. That those who are true sons of Abraham are those who are true fathers Followers of Jesus Christ. There's an equation that is made. All those that follow Jesus Christ are the true sons of Abraham. Abraham saw this day. of Christ and and and longed for it. And therefore, as Abraham tithed, we too should follow in his steps. I think after giving those two examples, even going back before the Mosaic Covenant, there can be some doubt left in people's minds. I'm I'm not sure what your specific doubts are, but uh why don't we just turn to the pages of the New Testament also? Some folks tend to be more convinced of the New Testament than Genesis. I'm not always sure why. But looking at Matthew 23:23, I do want you to look at this one. Matthew twenty-three, I should hear pages. This is should all of a sudden sound like a Baptist congregation. Turn the pages of your Bible Matthew twenty three, verse twenty three. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you pay tithe of mint and anise and cumin. and have neglected the weightier matters of the law, justice and mercy, and peace These you ought to have done, and you should have totally forgotten about all the tithing you did. It's exactly what it says. Not it says that let's just just read through it again. All of those made weightier matters of the law is the antecedent Jesus does not de emphasize the tithe that these specific Group of men had to give, but he is not de-emphasizing it. And now what I think is one of the strongest theological observations is from 1 Corinthians chapter 9 verses 13 and 14, where Paul having time to reflect on the administration under Jesus Christ. And not under Moses. He says this, and this is amazing. 1 Corinthians 9, 13, and 14. He says, Do you not know that those who minister the holy things eat of the things of the temple? Who's he talking about? Speaking about the priests. And those who serve at the altar. Who serves at the altar? But the priest. Well, what do they do? They partake of the altar. In the same way that we were reading about, if we were to continue to read these passages. you would see that the Levites are provided for, especially on that third year through the tithe. And this is Paul's argument. And those who serve at the altar partake of the offerings of the altar, even so the Lord has commanded that those who preach the gospel should live from the gospel. There is a carry-over and a continuity amongst the two administrations where the one carries forward, where we are able to see the similarities, the really the equivalence That is supposed to still happen by way of the tithe. It is still the same means by which the preacher can do his preaching. as we saw within the Old Testament, the modern-day Levite. So those are some passages for you to consider. I pray that the Spirit would use those and that you would be convicted in your own mind and not feel coerced. I didn't yell or at you yell at you or stomp my foot again. On purpose. I want you to consider what the scripture says and to be convinced in your own mind. But I am convinced that this section of Deuteronomy is just like last week. It has some specifics that do not cross over into the resurrection age, but there are many specifics that do. Dietary laws have passed, and we don't celebrate Jewish the Jewish calendar. Every year, every three years, every seven years, and yet the general principle remains of tithing. 10% is still the basic offering made as an act of worshipful reverence and thanks to God. And I think you know what else crosses over into this administration? The language of celebration. It is an opportunity for you to realize that everything that you own is God's. And he asks asks really commands you to bring it before him in this way. And all today as the true sons and daughters of Abraham, under a better priesthood than the Levites. Under the priesthood of Jesus Christ, what we see really within us and within the people of God across the globe is the fulfillment of Malachi 3. In Malachi 3, 1 through 7, God is foretelling how He will bring His people to repentance through the Messiah. Do you know in Malachi 3, 1 through 7, what the great sin of was his people? They were robbing God. Do you know how they were robbing him? They were not giving the tithe. It specifically says that. And one of the revitalizations or the resurrection that will take place within his people is that it would begin again. Jesus has sent his Spirit to dwell in us that we may freely tithe. Out of love and thankfulness and gratefulness and in celebration? This is a great question for you. What does it mean for you to receive the Spirit of God and to have freedom in Jesus Christ? It means a lot, doesn't it? But my argument here is saying one expression of the freedom of the Spirit is that you would be able to give liberally. As a basic 10%. What does freedom look like amongst the Christians? Deuteronomy 15, 7 through 8. Is certainly fulfilled in the work of Jesus Christ through his Spirit. If there is among you a poor man of your brethren within any of your gates in your land, which the Lord your God has given you Listen to this language. You shall not harden your heart nor shut your hand from your poor brother. One of the things that the title Contributes to is the communion of the saints and their need, the fatherless, the widow, the poor. But you shall open your hand wide to him and willingly lend him sufficient for his need, whatever he needs. And I'd recommend reading the book of James in light of Deuteronomy chapter 15. Because James applies each one of these principles amongst his New Testament community. Ultimately, this is what we must have. We must have as new creations in Jesus Christ, not hardened hearts but open hearts And open hearts lead to open hands. That's exactly what Deuteronomy said right there. And Jesus Christ has not come to abolish Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy, but to fulfill it within his people. We have the privilege to give financially and watch God gain a return on our investment. The gospel is preached because the preacher is relieved from the necessary cares and worries of this life And the poor are fed, because those who are righteous in the community by the power of the Holy Spirit rise up and they feed the poor. And the deacons have something to distribute Because of the communion of the saints. God advances his kingdom through the open hearts and the open hands of his people. And it is God the Father who has sent his Son, Jesus Christ, and Jesus Christ through who has sent his spirit to soften your heart and to open your Their hats. Let's pray.