Glad to be here tonight with all of you to worship our Lord. What a marvelous way to close out the Sabbath day, isn't it? As uh folks are starting to come in from the Narthex and we're starting to get ourselves situated, let's just take some time, silence our hearts and our cell phones. And get ourselves prepared to worship God. Brothers and sisters of several And would you please pray with me? Our Father in heaven, you are awesome. We love you. You have already fed us so much today. You have given us great fellowship. And joy, joy in you, joy in the work that your son has accomplished. We thank you, Spirit, for moving us, moving us into the right attitudes. This morning during worship, and for convicting us of our sin, for bringing us to confession, we pray that you will do exactly the same again for us this evening. For we are gathering in obedience to you, in joy and in love of you, to worship you, not ourselves. We beg you, Father, Son, and Holy Ghost That you would be active in this worship, that it would be you who moves us into the right attitudes and emotions, that it would be you that we follow. into all truth. We thank you for your word. We thank you for the songs that you have given us. And we thank you most especially for your son, who has given us The right to be called children of God by His great work. We are here now as your children, drawing close to you, our Father. We are doing so in worship. Ask you that you will give us the ability to worship you tonight in spirit and in truth. We praise you in Christ's name, in whom we pray. Amen. We have a call to worship this evening. I encourage you to stand, for we will go right into song number 80 from your hymnals. And saying, Lord, with glowing heart, I'd praise thee. This is your call to worship, Severn Run, from Ephesians 1, verses 2 through 6. Grace to you and peace From God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. Christ, just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. Having predestined us to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the good pleasure of His will, to the praise of the glory of His grace, by which He made us accepted. And the beloved. Does that not fill your heart with desire to worship? Let us sing together song number 80 from the hymnal, Lord with glowing heart, I praise thee. those writers will put it on the in widget. To us, how you deal with your children, your legitimate children. You chasten us. You remove from us that which must be removed. And Father, we are grateful that you You do this often without regard to how it will make us feel or how it might hurt. We recognize that it can be painful, but Father, we beg you do not allow Allow us to make lies about you in our hearts, claiming motives for you that are not your motives. It tells us here that you do this out of love for your children So we pray, Father, that as we move into the time of confession, your chastening hand would be upon us. That you would convict our hearts and our conscience. Of the sins we have committed against you. You would move us to confess it openly in our hearts before you, and that you would apply to us the redemption of Christ. We beg you Father, work through your minister, our deacon Nick Clark. Help him, give him words that will guide us into this confession. And through him, Lord, may your grace be extended to us. We love you so much. We want to be pure for you. We know it cannot be done without your blessing. So, Father, bless our time of confession and help us to repent truly. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. As we move into this time of confession, the question that we need to consider this evening is what do you do Do or where do you go when you realize that your life is a mess? When things seem to be falling apart around you, when your stress level is super high and things don't seem to be going accordingly According to your life's plan, where do you turn? There are so many options, aren't there? Just this morning I got an email telling me that I need to kick back, forget my worries, and take a nice Caribbean Sounds nice, doesn't it? And that's not the only option, is it? I know uh working in the salon industry, there are so many high-end weed I read sometime this week that the self-help and self-care industry is now worth almost 10 Ten billion dollars a year. Ten billion dollars that we are spending uh on infomercials, holistic institutes, self help books, most Motivational speakers, personal one-on-one coaching, all aimed at helping us change our life, overcome our stress, and put our life back on track. Whatever that's supposed to mean. Brothers and sisters, what have you turned to this week? When things got rough, was your first instinct to Google a YouTube video? Did you spend some time searching Amazon or browsing through shelves in a bookstore looking for a book that claims to solve your problem? Proverbs says Trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he shall be Direct your path. Do not be wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord and depart from evil. When things went wrong this past week, did you find yourself opening the Bible and reading Scripture? Or did you lean on the understanding of the world? Let's repent of not turning to God's word during times of stress and difficulty, and let us confess that we need a deeper love and understanding understanding of Scripture. Like usual, it'll be a three-part prayer. I'll pray. I'll leave some time for individual silent prayer and then we'll pray the responses. In the bulletin. Let's pray. God on high, you are Almighty God You alone made the heavens and the earth. We are your creation, and we give you all the honor and glory and praise. revealed yourself to us not only through nature but also through your precious word. Father, you've given us the scriptures that we may not only know about you But that we may actually know you personally, and in knowing you, that we would love and serve you. It is our attitude towards your word that we've come before you tonight We know that the Bible contains all the answers we need for our life, and yet we confess that when we go through rough times of We confess tonight that too often we seek other ways to solve our problems, other ways that are based on our own Understanding of the world around us and not based on your holy word. Help us to understand and recognize our desperate need for your word and to truly change Reading it. Help us to delight in your law, to view reading it as not an obligation, but as a joy, something that we long to do more than anything. rather than something we feel we have to do. And in reading the scripture, Lord, help us to continually grow in our understanding of it, that we may love and serve you more More faithfully, hiding and treasuring your word in our hearts, that we might not sin against you. Hear us now as we each repent and confess our sins to you In the silence of our own hearts Amen. Turn now to the bulletin and the response. God in heaven, it is your will that we should love you with heart, soul, mind, and strength, and love our neighbor as ourselves. But we We alone are not sufficient for these things. We confess our affections continually turn away from you, from purity to lust, from Freedom to slavery, from compassion to indifference, from fullness to emptiness. Have mercy on us. Commandments, the joy of our hearts. Conform us to the image of your loving Son, that we may shine before the world to your glory. In Jesus' name Amen. Amen. Hear now the assurance of pardon taken from the second chapter of Joel. Now therefore, says the Lord, turn to me with all your heart, with fasting, with weeping. And he relents from doing harm. Stand with me now as we turn in our hymnals to number 481. Turn your eyes upon Jesus. Shall we sell her? Oh, so are you weary and struggle? No sign in the dark. As you see, there's light more of that same more, and like more Turn your eyes upon Jesus, look for this Wonderful thing, and the things of earth will prostrance in the last Light of his glory and praise through heaven to life ever last place We pass and we follow him over us in no mortality In God for more than conquerors we all turn your eyes a bunch He saw a broader open, and the being to burn will grow strange In the light of his glory and race, his word shall not fail you The government all will be well, then through the world that is the In perfect salvation to turn turn Jesus look for it, wonderful Others will prostrate sleep in the light of his glory and race We come now to this portion of our worship service in which you go to God's word, that word that will never fail us. That is promised. We're continuing along in Psalm 119. We are now at the fourth stanza, the Dalid stanza. And I would like to ask you all, please, if you don't mind, I'm sorry for all the ups and downs, but it's good exercise. Let's stand for the reading of God's word. Psalm 119 Verses twenty-five through thirty-two God's Word. My soul clings to the dust. Revive me According to your word. I have declared my ways, and you answered me. Teach me your statutes. Make me understand the way of your precepts, so shall I meditate Meditate on your wonderful works. My soul melts from heaviness. Strengthen me according to your word. Remove from me the way of lying, and grant me your law graciously. Chosen the way of truth, your judgments I have laid before me. I cling to your testimonies. O Lord, do not put me to shame. I will run the course of your commandments for you Shall enlarge my heart. Let's pray. Father, this is the word that you have given to your people. You have given it to us for Thousands of years. We praise you for preserving it for us. We ask now that your spirit would enlighten our minds through it. That you would transform our hearts, and you will make our entire lives more like Jesus. We pray this in his name. Amen. Please be seated. I wonder if you're like me. Have you ever used Google Maps to try to get directions to go somewhere that you kinda thought you already knew where you were going. Long story short, I did this when I was in Greenville a couple years ago. I I thought I knew how to get to Dunkin' Donuts, but just to be safe, I I said, you know what, I'm gonna put this in Google Maps, I'm gonna follow the directions. Google said turn right. I said, no, Google, you're wrong. I know where Dunkin' Dunk is. So I turned left. I ended up downtown in the city and I was almost late for class because the city's about twenty-five minutes away from campus. It didn't help me at all that the map was there, right in front of me. It didn't help me at all that that condescending and pretentious voice was saying, in 100 feet, maybe Make a U-turn. In 200 feet, make a U in 25 feet make a U-turn. None of that helped because directions only help if you follow them. Has this ever happened to you? But maybe in a more serious way? Have you ever cried out to God for guidance, for direction? For strength, for understanding, for all those things that we all need. And when he answered you, it wasn't quite what you had expected, so you said, eh, I'm just gonna do what I wanted to anyway The psalmist in Psalm one nineteen is not like me with Google Maps. He's made it clear from the first stanza, Olive, that the blessed obey the Lord. And we can't just be in close proximity to his people and to his word and hope that magically we become his children. And receive his blessing. In the second stanza, the best stanza, the psalmist prayer teaches us that there's only one way that we can follow. This is God's way, the way that is found in his word. And in the third stanza, what we had last month, the Gimel stanza, we saw that our own pride and the pride of others can get in the way of our following God's way. Well, tonight, brothers and sisters, we'll be looking at the fourth stanza, the Dalad stanza, and the psalmist is still concerned with God's way and our need. To have it and to follow it. I hope that tonight we'll see from this passage that we desperately need God to show us His way and to give us hearts That will cling to it. We desperately need God to show us his way and to give us hearts. That will cling to it. We're going to look at it in two headings. We have the first four verses, 25 through 28, that show us our need for God to show us his way. And the second four verses, verses 20. We see our need for hearts that will cling to it. Now you may remember from the Psalm series that we had not too long ago that Hebrew poetry often follows what's called a chiastic Structure. And I want to just point out here that these first four verses of this stanza, they're a great example of this. Look together with me. Look at 25, right? Now then look at verse 28. Do you see how they coincide? My soul, my soul, clings to the dust, melts from heaviness. We have revive according to words, strength and According to word, that shows us something important here. It shows us that these verses are related and they help us see the main purpose of this first section. Half of the stanza, which is that we need God to show us His way. In the first parts of verses 25 and 28, and I just showed you that they're related in terms of their poetic structure. We see that our need is desperate. See what it says in the first part of verse 25: My soul clings to the dust. This phrase is used elsewhere in scripture to describe someone who feels Close to death. It's as though they are already in the grave. How can a person feeling this way ever pull their head up and look away from their worldly circumstances? Toward heaven. Their soul is clinging to the dust, to the earth, to the world and to worldly happen. And I don't mean to imply here that such a person is intentionally preoccupied with worldly pleasures or pursuits. Rather, let us recognize that those so afflicted that their soul clings to the dust Have great difficulty ignoring their constant suffering. Think of it this way: how often do you give a lot of thought to breathing or to sneezing Or to coughing, or even to laughing. These are just involuntary things that happen. We don't we don't think about it and then do it. It just happens and then in a second it's gone. But if you've got a broken rib or two, you give a lot of thought to your breathing. Every breath makes itself known to you Coughing and sneezing, they're no joke. In fact, jokes aren't even a joke because if you laugh, an unexpected laugh when you have broken ribs, it could just lead in Into agony. All of us, at some point in our lives or another, to some degree or another, have felt like this. It's not the same in particulars, but Generally, we can relate to feeling as though our soul clings to the dust. And similarly, we can relate to the first part of verse 28. My soul melts from heaviness, or another acceptable Translation is my soul weeps from sorrow or grief. There's a term some use that you might recognize. The weight of the world. You ever heard that? that term? Do you ever feel like the weight of the world is on your shoulders, or at least the weight of your own life? Life just can't be ignored. All of its trials and sufferings, all of your decisions and everything you have to do, all of your coming and going, they can weigh us Down. Well, here the psalmist describes the result as melting or weeping. Think about those times, if you've ever experienced this, where you just collapsed Have you ever had so much stress that you just can't withstand what your life has thrown at you? You just can't keep yourself together. You feel like you're melting. You're like water. Just pouring out. You can't hold the family together, you can't hold the job together, or whatever it is. It's a desperate situation. All of us Are in this desperate situation, in desperate need because of the difficulty of our lives. So notice that the psalmist doesn't leave it there. He doesn't leave it there in desperation in either of those verses. In the second part of these verses, we see from his pleas, the psalmist's pleas, that which alone can satisfy our desperate need is God's will Word. He says in twenty-five, the second half, revive me according to your word. His soul was so burdened, so weighed down that he felt like he could die. But he cries out. He pleads, Revive me. Older translations, quicken me. The point here is he's asking God to make him alive again, to give him life. And thank God the psalmist knew what he needed for such revival so he could write it down for us. We could see it here tonight. The only way to be renewed in our lives is to be transformed by God's Word, according to His Word, according to the promises that God has made in His Word. Being confident of this very thing that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. The second half of verse 28 shows us, he says, strengthen me according to your word. If the weight of the world is on your shoulders, it seems to me that you have only three eyes. Options. You can toss it off, you can be crushed by it, or you can carry it. And we can only toss off so much, even the most resilient and efficient, and ordered and organized of us. Even them, even those people have a breaking point. May not seem like it because you don't see it, but even they have a breaking point A point where it all comes crashing down, yet somehow you still have to keep going. The ultimate tossing off of the burden of life is not an option for you, Christian. Christians. It's not an option for the one who believes that God is in absolute control, that He is sovereign over all things, and that He is working even the worst of scenarios for good for those who love God. I suppose then that you could just be crushed by the weight of the world, by the weight of your life, but it'll still be there. The burden of life doesn't leave. It's always on us. And if you allow yourself to be crushed by it, it's just going to hinder your service to God, your worship of God, your loving others as yourself, or your loving God. With all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. It's really hard to love God and to love others and to love ourselves when we are constantly So we must, if we are to do the third option, We need a strength that though it may not remove the burden of our life, it comes It comes from outside of us. It comes from God. So being strong to carry the weight of our life doesn't add more burden to it. It's strength from God, not strength from ourselves. The source of our new life gives us strength to withstand the weight of the burden of life. That's God's word. That which revives And that which strengthens. And strengthened according to God's Word means strengthened by our active engagement in God's Word as you read it, as you sing it, as you meditate on it. And it means strengthened In the way that God's word reveals. We are strengthened in ways that will glorify God, strengthened to keep his commandments and to serve him with our lives. And the psalmist here shows us that God God receives and strengthens us to stay on his path, to follow his way. We see that our desperate need is met by God's gracious guidance. He gives us his way. Look at verses 26 and 27. God's ways are higher than our ways. In verse 26, we see that by God's grace he guides us. Look at it. The first half says, I. I have declared my ways, and you answered me. The psalmist has shared his plans with God. He has confessed his dreams and his goals before God. He has declared his ways, which is another way of saying that That he's not trying to hide anything from God. Rather, he's trying to test his plans, his ways, against God's ways. So he continues, Teach me your statutes. Having declared his way and gotten his answer, the psalmist realizes that the only way that matters is God's way Way. And the only way to know God's way is for him to teach it to us, for him, in his grace, to give it to us. So what else can we do? Can we do no more than a psalmist? Well, yes and no. No, in that you must cry out to God. You must beg him to teach you his statutes. Just But we do have something more than the psalmist, don't we? We have this We have the Holy Bible. We have the Word of God, and it is wholly sufficient for instructing us in what we must know about God and what He requires of us. If the psalmist were here tonight, I ask you, would he weep for joy that there are so many Bibles here, that we all have Bibles, and that we all have this capability Of reading and understanding it because of the advances in education that we have? Or would the psalmist weep for sorrow at discovering how poorly We know God's Word. Even though it's here, it's there for us, and we have the ability to read. In verse 27, we see that God guides us. Through his word which shows us his way. Verse twenty-seven, the first part says, Make me understand the way of your precepts. To know God's way we have to know what he commands. We have to know his precepts, his to Testimonies, his commandments. God's way is his law, and all that he has revealed about himself and what he desires of his people. That is Where we find God's way. It has all that He has promised to deliver in fulfillment of His covenant that He's made. So the Psalmist keeps going and 27, the rest of that verse, so shall I meditate on your wonderful works. All that God has done, his wonderful works reveal who he is. We are given this record where In his word, in the Bible. We see in the Bible from the beginning that God created the heavens and the earth from nothing, that God made man higher than the other creatures, and he made him specially in his image and Knowledge and righteousness and holiness. We see him sparing Noah his wrath. We see him choosing Abraham, pulling him out of Ur of the Chaldees. We see him hearing the plea Of his people and freeing them from Egypt. Need I go on? From the beginning to the very end, the whole Bible is full of God's wonderful word. And we are blessed by meditating on all that he's done. But what good is it to have heads full of knowledge About God and what he's done if we don't love him. If we don't love what he has done. We can memorize his statutes. We can legalistically follow every commandment in Scriptures and yet not experience the blessing that comes from following God's way. To take God's word seriously and to remain steadfast despite the weight of the world, despite the burden of life, we must receive What God gives to us. His way is shown in his word, but in addition to this, we need hearts that will cling to his way. We see this in the second Half of the stanza, verses 29 to 32. Verses 29 and 30, we see that the psalmist prayer once again shows us something about God's way. We see it in the first half of these verses. Both first half of 29 and 30 show that it's not a false way. But God's way is the way of truth. He says in 29, remove from me the way of lying. And this could also be translated: remove from me the false way. Every time we follow our own path, our own plan, we are lying to ourselves. We are pretending that we are God. And this is why it is so upsetting when our plans fall apart, or our view of our life, or who we are, or our trajectory has been redirected. We don't like being reminded that our way is not the way Way. We must beg God again that He would remove the false way from our minds and our desires. We must be rid of the false way and devoted. To the way of truth. He says right there in verse 30, the first part, I have chosen the way of truth, the changed heart. The heart changed by God is committed to truth. The Christian loves the truth and flees the false because there is no lying, there is no false way in God. One who seeks to follow after God cannot follow any way but the way of truth, because as we see In the second parts of these verses, the way of truth is God's way. Look at the second half of 29. And grant me your law graciously. It's God's law, his revealed word, that fills the place once held by the false way. As we saw before, it is a gracious gift of God that He has given His way to us in His Word. He didn't have to give us his word. He could have left us lost and helpless, with our souls clinging to the dust and melting from sorrow and grief, from the burden of our lives. But God has given us his word. So what do those who love God do with this gracious gift? Look at the second part of verse 30. Your judgment I have laid before me. To put something before oneself is a sign of importance. It is putting something in a place of primacy, the way of truth, God's way given to us. And his word is always before the Christian. It influences our thoughts and our words and our deeds. It is the focal point and the foundation of the Christian Christian life. This should sound very familiar to us. Do you remember what Moses said in Deuteronomy chapter 6? And these words which I command you today shall be in your heart You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, and when you rise up. You shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as front lifts Between your eyes, you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. That sounds a lot like keeping something before you continually, doesn't it? But notice in Moses' words something crucial about where God's commands, where his testimonies, his laws, his precepts, where his way must reside. It must be in our hearts. God's laws and precepts must live in our heart. And so it is necessary That Christians have a heart that clings to God's way. The gracious gift of God, a heart that clings to God's way. And we see this in the last two verses. thirty one and thirty two. In verse thirty one, the psalmist shows us that a heart changed by God is steadfast in clinging to his word. He says, I cling to your testimonies. You recognize That word? Even in the original language, it's the same word that's used in verse 25. He who previously said, My soul clings to the dust, who was basically ready to just die, he now proclaims, I cling to your testimonies in the same way. This is the restorative power of God's word, putting His way, the way of truth, at the forefront of our lives is the result of recognizing the desperate need for God to show us His way, and committing ourselves to knowing his way as revealed in his word. So the psalmist then says in verse 31, or uh finishing out for verse 31, O Lord, do not put me to shame. Or we could think of it this way May I never be put to shame or let me not be put to shame. I don't want you to think that this is something that the psalmist is saying Saying, like, he hopes he's making the right choice. That's not here. This is a faithful declaration of God's trustworthiness. He has promised to bless those who keep his way. For the Lord will again rejoice over you for good as he rejoiced over your fathers. If you obey the voice of the Lord your God, to keep his commandments and his Statutes which are written in this book of the law, and if you turn to the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, that's Deuteronomy 30, verses 9 through 10. And the last thing I want to point out to us, brothers and sisters Verse 32, it makes it absolutely clear that a heart which clings to God's way is the result of His gracious gift. He says in 32, the very first part, I will run the course of your commandments. And this is the idea of our lives, right? And we've seen this elsewhere. When specifically talking about living according to God's way, in the Bible our lives are described as running an endurance race. We just heard it in Hebrews chapter twelve. I wouldn't be surprised if the author of Hebrews was intimately familiar with the book of Psalms and this Psalm in particular. Right? He says, Let us Run with endurance, the race set before us. Running the course deals both with the scope and the distance of the race. It is the full course. Okay? The psalmist is not going to skip any part of God's law. We should not skip over any part of God's precepts or his testimonies. There's no shortcut in following God's way. And the Psalmist here, like we should, he's gonna run the course of God's commandments to the very end. He's not gonna falter. He won't quit. It is all Of God's commandments for all of our lives. So the psalmist ends this stanza giving us the how of all this. How is it that he follows God? God's way? How can we follow God's way? How will he meditate on God's wonderful works? How will he choose the way of truth and cling to God's testimonies? How will we be able to Run the course of God's commandments. What's that last part of verse 32 say? For you will enlarge my heart. Heart. The Lord will increase your love for Him and for His Word. He will give you the heart capable of following His way, capable of clinging to his testimonies, capable of being revived by his word and strengthened to endure the burdens of life. Do you recognize that it is God alone who can make you into the person you are meant to be? It doesn't come from 140 hours of Bible study each week. It doesn't come from a commitment to make yourself The best person you can be. It is a gift from God and it requires only that you recognize your desperate need, your absolute helplessness. Before him and accept his means of dealing with brokenness and sin. You must follow God's way with the heart that he makes alive in you. So we can rejoice, brothers and sisters. It is entirely up to God. If it were up to any one of us, even in this room There would be no church. If it were up to our righteousness or how good we are at planning and making things happen, we know that the church would be non-existent. Because we know ourselves. We know how often we fail. Even when we give it our best. We desperately need God to show us Show us his way. We can't arrive at the necessary conclusions just by observing the world or the universe, nor can we have any assurance that what we are following is God's way if He doesn't show it to us. He must define it. He must make it clear. And he must deliver it unto us. The Bible, the holy Bible is miraculous. To see how the Lord has preserved it, how he's transported it, how he's protected it, how he's translated it for There are those who would seek to cause you to be concerned about the different manuscripts and the different evidences But ultimately, and we can have a deeper conversation about this if you want, it really doesn't matter which side you come down on. text all this stuff. It really doesn't. Because in all the discrepancies, in all the manuscripts that we found, not one of them, not a single one of them Changes any of the core doctrines of the Christian faith. You know what most of them are? Variations in spelling. Because, I mean, codified spelling is a new thing. That's a modern concept, right? I think it's new with with like the Oxford English Dictionaries when people said, hey, there's a right way to spell a word. Isn't it amazing what the Father has done through the Lord Jesus Christ? Jesus is the one to show us his way. He is the way, the truth, and the life. That is precisely what he was sent to accomplish. Through his words, his authoritative teaching, we have a new Hermeneutic. And that's a big word that just means a lens through which we can understand the scriptures, especially the Old Testament. By Jesus' action. He showed us what the Father is truly concerned about in his people. By his zeal, we see the power and the significance of God's revealed word. None of it will pass away, all of it is for God's glory. And for the benefit of God's people. It is the gospel. From the first information about who made all things to the last exhortation about how seriously we are to take the revelation of God. But Jesus doesn't just point to God's way, which he certainly did do, the Son of God, by his incarnation, by his perfect life His perfect obedience even to the death on the cross, his resurrection and his ascension through his redeeming work, you are made New before God. You are given a new heart, a heart of flesh, a heart upon which the law of God can be written. A heart which can be, because it's purified by Christ's blood, the dwelling place of the Holy Spirit. Only with a heart purified. by Christ's cleansing blood, can we cling to God's way? Which is the only option for us. But what about after our conversion? A lot of that may sound only like it's relevant to the non-believer who needs to convert. What about after we've been given the new heart? Well, brothers and sisters. Sisters, we're still burdened. Life is still tough. Our souls will still cling to the The dust, we will still melt in our souls from the weight of the world bearing down on us. We will feel like there is nothing else for us but the grave. And it is precisely at this point that we must do as the psalmist does and beg God to give us the ability to turn to his word to follow. His way. We must beg God to remove the false way from us. Now hear me. We can do this even in the midst of committing sin. I'm serious about this. While in the very act, while you're in the act of sinning against God, cry out to Him. Cry out to him to remove the falseness from you, to remove the lie. I have to respond to them in anger. I have to lose my temper, or they won't take me seriously. I have to flip out at those little brats, or they won't do what I say. I have to do this. I can't concentrate. I must have the release. If I can just get the release, everything's fine. I don't have a choice. I have to lie, or they will not like me. They won't trust me. They won't love me. Cry out to God and see what happens. Even in the midst of your sin. Cry out to Him, teach me your statutes. See what happens. Cry out to him, make me understand the way of your precepts, and see what happens. Cry out to him, strengthen me according to your word. And lastly, brothers and sisters, we must have hearts that will not abandon Not a laziness issue. It's not even a learning issue. We don't cling to God's way because it's a love issue Beg the Lord to enlarge your heart, to give him a greater love for him, that you could love him as you should. Because we can't We cannot love ourselves, we cannot love our neighbor as ourselves, until we love God with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our mind, and our strength Brothers and sisters, we need God to show us his way. And we need to rest on him to give us a heart that will not stray from it. Please pray with me. Our gracious Father in heaven, holy, holy, holy is your name. Your kingdom is coming and has come. It is your will that will be done on earth as it is in heaven. We need each and every day for you to provide us and to provide for us. Because it's never by our own strength or our own power that we have what we have. And help us, Father, to recognize when we are sinning, when we are straying from your way or causing others We pray, Father, that you will protect us. That you will keep us protected from the enemy and his minions. And that you will deliver us from all of the temptation that besets us. We trust this because it's your glory that we seek. It's your Power that we need. It is your reign that is forever and ever and ever. So we submit to you. We submit to your word Word, we thank you for it. And we beg you, Father, that this heart you have made new, you have cleansed by the blood of Jesus Christ, you would enlarge it, that we would cling to your ways. And never stray from you. We have prayed this in the name of your Son, our only Savior and Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. We now go into a time of prayer, and I apologize that it is going to be a truncated time of prayer because I spoke for too many times. But we will pray now. I'll leave it open to you. I'll start us very briefly. We will pray. Keep in mind what the sermon has said and keep in mind the sermon, uh the prayer requests that have been sent out to all of us And when it starts to slow down, I'll stop us and we will sing together a hymn from the hymnal. Let's pray. Father in heaven. What a gracious gift you've given us that we can come to you through the mediator Jesus Christ with confidence that you will hear us, for your word has promised it. We come to you now, the people people of Severn Run, your people at Sevenron EP Church, asking you to hear us for the sake of your sign. And those who would bear trust in thee Nor dead nor hell shall arch the way through thy brand buttons that way to know That truth would be that life to win who eternal Amen. I'm going to go ahead and pray for the food and if Pastor Jesse would come up here to give our beneficiation. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for For this meal that you have provided for us, where all things are provided through you. We ask, Father, that you will not only bless us through the eating of it, but the fellowship we have around it Let those who in their circles have a made it form to have fixed set everything else. We crazy God the circles that they're came up Amen. Now receive the Lord's benediction. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ And the love of God the Father and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all. Amen.