Deuteronomy chapter twenty-six and we're going to stand for the reading of God's Word. It's uh verses sixteen through nineteen this morning. We've come a long way, folks. We've come a long way. We're coming to the tail end here of Deuteronomy. You'll see in chapter twenty-seven that we're getting ready to move into the curses. And the blessings. But this morning I'll read Deuteronomy 26, verses 16 through 19. This day the Lord your God commands you to observe these statutes and judgments. Therefore, you shall be careful to observe them with all your heart and with all your soul. Today you have proclaimed the Lord to be your God, and that you will walk in his ways and keep his statutes, his commandments, and his judgments, and that you will obey his voice. Also today the Lord has proclaimed you to be his special people, just as he promised you, that you should keep all his commandments. And that he will set you high above all nations, which he has made, in praise, and name, and in honor, and that you may be a holy people to the Lord your God, just as he has spoken. Me in prayer. Father, we thank you for this great promise here. We pray that the promise would be fulfilled in the hearing through Jesus Christ. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Please be seated. Family and marriage and friendship, just to name a few, are our closest ties in our lives. But you have to admit something that's equally true, and that is that those same relationships and more tend to be the most difficult. Don't you agree? If we don't relate well, over time we can become separated We can become separated from our families. We can be separated from our spouses. We can be separated from our friends. Each of us has a heartache in regards to this. And with each unresolved conflict, you've heard me use this metaphor before, we lay down a brick. The brick of betrayal. The brick of someone who never listens to you. The brick of anger, the brick of money mismanagement, the brick of rejection of who you really are, the brick of dashed hopes All of these bricks are laid down in our relationships, and you know what happens when you have that many bricks between you? Well, it becomes a wall. And they all become cemented together by bitterness and resentment. That honestly is how many of our relationships evolve over time. It can be between family, it can be between a husband and wife, it can be friends, siblings. We've seen it all. I bet you you could think of right now in your own life how that's happening in multiple ways You would think, here's an interesting thing about being human, humans You would think that once the wall is up, that we would just sever the relationship and just say enough is enough. And it is true that we sometimes do that. But you know what we do most of the time, and you could just observe this yourself. We stay in the relationship But it becomes a relationship where we're just cooperating in the same space until we die. In other words, we keep the peace. And you've already heard me say it. I'm going to call this a contract for the sake of a distinction today in this passage That we have before us. I'm going to call co-operating together a contract. We mutually are with each other, but there's no real love, there's no real friendship. We're co-operating. Now this happens at the workplace because you go home from your workmates and they're not a part of your identity or your real life. You just have to go to work with them And then the workday's over and things move on. So we've all got to get along. And so HR doesn't help us to become a family. They just make sure that the workplace is always intact and we're not killing each other Well, that's a contract. But you know, there's a different kind of relationship out there. It's the kind of relationship that we see within this passage this morning, and it's called a covenant. It is not a cooperation between people. It is love. It is genuine enjoyment. It is not a place where you are just included, it is a place where you truly belong. Are you, as you look across the landscape of your relationship, How many of them are contracts? And how many of them are true covenants? What about your marriage? What about your friends Covenant or contract. If you've adopted a child, would you describe your relationship as a contract contract of cooperation with them, or would you describe it as a loving covenant? What about with God? Are you in a contract with God or are you in a covenant? You can begin to see the distinction between Now due to the ancient context of Deuteronomy I bet that many people, when they read through Deuteronomy, they think that God is making a contract with them. You just do what I tell you to do, and you follow my laws, and I'll stay off of your back. We can cooperate in this cosmos if you just follow the Ten Commandments. But I hope that you see Deuteronomy differently. I mean, we're coming to the end now, and I'm expecting that you've you've really got Deuteronomy under your belt here. Deuteronomy is the record of a loving covenant between God and His people. Just as much, no, more, than a loving covenant between parents and an adopted child, than a loving covenant between a husband and a wife. Those are but shadows of what God has established with his people. And the recording of that is present here within Deuteronomy And the summary of it and the declarations of it are in our particular passage here this morning as we start to come to an end of Deuteronomy. We're really right on to the to the tail end here. We're going down the slide And so that's what we're considering this morning is our covenant with God. Our covenant, and I want to look at this under two parts. The passage really shows us a summary of the covenant, or a covenant summary, and then the declarations between the two parties in the covenant. And I really pray that you can see the difference between a contract and a covenant, and I pray that the Spirit would work in you to where you are really in love with God and enjoying him. So let's take a look at this under two main parts, the covenant summary and the covenant declaration. It begins in chapter 26, verse 16. That's where we see the summary. This day the Lord your God commands you to observe these statutes and judgments. Therefore, you shall be careful to observe them all with all your heart and with all your soul. This sounds really familiar, doesn't it? Well it was repeated earlier within Deuteronomy, particularly in chapter twelve. What we have here is a bookend Or the fancy word is an inclusio. Now, the purpose of the bookend is to indicate that everything that has been said since chapter 12, all the way up to this point, is now being summarized And then we have this verse. The verse literally encapsulates everything that has been said. You shall observe all of the statutes, you shall observe all of the statute the judgments, it covers everything that we've been talking about for months now. This day the Lord your God commands you to observe these statutes and these judgments. And then to show you a further summary and bookend, there's a reiteration of an earlier summary, and it's the Shema. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your mind and with all your strength and with all your soul, and you shall love your neighbor as yourself, is the way that Jesus puts it. But when we get to this point, rather than when we were early on in Deuteronomy, we have a much fuller understanding of it. That's what happens when you go through all the details and then you summarize. And so when we look at this summary, we know from the context, for example, what love means. It means that from the heart you will obey all the statutes and the judgments. That's what love looks like. Statutes and judgments, they're not the same idea with different words. A statute is a law inscribed on stone, like the Ten Commandments in chapter 5 of Deuteronomy. The judgments are those which have been decided. And we saw all of those within the case laws as we went through the rest of Deuteronomy. And the two terms, therefore, are a summary of all of the laws that we have heard to this day in Deuteronomy. And so what you have here in verse 16 of chapter 26 is Is a single verse, but in reality, it is everything that we have done condensed. In other words, it's a summary of the whole covenant that He has laid before this group of people that he has laid before us in its general equity. Now that's the covenant summary But that's just the beginning. It's just a restatement so that everyone would remember what we're doing. And now we're going to move into a time of covenant declarations. And that's the second main division that we have here Here in this passage. And that begins in verse 17, and it's going to go all the way to the end. The first declaration is seen in verse 17, and it's a declaration of God's people to God. Notice that we're really dealing with two parties now. Today you have proclaimed the Lord to be your God. And that you will walk in his ways and keep his statutes, his commandments, and his judgments, and that you will obey his voice. And then we move into the second party within the declaration of the covenant, and now it's a declaration of God to his people, not his people to God. And so this is in verses eighteen and nineteen. Also, today the Lord has proclaimed to you to be his special people, just as he promised you, that you should keep all his commandments, and that he will set you high above all nations, which He has made in praise, in name, and in honor, and that you may be a holy people to the Lord your God, just as he has spoken. In this covenant are not equivalents. There are a lot of things that God doesn't say to us that we say to Him. He doesn't say, I will always obey you. We say that to him. But nevertheless, you can see the formalization of this covenant in these two declarations. Now, this last declaration that we have here could be misunderstood in a lot of different ways. Yeah, and let me get to that in a minute. I just want to make one more final point about the declarations themselves. Do you recognize the format of seeing the alternating declarations? Is there anything in your life that it reminds you of It's very similar, and I hope you recognized it to our marriage covenant ceremony. Both parties, if I were doing the marriage, would say, I would say, before God, I would say, repeat after me. Before God and these witnesses, I blank, thank you, blank, to be my wedded husband. To have and to hold from this day forward, for richer, for poorer, and sickness And in help to love and to cherish until we are parted by death. This is my solemn vow and covenant with you. If I have married you, you have said those words And then it would go to the other party, and they would say that, but they wouldn't say husband, they would say my wedded wife. Deuteronomy has different wording here, but the same kind of thing is happening You must not reduce this formalization, this moment of formal declarations to a contract. You must see it as precious as a like a marriage covenant. It is still an expression of love. But you know the declarations that we see within Deuteronomy are quite different. You'll notice, for example, what do you make of this part in the declaration on God's part where He's going to give us praise, a name, and honor? It could be easily misunderstood by us Americans. Where do you see those words today on TV or in social media? To what are they associated? And does God really promise to make us that? Does God really promise us that we will receive praise and honor, that He's going to set us high above all nations? In other words, if we were to read this just with our cultural lenses, God is going to make you a celebrity. But that's not the meaning of the declaration. That's not what those terms meant when God said them to his people. Not in the way that we understand celebrity, anyway. Praise, for example, has the sense of to one that you would give thanks. So it's saying that somehow people would give thanks to the church And the world will give thanks to God's people, not because they are celebrities, but because of what they bring by Christ and His Spirit to the world. It will be like a fruitful tree which the world can eat off of. I mean, how else do they hear the gospel, the greatest of all fruits, except through the church? Or you can take the example of fame, for example. Fain in the context here in the scriptures, and you can especially find these words within the book of Proverbs. They're quite helpful in limiting the meaning. We will not be famous like movie stars. That's not God's promise. But our name will have the fame of good deeds and health that we bring to the earth That's what fame is. It means that you are a valuable contributor to the community. And it's the same with honor. Honor is the glory that a community attains through the goodness that they bring. And that's the kind of thing that we see here in God's declaration. In other words, the declaration is really another way to say what Jesus said: You are the light of the world. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. See that? It's the same kind of thing that's going on here. What we witness then in this passage is the formation of a covenant. The covenant is summarized. And for example, with a repetition of the Shema, love the Lord your God. Also with statutes and judgments, so that we would remember not only the commandments, but all of the case laws. The beginning of that summary says, The Lord your God, and you would remember all of salvation history that had been relayed not only in Deuteronomy, but even in Exodus and in Numbers. But that's what we have first, is a summary. And then, as I just took us through, we not only have a summary, but each party in the covenant gives a declaration of their vows to each other. This ancient passage is similar to the covenants within our day. And I use the covenant of marriage as an example because it does remind us of love rather than a contract. But you know I could equally, and I've alluded to this already, I could allude to the covenant of adoption as equally true. And I'd like to do so because we have such a high percentage of those who have adopted within our our congregation is beautiful. This is especially seen. I I've just received a uh a note from from someone explaining to me uh when a person adopts children of different ages What can happen when the child is older when you adopt? And it varies from state to state, but at least by the age of fourteen, not only must the parents vow to the child, but the child must vow and consent to the parents And so it does become a picture of what we see here within Deuteronomy. Adoption also. Nevertheless, we must acknowledge that whether you're an Old Testament saint or you're a New Testament saint. You don't enter into a contract of cooperation with God. That's the whole point of bringing up the analogy of marriage. The analogy of adoption is for you to see what this is supposed to be like. But be but because since it mentions law, you could think it's a contract, but really this is a covenant A covenant that is just as dear and intimate and moving and glorious as the marriage of husband and wife and child and adoptive parent. More so. Those are but shadows of the relationship that God's people have with his God. Do you believe me? That God has called his people into this kind of a relationship called a covenant. It can be extremely difficult for us to view it this way because In God's covenant, he spends a long time talking about laws. In our culture, laws and love do not cohabitate. That's the way our culture sees everything. Love is boundless and it's lawless in our culture. And that can come over and seep into the church, and we can think that where there is lull, there is a lack of love. That you were just trying to use me or abuse me, or it's a you have a power trip. And this is where we need some work, especially if we're really going to understand this as a covenant between God and us, his people. For Jesus himself, in speaking of love, says this in John chapter 14, verse 15: If you love me, do you know what you'll do? That's my paraphrase. Keep my commandments. Isn't that surprising? Isn't it surprising to us, at least within our culture, that that's how God Himself used love? He doesn't say, Jesus doesn't say, if you get into a contract with me where we just cooperate He's speaking about a covenant here. In a covenant, the reality of it is that law and love hold hands. They are meant to be together. They kiss. Because the laws are the embodiment of love in every relationship. Haven't you seen that? Maybe it is that you have in your mind a wrong conception of love. Law. Do you not remember how beautiful the law is within Deuteronomy? And how precious the things that God has been saying? On what it means to love God and to love your neighbor and how He loves you? The law and love hold hands. Think of some of the laws that we went through, and especially in the case laws, and they're just unfolding the different aspects of The Ten Commandments. You love by upholding the dignity of the poor. Because the laws are the embodiment of loving the poor. You love by upholding the dignity of the vulnerable, for example. You love God by keeping people safe and by not exploiting or betraying each other. You see, there's rules in the relationship. You don't exploit me if you love me. Isn't that true? That's what it means to be in a covenant. We search for ways to bless and give. Those are the positive requirements of the commandments to put it away that we've seen with In the sermon series. Not many think of law as love and as blessing, but that's because our culture and even the church have misused the law over time. Christ Himself faced these same problems. If you don't mind, turn to Matthew chapter 5 and take a look. We'll just look at a few verses here. I just want to show you the kinds of things that Christ faced. And dealing with law. In chapter five, verse twenty-one, for example There are these repeat this is the beginning of repeated phrases that Christ will give. You have heard that it was said to those of old. You heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not murder. But I say to you And that will continue. For example, take a look in not only Matthew 21, but look at verse 27 now. It's going to mark each paragraph. It's the same statement dealing with the law. And then verse 31, same statement dealing with the law. You've heard that it was said, but I tell you. Same with verse 33. Same with verse 38. Same with verse forty-three. And all of this is Jesus correcting a misunderstanding of the heart of the same laws that we just learned here within Deuteronomy. The leadership had misunderstood You know, oftentimes when you think of a Pharisee and a Sadducee, do you think they are more conservative with the law or more liberal? Answer that in your own head. Are they loosey-goosey with the law, or are they conservative and hold it to exactly as God intended? Most of you would say that they are more conservative. But Jesus is saying here, you've missed the point. You're more liberal with the law. Jesus is the conservative here. All of this is Jesus correcting a misunderstanding of the heart of the law. They had begun to take the law, and it had turned into a knife that they would stab people with. Or a club that they beat people over the head in order to be able to take their money so that they could fulfill their selfish ambitions. Is that the intent of God's law within his scriptures? To take advantage of the vulnerable? You can't take care of your parents because you have to give your money to the temple. Jesus brings that up later in Matthew. It was a cultural example of how they had twisted the law. The Pharisees started using the law not in love for God or for neighbor, but for power and selfish ambition. And we are very familiar with this. Have you ever met anyone, namely any politicians, who use lull to gain selfish ambition as opposed to a help America? Do you know anybody that's like that? Well, that's what those people were like. And Christ stood up against them and was bringing people back to their senses, and the people were amazed at the authority with which he would teach these teachings that had been handed down. There are movements, there are politicians that do not help America, they only help themselves, and that has been across the board the the History of the human race. And Christ rose up and spoke then, and he has risen now, and he continues to speak against such use of his law because law is in a covenant. Not a contract to selfishly abuse people. Because the law and love, they hold hands, they kiss. Christ came And he is still king. And he is showing his church how to love God and to and how to love neighbor. And all of this is called lawful loving and living. It is through Christ that the church will grow, continue to grow, will never be snuffed out. It is through Christ that they will grow specifically in their fame, in their honor, and in their benefit to this world for what they bring that God has taught them in this covenant. Christians through Jesus Christ. All of the bricks in the wall between you and God are taken down through Jesus Christ. Think of all of the unresolved conflict and all of the sin. And it was all cemented together by your carelessness and enmity toward God. Think of the wall between you and God naturally. Well, Jesus Christ tears down the wall, reconciling you and God together and you and other Christians together. Jesus Christ takes down all the bricks in the wall between you and God, and God, in grace, has made through Jesus Christ a covenant with you to where you will no longer remain in those sins. But you are learning how to love. You are learning how to love God, and you are learning how to love neighbor. Because that's the covenant. And when you reach glory, you will be famous, you will have honor, all an embodiment of love. Love for God and love of neighbor. The question before us this morning is: are you acting like you and God are in a cooperative contract? Do you just obey everything on the surface so that your conscience is relieved from ever thinking about God? That's called cooperating in the same space. You're not really living in love together. What if you're married? And let's say you're a husband. And your wife asks for you to do these particular things. And you do them, not because they will bless her, but so that you never have to hear her voice again so that you can do whatever you want to do. That is called a cooperative relationship. That is not a covenant of love. A covenant of love if she's asking you to do lawful things. Of course, would do them as a blessing to her and as a blessing to the family. Do you see the difference? It is not what Christ is inspiring within us through the illumination and guidance of the Holy Spirit as we stay in step with the Spirit. No, we are in a covenant. And it gives great meaning for us to be able to pronounce that He is our God and we are His people. It should feel the same way as when you're standing there and you're getting married and you're saying, You are my wife. And she says, You are my husband. And you've been waiting so long for that to happen. Or it should feel that same way when you have been waiting for what seems like a lifetime To adopt a child, and finally, on the day that you can, your daughter or your son is presented to you, and you say, You're my boy, you're my girl. And they grow up and they start calling you mommy and they call you daddy. Daddy, that's the covenant. It's not a cooperative relationship. And that's the same feeling, it is the same thoughts that should be present as we read Not only this passage, because this passage is a summary of all of Deuteronomy. But as we read all of Deuteronomy, let us remember That it is God the Father through Jesus Christ that makes us his people, and he is your God. Please pray with me. Father, this is quite difficult. There's a lot of thoughts going on here. But Lord, I do pray that you would help us to see the difference between being in a contract with you and being in a covenant with you. And I pray that when we begin talking about law, we wouldn't impulsively slide over to always thinking that we're just in a non-loving contract I pray, Lord, that you would teach your church that law and love go together, that they hold hands and that they kiss. And I pray that you would help us to glorify you by obeying you and at the same time to enjoy you. And I pray, Lord, that you would help this congregation to know how much you enjoy them. Lord, sometimes we get the feeling that you're always just looking at us with a look of disappointment. But we know, Lord, that we are your bride. And that you delight in us. That even while we were sinners, we sent Christ to die for us. And now, united in Christ, you have glorious plans, and you have made glorious commitments, and you have done everything for Jesus Christ to make our union possible. What shall tear us apart? There's nothing. Neither death nor life can separate us from your love in Christ Jesus We thank you in his name. Amen