Now I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. Also, there was no more sea. Then I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. God Himself will be with them and be their God, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more pain, for the former things have passed away. Then he who sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new And he said to me, Write, for these words are true and faithful. And he said to me, it is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give of the fountain of the water of life freely to him who thirsts. He who overcomes shall inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he shall be my son. But the cowardly unbelieving, abominable, murderers, sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars, shall have their part in the lake which burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. Please pray with me. Almighty God. What a glorious vision you have given to our brother John. Thank you for telling him to write it. Thank you for preserving it through the ages. Thank you for bringing it to us here this morning. With your word, we We are so weak and feeble and frail. We are so unwise at times, and we do not know exactly what you are saying to us, and so we need you, Holy Spirit, to show us. To speak to us through your word here this morning, to guide us into all understanding, enlighten our minds in the knowledge of Christ. And I pray, Lord, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock, my strength, my redeemer In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. The Sunday after Christmas, it's a good time to talk about treasure. Some of you received new treasures just a few days ago. Gabriel's wearing his. In our household there's a a young man who just loves tractors. They are his treasure. Everything tractor. He adores them. I want to ask you, brothers and sisters, what is your treasure? Is it that new shiny pickup truck? Is it the 4. 5 GPA? Is it the scholarship? Is it the job? Is it your family? What is your treasure? In just a few weeks, Pastor Jesse is going to be preaching from Matthew 6, verses 19 through 21, where Jesus teaches us a very important lesson about treasure. I'm just going to read it, just to remind you all what he says. He says, Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Where neither moss nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also A well-known Bible teacher and scholar, D. A. Carson, says of this passage that it's often easily misunderstood. As though that's a passage talking about the heart. As if what Jesus is saying is, make your heart right, and then you will have treasure. That's how you earn your treasure with a good heart. And some of that is true and spoken of elsewhere in scriptures, but right there he's not talking about the heart so much as he's talking about the treasure. And Jesus teaches that where your treasure is, where you have secured your treasure, that's where your heart is Where is your treasure? When you have a moment to yourself, where does your mind go? Where are your dreams and fantasies and hopes? For centuries, the church has called this the beatific vision. The vision of absolute blessedness that is yours in Christ Jesus. A vision of being blessed by God. Is that your treasure That final blessing that he has secured for you. God knows that we need his help in this regard. He knows that this is going to be a challenge for us, and so he gave the Apostle John the entire vision that is the book of Revelation. In essence, a cosmic history laid out before us tells of all of the things that have occurred since the beginning, of the enmity of the seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent. How all of that plays out. The raging of Satan and his futile attempts to escape judgment. But here in this final moment of the vision, these last chapters, well there is something so glorious and magnificent. It is the treasure. of Christians that is described for us here. And it has been my prayer that through this passage all of us would be encouraged. In our hope and encouraged in our joy, encouraged in our peace and in our love by this glimpse Of true treasure. I have prayed that we would see that the believer's certain future is one of unimaginable blessing. Christians, your certain future is one of unimaginable blessing. And we're going to look at this in two ways this morning. First, we're going to look at the believer's certain future. That's from verses 1 through the beginning of verse 6. And then we will see the believer's blessed future in the rest of the passage. We look now at the beginning of Revelation 21 and see the believer's certain future. And what we see here in verse 1 is that the future is shown. It's a vision. Now I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. The future is new. It's a new cosmos. It's a new universe. And do you pick up that it's gonna be it's gonna be similar to this one? But it won't be the same John uses the only words that he can use to describe what he sees, heaven and earth, a new heaven and a new earth. It's like the old, but it is not the same. It has been renewed. The term earth has new meaning to John in what he sees. The term heaven means something new to him. And though it is a new cosmos that he sees, it is not a new concept. It's not even a new concept to the New Testament. In 2 Peter chapter 3. Peter tells us in verse 10, But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in which the heavens will pass away with a great noise. And the elements will melt with fervent heat, both the earth and the works that are in it will be burned up. Therefore, since all these things will be dissolved, what manner of persons ought you to be in holy conduct and godliness? looking for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be dissolved, being on fire, and the elements will melt with fervent heat. Nevertheless we, according to his promise, look for new heavens And a new earth in which righteousness dwells. It's not a new concept to John. But it's not a new concept to all of God's people at all. In Isaiah chapter 65 He says clearly. Verses 17 through 19, For behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and the former shall not be remembered or come to mind. But be glad and rejoice forever in what I create. For behold, I create Jerusalem as a rejoicing, and her people a joy I will rejoice in Jerusalem and joy in my people. The voice of weeping shall no longer be heard in her, nor the voice of crying. What is the certain future for you, Christian? It's a future that God's people have been looking forward to forever. He will be pleased and rejoice over his people. All the former things are gone. All those first things All the things that mark this estate of sin and misery In a way, John reiterates this by telling us that there was no more sea. He's not talking about the water cycle. He's not talking about The ocean itself. It's not as though the the earth in and all planets in the new cosmos will have no large bodies of water. That's not what he's talking about. He's speaking figuratively. Because the sea has, in all of human history, been known as a place of danger. Place of instability. It never is the same. It's constantly changing. A storm on the sea brings great fear to the disciples. You remember that? In Revelation itself, the sea is The place from which all of this evil springs, the beast, rises up from where? Out of the sea. In the new heavens and the new earth, brothers and sisters, there is no chaos, there is no more disorder, there is no more instability, there is no more changing and waves that you need to survive. For God has made the new heavens and the new earth superior to the first heaven and the first earth. John tells us he sees the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God. Prepared as a bride. Boy, this gives us such wonderful imagery. It's a holy city. It's holy. It's set apart. Later in this chapter, he describes in great detail as the angel measures the dimensions of the city, and I'm going to surprise every single one of you by not nerding out on all of that. I'll tell you, enjoy it. Look into it yourself and see just how massive, unimaginably huge this city is. It's a city. Why do you think he tells us it's a city? Well, a city is where persons, where people congregate, where people are gathered together. The certain future for you, Christian, is not one in which you will ever again be alone. There is no loneliness in the new heavens and the new earth, because the holy city of God is filled with his people. An innumerable host of angels and men, spared by God, saved by him, to enjoy his creation forever. This coming down out of heaven from God, it it made my mind turn to Ephesians 1, when we're told that all things in heaven and on earth are being gathered together in Christ. Everything is being united in him. And it tells us that this holy city is precious to God. It's like a bride adorned, made beautiful, without blemish, purified. God loves this city. God loves his bride. God loves you, his people. And that is why he has done all that is required to secure your place in this city, this blessed new Jerusalem. Well, that's what John saw. And the future is shown to us through what he has recorded. But praise God, he didn't just leave us with John's interpretation of the vision. There's a loud voice in heaven. We're not told who that voice is. But that voice explains this future. I couldn't help but imagining that uh John was seeing this vision. And an angel came over and said, John, John. Pick his jaw up off the floor. John. Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. And he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. This is what he saw, that God is making his dwelling with men. No, we have just rejoiced in Christmas. Emmanuel, God with us. A beautiful truth. This is God bringing us up with him. That was God coming down, condescending, taking on the form of a bondservant, taking on flesh. But at this time, we will be brought to Him, God's dwelling. Where he calls home is your dwelling. It is your home. Do you notice the covenant language there? It is that same promise that has been throughout the scriptures, God's presence. God will be with his people. But it's more than that. You are God's possession. You are his people. He owns you. He treasures you. Jeremiah thirty-one in the statement of the new covenant We've read it a lot as an assurance of pardon. Nothing wrong with reading it again. He says this. But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord. I will put my law in their minds and write it on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. No more shall every man teach his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they all shall know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them, says the Lord, for I will forgive their iniquity And their sin I will remember no more. Christian, is that your treasure? That the Almighty God who creates all things, who sustains all things, it is his joy and pleasure that you would belong to him That your sin would be forgiven, that it would be remembered no more. He shows us the triumph of light, the triumph of life in Christ. Verse four, he says, And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. I love what is communicated to us. That it says he will wipe away every tear. You gotta wonder why does he say, I'll wipe away every tear? And then he says there will be no more crying. It's because every pain that you have suffered, every sorrow you've experienced in this first world, will be wiped away. He will not remember your rebellion. You will not remember your rebellion. I won't ask for a show of hands because I'm sure it's similar for many of us. You ever get plagued by things you've seen in your past? Are you ever overcome when you think about just how foolish you have been? Has a conversation from twenty years ago popped into your brain and you felt the shame of what you said to set to that person? All of it wiped away. All of it is gone. It has no bearing in your eternal future. And so that helps us see now that when when we are enduring suffering now, it's worth it. No matter what you're going through, it's worth it. Don't let it dominate your life now because this is but a small sliver of the life you have and will lead. A life that will go on through the last day. Forever with God. Don't let a little bit of it ruin the whole thing. Even now, and I don't know what some of you are going through. Some of you may be very ill. I know that some of you have had a hard year. It's worth it. It's worth it. Because no matter how hard it's been, it will be forgotten. It'll be wiped away. The beauty is that he is starting this now. He's starting this. That's what we celebrated with Advent. Joy to the world. The Lord has come. There's no more death, no more sorrow, no more crying, no more let sins and sorrow grow, nor thorns infest the ground. This is what Jesus Christ has accomplished. And though it is not fully consummated now, though now it's just a taste of that blessing. Do you know what the Christian's certain future is? It is the fullness of that blessing It is the consummation of that blessing. All the first things are gone. Sin and misery and rebellion and rejection. God. And I've been saying it, but here the word proves it. It is a certain future. It is not conditional. If there's a part of you in your mind out there thinking, well maybe it'll be like this. Read these verses, starting in verse five. Then he who sat on the throne said, Behold, I Make all things new. God is the one who does this There is no mistaking it. It's not at risk. It's not as though this vision that John had is something that could be. This is what is. It's hard for us. We are so linear in our thinking. We go from past to the future. We travel in one line. But for God, who is outside of time. What does he tell us? He says, it is done. It stands as having been completed. There is nothing that can get in the way of it. And that's why our assurance of pardon is so powerful from this morning. What can separate you from the love of Christ? Not even you. If you belong to him, if he is your God and you are his son, you can't separate yourself from him. You are not powerful enough to overcome his will for you. He knows that we need this, and he tells John, write it. Write it down. For these words are true and faithful. True and faithful. What else can be described? Who else can be described in that way? John had to write it down because it is as sure as God Himself exists that this is the future that He has planned for you. You can build your life on this rock. You can build your life on the fact that all things are being made new. That God is doing this for his glory and for your good. When he says it is done, it's an interesting Greek construction. It's literally it has become. It is real. This is the reality. And brothers and sisters, this is the reality in which you live. It harkens back to John chapter 19 verse 30. What does Jesus say when he's on the cross? It's finished. And that is our hope that what Christ has done has indeed accomplished his Father's holy will. that there will be a perfect people with him forever, enjoying him and glorifying him forever No more pain, no more sorrow, no more death. He swears upon himself. That's virtually what is happening here when he says, I am alpha and omega. I am beginning and end. Alpha and Omega that encompasses all things in between. There is nothing that can come up That will stop this future from happening. Nothing at all. And this is the longing of every human heart. This is why there's so many stories about utopias and things being wonderful and everything being made right. It's why we enjoy movies with happy endings. It's because the longing of our heart is that this broken world would be done away with. And that we would get to enjoy personhood and life. Without all this nonsense and all this mess, without all these thorns and thistles. To enjoy a life where we never again have a statement that something is bittersweet It's all sweetness. It's all wonderful in this glorious future that God has secured. This future is certain. God will accomplish all his holy will. His promise cannot fail. His covenant promise from the beginning will not fail. All things are being made new. Nothing can get in the way of that. You are being made new. If there's anything about yourself that you wish was different, It will be. There's anything about how you interact with people Some of us have have trouble thinking about being around large crowds of people. Our heart beats really hard. We start to sweat. And it doesn't end when we're around those people. No, afterwards we then have to do a Perusal of every word we spoke to every person in every tone with every way, did we mess it up? Did we hurt their feelings? Did we say something false? Imagine how awesome it will be to interact with human beings and have none of that. No anxiety. No fear of failure. The Christian's future, the believer's future is certain. Your future is certain And your future is blessed. Look at the rest of verse 6. I will give of the fountain of the water of life freely to him who thirsts. Everlasting life, eternal life freely given to him who thirsts. Do you hunger and thirst for righteousness? Do you long to be pure, to be holy, to be free of sin completely? Our final hymn, take a look at it. It's talking about the saints in glory. Look at verse three. These are they who have contended for their Savior's honor long. Wrestling on till life was ended, following not the sinful throng. These who well the fight sustained, triumph through the lamb have gained. Are you one seeking diligently to follow Christ and not the sinful throng? Are you thirsty to be like God? Are you thirsty to be righteous as He wants you to be righteous? Holy as He is holy. In Christ, this is your reality. And he gives it freely. I love this word. It has so much connotation in the Greek. He gives this without cause. Nothing you can do can make him give this to you He does this gratuitously. He doesn't hold any of his blessing back from you. He gives it freely. He gives you this everlasting life freely, and it's based solely on his plan, which has been accomplished in Jesus. We get life straight from the source. Right from the spring. It is an everlasting future. What a blessing that is. And it is a victorious future. He who overcomes. Shall inherit all things. It's the same word that Paul uses to say that we are more than conquerors. It's not just overcomping overcoming. You conquer. You conquer yourself By the power of the Holy Spirit, your worldly way of being, your mundane treasures are conquered and overcome. It is not to say that you must make yourself sinless before God blesses you in this way. Remember, this is what God is doing. He is purifying you. He is adorning you and preparing you for this marvelous future. And it is a bountiful future. You inherit all things. Have any of you experienced lack this year? Needed more of something. More resources. More time. More patience. What have you lacked in this blessed certain future? You will lack nothing There will be nothing. It's not as though you will simply have no desires. Of course you will have desires. What you will want is what God wants for you. You will not want anything that you don't have. No more envy. No more covetousness. And we see in verse seven also that it is a beloved future. The blessing is that you are beloved of God. Perfectly loved forever And then the last thing we see in verse eight is that this is a holy future. It's interesting that he puts this this list of these sin categories. But the cowardly, the unbelieving, abominable, murderers, sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars. shall have their part in the lake which burns with fire and burnstone, which is the second death. What a hopeful statement. And I mean that sincerely. It's hopeful. Not because we in this room are perfect and none of those terms apply to us. It's because the beauty of the gospel is that such were some of you. We were this way. But God makes us new. God makes you no longer a coward. Why do you think he says coward first? I think it's a blessing to that first century church. Because if you're going to overcome what the world is going to throw at you for Jesus' sake, you cannot be a coward. You must have great courage in this reality that God is your Savior and that salvation also means judgment. Because salvation comes through judgment. The judgment of sin. Think about what happened to Jesus. He is your Savior because he died on the cross, bearing your sins. You are saved because your sin has been judged, and it has been judged perfectly and completely in Christ. This is a beautiful future for us. And so anything that He could call us to do Any sacrifice he would call you to make, any suffering he may ordain for you to endure It's worth it. It's worth it. It's more than the light at the end of the tunnel. I don't even know if light can describe it. It is a glorious and blessed future. And so I leave you, brothers and sisters, with the words of Habakkuk. At the end of Habakkuk, when he has been telling the people of God, oh, things are gonna get bad, and then things are gonna get worse. But as if you have forgotten who it is that is doing this. This is the great I am. This is the Almighty God. And he says, though the fig tree may not blossom, nor fruit be on the vines, though the labor of the olive may fail. And the fields yield no food. Though the flock may be cut off from the fold and there be no herd in the stalls, that sounds pretty bleak and desperate, doesn't it? Yet I will rejoice in Yahweh. I will joy in the God of my salvation. Brothers and sisters, secure your treasure by falling on Jesus Christ and resting in him and his accomplished work. Know that the future is certain. There is nothing that can change God's will for you. And know that it is blessed. It will be better than anything you could ever imagine. This is what our God has done. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. Please pray with me