Just open your scriptures. We're looking at Ephesians chapter 1. I did read 1 through 14 last week, and I'm only going to read to verse number 6 this week. We're stepping through this Long sentence that the Apostle Paul has here for us. And so I'll read for us, I'll just start at verse number one and take us to verse number six. Paul an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God to the saints who are an Ephesus and faithful in Christ Jesus Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love, having predestined us to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to himself According to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, by which he has made us accepted in the beloved. Let us pray Heavenly Father, I pray that you, of course, would be glorified here in the preaching of your word. I pray, Lord, that your people would see the beauty of being made your sons and daughters. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. You may be seated. I think everyone knows that during my senior year of high school I was selected to go to the juvenile detention center, the Hickey School. It was um I was the only one in my entire senior class who was selected to go. That's the one way of putting it. My point in bringing that up to you is while I was there, I would I would go and there were people that were there before I was, and so everybody was kind of serving out their sentence at a different timeline. I remember being quite surprised when I uh had heard that uh there was a young man uh we used to work out together while we were in there and play sports together and he only had about ten days left. His de his ten days came up. He was so excited to be able to return home. And I was excited for him because I still had pretty much all of my juvenile delinquent time ahead of me. And when he uh it wasn't but about a week that we had heard a report back that in going home he was shot and killed. And um part of that was explained in some of the details that I knew of his life. And that is that he returned home to a mother who was addicted to drugs and to a father that he did not know. Now I know that there are a lot of things that go into our life on why things happen. But undoubtedly in that particular situation and in many other situations, you can see where family actually makes a really big difference. Would he have ended up in the same kind of death situation if he lived with a mother and father of sound mind who had been making inroads to s to supply a nice environment for him? Is environment everything? No. But family really does make a difference. I'll share with you a little bit of a different story towards the end of the sermon, but that's the first story in just demonstrating the difference that family can make. It's important for us to recognize as we head off into this portion of Ephesians. We're taking our time and going through this first section of Ephesians because it's so thick. This is like molasses, really. And so like molasses, we should take it slow. And we want to look at each of these parts. And the way that we're doing so is we're trying to understand All of that that Paul is writing here about God, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit in his kingdom, by the phrase, in Christ. Now last week we looked at in Christ in terms of basically our vocation. We saw that the Apostle Paul was called as an apostle in Christ, and that we as uh Christ's followers, Christ's people, that we are saints in Christ. And what that means is that we have been called to a particular calling A particular identity, a particular purpose has been given to our lives. It has been determined for us, even predetermined, in Christ. If you want to read that outside of Ephesians It's all over the place, but in Ephesians you could see it even more explicitly in chapter 2, verse 10 of Ephesians. Well, that was last week. Well, this week we're moving on and we're seeing not only our vocation in Christ that we are called to a specific life. but that we are family in Christ. And that should not roll around in your mind this evening as just another fact for you to store away. The goal really, I really hope that the Holy Spirit accomplishes, whether here tonight or as he continues to teach you, that you would see how much of a blessing it is to be a part of the family of God. Uh far more of a blessing than even it would have been for that boy to have a family to go home to in Baltimore City. Uh being a part of the family of God is a blessing and And God deserves our praise for it. That's really the message of the sermon. That being a part of God's family is a blessing, and God deserves our praise for making us a part of it. I want to look at the passage under three main parts: the fatherhood of God, the family of God, and the praise of God. The fatherhood of God, the family of God, and then the praise of God. We'll begin in verse number two. We really only spent we spent I think all of our time in verse one last week Surprising. I was a little surprised by that when I got to the end of the sermon. I said I only did one verse. Thank you so much for their patience, Lord But today we get a chance to get into verse number two, and that and verse three, verse two and three really show us something that we can overlook pretty quickly just because we're so used to it, we can take it for granted. And that is that as saints, which was established in verse number one, that as saints, God has made himself our Father. You see that there? Grace to you and peace from God, our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. Now I'm going to compare that to verse number three in just a moment, but before we go away from the Fatherhood of God that is seen in verse number two, one of the implications here is you notice that the Apostle Paul says, our Father. It immediately alerts you to the kind of esteem or the benefits that you have received by being a part of the family of God. You know, one of the implications here is that the apostles are your brothers. Or they are your fathers in the faith. In other words, they are your family. I can't think of a more prestigious family to be a part of than to have in your family the apostles themselves. As saints, God has made himself our Father, and that includes the Apostle Paul. I want to draw your attention to verse number three at the same time, though, because it's important for us to be able to acknowledge That there is a difference between the fatherhood of God with us and the fatherhood of God with Jesus. Now I'll talk about the similarities here in a moment, but the first thing is just the difference. We don't see passages about us in the same way that we see about Jesus as God's Son. I won't belabor this. I'll just point you to John chapter 3, verse 16, a very well-known verse. It says, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. You're not his only begotten daughter, and you're not his only begotten son. That is unique to Jesus. But nevertheless, God is called father of both. And I don't want you to feel like you're being short-changed on that. And I want you to feel I don't think it would r really although there are fundamental differences in that Jesus is of the same essence with God, I don't want you to think that actually, and this might be a surprise to you, I don't want you to think that he actually loves you less. Let's just stop there for a moment. Do you think that God loves you less than Jesus? Now just record your answer. And I know whatever if you said, yeah, God definitely loves Jesus more than me, I know you're trying to be respectful, but I would encourage you to remember the high priestly prayer in John. And I wonder if this is exactly what you need to hear this evening about the kind of love that God has for you. Listen to the high priestly prayer from John 17, verses 20 through 23. This is what Jesus prays. He says, I do not pray for these alone, but also for those who will believe in me. through their word. So he's not just praying for himself. He's not just praying for the apostles who are with him. He's praying for all of those who will hear the apostolic word. You You've heard the apostolic word. And Jesus continues in his prayer here, and he says, all of you basically, that you would be one. That they all may be one as you, Father, are in me, and I in you Already we're moving into this mystery where we have been, because of being in Christ and saints being invited into the fellowship of the Trinity itself But he continues and he says, that they also may be one in us, that the world may believe that you sent me. And the glory which you gave me I have given them. That they may be one just as we are one, I and them, and you and me, that they may be made perfect in one, and that the world may know that you have sent me and have loved them As you have loved me. Now you could put that just in terms of the if of you. Jesus is praying that the world would know that God loves you. as he has loved your brother Jesus. Now that's not erasing the differences like I mentioned between being only begotten or not only begotten. But nevertheless, you should see that there is a kind of love in Christ and being invited into the fellowship of the Trinity itself, where we can say with John 17, 22-23 that God the Father would love us as He has loved Jesus. Now that is astounding. You know at this point when a when a preacher has quoted a couple different verses and has said some words about them so that you would understand them, they would then drop into some kind of an application or an illustration or some kind of a story. But with this kind of truth that is laid before us, it would be nice to just sit here for a moment and ponder the fact that God the Father loves you like he loves Jesus. I can't think of a more astounding thing to tell you. And I will say that I only I don't know what percentage I get, but I get a very little of that in terms of really being able to understand that kind of love that the Father has for me. But there it is. So here's the application. Let that think in Let that sink in. And may that sink in for us this coming week. Maybe if it did sink in, maybe our prayers would change when we say our Father. Maybe there would be a kind of trust in him if we knew just how much he loved us Well, that's the fatherhood of God that we see there in verses 2 and 3. This idea of father of course it's not far-fetched to then see that father means family. And so that is the second main point I want us to consider in this passage and under the family of God. And it's basically this, that God is our father. Because in Christ, God the Father is fulfilling his purposes of making himself a holy family. Now that's quite a mouthful, so let me say that again. God is our Father because in Christ, God the Father is fulfilling his purposes of making himself a holy family. You can see this in verses four and five. This idea that God is making himself a holy family through Christ or in Christ. It says, just as he chose us in him. before the foundation of the world, well why did he do that? That we should be holy and without blame before him in love Okay, and how is it that he accomplished that? Having predestined us to adoption, that's a family term, as sons, and feel free to go ahead and add daughters there also It's really the same thought, sons and daughters, by Jesus Christ to himself. And if you were to break that down, you basically have that God the Father has chosen us in Christ before the foundation of the world. Christ will be the head. And it is in Christ that God is forming a family. Adopted sons and daughters. They have been, we have had a status change. Yes, of course we still sin, but in Christ, we are, it says here in Ephesians, we are saints made holy. and without blame. Now that you could just call that a justified status. And then that final thought is that we are adopted or formed into a great family in Jesus Christ. Now I think one way to think about this is to compare what God the Father is doing with the family with Jesus Christ as the head. And compare that to what God the Father was doing with Adam as the head. And it's fair for us to do Because when we get to Romans chapter 5, we see that the Apostle Paul himself wants to teach things like that. He wants to talk about people being in Adam Or people being in Christ. There's that in Christ thing, but it's also talked about as being in Adam. Now there's a lot going on with that particular thought, but we could use it at least now for an illustration for us to be able to understand. We look at the beginning of Genesis and we see that God is going to form a family by way of Adam and Eve. He says to them in the Dominion Mandate, Be fruitful and multiply. And that wasn't difficult to understand what he meant. There was no mystery there as to what it meant for them to be fruitful and multiply. It means it meant, at the very least, have children And there would be this kind of family that is formed by way of natural generation. Well, in God's providence and in all of his wisdom, we understand Due to the choice of Adam and Eve, that family ended up not being called where God was the Father By the words of Jesus himself, he says, really, who has become your father is Satan. The devil has become your father. You look more like his children than mine. But God did not leave the human race in sin, but has decided to send a redeemer. And the redeemer now is by the grace of God being given a family, but it is not by way of natural generation. It's not the same be fruitful and multiply that was given to Adam and Eve. It is by way of supernatural generation. generation, or you could even say by re-generation. Now there are a couple passages that point this out. Another way of saying this, this is how the Apostle Paul would say it is You are sons and daughters of the Most High or of Abraham by faith, not by way of natural generation. It is by faith through grace, actually, not by way of natural generation. I don't care what your ancestry. com came back as. That's not what will determine whether or not you are a part of God's lineage What will determine that is, as you can see in this passage, his election for you to be supernaturally regenerated. And there are particular passages that point that out. For example, in Romans 8, 14 through 17. Joe, this is of course one of your favorite passages. In Romans 8, 14 through 17 it says, and speaking about us as God's children, for as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are the sons of God. For you did not receive the spirit of bondage again to fear, but you received the spirit of adoption. Same thought as we see within Ephesians. We have received the spirit of adoption by whom we cry out, Abba, Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ. If indeed we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified together. And then another famous passage in just pointing out what it will mean for to be in Christ and to be a part of his family, and that it is not natural generation like it was in Adam. In John chapter 1, verses 12 and 13 it says, But as many as received Jesus To them he gave the right to become children of God, to those who believe in his name, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but only by the will of God. And that is how the family is being formed. And that is why it is said that the family is in Christ. That we are a family in Christ. That is the fatherhood of God, and that is what God is doing even from eternity. He is forming a family in Christ. That is his purposes. as we see in verses four through five. And that brings us to the final point, which is where all this is leading. You really at this point you could say, okay, God has made himself our Father. And since we all have the same Father, really what we see is that God is forming Himself even before the foundations of the earth. He is making a family in Christ. Verses 4 through 5. And then you could ask the question, well, what is he doing all of that for? And this might seem anticlimactic to you, I'm not sure. This is meant to be the climax, however, in the teaching. You see in verse number six that he's doing all of it to the praise of his glory. God's ultimate goal of us becoming a family in Christ is the praise of his grace. The praise of his grace. If you can see that there in verse number six, it says To the praise of the glory of his grace. Verse number six If you start in verse 5, it says, having predestined us to the adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will, to what end, God, to what end? Well to the praise of the glory of his grace. Now this morning we had the opportunity to look at glory, didn't we? And what we're discovering is that glory is a word that covers many different ways in which God reveals himself to be glorious. or to be great. It means that God is the superlative. He is the one who outshines anything else. He's always the brightest. This morning we got an opportunity to see the glory of his resurrection power, that he is able to bring life like no one else can bring life. In fact, he's able to bring life at such a level that he calls himself the resurrection and the life. That's how he identified himself in that passage. Then when we went to the table this morning, we were able to see the glory of the kind of sacrifice that he was willing to make in order to bring health to his people, to bring life to his people. You weren't ransomed From death and your transgressions by something that was cheap. But instead you were ransomed, Peter tells us, by the blood of Christ Himself. And we saw that in the supper And here another kind of glory of God is being revealed. And it is the glory of his grace. That's the point here. It is the glory of his grace. Now, what kind of grace do we see? What kind of grace has been a part of verses 2 through 6? His grace in making us his children. His grace in making us brothers and sisters in Christ. His grace all bound up together. And all of the grace that we would see, all of the benefits, all of the heavenly blessings that he mentions in this particular passage, they all are meant to be bound up. We are to see them, and it is, if we are in our right minds and in our right hearts, it is meant to elicit from us praise. to our God. And the reason why I say that is let's not us let us not forget how this entire sentence begins. Look at the top of verse number three. This is not just any sentence. The whole sentence begins in verse number 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. The apostle himself is setting for us a normative example of exactly what this news should elicit for us. It should elicit from us praise and thanksgiving for what? for the grace that is given to us in being a part or being made a family in Christ That is the praise, that is the reason for the praise that is given to us here. And that's our verses 2 through 6. You have the fatherhood of God. You have the family of God. You can see what Father what our Father is doing is he's forming a holy family in Christ. And all of this is to his praise, to the praise of God. Now, I began the sermon by telling you of the the story of that young man who was released from juvenile detention into basically no family. And the result was that he ended up being shot and he was killed. It wasn't until later that I began to reflect on the fact that just like him, I was released from juvenile detention. But I was released to a different family. I was released to a family that was still concerned about me, who wasn't addicted to drugs. who was working responsibly, who was trying to figure out a way for me and even a path forward. But then even in that There were still problems. It was not until I was introduced to the family of God that the real blessing begins to flow and I could see the grace of God. You know when they tell when you leave a place like that, you know what they say to you? They say if you're going to be successful, which means this, it means you're not going to end up back in here. And you're not going to end up dead. Then you need to do three main things. You need to change the your people, you need to change your places, and you need to change your things. And the people was a big one. And what God had done for me in his grace was he didn't just send me back to the same family from natural generation. He sent me back to the family, which is the church. I attended a Bible study. They heard some of the things that I was going through. And a gentleman reached out to me and asked if we could begin meeting for coffee and talking through what it actually means to be a Christian. We spent so much time together, I actually moved into his apartment. And from there he encouraged me to become a member of the church. And everything started to change as God brought me into his family. And I had my brothers and sisters to take me further and further away from death and into life. Now I have, after I had that time of juvenile delinquency, I went to my father and to my mother and I thanked them for the work that they had done and the care that they had shown me. And according to this passage, you know what else I should be doing? I should be giving praise and thanks to God for the family that He has provided. If my human family was that important and worth thanksgiving to God, how much more is the family that we are to each other in Christ? All of us having the same Father, the same spirit, the same faith. Should lead us to praise our God. I'm not so sure that that's always our first thought. I'm not so sure that God is surprised by that either. When you look on the pages of the New Testament, a lot of the times like ninety percent of the letters are taken up with family members bickering with each other who are all members of the family of God. But we see here the direction that we're supposed to be headed with what God is doing. We're not just a conglomeration by way of randomness We're not stones that happen to fall together. We're stones that are being built together as a temple in Jesus Christ. And God in his grace has given you each other, if you were to look around Your brothers and sisters, he has given you each other as an act of his grace. He has given you each other as an act of his grace. I would say that if you don't if you see what the passage says, but you don't feel any significance from it, then I would encourage you to enter into prayer and ask the Lord to sanctify your own heart. That you would be able to set yourself up like the Apostle Paul in verse number three, and you would be able to start and end your days and say, blessed be the God and Father. of our Lord Jesus Christ for the family that He has created and that He has made me His son or daughter and given me the sisters and brothers that I have. May that be our aspiration, and may that be the sanctification that Jesus Christ works in us by his Holy Spirit. May praise come from our lips for the work that he has done in creating this family in Christ. Let us pray.