Let us turn to the preach to the Word of God and diligently attend to Colossians chapter three. We will be looking in chapter three And I'm going to focus on the first four verses, but everything is so intimately tied together. That I'm going to read through the um down to 17 because it's it's just so tight. So let's begin in chapter 3 verse 1 together. Please follow along. If then you were raised with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth. For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, appears, then you will also appear with him in glory Therefore, put to death your members which are on the earth fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. Because of these things the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience But now you yourselves are to put off all these anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy language out of your mouth. Mouth. Do not lie to one another, since you have put off the old man with his deeds, and have put on the new man, who is renewed in knowledge according to the image of him who created him Where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcised nor uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave nor free, but Christ is all and in all. Therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, put on tender mercies, kindness, humility, meekness, long-suffering, bearing with one another, and forgiving one another. If anyone has a complaint against another, even as Christ forgave you, so you also must do. But above all these things, put on love, which is the bond of perfection. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also you were called in one body, and be thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Singing with grace in your heart to the Lord, and whatever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. Amen. prayer. Father, we ask that these words would that we'd be that we would be able to hear. In Christ's name. Amen. I remember growing up at the dinner table, my parents would say, Eat your vegetables. And my reply would be, Do I have to? And their reply, Which I still don't understand, was it'll help you grow tall and strong. And for me to drink milk so that my bones are strong. Is that true? Yes, that's true, Judah. That's true. Eat your vegetables. Uh we hear people saying things like that to us and Paul is saying something like this in Colossians. He's not concerned about vegetables except insofar as they don't matter in terms of uh helping us against the indulgence of the flesh or or food laws. But he is talking to us here about growing tall and strong. On the front of the bulletin, we chose the word maturity Chose that a while back. That's Paul's focus. It's strong in the Christian life. How is it that we are to grow? What are the obstacles that we face as Christians? Paul is seeking for maturity for the Colossians actually in a quite difficult situation. You know, they're a new church plant. It's difficult as a new church plant. Ask a church planter And Paul is not physically present with them. He is absent in the body, he says, and he's uh or in the flesh and and he can pray for them and he can write letters to them, but he's still not physically present. And to top it all off, there are some people in Colossae That are giving the church false information. Worse than that, they're encouraging them away from Jesus Christ and his Teachings. This has been marked out for us. This is what chapter two is all about. It's been marked out by these warnings that Paul has given. If you just put your finger just so you can Paul gives another warning in 16, let no one judge you in food or drink. They're not the arbiters. Jesus is Or festival or new moons or sabbaths. We've spoken about all these things. And in 18, let no one cheat you of your reward, the third warning. Paul was very concerned about what was going on within this church. He was concerned about their maturity. And in verse 20 of chapter 2, if you remember, he summarized, saying, all that these folks teach, the misinformation that they give you, relies on the wisdom of this world, basically. And powerless religion. Don't turn to that. They were tempted. There is an appearance of wisdom In worldly religions, when someone is wearing an orange robe and they shave their head, there's something in a human being that makes them think that looks wise, and they would climb a mountain to find wisdom from them. But Paul is warning us, it may look that way. It is a temptation. But don't give in to the temptation. These are just worldly religions with no power against the enemy. The question then rises, and we started to look at this last week, but the question rises once we hear Paul tell us what not to do. The question rises, well, what are we to do? And we started answering that last week, but as we get into chapter 3, he's going to unfold that in great detail. Worldly solutions and bare religious regulations have no power. What does have power? What would allow you as a Christian to grow tall and strong? And if someone asked you that, what would you say? The word is a good answer. That's good. And I'm not sure what other people said, but I'm sure those were good answers too. Well, the Holy Spirit, I want you to see this real quick where we're going. The Holy Spirit will teach us this in 3, chapter, all of chapter 3, down to chapter 4, verse 6. In chapter 3, verses 1 through 17, he's going to show us all about church life. And in chapter 3, 18 through 25, I'm not preaching on all this tonight, don't freak out. In chapter 3, 18 through 25, he's going to show us about home life. And in chapter four verse one, he's going to teach us about work life. So we'll learn all about what the Christian life looks like in those domains. Tonight we're just beginning with chapter 3, and it's the first four verses. And I want to look at the basis of the Christian life, the focus of the Christian life, and the hope of the Christian life. This is all about the Christian life, about walking with our Lord. As he said in chapter 2, verse 6. And so let's start with the basis of the Christian life in verse 1. If you then, if then you were raised with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God. The false like the false teachers, many religions believe that growing tall and strong happens through religious exercises. I'm not talking about Christianity. I understand that in a way Christianity is a religion. Think of all of the different rituals that are out there, all of the religious exercises that have gone on from the beginning of time with man. Paul has told us that these mere religions have no power. Rather, the basis of growth for a godly life, a truly religious life, a truly godly life, is found in this passage in two opposite phrases. You were raised with Christ, verse 1. And then notice in verse 3 he says, you died. You died with Christ. These are two opposite phrases that actually run through this verse, and this is the basis of the Christian life: being dead with Christ and being raised with Christ. You can see these phrases elsewhere in chapter 2, 11 and 12. If you want to flip with me, I just want to show you this theme. In him you were also circumcised with the circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the sins of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ buried with him in baptism And it's no it's also in chapter 1, verse 13. He has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of His love. He's talking about the same there, same thing there. In both of the examples, and in the example in Chapter three, they all have something in common, most generally. It is a moving from one realm or place to another realm. I want you to notice that first. That you have been raised. You were not raised, and then you were raised. That's a movement. There's a translation that's happening. You were buried, but then you were raised. And these are symbolized. In baptism, but there is a there's some kind of travel that's going on here in the passage, something that happens as the basis of the Christian life. You travel from death and burial to life and resurrection, another voyage that we take. And the phrases are difficult. But there's a main point, and the main point is that there is a change that is the basis of the Christian life that must take place. There is a transformation that must happen. The basis of the Christian life, what Paul is teaching, is Jesus Christ through his Spirit moving you from one existence into another existence. That's what he's meaning by these phrases. That's a bit abstract. That's tough to get your head around. And and I'll be honest, those verses are tough to get your head around. You really Need to meditate on those. This is, in fact, what he's teaching. If you were to look through the rest of the scriptures, and I'll just mention a few, of this translation that takes place, this movement from one existence to another to the other, you see it all over the place. And this is what Paul has in his mind, this change that is the basis of the Christian life. For example, we've already went through a series of the book of James. Think of all of the changes that are present there and how he represents it. He contrasts the heavenly life and the foolish life, the demonic life in the heaven to the heaven. life. And these are are words that are representing two existences. You can think of Jesus too in speaking the Nicodemus, can't you? you? As he speaks about being reborn, and that word there could be reborn, it's ambiguous. It could be reborn or born from above. And the fact that Jesus goes on to talk to Nicodemus about the Holy Spirit leads me to believe he has both on his mind. Reborn from above. And in Colossians, there are the same contrasts. Take a look at verse 5 of chapter 3. Therefore, put to death your members which are on the earth. You see that existence? The earthly existence. Or you can look at verse 10 and have put on the new man. Do you see that? There's a translation, there's a change, a transformation. That's taking place as the basis of the Christian life. The existence of each kind of person, then, as I read all the way down to verse 17, the existence of each kind of person is enumerated There is a list of things that go along with the lifestyle of the earthly existence, the city of man, and there is a list of things that go along with the heavenly existence, the city of the heavy man. Of God. And that's what he's talking about here. The basis of having either one of those existences is that something took place that Jesus Christ did through his spirit. We call that rebirth, we call that birth from above. We call that regeneration, being a part of the new heavens and the new earth, the new creation. We say we went from being the old man, as Paul says here, to being the new man. Those are two realms, two ages, two existences. And that's what's being represented here. He's encouraging us that we have been, in fact, raised with Christ. This church at Colossae had been. They demonstrated faith in Christ. The Holy Spirit had been given to them for that faith. With all of this that I'm showing you, all of the the tidbits of information here, the all of the changes, the the language of change I'm simply seeking to explain that the basis of the Christian life is death to our old existence and resurrection to a new existence and new creation. That is what Paul is teaching. This is the basis of true growth. Without the work of Christ through his Holy Spirit, you cannot grow in your godly life. That is the true Christian life. It is not a religion, it is a resurrection. Many people think that the good life happens naturally, that you have some kind of control over Jesus Christ is both the author and the perfecter of our faith. A work of God raising us to new life. That's the basis. That's the basis of the Christian life. We have to get that. straight. And now there's the focus. You can see this in verse 1 and in verse 2. If then you were raised with Christ, it's talking about having this new existence, well what are we supposed to do? What focus should we have in the Christian life? What is the focus of the Christian life? Well we're to seek those things which are above. Where our citizenship is. Verse 2, you are to set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth. That's not where you live anymore, so to speak. This is the focus of the Christian life that he mentions to us in 1 and 2. Paul is bringing attention to the two different realms of earth and heaven. He wants us to remain consistent. With the change that has been brought about by Christ and his Spirit. We were earthly, and now we are heavenly. You know this w r this this is not anything like what it means to be translated into the uh into God's kingdom, but it it has some similarities. It reminds me of a visit to my grandma or visits to my grandmothers, and maybe some of you have the same experience. At home with my parents, I could go outside and play, and then I could when I'm done playing Playing and the things that I want to do because I had such a rough day, then I would do my homework. Which would mean that I would never do my homework. However, when I would go to my grandmother's After school, I'd say, I'm gonna go outside to play, and she'd say, No, you're not, not until your homework's done. And then I'd say, But mom lets me play, and she says that I can do my homework later. And do you know what my grandmother said? Is it the same thing that all of your grandmother said said she said well this isn't your mother's house you're at my house and in my house there are my rules There's my mode of existence. Paul is saying something similar. You're not earthly anymore. You are reborn by the Spirit from heaven. You're in a different house. And we must focus on the things of We're in Christ's house. In the same way that the people of God used to build the house of Pharaoh, all of his Egyptian monuments, and then he was rescued from God, and now they had to build God's house and God's Way of life, so too have we had our exodus and the resurrection of Christ being tied to his resurrection and our regeneration. And so now our focus is no longer on building earthly houses, our focus is on building heavenly houses. So to speak. You've looked at the list. What does it mean to have a focus on the heavenly way of existence? If you're to just glance at the things that I read to you today, it is beautiful. There's a contrast between seeking the old and the earthly and seeking the new and the heavenly, between setting our minds on earth and setting them on heaven. Notice that it's not just a thought life, though It's not an intellectual contemplation. It is a whole lifestyle. And you can observe if you want chapter 3 verse 5 You could go on, I suppose, observing the passions of this world: fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. But since you have been born again into a new age Into a new realm of existence, then as holy and beloved, put on tender mercies, kindness, humility, meekness, longsuffering, bearing with one another and forgiving one another That's the difference between earth and heaven. It's the same thing in James and all of the other writings of the scriptures. It's the same thing in the book of Proverbs. It's the same thing in Psalms, the two existences. Our focus is to be the heavenly, and our focus is to be the kinds of things that we see here on the list worked out into the specific situations of your life. You can either serve the passions of this world. Or you can serve God passionately. Those are two modes of existence, and he's encouraging you, since you've been born onto God, to serve God God passionately. Have you ever heard the saying, you are so heavenly minded that you are no earthly good? I hope you haven't heard it. But you I mean towards you. I hope you haven't heard it towards you. You know what I find refreshing is that as we're having a discussion of what it means to be heavenly, it means to be good. It means to actually be earthly good, to be of use to somebody else that is around you. You look at the list, it's beautiful. I don't know how Christians got such a bad reputation How that people would claim that we're a stick in the mud when you look at the lists and the enumerations within the scriptures. What's wrong with us? The kindness or is it the humility? Is it the forgiving one another in love? Which one don't we want to be a part of? Is it the singing of spiritual songs onto our God? Is it having a good marriage? Good family life? Treating your employees well? Which one isn't? It's funny how we can trick ourselves into thinking that the heavenly life is a drag and the heaven the earthly life as fun. Paul is here to remind us that that's not true. And so let's take courage again within our hearts and focus. As we are meant to. Let's seek those things which are above, and let's set our minds on things that are above, not on things on the earth. Look at the beautiful list, the enumeration of the things we're called to. This is the Christian life. The basis is our resurrection in Christ. The focus is our new heavenly way of existence, which is very useful. As Paul says to Titus, it is useful to the people around us. Well, lastly, besides the basis and besides the focus that we have, we have the hope. And we can see this. Our final focus here is on verse 4. four. When Christ, who is our life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. The hope of the Christian life is Christ's appearing Return. Do you see that right there? It's as plain as day. I don't even need to exposit that. When Christ, who is our life, appears, so Christ is going to be appearing. And this is the hope that we have before us. That's a bit obvious. It's right there in the verse. The hopefulness, however, of the hope really comes out in the second part. Notice what Paul adds in verse 4. Then you also will appear with him in glory. I want you to think about that second phrase after the comma. Then you will also appear with him in glory. I want you to think about that with me in terms of the context. That we've been seeing. The continuation, chapter 3 is the continuation of chapter 2? Do you remember in chapter 2 when the false teachers kept judging the Colossians? Telling them what was legitimate and not legitimate. They were saying that if they didn't follow their regulations and their earthly religion, then they were disqualified Paul says to them in chapter 2, remember this, don't let anybody judge you. He repeats that twice. Don't let them disqualify you. They don't know what they're talking about. Why? And this is the answer. Because one day you will appear with Jesus in glory. That is his point in this verse. Do not allow them to judge you. Only allow Jesus to judge you, which Paul says in Colossians, or in 1 Corinthians chapter 3. And when Jesus appears, he'll let everybody know his opinion as to who you are and what you've been doing And then everyone will see clearly on that day who was in the right and who was in the wrong in terms of the life that they chose. Here's the point. Right now, people say all kinds of things about followers of Christ. And since Christ has not returned, the followers of Christ are not vindicated from their actions. accusations. That's the problem. Our glory is hidden. Just as this passage says, as Christ is in some sense hidden. His glory. People don't look in the world on Christ as glorious. His glory is hidden from them. But when Christ appears, everything will change. All Christians will be seen as glorious. Right now, as Paul will describe it, and more or less, depending on the age, we're the trash of the earth. But one day we'll be the treasure When Jesus returns. As he returns in his glory, he will show who is truly glorious. Think about that. During Paul's day, the Jews considered Paul and they had a pin. An opinion of him. How did the Greeks and the Jews think of Paul? What did it mean when they stoned him outside the city? What about the other apostles? You know, there's traditions that tell us that the apostles basically went out by being decapitated or being crucified upside down. That's the kind of life. And then you hear stories, and you can read of it in your history books of many Christians being fed to the lions or made into candles And the question is raised. There's a giant question mark. Was the world right or were the Christians right? There's no one to defend the Christians right now. And so the world thinks they're right. Should they have been executed? Should you be ashamed to follow Christ? You see Peter and 1st and 2nd Peter teaching the same thing. People are saying, You tell me Christ is returning. I haven't seen them around. How long have you been waiting? Over 2,000 years? What are you, a fool? Why don't you get a a job where you could just make some money and have some fun now? Those are the kind of things that we would hear. Those are the kind of things that we would hear now. But things will change when Christ appears because we will also appear with him in glory. And the interpretation of all of the events the events will be made straight. Because the only interpretation of all events that will be left is the interpretation Of Jesus Christ Himself. The great judge knows right, he knows wrong, he knows what is real, and he knows what is fake, and he will make it manifest on that day. This is Paul's encouragement to them, and it's Paul's encouragement to us. We will appear with Christ in glory, and Christ will show us to be glorious, and all of the persecutors of Christians will be the ones that are ashamed. That's his point here. And they need to hear this based on all the pressure that they are receiving from those false teachers. They're in power, they have the authority, they're making the money. The Christians aren't. James repeats this same kind of thing about about the rich. And this is the hope of all Christians. When Christ returns, who we really are and what we really possess will finally be revealed You will be changed in an instant, in the twinkling of an eye. C. S. Lewis says, if we could see you now as earthly beings, what you will be like in the consummation of your glory, we would be Tempted to worship you. And that is what is awaiting. Because when Christ appears, we will appear with Him. And I love the preposition. It's my favorite prepositional phrase in glory. This is the beginning of the Christian life. The basis of our Christian life is regeneration by the Spirit. It's not natural, it's supernatural. Our focus The focus of our Christian life is our new heavenly existence, and it shows up in earthly good. And our hope is Christ's return as he finishes his work. And he glorifies you. Let's pray. Father, we thank you. There are so many different works that you're doing in this passage. My eyes are going to the left and to the right to try to keep track of all the work that you're doing. Lord, we thank you for all of your work. We thank you for your resurrection power. We thank you for the basis of our new lives in you. We ask that you would help us as we continue through these chapters in the ongoing weeks with our focus. We pray that we would never lose hope. We would always look forward to your return. And for the glory that will follow. We ask these things in your name. Amen.