Let us now turn to our scriptures to Psalm number 23. So beloved Psalm amongst us. And it is a grace from our Lord Jesus Christ, our great shepherd, that we're able to consider it this morning. If you need a Bible, since your cell phone should be turned off. Then if you could raise your hand, I'll have someone bring it to you. Okay. I'll read the whole s the psalm in its entirety and then we'll we'll pray together. This is Psalm 23. It's a Psalm of David The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He makes me to lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside the still waters. He restores my soul. He leads me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me, your rod and your staff, they comfort me. Me. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil. My cup runs over. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Amen. Father, these words that you have given to David, these inspired words, are so dear to our hearts, and yet they can be so foreign, especially when we're in the midst of Of pressure and pain. But we pray that you would work in us even this morning, that we would be that much closer to truly believing that you are our shepherd. And we pray that that would make all the difference in the world and how we relate to you and to other people. In the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. Do you know what a vignette is? A vignette is a brief evocative description, account Or episode. One gentleman told me that after his father's death, he replayed vignettes or episodes from his childhood and his imagination. He remembers a vignette of cleaning fish with his father, or learning to ride his bike, or holding his first trophy after baseball. season. We're learning how to drive the lawn tractor on his father's lap, that John Deere that was with the family for so long. Those were his vignettes. Each vignette for this man was uh colorful, it was a clearly pictured, uh loving relationship between father and son. That's not always the case for our vignettes. We have many vignettes that cross our minds throughout the day. I wonder in particular, what vignettes you have of your relationship with God. It's okay to start with vignettes of your human relationships, kind of like um Norman Rockwell paintings of vignettes of American life. Or troublesome vignettes that you've had in your human relationships. But I'm asking particularly something that is not always asked. What are the vignettes that you have of your relationship? With God. That's very personal and intimate to ask that question. That's what this Psalm is. To enter into the life of Psalms and to follow David into Psalm 23, we're entering Entering into vignettes between David and his God. And since he is your God, you get to enter into vignettes that can become your vignette. Between you and your God. This whole sermon is about relationships. Each vignette gives a different picture, but they all rehearse the same truth. Those who belong to the Lord shall not want any good thing. Now that's a difficult truth to establish. In the heart of a human being. It will take the Holy Spirit to do so, and I pray that the Holy Spirit would establish that truth in your heart this morning. It'll make all the difference in the world for how you relate to God and to your world around you. Those who belong to the Lord shall want no good thing. Or shall not want no good thing I want to look at this in three vignettes. That's what we have here in the Psalm. Verses 1 through 3 is the first vignette, or 1 through 4, and then we have the table, and verse 5 is another vignette, and then 6 is another vignette. Kind of brings us back to the literal. And so the first vignette has to do with being a shepherd. It says in verse 1, perhaps the most famous verses in the scriptures, that Yahweh is your shepherd, you shall not want. The first episode pictures Yahweh, which is translated here Lord, as a shepherd and David as a sheep. This is a very you notice the intimate and the personal relationship that is going on here. This is not abstract, these are not abstract ideas. This is David unfolding his heart and relationship that he has with God. God. And he's saying that he is the sheep and that the Lord is the shepherd. The details provided actually walk us through the typical day of a shepherd. Which is right in line with David because he was a shepherd before coming into his kinship. It points to something far more significant than shepherds and sheep, though. This is really meant to launch you into the robust spiritual life of walking with Christ. You could meditate on this psalm for the rest of your life and never plunge its depths. And I'd encourage you to do so. He begins in the morning, as all good shepherds do. In the morning, the shepherd leads the sheep from the sheepfold down into verdant pastures for food. He makes me to lie down. down in green pastures. Here the pasture is a grassland with fresh sprouts of green grass. I just had a neighbor rip out a cherry tree, tilled up all the soil where the cherry tree was, and plant grass seed, and now it's all springing up bright green grass. the kind of pasture, rolling pasture that Christ takes David into in his life. If you notice it doesn't say pasture, it says pastures And this is meant to portray the endless supply of food for the sheep underneath this shepherd. There's no want. In fact, I shall not want. At noon in verse 2b, the shepherd leads the sheep to cool waters and restores their soul in the shade because it's so hot out. They've had a good breakfast, now it's time for some water and to lay down out of the hot sun. You can work that out, how that might be. An image of your spiritual life with Christ. Being revived, the shepherd toward the late afternoon guides the sheep in paths back to the sheepfold where they all began. The paths here are like well-worn wagon ruts that he walks them through, or if you've been in the woods and you've seen a defined deer path, it would be like that. for his flocks. The paths are called paths of righteousness. And if you remember from the wisdom literature, this is saying a tremendous amount The fact that there are paths of righteousness describes the competence of the Lord as the shepherd. He knows which paths will create a favorable situation for his sheep. No matter where he leads you, it is for good. Can you imagine believing that for a whole day when your tire goes flat on roof? Route ninety seven. And then you realize you never put the uh thing that twists the bolts back in the trunk, or that your teenage son took it out and never put it back? Or what Whatever it is. That's David's relationship, long-standing relationship with the Lord. And these are the conclusions that he has drawn from his experience and from the Word that he leads him on well worn wagon ruts, always good and full of righteousness. In fact, the next verse is meant to contrast, to show you that he understands that there can be difficulties in life. Even if some situations arise where a sheep strays into a dark and dangerous ravine Or predators are on the path home. In verse 4, the shepherd protects. You gain comfort from Christ's rod and from his staff. Although physical death may be in view, the word for death here is used seventeen other times in the Old Testament, not David is aware of what he's saying about human life, and yet he still says, The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not not want. His rod and his staff, they comfort me. I understand that there's fear and distress and gloom and terror. But David, however, has another image besides predators He sees predators, he sees the difficulties of life, but he also sees the rod and the staff of God. And he is comforted by them. The rod and the staff of Jesus Jesus Christ are louder to him than the predators. David thus gives pictures of God doing this. God provides food. God provides rest. God provides guidance. God provides protection. These are all the things that are coming out in these Hebrew poetics. And since David published this psalm for all of Israel to sing And since Jesus adopted this metaphor for himself, calling himself the good shepherd, then this vignette is for you, the church. These are your vignettes. This first vignette is yours. You can say with David that the Lord is your shepherd. The rest of Scripture is filled with further pictures of God providing food, rest, guidance, and protection. The general nature of this image is a mercy and grace to you. Can you see that? Do you see how general he's being through illustration and analogy? The reason why he's doing that is so that you can personally appropriate the truth of him being your shepherd in all of the particularities and specifics of your life. Because that's where real change happens. He wants you to work this out in detail on your ride home, and when you're walking up to your house, or when you hear your sump pump on in the basement. He wants you to work through this psalm, running it through your head while you're going through all of those things. He wants you to ask questions like, how is God providing my daily bread? Do I take that for granted? How can I get out of that? How can I feel a dir a direct connection with his provisions? How can I mean grace at the dinner table again? How does he invite you to rest? That's a great question because we're overworked. How does he invite you to rest? Where are the cool waters of your life That God gives to you in His providence? What guidance does He offer you right now to take you on the righteous path that is best for you? And how do you obtain that guidance? In the particulars, not general orientation, I mean the particulars of your life. What protection does he offer to you specifically? This isn't an intellectual exercise, you see. This isn't about you knowing what these words mean and their definitions and that you understand the notions and the concepts. And that you can break this sentence down into a a predicate and its subject and prepositional phrases, and you could do a sentence diagram. This is an exercise of your faith, which means That this is an a relational exercise. At each moment in the psalm, you must ask yourself, how do I relate to my shepherd in this way? And how does he relate to me? Because sometimes it can be Confusing. That's vignette one. The Lord is my shepherd. And now as we move into episode two, it pictures Yahweh as a host showing hospitality. It's better than you going to a field and eating grass like a sheep. We're moving back into the human realm, and you will be placed before a table where no delicacy is wanting. Everything begins here in verse five. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. The picture modifies from being a sheep to being a guest of a great king. The image is actually of probably a rich sheep. offering exquisite hospitality to you because in verse 5 it says table and only the rich had tables So that's why we think this person is luxurious, has much wealth. The host, in addition, is intimate with the guest and tailors all the dining experiences to them. them. In a desert climate, do you know what happens to your skin? You know how refreshing it is to go into someone who could actually take care of them. of that where your skin may be uh chafed or cracked or dry. And so here you see in this psalm that oil is offered, the anointing in his head. It's overflowing. Oil was used to soothe and relieve from the harsh climate. And then you have this cup. Which in poetics is called a metinome. It's a single thing that stands for everything. The cup stands for all the other dishes on the table, plates, bowls, goblets, all overflowing with prepared meats and grains. And vegetables. And and partially because I am just not classy at all. I think of Fogo de Chow when I when I think of this. I'm sure that it was much grander The cup, though, stands for this flowing. There's no good thing that they're wanting. Because this is so close to the Proverbs, can't you see how this would connect the chapters? 1 through 9 and then the following. You remember that? She builds her house and she sets her table. You remember that The house was Proverbs 1 through 9, preparing the youth's soul, that they could sit down and enjoy the delicacies at the table. And here we see the same thing and are invited to think the same way. The delicacies on the table in Proverbs were all the Proverbs. Here it's the Psalms and all the scriptures and all of the providence and ways that God works in your life. Likewise. Yahweh offers all the delicacies of his law to direct, his providence to supply and to guide, his spirit to send to you that you would have strength in all of your endeavors as a servant of the Lord. Lord. Think of the supplies that Christ received in Psalm 22. The resurrection itself is a part of the shepherding of Yahweh. To where then Christ becomes our shepherd. You know, I once went over someone's house and they carved off, they brought out to this table this beautiful Beautiful pork tenderloin. And they sliced me off two pieces and then they put it away. And I left hungry. And I never said a word because you don't say that And that was in stark contrast to when I went on the cruise and I said, could I have a third lobster? Is that okay? Is that gluttonous? Should I how about just another steak? But honestly, those are the images that we're receiving here The escargot. Do you leave your lord's hospitality hungry, like he just shaves off a couple slices of tender wine? For you. Is that who he is? Because that's not how David experiences him. That's not how David knows him to be. And David is really challenging you in your faith right now. It's like a really mature older brother watching him in his faith, or a father watching him in his faith. Isn't the Lord the kind of shepherd that gives you the second or the third lobster? So to speak? I'm not really being literal or I don't really want to focus on food. But personally, as we relate to him and and as you're you're growing in your life, aren't you finding that he is the one that brings out extra dishes? And he has endless supply for you and gives you exactly what you need and not what you s Said you wanted, and that it would have been a tragedy if he just put in your mouth everything that you said you wanted to eat in your life. You need to allow David's relationship with Yahweh to challenge you this way. Morning, because it's all about your relationship with you. He says these things to you. How are you relating back? Do you think of him as stingy or like the cruise? That's the question here with the table. David relates to Yahweh as a shepherd. We saw how that brings things out in our spiritual Life and challenges us. The Lord is his shepherd and he shall not want. He really believes that. David relates to Yahweh also as a hospitable host that we see here. Do you believe he's a hospitable host? And David in his last vignette gives us a more literal relationship. Yahweh is merciful, and he This is vignette number three. Yahweh is good and merciful, you shall not want. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell on the house of the Lord forever. Verse 6 is really a summary and explanation or theology behind all of the ins the illustrations that you see as shepherd and host. David can say that God is a shepherd and that he is a host because of all the ways in which Yahweh has demonstrated his goodness and his mercy. It is the manifestation or the revelation of his goodness and mercy in two ways, being shepherd and host. Goodness and mercy are summaries, furthermore, of God's grace and love to us. Those are really big general words, and they need to be filled out in the particular graces that He has given to you and the love that He has shown. But this is how he speaks about these things. In Exodus 33, 19 through 20, Moses asks to see God's glory as essence. Do you remember this account? And the subsequent accounts In Exodus 34, 6 and 7, the Scriptures record, I am, or Yahweh, passed in front of Moses The compassionate and gracious God, slow to anger, abounding in love, Hasid, and faithfulness, maintaining love to thousands, and forgiving wickedness, rebellion, and sin. Those are the same attributes that are mentioned here. Of course, the goodness and mercy, coupled with shepherding and hosting, invite us to end up considering Jesus in his goodness and in his mercy. God the Father provides us with the perfect shepherd, fully capable, fully good, fully merciful, fully powerful to do the shepherding task God the Father provides us with a perfect host who invites us to sup at his wedding banquet, and his name is Jesus. God the Father provides us with Jesus, who has a house with many rooms, that we, like in verse 6, can dwell with him forever. There is a place for us. And God the Father, through Jesus, by the Holy Spirit, shepherds and shows hospitality to his church. All out of his goodness and out of his mercy. Who could give more provision Who could give more rest? Who could give more guidance? Who could give more protection? Who could give more hospitality? Who could give more goodness and mercy than our triune God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit? Surely those who belong to the Lord shall not want. Now that's a pretty simple psalm, isn't it? You've got three very simple vignettes that add up to that sum. Those who belong to the Lord shall not want. But I'm going to ask you the question again: Who could give more provision, rest, guidance, protection, hospitality, goodness, and mercy than our triune God? And every day we answer with someone else's name but his own. It is the great struggle of the human race in its entirety, and it is still the struggle of Christians to actually believe Psalm 23. And to believe it changes everything in one's life as they progressively believe. Do you know what our response is to the Lord as our shepherd? If you were to just turn to the scriptures, what is the primary response when the Lord shepherds his people? Grumbling. Complaining. If you were to look through your scriptures, you will find that is the primary response to Him as shepherd. We grumble and we complain. In fact, I'd encourage you to read Psalm 78. It's all about the Exodus wanderings. God likens himself to a shepherd to his people throughout all of the wilderness journey, and they complain the whole time. Time. And that is a picture of us. It's published and democratized amongst all of God's people in Psalm 78 that we could consider our relationship with the Lord if we're grumbling and if we're complaining. He provides guidance through his law in that account in Psalm seventy-eight. He provided food through manna and quail. He acted as a host by graciously hosting them in his house, which was the tabernacle. Tabernacle. All of it applies the same way. And yet what he offered the people was not good to the people. They longed to be back in the slavery of Egypt so that they could eat leaks. Can you imagine giving up Yahweh for leaks and tubers? But that's the story. It's how we in our old selves and with the old self erupting as Christians relate to our God. To us, and we are not thankful all the time. We struggle with grumbling. And thus, what we end up seeing also in the scriptural accounts Is that Israel, God's people, say that he is insufficient, and they turn to other gods. We've already seen that in multiple psalms. It is the human way. I will go where it works. And this is our same struggle. This morning God is clearly relating to you. This is this is so hard for me to get across behind this window. I need the Holy Spirit right now to work inside of you. Because I am not relaying to you a series of ideas. I am telling you that this is how God Himself is addressing you. He is saying in all of the particularities of your life I am your shepherd. You want no good thing. But think about this past week and how you have related to him What are the things that you have said to him? What are the things that you've said under your breath or said to other people that would tell us how you are relating to him when he said Says that to you. Are you basically saying, I hear what you're saying, but I don't think that's true. He addresses you and he says, I am your shepherd, I am your host, I am good, I am merciful, you shall not want. And when he relates to you like that, how do you relate back? Again, this is not about ideas. Most relate back with secret thoughts of his unreliability. And you secretly go off and you find something or someone else that you consider to be more reliable to get the same thing, or at least a measure of it. Why do we think Jesus, this is my question, why do we think Jesus is an unreliable shepherd? What has happened in your life where you have drawn Now when I ask that question, I don't want you to go inside and isolate yourself. I'm honestly asking the question. Because that's how you need to start relating to him. You need to say, Lord, you tell me that you are my shepherd, but honestly, this happened to me, and how could that be true? And with other brothers and sisters in Christ, you need to begin working out that particular relationship with that particular circumstance in mind on how he can be the shepherd. All of the disciples in the New Testament needed to learn this same thing. They all felt abandoned by him. And they and all the sheep scattered when the shepherd was struck. But he regathered them. They learned over time and they began to trust him. The problem is that we allow the voice of our imaginations and our circumstances and our culture to be louder than the voice of God. The voices of our culture, the voices of drawing your own conclusion, the voices of your family history and how your father and your mother raised you. are all voices that tend to be louder than the voice of God when he says, I am your shepherd, I am your host, I am good, and I am merciful. Voice can get quiet, or we can think that it's untrue. David wrote this psalm as a king who had all delights. So how would he know anything about it? our own experience, you may ask. If I were a king, maybe I'd say, the Lord is my shepherd I shall not want. But you know who also says basically the exact same thing in paraphrase. form is the Apostle Paul. I'd encourage you to look for grumbling and the Lord is your shepherd while reading the book of Philippians. And read the corresponding Acts chapter 16 when he goes to Philippi. Paul says the same thing. He says this in chapter 4 of Philippians, not that I speak in regard to need, for I have learned in whatever state I am to be content. I know how to be abased and I know how to abound. Everywhere and in all things I have learned both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things through Christ who strength. strengthens me. You could retranslate that, and you could, if Paul were standing here today, we could say, Paul, could we say that you mean when you say I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me, could we say that the Lord is your shepherd and you shall not want? And he, I bet you would say, you know it. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me as my shepherd. He strengthens me as my host. He strengthens me from his goodness and his mercy. mercy. And do you know where Paul was writing when he wrote the letter in Philippians? To the Philippians? In prison So we're really missing something in our spiritual relationship with God, our real-life relationship. We say, how could he be a good shepherd when so many bad things happen to me in my life? My life. Paul had so many more bad things happen to us. Christ happened to him. Christ had so many things horrible happen to him in Psalm 22. And yet he still turns to him as a shepherd and never Denies it. He still believes that since he belongs to the Lord, he shall not want. You know what philosophers call that? A control belief. It is a belief that is unquestioned that will control all other interpretations and evaluations in your life. It is not to be re-evaluated or held up for grabs. It is my control belief. I shall not want because Because he is my shepherd, my host, and he's good, and he's merciful. What God says will always prove to be true, and man will be known as the liar, not God. And he says these things to you. He's seeking to relate and address you. And therefore, you have to rewrite your interpretation and your evaluations of life based on this Psalm. It needs to become the centerpiece of the dining room table of your life. Everything must revolve around it. You know, I have trouble sleeping. I don't know what it is. But my body wakes up at 3 a. m. and it's ready to go. I mean, I could just get up and I could do work in the garden. You can imagine The things that I say in my mind as I think about all the work coming up the next day and how tired I'm going to be And what it's going to be like and how this is going to mess up my whole week. I would grumble and complain and toss and turn. And then someone taught me That in Psalm 119, one of the places where it's set where the psalmist says, I shall not want, is when he's woken up. In the middle of the night from his sleep. And so now I seek to try when I wake up at 3 a. m. The first words on my lips are: the Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. And I go forward from there. That has got to be the foundation for everything else that happens that night. Whether I get up and work in the garden at three ayam and my neighbors call the police or whatever. The operating basis in the control belief will be this psalm, Lord willing. Now, I give you that example, not to be an example, but to show you that it has to happen in specifics. The psalm wants to live where you live. I heard a professor of mine say, and I shared this in the men's breakfast yesterday, that life and change in life and growth in life does not happen in general. General truths orient you. Change happens in the specifics, the details, and the monotony and the minutiae of your life What are the specifics of your life? That's where the change has to take place. That's where Psalm 23 has to enter. Psalm 23 has to enter into when you are folding the laundry. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. And then where does the thought go? Immediately from there you're going to hear another voice and how does that relate? How can you relate to him as a shepherd in that way? Or when you're cleaning your gutters and you're getting up on that old rickety ladder or you send your son up on the roof to clean the gutters. gutters or whatever it is. That's where Psalm twenty-three has to enter. Or at the death not of loved ones, but of specific people in your life. Or finding someone that you know who's drinking way too much alcohol to comfort themselves. How can Christ Be a shepherd there? And how might you be able to contribute in the shepherding role? It's all of these specifics. Christ is powerful enough to handle every specific example. The Lord is your shepherd, you shall not want. Please pray with me Lord, this psalm is particularly difficult because it is not most proper for to be preached, but to be lived. I pray that the words and the preaching would be living and that they would go into the hearts of your people. There's really no rhetoric that can accomplish What needs to be accomplished here this morning? There's no poetic structure that can do the job. You as the shepherd must bring this congregation down into the pasture lands. You must take them beside the waters. You must sit them at your table. You must show them what you offer, even their suffering, is good. But Lord, that will take a new interpretation. That'll take a new evaluation. That'll take a new heart. Lord, we pray that as our shepherd, you would raise your staff and your rod That you would beat back the enemies residing even in our own hearts, that you would protect us from ourselves and the voices that keep banging around inside of our hearts. Heads. We pray, Lord, that we would want no good thing and that we would be able truly to confess before our friends when they ask us what is the greatest part of our day, we say the Lord. Who is the greatest person in our life? We would say the Lord. Who brings Brings us comfort, who gives us provision. Well Lord. Lord, we pray that you would keep us from putting our trust in money We ask these things in the name of Christ. Amen