To turn to the Gospel of Luke this morning. But uh before you do so, take a look in your bulletin real quick at Ocome Ocum Emanuel again. Some of you don't need to look, you have all the words in your heart. And I'll just draw your attention and encourage you that this could be one of your prayers today during your Christmas feasts, is that the nations really would desire Jesus Christ. And that in desiring him we would become of one heart and of one mind. That's a beautiful prayer. And it's actually the destiny of his creation. This morning, our reading is from 2, 1 through 20. I am in a much better mood than when I first titled this sermon. It is no longer a bleak midwinter. Let's call this our Ordinary and Compassionate Christ. How about that? That's the title. Sound good? Very good. All right. Our reading this morning is 2, 1 through 20. And it came to pass in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. This census first took place while Quirnius was governing Syria, so all went to be registered, everyone to his own city Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem. because he was of the house and lineage of David, to be registered with Mary, his betrothed wife, who was with child. So it was that while they were there, the days were completed for her to be delivered And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swallowing clothes, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn. Now there were in the same country shepherds living out in the fields, keeping watch over their flock by night. And behold, an angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were greatly afraid. Then the angel said to them, Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good tidings and great joy, which will be to all people For there is born to you this day in the city of David a Saviour, who is Christ the Lord. And this will be the sign to you. You will find a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes lying in a manger And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men. So it was, while the angels had gone away from them into heaven, that the shepherds said to one another, Let us now go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has come to pass, which the Lord has made known to us. And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. Now, when they had seen him, they made widely known the saying which was told them concerning the child. and all those who heard it marveled at those things which were told them by the shepherds. But Mary kept all these things, and pondered them in her heart Then the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things they had heard and seen as it was told them. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, what a beautiful contrast we have here between what we see presented to us on the pages of the book of Judges. And really the answer. Lord, you are our judge. You are alone our deliverer. The job is too big for anyone else. And we pray that you would be glorified in the preaching and the hearing of the word today. We pray, Lord, that by your Spirit we would be changed to be more like you, to love you more, to love each other more. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Well, we've come to the final service for our Advent series. Next week we return to Judges for just a few weeks. We mentioned, or I mentioned last night, that there's been a theme running all the way through our Advent series, and the theme has been that God is faithful, that God keeps his word. And that is particularly special when the word is a promise. And so God does keep his promises. And what you're seeing here on the pages of Luke is the promise coming to be. We raised a second question or started to notice a different feature in what Luke was doing. And we started that last night. So we saw that not only are we seeing What God is doing, but we're seeing how He is doing it. Now, last night we said that God is accomplishing His promises by raising up His great ox, who is Jesus the Christ. Christ, our Savior. This morning, we will discover another answer to the same question of how. And we will see that He is accomplishing His purposes through our ordinary lives. Now, what I'd like to do is just make a few observations so you can see how ordinary this passage is, and him working through these ordinary ways or means, and then I have a few Christmas applications for us this morning So the first thing that I want you to notice is that the main theme of God's faithfulness does continue in this part of Luke. He hasn't let that go. He can do multiple things. You can see this especially in the way that the whole decree went out. A decree went out and a census would be taken, and this is for taxation purposes. It can be a little bit difficult to see on the page here, but everyone's returning to their hometown in order to get a correct count of the population for the sake of taxes. This is, by the way, why there's no room for them to stay, and they're, by God's grace, able to at least find a place outside of the inn. So Mary and Joseph returned to their ancestral home, and this causes, as you can see in verse 4, Joseph and Mary to return to Judea, the city of David, Bethlehem. Now, When you see all of those descriptions about this is the city of David, and this is the line that he's in, and this is the name of the city, there is a reason for Luke taking pains to list all of that, and it goes beyond taxes. What you're supposed to see here is an explicit echo from Micah 5, where there is the promise that the Messiah will be born in Bethlehem. So you can even see that even with the IRS trying to have its way, God is even working through them to bring about his Messiah in the exact location that he predicted. Or that he promised. And there he is, God, right on time, doing what he said he would do. And that's why I say that theme continues: God is faithful, God keeps his promise. And I hope that you can see that even in this census. The second thing I want you to notice is how he is going to accomplish his promises, and that is in the ordinary features of our daily lives. You can see this in the normalcy of the tax census here. Look at what he accomplishes just through this normal behavior of taking a census. The ordinary traveling and trying to find a place to reside whenever everyone is returning to the city at once. The rapping of the Christ child is another example. He's wrapped like a child would be wrapped I remember swaddling our children. Mothers still do it today with their newborns, and even the shepherds Verse 8, are ordinary country shepherds doing their ordinary tasks that shepherds do? Now, what Luke does here is he presents to Theophilus, remember, he's presenting these things to Theophilus, and through him to the rest of the church, he's presenting the ordinary activities of human life. And that God will be acting through them. Now, of course, the angelic visitation in verse 9, and then all of the hosts appearing, is quite extraordinary. I notice, I acknowledge that. But notice what happens after the angels speak. The shepherds visit the family in verse 15. They tell folks in the surrounding area, verse 17, and then to go along with my thesis this morning, look at verse 20. They just get back to work. They get back to work in their ordinary lives, but of course we know that from that moment forward, though ordinary, everything has changed. For them. Everything. And I really love that because it connects so sweetly and continually in all of our lives. Our doctrine this morning, therefore, is quite comforting and strengthening. It puts us right into the story of this Messiah. God accomplishes his faithful purposes in and through our ordinary lives. That is one of the Christmas messages to you from Luke, and ultimately from the Spirit. God accomplishes his faithful purposes through your ordinary lives. Now, what I'd like to do is I want to unfold a picture of life for you. I want to look back at an Old Testament story to try to understand this normalcy and how God accomplishes things through our ordinary lives. So I have a picture for life, and then I have the Christ for life. And that'll be our application this morning. So let's start with a picture for life. A good picture of how God works through our ordinary lives to bring his purposes on earth is the story of David and Goliath. This may surprise you, but I return to this story often just to try to understand my human existence. I return to this story as I try to understand your human existence. This story can be surprising to us for many reasons, including the fact that this story is often told not as an ordinary story. But it has an extraordinary story of an extraordinary hero, and we could never presume to be a David. But that's not the point of the story. The point is that you're just like him Now, I admit that David's faith and zeal for God stood out, but otherwise, honestly, he's normal, maybe a little less than normal. If anyone is remarkable in the story of David and Goliath, it is Goliath, not David. And that's part of the point, isn't it? How can we say, given the teaching that we have received, how can we say this given David's great feat of killing Goliath with a single stone from his slave How can we say that this is a model or a framework by which we would understand how God acts through our ordinary lives when it seems like such extraordinary things are taking place? place. And here is the answer, honestly. It is because David slung stones all the time. That was his job. You can look at this a little bit later during your time together feasting. But in 1 Samuel 17, 34 through 35, listen to this. This is such a beautiful picture of this normal guy. But David said to Saul, Your servant used to keep his father's sheep, and when a lion or a bear came and took a lamb out of the flock, I went after it and struck it. and delivered the lamb from its mouth, and when it arose against me, I caught it by its beard and struck and killed it. Now, I agree not many of us would be able to do that with a lion or a bear, but I just want you to notice this isn't him facing Goliath is not some extraordinary thing that he's never done before. This is a regular part of the kind of things that he would face as a human being. In his normal vocation David is simply bringing forward the skills of his ordinary life into the service of God and against God's enemies in this particular manifestation. He was already prepared for it. It's like that movie Sixth Sense, I'm not sure if you ever saw it, but there's this wonderful moment when the father or the brother, I forget, says, swing away. Everything up to that moment In that person's life was for killing the enemy. And we can say the same with David. All his normal activity, day in and day out. But you must remember that it is not David's work alone that accomplishes the victory. My only argument is that he is ordinary. But that doesn't mean there's not extraordinary things being put into place in order for David to be victorious. And that is also true of ourselves. God In his marvelous ways will work through our ordinary lives as a much fuller picture of the truth. It will be the power of God behind your ordinary acts I want you to consider another often overlooked part of David's story. It says this. Moreover, David said, The Lord who delivered me. Look at how he tells the story now. The Lord who delivered me. From the paw of the lion and from the paw of the bear. He will deliver me from the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said to David, Go and the Lord be with you. And now it begins to make sense to us on how God will accomplish His promised salvation through ordinary living. living. It is because he stands behind it all, making it efficacious, doing things with his power. You know there's an old There's a story that has gone around, I'm not sure if you've heard it or not, but I have. And it's a it's kind of a I say that that way because it's kind of a nerdy thing to know And I don't consider many of you nerds. Some of you are nerds, but just like me, we are of one heart But there is a story of a famous Old Testament professor, and it's a story of him telling a story. And a story of him playing with his grandchildren. And they would be in the living room and they would play out the story of David and Goliath. Have you heard this story? It's Bruce Waltke. I don't know if you know him. Old Testament professor. But he tells the story of him playing Goliath, and his grandchildren would play David. So he would stomp into the living room. As the the evil Philistine and the grandchildren were to stand against them like David was standing against them, and they would take their rolled-up socks, I think it was, and they would become the stones, and they would fling them at Goliath. They would throw them at the Grandfather seeking to defeat him and they expected him to fall, and for the victory to be with God's people again But the kids would keep throwing, he told the story. The kids would keep throwing the the pretend stones and the grandfather would just stand there and they s would just bounce off like soft socks. Bounce off. And the children thought that this was unfair, and so they began to complain. And they said, you're not playing the game right, grandfather. You are Goliath, and we are David, and you should fall by the power of our stones. And the grandfather replied, That is not how the story goes. And he repeated to them, and because the guy seems to have memorized the Old Testament even in the Hebrew. He repeated to them the story word for word. And he said, Then David said to the Philistine, You come to me with a sword, with a spear, and with a javelin. But I come to you in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel's, whom you have defied. This day the Lord will deliver you into my hand, and I will strike you and take your head. Grandchildren, he ended, you are forgetting the most important part. So then the grandchildren learned their lesson. They took up their stones and they said, In the name of the Lord of hosts, you are delivered into my hand. And they threw the stones and they fell over in defeat. What a lovely story, right? What a great way to play with your grandchildren. So there's a tip for you. And that, my friends, is the picture of our life. We were able to take both of those things and see how they fit together with our little stones from each of our common callings. But empowered by God Himself and for His glory, God accomplishes His purposes. That's one of the things that I wanted to mention to you this morning as we see all the ordinary things happening in chapter two. What a way to be able to connect. The second point that I'd like to make in application is not only a picture of life like we just saw. I hope that helps you. It's a good framework to think about your own life. But there's also our the Christ for life. And that's really the point, isn't it? Especially this morning. The Christ for life. As we seek to keep up the good ordinary work of our lives, we're given some insights by how the biblical authors talk about this life. And they call it a race. And I believe that there's a multidimensional meaning in that. with all of the richness of how we conceive of races now, including just being dead tired And therefore, it is especially important that we would remember passages like this as we see that he's working through our ordinary lives. Seeing Christ swaddled like all of the other infants reminds us, in a special sense, that I'll explain to you in a moment. And very importantly, that Christ is ordinary too. This is very important. When I say this, I am not violating the historic articles of faith. When I say this, I am drawing from the ancient sense of the word ordinary. And what I mean is that the eternal Christ has entered into our human order of things. He has entered into the normal rhythms of human life. And that, my friends, is meant to be a source This is important because when you are running the race of your normal life, there will be times that are tough. You will feel like leaving the race. You will cramp up. You will have charlie horses. Sometimes I'm just standing in placing again a Charlie horse. What is wrong with me? Need to eat more bananas. Sometimes you will feel like quitting And the message that is present here, it's always meant to be applied this way, is that the waters that will refresh you will come from two continual Christmas reminders. That we see present in the passage. And the first is this. The first is that Jesus Christ, the eternal Christ, Having taken upon himself human nature, he knows how you feel. He knows how every one of you sitting here today feels. He knows what hurt feels like He knows what it is like to lose a loved one. He knows how it feels to be alone. He knows the weight and the terror of temptation. He knows how it feels even to face death. He has something even on you, where he knows what it's like to die. Jesus Christ, it is true, and oftentimes we focus on this part of it. He is more than us. Jesus Christ is more than us. But what we must remember during Christmas, as we see this story, and him as a child swaddled like a normal baby. Is that though he is more than us, he is still one of us. That's the very first Christmas truth that I hand you this morning. And the second one is this. You know, it would be one thing to just say he knows all that you feel. But what if he didn't care And that's the second truth that I want to point out to you, which will have to come from other scriptures. But I hope that you know that this is true. Um that you assume it to be true, but it is this, and that is that Jesus Christ is compassionate. And this is especially important for us to hear this morning. Many times when I do a little inventory check on myself and see where my heart is and what my presumption is. Are. And when I hear your presumptions, when you let little things slip, it seems that we view Christ as always with a frowning brow I hope that's not true of you. But if it is, or if you're ever tempted to think that way in the future, I just want to set the record straight that that's not who He is, fundamentally, that is not who he is. I would encourage you to start reading through the Gospels, even when we're in the book of Judges. Start reading through the Gospels and see who is Christ really. Does he always have a frowning brow? Is he always flipping over somebody's table? I think that we can forget the teaching of the renowned theologian B. B. Warfield. Now he wrote a book, and this is pretty cool. Listen to this. This guy, I think he was uh subtitled The Lion of Princes What a cool subtitle to have as a person. But he wrote a book called The Emotional Life of Our Lord. Doesn't that sound cool? He wrote a book and he records all of the scriptures and cataloging all of the emotions that the Lord had. And do you know what he says is the number one emotion on the pages of Scripture of Jesus Christ? Compassion. The number one emotion he lists is compassion and then gives you all of these scriptures. And it shouldn't be a surprise to us that God knows how to love. But it can be. And so that is my second present to you, so to speak, as preaching the word this morning. Our second Christmas truth is that God, our Jesus Christ, not only knows how we feel, but He cares. He is actually compassionate towards you. If you were hurt as his child, even because of your sin, he would get down with you and he would lift you up to standing again Is that how you picture him? Because that's what he's like. He picks you up and he brushes you off over and over again. And he has this way of doing it and never once condoning your sin. Christian, how will God accomplish his purposes on earth? We're now taking as it a presumption because we've seen so many times in Luke's account that God is accomplishing his purposes on earth because that's what he promised. And these last two sermons, we've just extended this new feature, or seen this new feature, and we're asking, well, how is he going to do so? And there's so many answers. But two that we have seen is that God accomplishes his faithful purposes in and through our ordinary lives. He will empower your ordinary works like he empowered David's How will you stay in the fight and hold fast to the faith in your everyday duties? We will remember By the power of the Holy Spirit, the two lessons of Christmas, that Christ enter into our order of things, making him especially perfect At ministering to us in our time of need. I'm at this point paraphrasing the book of Hebrews. And how can you be sure that this Christ will minister to you? And the answer is because he knows how to love, especially in the form of compassion. It is my prayer that this knowledge of our Christ would bring you all a merry. Christmas. Amen. And then. Let us pray