Please turn to Psalm 3 with me. And I'll read the whole Psalm and we'll pray that the Lord would speak to us through His Word. Psalm number three. This is a psalm of David when he fled from Absalom, his son. Lord, how they have increased who troubled me. Many are they who rise up against me. Many are they who say of me, there is no help for him in God. But you, our Lord, are shield for me. My glory and the one who lifts up my head. I cry to the Lord with my voice, and he heard me from his holy hill. I lay down and slept. I awoke, for the Lord sustained me. I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people who have set themselves against me all around Arise, O Lord. Save me, O my God, for you have struck all my enemies on the cheekbone. You have broken the teeth of the ungodly. Salvation belongs to the Lord. Your blessing is upon your people. Please pray with a way. Christ, we think of you saying these words. And it thrills our hearts that we are so united with you as you Your people, that while you are in the midst of affliction and are surrounded, that your final concern is a benediction upon our heads You are so sweet to us. You have all power, and yet you serve the lowest. And we thank you for that, and we ask that you would serve us this morning Morning by teaching us. Being taught by Jesse Crutchley is not good enough. We want you as our teacher, nothing less. And we ask That you would do so this morning through this preached word, that you would teach us through the power of your Holy Spirit, convince us, draw us close. Change us that we might serve you and each other. We ask these things in your name. Amen. If you recite the Lord's Prayer inside your head, I'm pretty sure everyone here would know the Lord's Prayer or have heard Heard it. The Lord's Prayer begins. Our Father who is in heaven, hallowed be your name. There's a puzzle there. In the next part. Here's how the prayer continues. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as Have you ever puzzled over those? I've puzzled over them for a while. Have you ever asked how can God's will be done in heaven but not Done on earth? How is it what are we saying when we pray that is it is it um that there's some alternate reality that mirrors our world in heaven where they're doing the will of the Father, but we haven't caught up with our alternate That would be an interesting Netflix season, but that's not what it means here. That's way too sci-fi for the Bible. The meaning is that God has decreed his will in the heavens. But the decree has not been fulfilled fully yet on earth. In other words, there is God's decree, and then there is the execution of his decree. That's what we mean, that his decree would be executed in its fullness. This division is helpful as we consider Psalm 3. Now let's back up for a moment and just remember that Psalm 1 is the front porch of the Psalms. I hope that's been helpful to you. Psalm 2 is the front door. Some people call these the two pillars upon entrance into The Psalms. Psalm 3 fits within this progression. Here's one progression. Psalm 1 urges you to join those who delight in God's law. Psalm 2 compels you to submit your allegiance to the king. And now take a look at Psalm 3 verse 8. Psalm 3 verse 8 assures us. That's one progression. I'm doing this so that you can see that this is not a Hajj Podj arrangement of Psalms. There is a purpose and an intention throughout the whole collection. Part of us is to learn the content, but also how to read these things. There is one more progression that I want to point out, going back to the idea Psalms one through three more closely align with God's decree and the execution of the case. Of his decree. Psalm 1 introduces the blessed life. Psalm 2 assures us God has decreed that blessing is through Jesus the Messiah and that the Messiah takes on the decree. That's what Psalm 2 is. Psalm 3 in the progression is very interesting because it is a lament psalm. What has happened? How is it that the Messiah said that he would execute the decree of God, that he would at least accept it, but now we turn and we see everyone has turned again. Against the Messiah, whom God backs in Psalm three. Everyone is against the Messiah. This is the progression. Psalm 3, a lament psalm, verifies that the decrees in Psalm 2 have been made in heaven, but have not been fully completed on earth. This is a major theme through the scriptures and it's quite relevant. God has decreed that the world would be made right side up by the Messiah, Jesus. Down. Do you ever feel that? You feel like things are upside down? They're not the way that they're supposed to be. Have you ever said that? Have you ever said this is not how it's supposed to be? Psalm 3 agrees. And helps us to understand this. This is a major theme through the Psalms. This Psalm is giving you permission to recognize and to practice yourself that living in this world Is a lamentable state sometimes, and it's anguishing and full of tears and cries. Here's the big idea from this passage after we've considered This progression. Here's the main point of this Psalm, Psalm 3. Although enemies overwhelmed the Messiah, the Messiah took confidence in Yahweh's deliverance for himself This makes all the difference in the world, and we'll see this as we work it out in a lament exclaimed, a confidence expressed, and a petition urged. So you know where we're going, where this train is heading. Although enemies overwhelmed the Messiah, the Messiah took confidence in Yahweh's deliverance for himself and his people. So let's look first at the lament exclaimed. I'm just going to follow this order in Psalm 3 to help you understand lament psalms so that you can better read these. That's one of the purposes. And why on the front of your bulletin it says a study in the book of Psalms, so that when you pick up the book of Psalms and you see all the different kinds of Psalms that are present there, you can read them Well, this is partially a training. And hopefully you'll be transformed in the midst of the training. And so we have a lament exclaimed, which is how lament psalms begin. Just as in all lament psalms, Psalm 3 begins with a direct address. Take a look there. It says Lord in verse 1. That's the first part of this psalm. Psalm, Yahweh, as seen in verse one, just as certain as the sun rises in the east and sets in the west, when difficulties rise in the life of the Psalmist, he sets His eyes to Yahweh for help. Reminds me of James chapter five. Is that your reaction when things get difficult that you run to Yahweh? Do you isolate yourself from him and his people? The psalmist runs to him. That's how lament begins, by calling and running to God, which is opposite our instincts, but not In verses 1 and 2, Lord, how they have increased who troubled me. Many are they who rise up against me, many are they who say of me, There is no help for him in God. You see the point? He feels surrounded. He feels claustrophobic and suffocated by what's taking place. How many some of the translations Say, to intensify it. Many foes really shouldn't be a surprise for you since this is a lament psalm. There are different kinds of psalms for the lament. This could have begun differently. And when you flip through your Psalms as you're reading through the book of Psalms like you should every year You would see, perhaps, in place of this, instead of him saying, How many, he could have said, Where are you, God? There is a lament that has to do with the seeming absence of God. There's also the desperate and deadly situation of the psalmist. The water's up to here and the lay waves are lapping up against us. face and he's getting ready to go under and he's got one last breath and he cries out to Yahweh in his laments saying, This is a life or death situation. It's now or never. That would be another lament psalm. But here, just as in many other lament psalms, there's the overwhelming strength and numbers of his foes or enemies. That's what we see present in this particular one. The enemies in this psalm are even more lamentable than others, though. It's one thing to have strangers or men and women with whom you've never It is another thing to have your own son and your own nation who was present at the coronation ceremony, making their oaths and vows to you and to Yahweh to turn against you. And that's exactly what we see here. We see that the enemies in the Psalm are his own people. The Messiah's own people, and they are not joking around. There is a taunt here. In verse 3, there is no help for him in God, is a taunt and a declaration of war. That's how serious this is, if you understand what What's going on within the context? We know what's going on here because of the superscript. Notice in Psalm 1 and 2, the front porch and the front door, there was no superscript. That's one of the reasons why we I believe the book of Psalms formally is going to begin in Psalm three. When I say superscript, I mean it says a psalm of David when he fled from Absalom. His son. It tells you the historic circumstance in which David has written this psalm. The account of Abel of Absalom's revolt can be found in 2 Samuel. You could start at chapter 15. if you would like. And I'd like it if you could read though through those chapters on your own time. I only remind you that Absalom deceitfully stole, as we read in the beholding Christ section The picture behind this psalm is depicted very well in how David was feeling in 2 Samuel chapter 15 verses 30 and 31. Let me just read it to you. But David went up the ascent of the Mount of Olives, weeping as he went, barefoot and with his head covered. He would be pelted with rock. And he's got to be thinking about his sin with Bathsheba, because he knows the Lord's declaration that his household would be s would just be a mess. And now he's seeing the fruit of But now he hears this news already discouraged. Absalom. And this is when David says, O Lord, please turn the counsel of Ahithophel into foolishness. And I think the reason that he says that is because if he didn't, then they would surely be doomed. Ahel, to put it in modern day parlance, was the man. He he um was a brilliant consultant had everything worked out to uh all of the details and had everything correct. In fact He knew so well that his plan would be the only plan that would work, that when Hushai comes and alters it the plan and And and uh Absalom accepts that plan. Ah Ahithophel can see so far forward as a counselor. Think of a chess player that could see twenty steps forward in the game. Ahithophel sees that with the one wrong Move that is now falsely counseled to Apes Absalom that Ahithaphel knows he knows it's over and he goes home and he commits suicide. This is what it says in 2 Samuel 17 Verse twenty three. When Ahithophel saw that his counsel was not followed he saddled his donkey and went off home to his own city. He set his house in order, and he hanged him That's how sure he was of himself and of his own counsel and what was To come. This guy was not a joke. And David knew that, which increased the discouragement and the feeling of not only how many, but how many that are brilliant counselors, the best of the best of the nation. David's own people, his son and his military and his consultants stood against him. Everybody that was somebody that you didn't want against you, they were against him. And actually, the best way to say it is that they declared war against him. As I pointed out there in that last verse, there is no help for him in God. This is how the last verse has to be read if you consider 2 Kings 18:32. Let me read this to you. There is no salvation for him in God, was used in military contexts. And do not listen to Hezekiah when he misleads you by saying, the Lord will deliver us. You see that? Has any of the gods of the nations ever delivered his land out of the hand of the king of Assyria? This is a messenger from the king of Assyria. delivering outside the gates of Jerusalem and saying, Hezekiah is telling you that God will save you, and I'm telling you, Yahweh will not save you. You. You will, he says in this verse, I'm just quoting the Bible, if you do not listen to me, you will drink your own urine and eat your own feces. This is a war cry, and you can import that kind of crass and vulgar language into this psalm as to what's going on. This is not a joke. This is how David felt. This is why he's lamenting. And likewise, Absalom and the rest of the nation is claiming that God will not save David. Which is an oxymoron because David is the Messiah. He was just a part of the coronation ceremony, perhaps forty years before this. There were execration statues placed before him, made of pottery, where the king's names were written on them. You remember that from Psalm 2? And as a part of the ceremony, they were smashed. But he forgot to write on one Absalom and Ahithafel because he believed that they were a part of his team, and now they have Turned against him. And now he's wondering inside his own mind: is Yahweh really for me? God's Messiah. There had to be a moment there of doubt So Absalom and the rest of the nation is claiming that God will not save David the Messiah, and since salvation only comes to those who are backed by Yahweh, this has caused the lamentable state of David. That's the whole problem here that he became begins with. He begins with lament. Now I want you to relate this to the last point of Psalm 2 with the coronation ceremony. And just remember Remember, as I've already pointed out, the doubt that must have been rising in his mind, is God really behind me? Because it sure does Does seem like I'm cursed. Have you ever said that? Is God really behind me? Because it sure does feel like I'm Cursed. Imagine how much more David felt this. Or even Christ Himself. Last week I digressed and told you that you must look at the Psalms with But we must with our right eye also look and see the eternal Messiah, who the king who shall never die, who is Jesus from Nazareth. It is Jesus and his lament ultimately that we see here. Let me just point out that Jesus, his coronation ceremony was where he was baptized, and he was anointed with the Holy Spirit that descended upon him like a dove. Yahweh from heaven announced his decree. This is my beloved Son, whom I have begotten, is the Psalm 2 is taking place there at the baptism. And yet we see that after the coronation ceremony of Jesus, his enemies rise up against him as the Messiah. And guess who his enemies are? It is his own people. Even his own disciples desert him at the very least, and one of them will be the primary means by which he himself is undone. For a time. They taught him. Listen to this and think of Psalm 3. And the people stood by watching. But the ruler scoffed at him, saying, He saved others. Notice that save word there? It's the same thing that's running through Psalm 3, deliver or save. God will be his shield. God will be his shield. Let him ask God to bring him down. He says he's the Messiah. If he's the Messiah, then Yahweh backs him. That's the whole point of the taunt. He saved others, let him save himself. If he is the Messiah of God, his anointed one, then Yahweh will back him and he'll come down from the Jesus laments. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? You notice that's one of the kinds of lament psalms that I told you about? Well, God, where are you? It doesn't do many are my foes here. It does that in other places in the Gospels that lament. And as for you, Christian, as you think about yourself in relationship to this and the following in the Messiah who looks like this, a king who lives out his life that looks like this. Remember the word that is said to you in John 15, 20: A servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours. And therefore, we know that we should expect lament in this life. And that in these first two verses, I want you to realize. that you should be calling upon Yahweh whenever there is any lament that is going on within your life. And that it should be Should not be unexpected that it feels upside down to you because look at your master and what he has expected or what told you to expect. Structure your prayers this way. The goal of the lament in prayer is to move Yahweh. The complaint should challenge Yahweh's honor and excite his sense of mercy and justice towards you. That's what's going on here in the Lament. When David says, Lord, how they have increased who troubled me, many are they who rise up against me, many are they who say of me, there is no help for him. Him and God. Notice how he repeats this throughout. And by verse 7, he says, Save me, O God. Right after he says, Arise. He's directly contradicting what those people have said. He is recognizing himself to be the Messiah. And he is seeking to incite the anger and compassion and mercy and justice of God in the complaints. Is that what you do when you pray? Because that's what God loves to hear. He wants you to call upon him in this way. A complaint is a legal proceeding. You are bringing before him that there is an injustice that is being done, and he, the king of justice, should be Stand up and do something about it. That's the complaint. It's a legal plead or lawsuit. Do you pray lawsuits? Because that's what the lament psalms are teaching you to do. This isn't just about the content, it's teaching you, the whole book of Psalms, how to pray and how to praise. If you're going to do a lament, start with calling upon your God who is your Yahweh. Call upon your king who is Christ and bring before him the lament. Bring before him the lawsuits. I've started to do this. It's transformed my prayer life. Most of the time I jump out of prayer really quickly because I realize I'm bringing a lawsuit that can't be verified and I'm the one that's guilty. It makes me think more. I'm thinking about my one prayer all day long and going back in and modifying it, seeking what could incite him, what could I say to him that would be persuasive to him. And it works out in my own mind what the will of God is for my own life. I find myself being changed in the midst of prayer by just following this lament. It reminds me of deacon calls. Whenever we receive calls on the telephone for those who need some subsistence or some kind of help from the community, initially You're pretty skeptical. And I've seen the deacons be skeptical, and rightfully so, because people out there want to con you. But I've also seen people sit in front of the deacons when they're willing to come in and And when the deacons initially are arise on guard or a little skeptical, and then they start to listen to the person, and the way that they plead their case before them, I watch the heart of the deacon. And I'm telling you that in your prayers you should be like a demon I'd ask that you'd have a prayer life like that. That's what's called Called for here. That's what you're learning. It is a lament, but it doesn't stop there. The Psalm has more than a lament, and so in verses 3 through 6, which is the next section, we see the confidence In 3 through 6, confidence expressed. Psalm 3 continues to follow the typical lament pattern. First, there is the lament. Second, there is the confidence Just as the lament turns to God, so too does the confidence. After careful consideration of his circumcision And the lawsuit, the psalmist will announce publicly his confidence that God or Yahweh will act on his behalf. Confidence in Lament Psalms relies on three main things, and they're the whose. You want to know this as you're reading your Lament Psalms. Out of 150 Psalms, 50 of the Psalms are Lament Psalms. So you really want to know this: the whose This is where confidence comes from. Who God is, who or what God has done, who the enemy is, and who you are. Those all make a difference in the argument. They're persuasive to him, and you can gain confidence in those ways. So David has confidence based on who God is and who he David is. Verse 3 speaks of God as David's glory. But you, O Lord, are a shield for me. This is a call back to an Abrahamic promise, where Abraham said the same thing. My glory and the one who lifts my head. Glory in this context is social esteem, I believe. And the social esteem for David is that he is God's rightful messianic son, the anointed one. He can point to the coronation ceremony. So he's calling upon God on who he is as the one who gives covenant promises, and he's and he's reminding God of who he is, and therefore he has a right. He is the rightful heir to the throne and to ruling the nation. And his confidence, furthermore, is from his knowledge that God hears the king when he calls. Ask of me, and I will give the nations to you as your inheritance. And this is made clear from verse 4. I cried to the Lord with my voice and heard me from his holy hill. There's a crying that has to take place. A crying out. This is deep within the law itself in relationship to rape and being cried and crying out. And the God and God would hear them Here is a picture of David praying many miles away from Jerusalem, at the lowest point in the Jordonian rift, looking up at the highest point in the holy mountain of God. He faces the holy mountain in prayer, I believe. And despite the geographical distance, God in his omnipresence and his covenant loyalty to David is present with David. That's what he's saying. He heard me from his holy hill. This is the confidence. There is a court that has taken place in the morning in this morning psalm, and the judge has heard the case, and he has taken One and he will act justly for him. David demonstrates his confidence here with the most overt act possible, I believe. He lays down and he slaps Sleeps in the midst of this turmoil. This is really saying something, because secure sleep was rare in the ancient Near East. Here's a quote from Egyptian literature. This is a Pharaoh writing to his son. Even when you sleep, guard your heart, because no man has it here until the day of distress. In other words, sleep with one eye open. David slept with both eyes closed Because he was so confident that Yahweh would stand for him, based on who Yahweh is and based on who he himself is. Throughout church history, especially at Easter, Psalm 3:5 was read. Take a look there and see why you would think so. I lay down and slept Just to express that confidence. This has been read throughout the church for a long time. Jesus took confidence in the Father and thus slept and rose on the third day, is what they would be celebrating. It's difficult in my mind to say if 3-5 is particularly referring to the resurrection. I don't really have a problem with that. But the confidence of the Lament Psalm is unquestionable. Whether you believe it's referring to the resurrection of Christ or not, the confidence that Christ has, right to his dying breath, is unquestionable that Yahweh would avenge him. In fact, Peter picks up on this in 223 of 1 Peter. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued in trusting, having confidence himself to him who judges justly. You see the judge word there? There really was a lawsuit in Jesus' mind. He brought it before the Father, and he knew that he was innocent. And it was only a matter of time before Yahweh acted on his behalf, namely three days. Jesus Christ took confidence in the Father that despite the overwhelming flood of enemies, he would be raised to victory and declaration. Declared, This is my son. Bow to him. And they were cut to the heart. And they said, What should we do? Repent and be baptized in the name of Christ. And five thousand joined them that day. That's the story of the church. Here's another statement from Peter going after the same thing. Let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made This one that you killed, that you thought that you could overtake, he has made him king. He has made him Christ, this Jesus whom you crucified. David would kill Absalom and he would return to the throne because Yahweh upheld David. He upheld his Messiah. Messiah. The new David, which this is really about, with the right eye, not just the left. The new David, Jesus, would overcome his own people and death itself, and he would return to the right hand of God because God delivered Jesus the Messiah. Messiah. And he, even though it seems like everything is upside down and that you're carrying a cross now, will vindicate you, Christian. In the end, you will not be ashamed. You can count on Jesus for that. He is your salvation. I cannot think of a more important and relevant truth for today's Christians than what we've just heard. You must understand that Jesus knows that his kingdom looks weak right now. He knows that he looks weak right now. He knows that the world seems more real to you. However, we have to take confidence in who God is and what He has done in Christ and who we are in the Messiah. And when we look at it that way, we have all the confidence that Christ. Himself could have. All the confidence that David himself could have, we could truly pray a lament psalm. If you ponder these three things, know the reality of them. Then you shall be renewed in your confidence in your Christian loyalty. Who is God? Who am I? What has He done in the past? You want to bring those three things as you lament before. For him, just as David and more importantly, the new David has done. So here's what we have. Having exclaimed a lament and expressed the confidence, we now consider the last part of a lament psalm, which is verses seven through eight. Arise, O Lord, save me, O my God. There's that salvation theme or deliverance once again, and he'll move into an imprecation, for you have struck all my enemies on the cheekbone, you have broken the teeth of the ungodly. And there Salvation belongs to the Lord, and he ends with a benediction. Your blessing is upon your people. Now, technically speaking, as we move into this section called a petition, there's really two parts. So this is what we have so far: an address to Yahweh. a lament, a confidence, then you have this petition which I just read to you, and then technically speaking there's also a benediction, but I'm going to join the petition and the benediction. Together. Throughout the Psalms, you can see different kinds of petitions that are given to God. Here we see arise. You see that right there in seven? You also will see in the 50 Lament Psalms, hear the prayer, or look, or wake up! Sometimes you'll hear this focused more on confession. Here it says, Arise, O Lord, save me, O my God. In other Lament Psalms, you'll hear, hear my prayer, forgive all of my sins. You'll hear, Arise, O Lord, and test me. To see that I am in the innocent party in this case. Or he'll say, Arise, O Lord, and teach me your statutes. These are different ways that petitions happen. And this one, it doesn't do any of those. Did you notice that? This is the last time. It is a desire for just vengeance. It is quite graphic for his enemies to be struck on the cheekbone and then to become even more specific for their teeth. to be broken. Throughout the Psalm, we see these kinds of petitions. This one is the vengeance, it's a vindication or just punishment for a wrong done. And this should definitely convince you that you are in a court of law. In fact, this is considered a morning psalm. I didn't mention this to you yet, and they conducted court in the morning so that as the sun rose, the full light of day would be on the case case and righteousness would reign. Nothing would be kept in the dark. Full justice. That's the picture here with this lawsuit or this court case. And this should make you feel like you're in a court of law. The Lament Psalms, as I mentioned, are legal complaints to the judge of the universe. The wrong party must cry out. And so we see in save me. In 7B is an appeal to the judge to deliver him because it is his legal right. He's saying, don't just judge the case as to the guilt or not guilt of my situation. Sentence. Act that there would be justice in the land. Can you imagine a judge saying guilty and then, oh, we're not going to have a sentencing this time. There'll be no punishment. Can you imagine a society like that? There would be no teeth in the law. And here he asks for teeth. Actually, for teeth to be broken. Strike them on the cheek and break the teeth are the legal consequences for the wrong committed. The wrongs committed in this are major treason and attempted regicide. Strike on the cheek though is not a full-blown um is not as terrible as some of the in Predatory Psalms that we'll see in some of the other So some of the other Psalms. This is actually strike on the cheek results in broken teeth. And I've said this to you before is another way to say neutralize my enemies. He uses of his enemies in different Psalms. He talks about them in different ways, and here he's talking about them as wild animals. And so the power of an animal is in their teeth and in their claws. However, if you were to remove the teeth and the claws, they kind of become domesticated and uh like house pets and that's what he's asking for. David here is not, I don't believe, asking for the head of Absalom. I believe he's saying with love in his heart for his son, neutralize my enemy. That's what he's saying. He's petitioning that he would take away Absalom's power. You can see this even at the end of the story, and I I don't Petitions like this are difficult for us, nevertheless, as Christians, because we're calling out these kinds of things. against our enemies, which seems contrary to peace and love and joy and patience. arms, and we must lament and cry for our king to return for justice to be done. We must honor and turn to those instead in authority, such as judges. Across our land and law enforcement. Now that makes you a political being with a great deal of responsibility for the judges that are a part of our land. We must pray for justice among our judges and our president. If they become unjust, then we must cry to God for them to either become just through chastisement or to be replaced, so that the innocent are not ashamed. But that as verse 8 says, through the Messiah Jesus, blessing will be on all his people, especially those who are often overlooked by the justice system. Your prayer life should be immense because there is a tremendous amount of injustice in the land. You must lament before him. Bring your case. Bring the case of others before Yahweh. But we must rest assured that justice will be done. Just as Absalom was rendered powerless So too all the teeth that sunk into Jesus during his trial were broken as Jesus arose from the dead and was exalted to supreme kingly power. And any biting that you have felt in your life from your enemies and the enemies of Christ, those teeth will be broken at the right hour and on the right day. And so have compassion. And pray for your enemy. You don't have to worry about whether they'll receive their due. They will. And when you see what is happening to them, you will wish it's not happening in some sense. So for now, serve your enemy. Love them as Christ loved his enemy. Pray for them that they would submit to the king. As it was with David. And with Jesus, so too shall all the people of the Messiah be delivered. We shall receive full salvation. Now here's a just a summary of what we've gone over. I hope you understand lament psalms a lot more. There's a lot to it. It's a lament exclaimed. There's the confidence that is expressed And there is a petition that has been urged. Arise and save. Although enemies overwhelm the Messiah, the Messiah took confidence In Yahweh's deliverance for himself and his people. That's what this whole thing is about. I just want to mention a couple of things here at the end. And I've mentioned this already. Although you look around and Jesus and his kingdom seem weak, I would ask that you would renew your strength. Do not be In the last inning, you will win. I promise, on the name of Christ, you will win. Stay with him. Just as Jesus seemed weak when the enemies in Jerusalem surrounded him, so too I know that he seems weak now. However, Just as he overcame them, Jesus will overcome again with his people all those who are set against him. And there's a second part that has to go along with this. And I urge you to please pay attention to this. I know that you have a deep yearning for the kingdom to be present now. I know you want the tears to be wiped off of your cheeks and for you to feel no more pain Now. And that puts you in a very perhaps naive and persuadable spot. This is what I mean. I don't want you to be naive and to take shortcuts And there are ministries out there that will capitalize on your desperation and tell you that you can have everything now. Be very, very careful. Of anybody that says that they have anything new. There is nothing new. There is nothing new. The church that arose from the preaching of Peter has the same stuff. That we do. There is nothing new. So those ministries that are coming out and saying, all you need is this ministry, and all you need is this book, and all you need is this insight, and all you need is this mentoring. They're playing upon your desperate need for the kingdom to be present now. And I want you to be careful with that. It doesn't mean there's not any good ministries out there. But I would despise anything that is not. Quite honestly. That has been my experience. Please don't be naive and take shortcuts. Ministries will play on your desires for heaven now, and they promise new experiences, and they promise that they have the key. And there'll be a great revival around them with conversions all over the place. This, that, and the other thing. Here's the bottom line: you are promised a cross And you are promised the Holy Spirit to keep you loyal to Christ and to persevere into the end. And it will be difficult. And there is much hardship in entering into the kingdom of heaven. I'm just trying to be as realistic as possible to you, so that you know, and you can count the cost. But in the end, there's victory in Jesus. I promise. But that's the reality of the situation. There's no new book It's no new book. Unless they're just telling you old things with a new cover. And those are pretty good. Also want to point out, and I only did this a little bit for you, that although we must wait for the kingdom We can, in a great deal of measure, have great power now through prayer. And I hope that you see that one-third of the Psalms are these lament psalms. Normally, when we say prayer, in our lives people have taught us to pray according to Acts. Adoration Confession, are you familiar with this? Adoration, confession, thanksgiving, and supplication. I think it's fine for someone to come up with a form to organize your thoughts and for you to proceed through prayer. But I only ask you Why not just pray as the inspired scriptures pray? Why not, if you have a complaint, why not put it in the same form that I just gave to you? It's present, the same form is present in all of the Petition Lament Psalms. So that must mean something for the church that we have received down through the ages this particular form that is not ACTS. It's not ACTS its address, its lament or the legal complaint. It's the taking confidence in who Yahweh is and who you are. and what he's done, it's the petition and the memory of the benediction over you. Let's begin in that form. And I as I told you before, your prayer life, I expect, will be transformed. And talk to me about it as you attempt that. Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is But in the meantime, since we've just read Psalm three, let us ask him to give us this day our daily bread, that we would not be led Into temptation by ministries that promise us the world, but that he would deliver us from the evil one and all of the enemies that threaten our salvation and made us make us doubt in the Christ. For his is the kingdom, and his is the power, and his is the glory. Forever and ever. Amen. Amen. Please pray with me. Lord, we pray that you would teach us as your people. How to pray. You've given us this form which is good in the Lord's Prayer. But there are other forms too. We pray that you would teach us as a people how to lament for ourselves. And to lament for others, to not be embarrassed about it, but to go about it the right way. And we pray that as we call upon you, our God, and as we lay before you first our complaint, that we would take great confidence in who you are and in who we are. And that that confidence would raise our heads and restore our shining faces as we renounce this world are not threatened by it, but profess to be your followers, even while carrying our cross. May we have confidence to the end. And we petition that you would rise and that you would bless us and teach us how to lament like this. That you would bless us, O your people. We ask that you would pronounce a benign benediction over us at the end. In your name, Amen.