Picking up chapter two, eleven through fifteen. For the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust We should live soberly, righteously, and godly in the present age, looking for the blessed hope and glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. Who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from every lawless deed, and purify for himself his own special people, zealous for good works. Speak these things, exhort, and rebuke with all authority. Let no one despise you. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Christ, as you know, we reach here the theological center of this letter. We reach the theological center of the world, really. Oh Lord Jesus Christ, may not one word be wasted today. in the preaching of your word. May they all convince and shape the consciences of your people. And mold their hearts in love for you and their neighbor. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Last week we used two examples to make sure that we understood what Paul was saying. And the verses 1 through 10 last week, we used the example of the Cosby Show. And we use the example of the rifleman, two very different shows, but both are social visions and not mere entertainment. And that is what we're getting in this letter is a social vision from the Apostle Paul, who's authorized to cast this vision, and Titus is to implement it. And so too are we. We took the movie illustration and changed it to a bit of an older image and We pronounced this last week that our lives are a theater, are meant to be a theater for the social vision of Christ and his kingdom. We are all witnesses to the goodness of Christ's order, and therefore Christians of all ages and stages should live in godliness. There is a great tragedy in other worlds in the world. And that is that people do not believe that God is good. And part of your job, just putting this simply, part of your job is to make sure that they know that he's good. As far as it depends on you, make sure they know how good our God is. As a basic message from last week. Now we continue this week, and I have a few observations. We really have hit the center here of this letter. I really view this part of the letter as the peak of the mountaintop. We, from the very first chapter, have been climbing that mountain, and when we get to the top, we find in the center what God the Father is doing through his Son, Jesus Christ. and his spirit will then see a kind of denouement or descent here after this sermon as we go back down into the weeds of how we're to relate to our local governments, for example. So let's just start with a few observations that are important. I encourage you to follow along in your scriptures so that you can talk about this today at lunch. First thing I want you to know is what I just said, and that is that this is the theological center of the letter of Titus. As such, what we find is Jesus Christ right smack dab in the middle. Paul first focuses on the arrival and the rearrival of the incarnate Son of God. Take a look at verses eleven and thirteen. What you see there is a repetition in the in the modern translation of the New King James Version. I'm not sure what translation you have. But in mine, it says appear Now, if we were to all have the Greek language in front of us, we'd all have the same words. Let's make that a goal. In verse 11 and 13 We see the repetition of the word appear. Salvation shall appear, or has appeared, rather, I'm sorry. Salvation has appeared. And then the second one is looking for the blessed hope and glorious appearing. Both of these sentences are referring to Jesus Christ. In verse 11, the Son of God took upon himself human nature to bring mankind into an estate of salvation. And then in verse 13, our hope is the return of Jesus Christ, bringing salvation to finish what he has started. The word here, if you're interested, is epiphany. Well, it's a form of that. It's a form of epiphany. We see that there is epiphany and a kind of re-epitany. The second thing is that Paul shows what Jesus Christ has accomplished. In verse 14, so there's been this arrival, or he has appeared, and he did not just show up and do nothing. He didn't visit the zoo and then leave. Instead, he had a work to do, and that work accomplished particular things. So take a look at how that unfolds. For example, in verse 14, Jesus gave himself for us that he might redeem us from every lawless deed and purify for himself his own special people. Well that is that's a lot That's a lot. But that's what it says. This is really what it's doing is walking and talking through echoes of Old Testament passages. Just on the surface, you should recognize that he is bringing up or evoking Exodus. He is evoking certain psalms, and he is especially evoking Ezekiel, which is why we have that in our bulletin this morning. And as such, these verses reveal an underlying story. The underlying story is this: it is a story Of a king who has come to release and redeem his people. He takes them, his people, from slavery, slay, enslaved to a wicked order. And he purifies and consecrates and encultures them to a whole new world where they may actually have a good life. A good life wherein he is held in high esteem and given his due rights of worship, for example. That is the underlying story that's being told here when we place Ezekiel Psalms and Exodus and lay them over this passage to see it's all the same continuous story going through. Here we're witnessing the consummation of it. At least uh his uh first appearance. Now, here's a question for you. When you look at your your scriptures this morning, We've seen that Jesus appears. That ends up being the focus. Then we ask the question, well, what did he accomplish when he appeared? And it tells you what he did for you right there in verse 14. Okay. So then what is there a further goal that's a little bit further out that Christ is accomplishing by doing those things? Is there yet another end that he's sought? And the answer is yes. Yes. So take a look. At your passage again, and you can see in verse 14 right there at the end, he is making a people that are zealous for good works. Now, does that remind you of anything else in the Bible? It should definitely remind you of Deuteronomy all over the place, but let me just give you one reference, Deuteronomy 26, 18 through 19. Also, today the Lord has proclaimed you to be his special people, just as he promised you that you should keep all his commandments And that he will set you high above all nations which he has made in praise, in name, and in honor, and that you may be a holy people to the Lord your God. Just as he has spoken. Now, there are so many other references that we can look at where this is just an echo of him constituting the church of God. That's what he's doing here. And it is captured in that poignant phrase of a people that are zealous for good works. So we are not a people that see that Jesus Christ has uh uh taken us out of the slavery of sin and we just stare at his cross. That's not where the passage stops. It keeps going and it says, I've even done my crosswork as a means to a particular end that you would become a people changed who are zealous for good works. He's really changing the whole world. He is not interested in remaining on the cross as an object of your pity. That is a means to a further end. And this brings me to another observation. Now, what is Titus's role in all of this? Just as Paul stated in verse uh one of chapter two, I want you to notice in verse 15 he's restating the same thing. You have now two one, chapter two, verse one, and you have chapter two verse fifteen that are rephrasing The same task, and so you have bookends, which a m with a main section, uh one main single message right there in between In 2. 1, he tells him that you are to teach these things. So too, in 2. 15, Titus is authorized to order the church toward the same ends that Jesus Christ is working toward. Why is it that the church must be ordered? What is the deep theological reason for saying something like that? It is because it is the very work of God Himself as what he is accomplishing within history. He is reordering humanity in his church by way of his son and his spirit, and they will be known as a people that are zealous for good works. You can see this negatively in verse 11. What are the things that we're not going to be any longer? Take a look at verse 11. We are not, we are going to deny ungodliness and worldly lusts That word worldly there, by the way, is not talking about we're we're not saying we're going to deny the beauty of the flowers of the field. And the all-inspiring moment between Red Sea when we look at giant trees or oaks in an ancient forest. God wants us to enjoy his creation. What we're talking about here when he says worldly lusts is a system of wickedness that is so disgusting that you would never want anybody that you love to be a part of it. It is a kind of systematic effort to destroy and decreate what God intends for good. And he says, we're not a part of those things any longer. We are denying even any desire that we have to be a part of doing things that way. And then he states it positively: instead, we are going to live soberly and righteously in the present age. We are, verse 14, a people that are zealous for good works. And you can begin to see how we have to start defining good works as there is a different world that has come to be in this world. And since we are a part of that world that is good, we will do works in line and in accordance with this new world order. This is the larger message that Paul is giving to us that is continuous with the message of the scriptures from the beginning. Now let me say one more thing here as an observation. I don't want you to oversimplify what is being said by Paul to Titus when he tells him here in these verses that he is supposed to teach those who are in the Cretan Church. Take a look with me at this passage again. He says, For the grace of God, beginning in verse 11, that brings salvation has appeared to all men. Teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly. And Titus is supposed to be a part of this teaching us that moment. What does it mean to say that these things are teaching us that? I don't want us to oversimplify here as to what it means to enter into the Christian life. Jesus Christ is not just trying to help people have a couple better behaviors. Paul is not just instructing people to help them do a couple good things. This is a reformation of the entire cosmos. In verse 12, there is a very important Greek word that I have to share with you. And if I were you, I'd write it down. It's The spelling is in the bulletin. This is a very important Greek word, and it is used to frame the whole situation here. as to what Titus is supposed to do. That is to say, he is meant to bring a pidea of God. Now that's a Greek word, and I have trouble translating that word because it's so it includes so much in its scope. Let me give you a couple things that would be sort of synonymous. A social vision for all of reality. The creation of a distinct culture that includes everything Or, here's one I think starts to get closer to it, the creation of an of a new world. That's Pidea. Titus, in other words, in line with the work of Jesus Christ himself, is to co-operate with Christ. ordering the church into the visible manifestation of the new heavenly society of redeemed humanity. Now, let me say that again, because that is a mouthful. Titus, in line with the work of Jesus Christ himself, is to co-operate with Christ, ordering the Church into the visible manifestation of the church. of the new heavenly society of redeemed humanity. That's how a nerd would say it. And I am a nerd. Now, how would Paul say the same thing? And that's what we find in Titus 2, 13 through 14. Jesus Christ gave himself for us. That he might redeem us from every lawless deed and purify himself, his own special people, zealous for good works. And let's just make that our doctrine today. Because that's the main point. Jesus Christ gave Himself for us that He might redeem us from every lawless deed and purify for Himself His own special people, zealous for good works. You can just take that verse and memorize it. Take it home with you. There's the doctrine. Now, I would like to talk about this. I want to talk about this under two main headings: the redemption of God and the pidea of God. The redemption of God and the paidia of God. Let's start with the redemption of God Our passage this morning, as I've mentioned already, I just want to go in fuller depth now, our passage this morning evokes what many passages evoke, and that is the exodus. Does everyone know what the exodus is? Yes, the Exodus. The Exodus is the story of God rescuing his people from Egyptian slavery. That's probably the simplest way to put it. The Exodus is the story of God rescuing his people from Egyptian slavery. God raised what we would say as a mediator, his name was Moses. to lead his people out of the iron furnace of Pharaoh through the Red Sea and into a land where they may serve God with all their heart with all of their mind and with all of their resources. That's the basic story of the Exodus. The rescue from Egypt Is complex, however. When you start to pay more and more attention to what is going on here within this story, there are different metaphors that the author uses to capture the reality of what God is doing. Now we've talked about these different metaphors here right from the pulpit, so this should not be new to you. But sometimes the Exodus, for example, is spoken of a rescue from an abusive marriage as one way to talk about living in the world is that you're living under an abuser who is not good for you, but actually is trying to destroy you and hate you. That's one image that we are given. For example, several scholars have shown that the phrase, let my people go, is well within the vocabulary of divorce. There we have Yahweh seeing the abuse, and then he says, divorce her. You've lost your rights to the marriage, Pharaoh. In this case, Yahweh ends up demanding that Pharaoh releases Israel from marriage, and therefore there should be a divorce. Yahweh then takes Israel in marriage and gives her freedom and happiness. instead of slavery and death. Now that's a major theme that runs all the way through. It's where the idea of the bride comes from also. But there is also, like I mentioned, it's complex. That means there's many parts to the Exodus Many different metaphors, many different frames to try to understand this redemptive activity of God. And the other one that is used is just literal captivity or slavery. The vocabulary of captivity and slavery is right there all the time. Israel is held captive by Pharaoh in one sense But if we were to even take one step down into another layer, what we see is that Pharaoh is a physical manifestation of the gods of Egypt. and they are actually held in enslavement or slavery to the gods of that world. Yahweh redeems them, and he becomes their patron deity. if you want to put it that way. To whom will they turn when they need grain and wine in the dry season? They shall turn to the Lord their God. To whom shall they turn for salvation? To the Lord their God, to whom will they turn for children and children and children over generations? It will be Yahweh. It will not be the gods of the Egyptians Now, that's just right there within the book of Exodus. You could also turn to Ezekiel, and you could see that Ezekiel uses the same dominant metaphors to describe God's relationship to the church. Ezekiel uses both the domain of marriage and he uses the domain of captivity or enslavement. To frame the church's relationship with Yahweh. Let me give you an example of a marriage passage. This is Ezekiel chapter 16, verse 8. When I passed by you again and looked upon you, indeed was the time of your time was the time of love. Now listen to this language very carefully, and remember our series on Ruth. So I spread my wing over you and covered your nakedness. Yes, I swore an oath to you and entered into a covenant with you, and you became mine, says the Lord. The gesture of covering a woman with one's garment is a symbolic act whose meaning is illustrated in Ruth's invitation to Boaz to spread his wing over her. Ruth 3. 9. We're familiar with that. And according to ancient Near Eastern custom, the gesture signified the establishment of a new relationship and the symbolic declaration of the husband to provide for the sustenance of his future wife. There it is right there in Ezekiel. Ezekiel's picking up that marriage metaphor from that domain, and he's showing us how God relates to the church Well, there's also the captivity metaphor and domain in Ezekiel, and you could turn to Ezekiel 37, 23 through 24 at lunchtime today to look at that one. They shall not defile themselves any more with their idols, nor with their detestable things, nor with any of their transgressions. But I will deliver or save or redeem or rescue them from all their dwelling places in which they have sinned and will cleanse them Then they shall be my people, and I will be their God. David, my servant, shall be king over them, and they shall have all have one shepherd. They shall all walk in my judgments and observe my statutes and they will all do them The process of purification here involved two actions, in both of which Yahweh functions as the agent. First, Yahweh will deliver the Israelites from their apostases. I will save Or I will deliver. That's what we see in Ezekiel. Now, I will deliver or I will save, usually envisions deliverance from external enemies, even within the book of Ezekiel. But here we see that he's using it as a way to say that he will release them from the enslaving power of sin. Those are the two main ways of describing describing God's redemption. And I hope that you can see the reason why I wanted to step back and do this kind of biblical theology of this theme, and there's so much more that could be said. The reason why I wanted to do this is because as I'm talking about the other places in Scripture where we see God's redemption, you should start to hear the echo of our Titus passage in your head. It's all saying the same thing. That last passage from Ezekiel 37, for example, is basically a rewording. Now, that is the redemption of God. Now let's move. Now that we have that kind of laid out and we see how God relates to his people. Through those metaphors, those two domains of marriage and captivity, let's talk about not just the redemption of God, but the paidea of God. We are now postured to better understand this section of Titus. When Paul writes to Titus and says that Jesus Christ is our Savior. That is subversive language. It is, he is speaking with the same kind of subversion that Moses does When Moses walks into Egypt and by way of the power of Yahweh topples over every Egyptian God. When Paul writes this, this is subversive. We have in our possession, archaeologically even inscriptions where the imperial cult and Caesar, especially for this place, is known as the Savior. So, what we end up seeing here is Paul subverting the Savior, who is Caesar. He considered himself the Son of God. That's a part of an inscription. and a physical manifestation of all of the gods of the Greek world. So what Paul is doing is very much like what Moses is doing. Walking into the place, showing Titus that he must walk into this place also, and say, We, just as we remove people from the slavery of Egypt, so too we shall remove the Gentiles in slavery from all of the gods of Greece. The same kind of thing is going on here. In essence, Paul is saying that God, through his King Jesus Christ, has legitimately taken his people from Caesar and the gods that he represents. And he has become their bride. They are now his bride, and they are his people. He has purchased or redeemed them. Now, since that is the reality, what I just did was I tied the theology of the Old Testament now to the theology of the New. Since that's the reality, since the reality is that this is what God has done That we as Gentiles or those who are non-Jews have had our own kind of exodus. Since that is the case, now what? And here it is, Paul encourages Titus to enculturate or reshape or to reform the people into the ways of the new world that they have just entered into by way of the grace of God Himself. Can you picture yourself being exodus out of slavery, being washed through the baptism of the Red Sea, and into the wilderness awaiting the promised land? Because that is your story. You have been taken from one place and translated through the purification of baptism, so to speak, into this new place. Baptism as a sign and a seal. And since that is the reality, we are to be who God has made us to be. Have you ever heard that before? This enculturation, this reshaping, this reformation, do you know what the Greek word is for all of that with all of the theology behind it? It's paidea. That's what we're talking about here. That is the paidea of God and its theological underwriting This is what God has done, and this is now why we seek an active Christian life. It is called Pidea. Now I'm hopeful that that helps you see how the theology or the redemptive work of God through Christ and His Spirit fit with our reformation or being zealous to do good works. And that there is continuity with that kind of language throughout the entire canon of Scripture. Now, what about the good works themselves? Like I mentioned earlier, this is not about a few good deeds. This is about creating a world together that is in accordance with the world to come. Let me say that again, because I think this is a good gauge for your life. Together, Severn Run, by the power of the Holy Spirit, we are creating a world that is in accordance with the world to come. A social world. Now let me give you an example of this. This has been a pretty heavy talk so far. Let's calm down a little bit. And let me give you an example of a idea of the creation of a new social world by the power of the Holy Spirit. When I visited Charleston, South Carolina, has anybody been to Charleston, South Carolina? It's a lovely city. I recommend that you visit. It's great. Charleston, South Carolina. I learned that in the 1800s it was a rich center of Protestant and even Presbyterian revival and reformation. The enculturation of Charleston was so thorough that the city and its architecture was planned in accordance with the kingdom of God. Now that is a Pidea. That's a paidea. A paidea is something that you don't even really notice anymore. It is the air that you breathe. Do you want to hear a couple of American paideas? An American pie day would be that your trash can is probably under your kitchen sink. Like, why does it have to be there? Mine's not, because I'm a rebel. Whether it's those kinds of things. Or that you have an open kitchen and living room floor plan. It didn't used to be that way. I've been in homes where the kitchen is just sectioned off. That's the paidea. There are things that we don't even think about, but we are formed and reformed in accordance with someone's social vision as to how our kitchen should look or where our trash should go, who should be in the kitchen and who should not These are all formations. And the same thing was happening in the city of Charleston as the whole city was enculturated according to the kingdom of God. Now listen to some of the specifics that they planned out their city with in terms of architecture. No matter what building you would build in the city of Charleston, and it still stands to this day, you may not build a building that is higher than the steeple of the churches. When we look up, we will always see the cross of Jesus Christ. Now, that's only partially impressive Here's another one. If you were the captain of a ship coming in to Charleston, South Carolina, do you know how you would know that you were on the straight and narrow and on the right path and you weren't going to hit something to the left or something to the right You would figure out that you would take a look at the city and you would align three known churches and their steeples, and if you could get them all in a straight line and you Orchestrated yourself in that direction, you would go straight down the center of the harbor. Now that was symbolic, was it not? They were capturing what they stood for as an entire city It was a symbol that whether you lived in that city or whether you were visiting by boat, the frame and the vision for all of life was the theological frame that was preached in those pulpits every Lord's day. It was a theological frame of what the Father is doing by way of the Son and through his Holy Spirit. Unmistakable. That is the consistent mission of the church today. In fact, let me point one other thing out to you. In Ephesians, where Paul instructs the church to raise the children, in the training and admonition of the Lord. Did you know that the word training there is the Greek word Pidea? You are to raise the children in the paidea of the Lord. The paidea of God. That's how deep it goes. That is what you have been brought into. We have been brought into so much more than some kind of fundamentalist revival where we're all told to burn our AC, D C and Metallica tapes. There is so much more going on here with Jesus Christ. So we have to ask In another way, what we can see here is that we are continuing in the book of Judges. Do you see how that is the case? When we were in the book of Judges, I know you got tired of me because each week I'd get up and start with a doctrine that was the same thing. Do you remember what it was? Make me proud. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is right Now we can switch it up here, and we could we could say for this whole series, if we just wanted to focus on the negative aspects of the letter, another symptom of the cretinization of the church is And therefore, we need to order it and we need this, that, and the other thing, including a theology behind what we're doing. That's what's going on here. But we always want to take a next step forward because we don't live on Crete. So we have to ask: what are the symptoms of the Americanization of the church? That's what you have to ask. If you want to get started or if you want to continue in the padea of God. Then you must ask, how may I avoid or how may I get out of the Americanization of the church? Are we still serving the order of the old gods and their way of living in the world? Now I have noticed that that changes with each generation. There were some things growing up in the 80s that I saw, and I still see with those within those who grew up in the 80s. They served the old gods in a very particular way in the 80s. And then I saw them being served in a different way in the 90s, and that seems to happen with each generation. There are disgusting practices that are a part of every generation that when we enter into the kingdom of God, we can't be a part of those things any longer. Are we actively seeking to avoid Western enculturation as it now stands? Now that's sort of a negative way of looking at it. Let's put it more positively. What are we doing together as a community to make sure we and our children are raised in the paidea of God? What about you? Remember last week, what about you as older men? And what about you as older women? What are you doing for the younger women? and the younger men to make sure they are raised in the paidea of the Lord. Here's a good diagnostic question for you. If Jesus Christ reappeared today, bringing his kingdom. Let's just say that uh he decides to come back on Mother's Day and he shows up at the house When he sits down to talk with you, what parts of your life would he tell you they have just got to go? They have got to be removed. I told you this clearly through my servants, the prophets, and the apostles, and you have not listened. So here I tell you, staring at you in with my own eyes. This has got to go. Do you not know that this is part of not a part of my kingdom? What would he say? What would be the things that he would point out that you could enter more fully into the good life? If Jesus came as judge of American society, wherein would you be found to be serving the doctrines of the false gods of the Americans? And then I think this is a more positive way to think about it, in the zeal of the spirit. What good ways of life could we adopt together instead? And this is something that we're really lacking right now, and I'm not the only one that is saying this, is we're missing a positive vision. for the goals of what we are trying to accomplish as a Christian colony on earth as it is in heaven. Now those visions have been given in the past, and we have got to get to work to make sure we have a positive vision for our present and the future of our children. What does the good human life look like? We've got to answer that, and we must remain consistent. Well, some of you will say, of course I say yes to all of these things, because I homeschool my children. Yeah, but you know, a lot of people homeschool their children. Well you say, well, I classically homeschool my children. Yeah, I get it. But I have been a part of the classical Christian education movement since two thousand eight, which pales in comparison with how long of some of you are, and I have seen classical Christian e uh education, adopt pagan notions of what life in the world is supposed to look like. It's not a um safeguard. We have to be careful. I think one popular way of saying this is that we are all, even the most dedicated, Whether individual or school administration or institution, we are all susceptible to mission drift. We can get off the path and the track and think we're still doing a good thing, but really we are producing and helping in the Americanization of our children. So now's a good opportunity to stop and to ask, in the zeal of the Holy Spirit, what good ways of life could we adopt instead? Maybe it's time. Bear with me, but maybe it is time at least for a small reformation. Maybe we are to reform, be reformed, and always reforming. Maybe that is our motto. Well, whether it is or not, I believe that it is, our truth this morning that leads to that motto is this. Jesus Christ gave himself for us that he might redeem us from every lawless deed and purify for himself his own special people. And guess what they are doing in the world? They are zealous for good works. Amen. Let's pray together