The next day a great multitude had that had come to the feast when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem took branches of palm trees and went out to meet him and cried out, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, the King of Israel. Then Jesus, when he had found a young donkey, sat on it, as it is written, Fear not, daughter of Zion, behold, your king is coming, sitting on a donkey's colt. His disciples did not understand these things at first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written about him, and that they had done these things to him. Therefore, the people who were with him when he called Lazarus out of his tomb and raised him from the dead bore witness For this reason the people also met him, because they heard that he had done this sign. The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, You see that you are accomplishing nothing? Look! The world has gone after him. Now there were certain Greeks among those who came up to worship at the feast. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we ask in the name of your Son, being his brothers and sisters and his servants. That you would bless us as your congregation, and that you would do so through the preaching of your word. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated I myself have discovered that one key to success is having some kind of regular schedule. You need to plan things out, and the more you can have something set up to where you know when it's going to happen, uh the better off you're going to be. There's less to forget. Well, there's more principles than that involved here this morning, but that's at least one of them, where annually we come around celebrating the Lord on his day, but remembering very specific things about him during the Easter season. One of those days, one of those regular seasonal calendrical days or or times that we use is Palm Sunday You'll begin to see the sanctuary chasing changing, for example. I'm very thankful for our decorating committee. And with those decorations, you'll begin to see different symbols that have meant something to Christians for a long time Now we're reading the John account of Palm Sunday or Triumphal Entry this morning, but I want to read to you very quickly and then ask you a question from the Gospel of Matthew 21 verses 6 through 8. Just listen to this. This is the same situation, but there's a little bit of a description here that's different. So the disciples went and did as Jesus commanded. They brought the donkey and the colt, laid their clothes on them, and set him on them. And a very great multitude spread their clothes on the road. Others cut down branches from the trees and spread them on the road. I want you to place yourself in that situation for just a moment. Don't you imagine yourself by faith. Being with Jesus of Nazareth, what would it, what would be going on inside of you as a human being? To make you take your clothes and put them on the donkey for him to sit on. And what would be going on inside of your mind to take your clothes and put them on the dirt? For him to walk on while mounted. And what would be going on in your mind as a human being when you decided to cut down palm branches? Before they had electric chainsaws, and to lay those down in his path, what would you be saying? Why would that be emotionally and intellectually significant for you? And let me just ask you. By way of analogy, I know that you're not laying literal palm branches down before him today, nor are you putting clothes on a donkey, but let me just ask you. Are you in the same state of mind and heart that those people were? Are you willing to lay down your life for him? Now that's a really good question. It's a question I keep asking myself. And I want you to ask that question this morning. One of the things that might bubble up in your little human heart when I ask you a question like that is, well, why should I? And I want to start to answer that by looking at our passage this morning. And let's see let's just go ahead and answer the question. Well well why should I? Why should I? Take a look at the passage with me as we as we try to answer that cat question. I've already read this to you. You should be pretty familiar with it. Even if you're not, we're going to step through it here. We began in verse number twelve. And you can see the setting or the introduction that John is setting up here when he says the next day, this is a marker that John uses throughout his own his gospel to show you there's a new event that's happening now. It's being a a new episode. The next day a great multitude had come to the feast when they had heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. And a little bit later you're gonna We had read that one of the reasons why they're coming to this feast and following Jesus is because many of those who had both witnessed Jesus raising Lazarus from the dead as well as heard that Jesus had raised someone from the dead. They're all flocking to be able to see him. So he has stirred up quite the crowd here where they're all gathering around him. And they're on the Mount of Olives. We learn that in other Gospels. And here you see this introduction where they're all coming together. And immediately you can see the same thing that we had read in Matthew that they're going to partake in a symbolic activity in verse number 13. Now we see the symbol over here today. And we see the symbol here today with these palms. And here we see the symbol in verse number 13 that they took branches of palm trees. And they went out to meet him, and they cried out a very particular psalm, which you have sung today, or parts of it, from Psalm 118. And here's the thing that we have to begin to realize. I'm going to stop there just for a moment. We'll continue on to the next section in a minute. But Jesus up to this point would not have stood for this kind of thing. And I'm going to I'll tell you why in just a moment Them laying down clothes, them laying down palm branches, them singing to him from Psalm eighteen, which is a kind of messianic psalm and coronation In the past, he would have never put up with that. You want to know why? Because it wasn't his hour. They had before tried to establish him as king, and he would slip away. But this is the first thing that I want you to notice about this passage here when we get to Palm Sunday, is that Jesus is not slipping away. That he actually is recognizing that in the Father's hands, that God the Father is orchestrating this whole thing. so that there would be a further disclosure and revelation as to the true identity of who Jesus is. And the people are picking up on it, although we're going to find as we go through this series that they're going to not really understand all that they're saying The people are picking up on it with the symbolism that they choose, the palm branches, and the psalm that they sing, Psalm 118. I was just reading a a well-known commentator who had done some research on palm branches within the history of the Jewish people. I like to get help from them so I don't have to spend all my days researching palm branches. And they said that palm branches were also used as a national symbol. For over 150 years, they had been directly associated with the Maccabean Revolution. When after Simon Maccabeus expelled the Syrian forces from the temple in Jerusalem, he was welcomed back as a national hero. Think uh think of uh our national heroes some could be the the armed forces or a baseball team. It really depends And you see the city streets lined with people popping off confetti and having a good time as they parade down the street. But here, even more seriously, you have this gentleman on his way back from expelling the Assyrian forces from the temple. They welcome him back with what? songs and praises and palm branches celebrating the Jewish triumph over their enemies. And you could actually read that in extra biblical literature in 1 Maccabees 1351. But it wasn't just the palm branches here that we see that are significant. There's also this this um the Psalm 118. In Psalm 118, I'll give you just a couple verses that help you to understand what the people are trying to do by saying this. One is something we've already read, verse number 22 from Psalm 118, the stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. This is a way of them declaring who they believe Jesus really is. Now they're not saying, hey, listen, you're one of the stones. in the building. They're not saying you're one of the foundation stones in the building. They're saying you're the stone upon which all other stones hang together. You're the chief cornerstone. So remember that. And then if you were to go on to Psalm 118, 26 through 27, this is where they're pulling from in their song: Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. We have blessed you from the house of the Lord. God is the Lord and he has given us light by in the sacrifice with the cords to the horns of the altar. Now does that strike you that it that they're singing a psalm that includes the idea of light. Have you heard of light in John's Gospel? I mean you go all the way back and John tells you what is what's the lens that I want you to listen to read my gospel, Christian. He tells you He says in John 1. 9, He is the true light, which gives light to every man, and he has come into the world. And it wasn't John the Baptist, it was Jesus. And then we see to put the cherry on the top. Go ahead and look at your scriptures again in verse number 13. Right there at the end, the people add a phrase that you will not find explicit within Psalm 118. And this really helps you to see exactly what they're trying to say of him and what the Father is causing them to say. The King of Israel. There it is, with the exclamation point. King of Israel Now that's just the first event. If you keep going, you see that in verse number 14, then Jesus, when he had found a young donkey, he sat on it, another symbolic action And then there is a statement that we would understand by way of the Holy Spirit What are we supposed to do with him choosing a donkey and sitting on it? Does it mean that he's meek and he's mild? Does it mean that he he's gonna be like uh he's gonna be different than other kings? He's gonna come as a pacifist. instead of one who's hungry for war? All of those interpretations are unnecessary for us to guess at because they give us the context as how How we are to understand who Jesus Christ is. It says in verse number 15 from Zechariah 9. 9, fear not, daughter of Zion, behold, your king is coming sitting on a donkey's colt. It's a repetition of what they had done the first time when they ended with the king of Israel that's still on their hearts and their minds. And they have figured out another way to be able to say it, and Jesus is going right along with God's providence, playing into this in the choosing of the donkey and the mounting of the colt. Now if you were to take a look at the whole passage with Zechariah 9, 9 through 10, and really that whole section you see, he's no pacifist number one. But you'd see that he really is the king. It says this in the larger context of Zechariah: Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion, shout, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, your king is coming to you. He is just and he has salvation. He is lowly and riding on a donkey, a cult, the foal of a donkey. And then he goes on, I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim and the horse from Jerusalem. The battle bow shall be cut off. He shall speak peace to the nations. His dominion shall be from sea to sea, and from the river to the ends of the earth. That's what these people are saying by way of God's providence about Jesus. Someone who has complete dominion. Now there's some more verses. This is the third observation that I want to give to you as we're seeking to answer the question, why should I? There's a third section here which will be brief, but you'll notice that just like in any story, you have those who are protagonists and heroes. And you have antagonists and villains. Did you see the villains in the story? You know what's one of the the lovely things that I see? and seeing these villains in the story of the Pharisees having that conversation with themselves, is you can tell that God is using their mouth to give forth his message. Isn't that wild that he even uses the actions of his enemies to accomplish his own will? You see that here in our passage He goes there's a in verses 16 and 17 they talk about what I've already explained to you as to why so many people have gathered around Jesus. But then in verse number 19, it jumps over into a conversation that the Pharisees were having. The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, You see that you are accomplishing nothing? Look, the world has gone after him And then you'll see the the world start to show up in verse number 20. Now there were certain Greeks who had come to worship at the feast. Now if you if you see the world has gone after them, God using their mouth to declare his will, even the mouth of his enemy, And then you see the nations start to show up. And you just heard a song or a chant from Zechariah 9. 9 which says that the king established by God the Father will be from river to the ends of the earth, that he shall speak peace to the nations Then you're starting to see the whole picture come together. And it certainly answers our question when you ask from your little human heart, and you say, Well, why should I? Why should I follow him? Why should I put my life down like a palm branch? Why should it be my clothes that are in the dirt? Why do I have to do his will? Why can't I have my will? Well the answer is given to you. It's painted crystal clear. Because he's the king. And he's not just the king of some small sect in the Middle East. What we end up seeing here for the mouth of the Pharisees, and what we end up seeing with the Greeks showing up, is that Jesus Christ is King of all of the nations. So let me just ask you a question. Do you have a nationality? Because if you do, then he's your king also. That's the kind of logic that John is pushing on us here by way of the Holy Spirit. And it is Irresistible. Jesus Christ is the King of all the nations. I'm looking out here. I'm seeing all different kinds of hair color. Most of it is natural. And it's an indication to me that there's a lot of different nationalities here. I'm on my bad side, I'm English. So I'm gonna tell you I'm a mutt. That's basically what I am. On my dad's side I'm English. On my mother's side, I'm Irish. And I don't know what all of your different nationalities are. I know some of you are Italian. Some of you are Jewish. But recognizing that you do have a nationality I wonder if you're also recognizing this message that Jesus Christ is your King. That is that universal. I have to ask that question of you because of something else that comes up a little bit later in our passage If you want to take a look at verse 26, you're welcome to of the same chapter. But Jesus finds it necessary even though with those whom he had walked with. His disciples to remind them that if that if you really believe that he is king, then you will follow him. And I'm just asking here this morning, are you following Jesus Christ as your King? I'm kind of swirling around the same point. No matter what nation you're from, are you following Jesus Christ as your King? We often think of Christ as serving us. Isn't that true? I wonder just going through this past week, how many times have you thought about Christ serving you? That would be a good thought. It's really important to recognize his love and his service of us. I remember when I first became a Christian that I s I um I don't really do this anymore because it's very frustrating. But I used to go into Christian bookstores. And when I went in one time I saw cheesy t shirts went by those And then I saw a painting that just, it wasn't Thomas Kincaid, I promise, that captured my attention. And it was it's a picture that's in my office now. It is a picture of Jesus Christ holding up a man who's exhausted. And I thought, man, that is me That is everything that has been going on in my story is that I'm totally exhausted. And that man is holding a mallet and a spike I think representative that he used to be an enemy of God. I thought, man, that's me too. And I'm just totally exhausted of being his enemy. I don't want to do that any longer. And the thing that didn't allow me to c collapse is the same thing that you see in the painting, and that is that Jesus Christ was holding him up. But you know I walk into my office every morning and I see the painting or you know Tuesday through whatever. I walk into my office and I see the painting and you know it doesn't capture my attention as much It still captures something good. But you know what painting captures my attention these days? The old man with a single piece of bread in front of him praying over it. Because my heart is beating more now towards, Lord, you still hold me up. I'm really hoping that with all of this work that you're putting into me, that I can serve you. And that you'd give me a little bit of energy and then I'd be content with what I can do. That goes back to that verse number twenty-six with the fallen conditioned focus. That we can recognize that Jesus Christ is King here, but we have a major problem as human beings in that we really do ask, why should I? And then even when we know We think that just because we can express it with our mouths, we actually think we're following him as our king, when in fact we're not actually following him as our king. And sometimes, like the example that I just gave you, it's because you're stuck in thinking about everything that Jesus can do for you, and you haven't matured to realize that everything he's putting into you is meant to go back in service to him. And I'm starting to learn that by way of the pictures in my life. And I wonder about you I wonder if Christ has been calling some of you for a little while now to realize Jesus Christ is King of all nations. That's the main point of the sermon today, right? But practically speaking, have you been stuck in child mode? Is there a failure to launch? That you're forty years old and you're still living in Jesus' basement? Or whatever it is, however the analogy is, is that we always are reliant upon Jesus Christ, and He's glorified in our dependence upon Him, but He pours into us that we might serve Him as the King. That's the first thing that I wanted to bring up to you. And I want to tell you, I want to be honest with you, that what I want to do for the rest of my sermon, I'm I'm telling you what I want, okay? Here's what I want. For the rest of the sermon, I'm going to give you two more exam two examples, and this is what I want you to do. I want you to think. I want you to use your memory and see, are any of these things true of you? And if they are, I want you to go to Jesus Christ, or go to God the Father by way of Jesus Christ and ask for his forgiveness and for repentance. That's what I want, because I believe that's what God wants from us this morning. Have you ever thought of your memory that way? It happens sometimes we're not very self-reflective, but that's how God uses our memories. Somebody says, a mom goes up to a child and they say, you mouthed off at me. The child's memory spikes up, sees the event, sees that they mouthed off at the child, and the conscience says You mouth off and you're guilty. The memory acts as a kind of witness in a law court, reminding everybody about all of your actions. Everybody inside of you. And then the conscience comes in and tells you what that kind of action was. Was it a good action or was it a bad action? And I'm hoping to appeal to your memory. By way of analogy, here this morning. And the first way I've done that is I'm saying to you Is it possible that you're still stuck in a childish mode and you are not considering yourself a servant of Christ, you're only considering Christ serving you? That's the first question. So please, does the Holy Spirit use your memory to bring anything up to where you need to mature? Number two I want to share different stories that I hope the Spirit will use as analogies within your life, though none of these stories are for people here. I remember receiving a report from a gentleman that I had gotten a chance to talk to. I actually think he was just kind of sharing, and I happened to be in the crowd And he was talking about, um, I think it was on a retreat, long, long time ago, and he was talking about the the changes that God was making in his relationship with his wife. that he would go away to work and then and the and uh would pour all of himself into work And then when he would come home, instead of accomplishing what he had in his mind, which would be the home as a retreat and no more work, When he got home, the wife would meet him with problems that she has had all day with the children and needing decisions from him And he recounted how he sat at dinner and he just wanted to sit there and eat his meat And have peace and quiet, but there were questions about planning And about all kinds of different things, and he eventually, having built all of this up over months, never having said anything He slammed his hands down on the kitchen table to where the kitchen table buckled up, right where the leaf would be, and then he looked at his wife straight in the eye and she's only this far away and he screamed in her face. And when he had screamed, she saw he saw, and he still s I imagine sees this. He saw her eyes widen in fear. He saw his children cower in pain and in hurt And those visions that he had and what he in his memory kept bringing back up into his mind. was compared on the spot by way of the Holy Spirit, on what a husband is meant to be to his children, or to a father is meant to be to his children, and a husband is meant to be to his wife. And there was great conviction within his heart. And he essentially had said, there was different language. This was so long ago, it was a little bit of different language. He realized in that moment that maybe he professed that Jesus Christ was his Lord, but he didn't really act like it. Because if Jesus Christ was his Lord, his children would see him as their protector, not as someone who loses it in a rage. His wife would see one who was like Christ to the church, not one who would destroy his own flesh, even emotionally. Now in my experience when something like that happens That is Jesus Christ calling to that man to repent. And I don't know if you have a similar situation where you let it rip sometimes. Where you're a hothead and you lose your temper, where you have a poor relationship, maybe it's with a brother or a sister. But I'm telling you right now, that can't continue if Jesus Christ is your king. That's one report, and I wonder what your memory brings up in relationship to that, because Jesus Christ uses our memories. Jesus Christ uses other people. Jesus Christ uses his word in the mouths of other people. Jesus Christ brings his word back into our memory, just like in that example that I gave you. And he's pursuing you so that you would not just acknowledge him as king with your mouth, but that you would actually acknowledge him as king with your heart Is Christ pursuing you? Now here's another report that I had re had been a part of, and this happened a long time ago too Where there was a woman who I had overheard talking about her bitterness toward her husband because of the past decisions that he had made. There were some financial decisions that he had made which put her in a situation where she was not able to live up to a particular status quo within her community. And there were some other things that happened in the relationship that once they happened, instead of there being a a kind of Clearing of the chalkboard, so to speak, and not keeping a written record of wrongs, it instead planted itself and grew roots of bitterness. And over time, she would console herself in saying that she had forgiven because she used the words, I forgive you. If you asked her friends what Have you forgiven your husband? They would have said yes, she said that she forgave him. But then if you were to look at your life, you could tell that she never forgave. That there was always something between them and that it actually wasn't getting any better. It was getting worse. The debt was increasing So the way that she ended up living out her life with her husband is that when he went to make a decision, she undercut it. And if he was forceful about it, she shamed him, essentially emasculating him as a man. And if she didn't get her way, or even if she did, she oftentimes kept distance emotionally and physically. Now, I want you to think there's the situation, and now remember, Jesus Christ is on the move as the King, seeking to make sure that you don't just say he's king with your mouth. But you actually believe it in your heart. So here's a providential move on Jesus' part because he has the power to do this kind of thing. Her daughter is 32 or was 32. She was not married. She came back for Thanksgiving and they had a conversation and the woman asked, hey, I noticed you don't really have any relationships that are serious. Are you going to move in that direction? I mean, I know there's different ways to do things, but I would love some grandchildren. And the daughter responded, Why would I want to be miserable like you and Dad? And now the woman is convicted and she asks, What have I done? Because what she did was she provided an example to her daughter, and her daughter read it just right that marriage is horrible. Marriage is full of all kinds of risks that aren't worth it. It would be better if we could figure out a way to live our lives out on our own. But here we have with this revelation, the woman having been under many different sermons and having read her scriptures, she begins to see When she compares what she has done in her life and the path that she has chosen to go down and the bitterness that she has allowed to become an oak tree and no longer just a little plant Compared to what is revealed to her in Scripture about everything that it means to be a mother and everything that it means to be a wife She realizes, I have said that Jesus Christ is my King, but I don't really follow him. Christ had called her many times in the past through sermons, through her own conscience. But it took this jarring experience to realize that she was not living for Christ as her king. And that it showed in how she lived in unforgiveness with her husband. No those are representative examples and they're meant to be. They're not meant to get into all of a case study of all of the particularities where you would need to exercise asuistic moral judgment. It's meant to to call up your memory to see if there's anything analogous going on with you where you're saying I'm here to celebrate Palm Sunday and I'm going to get my palms. And Jesus Christ is my king, but then if we took a look, we would see there's no king but you I'm gonna go back to the painting that I shared with you just by way of conclusion. The very first painting after this message is now meaningful again. And it's the painting of Christ holding me. And me exhausted. And why was I exhausted? Because I tried to be the king. Let me can I just ask you, aren't you tired of trying to be the king? If you're not yet, you eventually will be, because it's not your place. Not ultimately. Jesus Christ is our King, and He is meant to be our King, not just with our words. but also with our lives. What has your memory revealed to you here this morning? What has your conscience taken hold of? I wonder if you could take that into a time of confession, asking for forgiveness. And maybe that could be the first part of your life. That's like a palm branch that you lay at the feet of your Savior and you say, Lord I tried to stay autonomous from you and in charge in this one area, but I'm not doing it anymore. I'm laying it at your feet. There are witnesses which Christ has sent to you. I am one of them, and you have been one of them to me. Our memories, our consciences. There are witnesses which Christ has sent to you seeking of you to live out practically what John reveals within our passage, and that is this. No matter what your nationality. Jesus Christ is your King. Let us pray.