Then, six days before the Passover, Jesus came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, who had been dead, whom he had raised from the dead. There they made him a supper, and Martha served, but Lazarus was one of those who sat at the table with him. Then Mary took a pound of very costly oil of Spikenard, anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair, and the house was filled with the fragrance of the oil. But one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, Who would betray him said, Why was this fragrant oil not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor This he said not that he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief and had the money box, and he used to take what was put in it. But Jesus said, Let her alone. She has kept this for the day of my burial. For the poor you have with you always, but me you do not have always. Now a great many of the Jews knew that he was there, and they came not for Jesus' sake only, but that they might also see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. But the chief priests plotted to put Lazarus to death also, because on account of him many of the Jews went away and believed in Jesus The next day a great multitude that had come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, they took branches of palm trees and went out to meet him. and cried out, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, the King of Israel Then Jesus, when he had found a young donkey, he sat on it As it is written, Fear not, daughter of Zion, behold, your king is coming sitting on a donkey's colt. His disciples did not understand these things at first. But when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written about him, and that they had done these things to him Therefore the people who were with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead bore witness. For this reason the people also met him, because they heard that he had done this sign. The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, You see that we are accomplishing nothing. Look, the world has gone after him. Now there were certain Greeks among those who came up to worship at the feast. Then they came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. Philip came and told Andrew, and in turn Andrew and Philip told Jesus. But Jesus answered them, saying, The hour has not come that the Son of Man should be glorified. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I pray that for your namesake and the glory of your Son That by the power of your Holy Spirit you would work through the preached word here this morning. Pray that you would work within the hearts of your congregation and those whom you're calling to yourself. I pray that you would be glorified. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Each year we have a change in our plans, whatever series it is, we change that to move into a time to remember the life, the death, and the resurrection of Jesus Christ, especially in our services on Monday, Thursday, on Good Friday, and then of course on Easter Sunday. And I wondered And you can answer this in your own head. What emotions do you bring to this time of year? What are the kinds of things that you end up thinking about? You know, pretty soon up here will look pretty different. Right now it's bright and cheerful, and pretty soon there'll be darker colors. There'll be a crown of very long thorns demonstrating the kind of death or symbolically representing the kind of death and torture that Christ underwent. What are the different thoughts and the feelings that you bring to just the decoration changes that happen within the sanctuary? I'm wondering When you, for example, by way of the preaching of the gospel, see Christ on the cross, I wonder if one of the things you feel is compassion for him. When we get into reading some of the accounts with his flesh tearing, I wonder if you feel, or you you see the flesh tearing and you but you feel the horror. of what is going on. Especially since when we read in Isaiah 53 that he bore his transgressions not because of his own sins, but for yours. So maybe there is compassion and maybe there is horror. But what I would like you to feel and to see and to think about As we go through this mini-series here during this season, is I'd like you to see how, whether it's his life Whether it's the horror of his torture, whether it is his death, or whether it is his resurrection, I want you to see how he's seeking to show you how glorious he is. He wants you to see that he's great. That's what he wants you to see. And he wants you to feel his greatness. So please pay attention to that. Now, you know, why would I say something like that? When there's so many other ways in which we could look at these accounts. Well, I think I'm saying that because really of the purposes we see within the Gospel of John itself. You know, it begins in chapter one, seeking to display that this is the glorious one. You know, for example, we're going to be looking in the Gospel of John here a little bit today. If you were to flip to chapter one And if you were to just look at John 1, verse 14, you can see there's a kind of summary here that is meant to carry a theme all the way through, which is the theme of glory through the Gospel of John. In verse number 14 it says, And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. The glory as the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. So around here we have our little kids saying, what's the chief end of man? Well, to glorify God and enjoy him forever. And we have our adults saying the same thing. Well, with this time in the scriptures and the Gospel of John, you're going to be able to figure out, well, what do we mean when we say we are to glorify him? What is his glory? Well, we're going to begin that today. We're going to be looking at his glory throughout this whole season, not just looking on him with compassion or horror, but let me put it this way, we will look on him with esteem. That he is the greatest person we have ever met. That his glory exceeds and makes everyone else's glory pale in comparison. And we love him for it. That'll be our Christ. And I'd like to look at this by just Following the story along in verse in chapters 11 and 12, we'll be looking at some different verses together so you can see what I'm seeing. First, we're going to look at that Jesus is to display his glory. We're then going to look at those who try to extinguish his glory, and then we're going to look at those who need to carry his glory forward. So Jesus displaying his glory, those who wanted to extinguish his glory, and those who'll carry forward his glory. And that's the sum of the teaching here and the main focus. First thing I want you to see as we go through this, you will need your Bibles open. And we're going to go to chapter 11 first, and I'm going to explain to you why we're going to do that. But the first thing I want you to see is that the is God the Father has sent Jesus the Son to show their glory. God the Father has sent Jesus the Son to show their glory. Now look at the first verse of chapter twelve really quickly. I want to put together a couple dots here for you. Then six days before the Passover, Jesus came to Beth Bethany, where Lazarus who was who had been dead, whom he had raised from the dead. Do you see all of a sudden we have Lazarus showing up? And it's associated with Mary and Martha. You have Lazarus, Mary, and Martha. Now, that is immediately letting you know this story has already been this story started a while ago We're now moving into a different part of the story, but the story doesn't begin here. The story begins, if if you'd like we could go back to chapter 11 and verse number one, take a look there where the same thing is brought up with the same three people Now a certain man was sick, Lazarus of Bethany, the town of Mary and her sister Martha. So you have these three people that are connected together, that are carrying forward this story and you can see there in chapter ver uh chapter twelve verse one they're brought up and the story comes back to us in chapter eleven verse one And so I think we should begin the story there. And the main point of this story, the main thing that's going on, er everything is unfolding for a particular reason. God the Father has sent Jesus the Son to show forth their glory. That's what you should be paying attention to, and you should be asking the question: how is Jesus letting me know what the glory of God is? And you can see this stated explicitly as Jesus' intentions, and of course John picks up that this is what the Holy Spirit is doing in verse number four. It says here. When Jesus had learned that Lazarus had become sick, Jesus says in verse number 4, he says, This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God. That the Son of God may be glorified through it. So you see why I'm saying what I'm saying? That the Father sent Jesus the Son to show their glory. You see Jesus saying it is Given the exact same thought, just in different words, in verse number four. And the situation of this glory is the sickness of Lazarus. That's why this story is being told. This is not a story of a medical mystery. This is a story, really, if you want to know the main point of the story, this is a story about the glory of God. Now, how is it that Jesus is going to accomplish manifesting his glory and the glory of the Father. You might be surprised. I hope you've meditated on this story before and you're not surprised and it'll just be a great reminder. But you might be surprised that one of the very first things he does in order to ensure that his glory and the glory of the Father will be seen is he delays. You notice that in verse number six. He says in verse number starting in verse number five, now Jesus loved Martha and Mary. Martha and her sister and Lazarus. So when he heard that he was sick, when that he heard Lazarus was sick, he stayed two more days in the place where he was. Then after this, he said to the disciples, let us go to Judea again. So Lazarus is sick. You might be scratching your head because Jesus does not rush out the door for getting his car keys or whatever it would be. Jesus says, it says here as an editorial comment that he waits for two more days. Now, if you were to continue reading this, you could begin to see why is it that Jesus is choosing to delay? How is this going to show his glory? In a sense, you could say this shows his irresponsibility. Imagine, if you would, that you were in a life-threatening situation in your living room, or that your loved one was, and you call 911. And the operator says, I've spoken to the police department of the fire department, they'll be there in two days. That's the kind of feeling that we should have here with this kind of delay. But you see that Jesus has a purpose for this delay in verses 13 and 14. It says, here, however Jesus spoke of his death, he knew that Lazarus was going to die. And he was actually delaying in order that the death would occur, though Jesus calls it a sleep for good reason. It says in verse 13, however, Jesus spoke of his death, but they thought that he was speaking about taking rest in sleep. Then Jesus said to them plainly, Lazarus is dead. Now here's the purpose revealed in number 15. And I am glad for your sakes that I was not there that you may believe. Nevertheless, let us go to him. So whatever this is, whatever glory he wants to be able to reveal to all of these people. The glory can only be revealed if Lazarus is not asleep, if Lazarus is not just sick, but if Lazarus is dead. That's the only way in which the true glory of God is going to be revealed. Now you can see that they did not understand this. When Jesus arrives a little bit later in the chapter in verses 32 and in verse 37, they are reasoning like you and I would reason. Why would you wait for a couple days if you truly loved us? Look at verse number 32. Then when Mary came where Jesus was and saw him, that he'd finally arrived as the subtext. She fell down at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. That's the way that she's thinking about this. And of course everybody is thinking about it this way, because that's the normal way in which you would you would think about it. In verse number 37, you can see it's really caught on amongst the rest of the crowd. And some of them said, Could not this man who opened the eyes of the blind also kept this man from dying? Could Jesus not have shown up and figured out some way, as this person had a high fever, to alleviate the fever, and then he would be okay the next day to get back to work? But the way that Jesus was seeing this is that his glory can't be uh given to his people by just relieving a fever. That's the glory of I. Prophet. And Jesus is is wants to reveal a different kind of glory, the g uh of who he is. And this is what he does Finally, when we begin to see that all of this was for a particular purpose, in verses 40 through 45, he kept his eye on the prize. He always had a main goal, and that was to be able to reveal who he really is, the glory of who he really is, and the glory of the Father. In verses 40 through 45, it says Jesus said to her, Did I not say to you that if you believed you would see the glory of God? Do you see that's still on his mind? That's the thread that takes us through these chapters. is to see his glory. And in verse number 41, then they took away the stone from the place where the dead man was lying. And Jesus lifted up his eyes and he says, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. And I know that you always hear me, but because of these people who are standing by, I said this that they may believe that you sent me. Now when he had said these things, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth! And he who had died, not who had just a fever, but he who had died and had been dead long enough, if you read the rest of the story, to stink. He who had died came out, bound hand and foot with grave clothes, and his face was wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said to them, loose him and let him go. Now that is the glory of Jesus Christ. That's the glory of Jesus Christ. Now this glory that He that the Father sent Jesus to show their glory. This glory he has been showing all the way through the Gospel of John. Do you remember how he talked in chapter 3 to Nicodemus? And the glory that he would reveal there that, you know, people are dead in their sins and their trespasses, and they're stuck in the futility of their mind. But I'm a giver of life who will send my spirit and people will be born from above. They will be born again. There will be a kind of resurrection and life spiritually. They will be able to see me as the Christ because of the life that I give to them. Or if you went away from chapter 3 into chapter 5 of John, you would see that Jesus says, At the last day, I will raise up all. All those who are mine to justification, all of those who are not mine to condemnation Oh boy, is that his glory in that kind of resurrection? We have a kind of resurrection to life spiritually. We have a resurrection in the general resurrection, which actually one of the ladies brings up in our account And then we have in chapter 11, life from death with Lazarus in the resurrection, a literal resurrection there, demonstrating what he'll do on the last day. And all of that glory is being revealed here for Mary and Martha, Martha, and Lazarus and the rest, we'll get to this in a minute. All of them to be able to see and answer the question. Who is this Jesus? One writer says, Jesus' concern is to divert Martha's focus from an abstract belief. In what takes place on the last day with resurrection, to a personalized belief in him who alone can provide it. Just as he not only gives the bread from heaven, but is himself the bread of life, so also he not only raises the dead on the last day, but is himself the resurrection and the life. There is neither resurrection nor eternal life outside of Jesus Christ. And let me just ask you. Do you know a little bit about Jesus' resurrection glory? I mean, in your own experience. Do you have your own personal experience as Jesus Christ bringing you back from the dead? Did you used to wander in your sins and your trespasses? Coming up with creative ways to do evil. And Jesus Christ has given you life. That's his glory that he's revealing to you. Do you have other people in your life where you you know that that is their story? Do you have times throughout your years where we're not talking a giant with a giant uh conversion testimony, but ways in which you know you've always been stuck in that anger, but then Jesus gave you life to have a little bit more patience. where otherwise it would be impossible. That's the kind of glory that he revealed to those three characters, to the crowds, and that he has revealed to you the same Christ from the pages of scripture, lives and reigns and is in your life revealing himself in the same way. And may we glorify him for it. Now He is sent by the Father to show forth his glory. But I wonder if you have this experience as well as those on the pages of the Scripture. Have you noticed? That if there is ever a time where Jesus is to be glorified, for his light to be able to shine, that there's somebody around who would like to extinguish it as quickly as possible. And that is what we find within this particular account, is that although the Father did send the Son for the Son to reveal their glory, the scribes and the Pharisees and the religious leaders of that day sought to extinguish his glory. And you see that there, especially within verses 45 through 48. It's actually interesting because what's revealed are their motives And what they're trying to accomplish. It says, then many of the Jews had come to Mary and had seen the things Jesus did and believed in him. That would be like us. We believed in Jesus. able to give him glory and to let his glory shine. But then in 46, not everybody is like that. But some of them went away to the Pharisees. And told them the things Jesus did. And then the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered a counsel, and they said, What shall we do? For this man works many signs. If we leave him, let him alone like this, everyone will believe in him, and then you hear it you see their main intention and motivation. And the Romans will take away, come and take away both our place and the nation. Well, that's really revealing. I read somewhere that there weren't many Roman soldiers in the ordinary towns and villages where Jesus was walking. But there were legions stationed a few miles north in Syria, and the governor of Judea could call on them for help at any time. Raising the dead and doing so publicly where a lot of people could scurry back to Jerusalem and tell their friends about this was too much for the religious leaders. Obviously, they thought he was gathering support for some kind of prophetic or even messianic action, perhaps a march on Jerusalem itself. And once that happened, if the Romans got wind of it, they would call up the troops, and that would be the end of any national hope that they might still have. As likely as not, it would be the end of the nation itself. And there was another motivation given to you there at the end that it was not just about the nation, but it was about the position that they had. And you can see that through the account, that his glory is to be extinguished because his glory was a threat to their own glory, to the own position that they had as leaders among the nation. I wonder if you have experiences like that within your own life, where if you would seek to testify to the glory of God. Or to give him any credit for anything, someone will come along and give you an alternative way to where no credit should be given to him at all. You know, we're getting ready to come up on Easter And we'll be saying that Jesus died, was buried for three days, and he was raised again by God the Father And some people in your life, when you go to have Christmas lunch or dinner or whatever it is, some people may in your life say, well, you know why that happened, right? He was just super dehydrated. And he swooned like a Victorian wave. He fell over, he was out. I mean it was really bad, all the stuff that he had gone through. And then after three days, once they got a little bit of hydration in them, they gave them some relight and Gatorade. He came back too. And that was it. So if there's any miracle, is that people still cared for him with electrolytes. We hear those kinds of things all the time. And what that does, you see, that's not just an argument, that's not just a debate The reason why that's so serious is because it takes away the main purpose of everything that Jesus is doing here, and that is it takes away his glory. And it doesn't just take away his glory as the Son of Man. It takes away the glory of God the Father. And you know, it also takes away the glory of the Holy Spirit by whom Jesus is raised. It is by the power of the Spirit, the same working of the power of the Spirit that worked in the raising of Jesus Christ, it says in Scripture, will be the power that works in you in the raising of you. So just that just that swoon theory is what they call it, just the swoon swoon theory takes away the glory or seeks to take away the glory from the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit with one bowl down the aisle. A strike. You see how serious that is. As it says though in Luke 19, 39 through 40, which is another account of the triumphal entry. Some of the Pharisees called to Jesus from the crowd and said to him, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. They shouldn't be saying all these things about you. And Jesus answered them and he said, I tell you that if they should keep silent, the stones would immediately cry out. Because there is no holding back the glory of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Though each time we seek to witness to it, you should expect that there will be someone there that tries to extinguish it with a swoon theory or something else. Now you have then Jesus being sent by the Father to give glory to himself and the Father. There's always those who will accompany that effort seeking to dim down the light and to extinguish the glory. And here's the last point. And this is really the consummation of this story within Triumphal Entry, and it's this. It is through the witness of us as disciples that his glory will remain bright. It is through the witness of us his disciples that Jesus' glory remains. And it's not because of anything in us. It is the way that Jesus Christ has chosen to glorify himself. He loves to glorify himself through his congregation. He loves to glorify himself through his bride And that's what we end up seeing here in chapter 12. That's the whole purpose of what's going on there in chapter 12. I want you to see first that this whole thing with the the singing of the Psalms like Psalm 118 the triumphal entry, the getting on the full of a donkey, the prophecies from Zachariah. This is not happening because the people understand him in the way that he will reveal himself, especially after his ascension. Everyone is giving him praise because of what happened with Lazarus. The glory that he has only revealed about himself right now is that he is the resurrection and he is the life. That's all they see. They just see that he brought someone who was dead for a significant period of time back to life. Now you can see that here within this account. Look at 12, 17, and 18. It says here, therefore the people who were with him when he called Lazarus out of his tomb and raised him from the dead, they bore witness. That's what people are talking about. If you go back to chapter 12, verse 1, it starts off with talking about Lazarus. And then it goes on to talk about all of those who are following Jesus because of what happened with Lazarus. Look at verse number 9. Now a great many of the Jews knew that he was there, and they came not for Jesus' sake only, but that they might also see Lazarus. That's the glory. That's the only glory that He's revealed so far is I'm the resurrection and the life. In all of the ways that I mean that, I'm the resurrection and the life. Now that glory that was revealed, that He is the resurrection and the life, they sought to extinguish it. And Jesus is not making a big hubbub about it, but you know who is? His disciples. They are the ones who continually bear witness to his glory, and therefore his glory is revealed through his disciples. Now, we could step through this really practically, and I won't spend a long time doing that, but I really would appreciate it if you would put yourself in these different shoes of these characters. Take a look at verse number two. I wonder if you're like if this is how you should be testifying and witnessing to the glory of the resurrection power of Jesus. There they made uh they made him a supper, and Martha served. Maybe that's how you would show that he's glorious, that you would be serving like Martha served. You know, I imagine she didn't serve everybody like this. Part of the reason why she did is because of his glory and who he is, his greatness. Martha serves him here. Or you could turn to verse number three and you could see Mary. Then Mary took a pound of very costly oil of spike nard, anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair. She didn't do that for everybody that walked in the door. She did that for the one who is great, the one who has revealed himself as the glorious one. And maybe that's you Maybe the joy that He has brought to your life overflows, and the people in your life can't help but to pick up the scent of the gratitude that you have for Jesus Christ bringing you back from the dead. Or bringing your children back from the dead. That would be Martha Martha or Mary, or then you could move to verse number twelve and you could see the multitudes all gathering to do the same. Then The next day a great multitude had come to the feast when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. They took branches of palm trees, and they went out to meet him, and they c and then they cried out, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, the King of Israel. And maybe that's the way that Christ has called you to acknowledge his glory, is to refer to him as your king and your lord and the one you live for, the one you give up your own life for. The king of Israel, the true David, and that you would lay your life down like a palm branch at his service. And then of course when we get to 20 and 21, do you see the little hint that this isn't going to stop here in the locale of Judea This is going to the world. The world will know the glory of Jesus Christ. In verse 20 and 21, now there were certain Greeks among those who came up to worship at the feast. Then they came to Philip, who was from Betheda of Galilee, and they asked him, saying, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. And then you can read. the replies. But already the Gentiles are seeking him out because they have heard of the glory of the one who is the resurrection and the life of the world. And they will worship him. It is truly accounted here in this gospel that through the witness of his disciples, Jesus' glory remains. Though some will seek to extinguish God's glory, both Jesus and his followers will bear a constant witness. I'll say that to you one more time because I think it's the main point of the two chapters. Though some will seek to extinguish God's glory, both Jesus and his followers will bear constant witness to his glory. Do you know that perhaps one of the most popular chapters for talking about Christian witness is Hebrews chapter eleven? You know why? is the famous passage on the cloud of witnesses. And by the way that I have framed this, which is which the way that the Holy Spirit has framed this in Scripture, do you know that Mary and Martha and Lazarus are part of those cloud of witnesses? And you know those who are followers of Christ and his disciples who saw him raise Lazarus from the dead, that they are a cloud of witnesses, or a part of the cloud of witnesses? And do you know who else now? Knowing the resurrection power of Jesus Christ are a part of the cloud of witnesses. You. You, my brothers and sisters, and me I have borne witness to you many times of how Jesus Christ has brought me to life. Though I was dead. There's no explanation for it. Even those who didn't believe in Christ knew there was no explanation for my life other than Jesus Christ. So when other people ran into trouble in their life, they asked me, could you please have this person become a part of the church? Because I've seen the difference that it makes. They were still missing the point because it's Jesus who is the resurrection and the life. But I have witnessed to that many times. And now it's and of course I know you have witnessed to his resurrection power also. And now, especially under this particular preaching of the Word, it is time for us to remember, even during this season, that we must keep proclaiming. the glory of Jesus Christ as the resurrection and the life. Do you have people in your life who feel hopeless and are in despair because when they look around, all they can see is just things that are dead. Things that they they used to love that have just come to nothing. You know, the only way for them to have hope is to turn to Jesus Christ. And I bet you you could share where all th where it really looked like Your life was just a dead end, or this situation was a dead end, or there's just no coming back from this. I bet you you have situations in your life where you could be a witness. And you could say, listen, I know it looks hopeless, but nothing is hopeless when you have Jesus Christ. And you could share your story. of the resurrection power of Jesus Christ and how he showed up in your life. Even if you're telling a story about someone you know and how Jesus showed up in their life. You could tell a biblical story if you want. You could tell your own story if you want. And you could be praying that Jesus Christ would make his glory known to that person. And they would be able to breathe in, you would see just a little light on their face of them getting some hope. And you know what has happened in that moment They have begun by the power of the Holy Spirit to hope in Christ. And that's the only that's the only foundation that's worth it. You build on anything else that just falls apart when the wind and the rain comes. And I'd encourage you to do that. Now before I was um by the Lord Jesus Christ brought here to Severn Run. to be under the mentorship of Arch and to work as his intern. I was a member over at Saverna Park EP And um and I also I don't know if you knew this, but I was the maintenance director too. I was the janitor of that church. Isn't that exciting I would finish all my janitorial duties and then I would l hide away in my office and conjugate Greek verbs. So that lets you know where I was The I was a I was able to be a part of uh some really important discussions with a good friend of mine and still a pastor, Glenn Parkinson. Is anyone familiar with Glenn? Pastor Glenn has had a very long ministry. And his main theme that actually is now on a sign in front of that church, and I mention it to you because it's such a great theme, and it goes along with what we're talking about here and actually what I shared at the officer retreat. The theme on the front of that of that church is that they are a congregation that discovers in Christ the greatness of God and they share those discoveries with others. They discover in Christ the greatness of God, and they share those discoveries with others. And that is the message of this passage for you here. Jesus Christ has revealed to you on the pages of Scripture, in the lives of the people that are around you, and in your own life. The greatness and the glory of the God who brings things who were dead and was just a desert, he brings water and life and flowers. And beauty and direction and hope and faith and joy and peace and love. And you have little aspects of your life where he has done that, where you have been able to discover that. And now you get to share that discovery with others. And I would encourage you to especially do that during this Easter season. Discover even in this passage in Christ the greatness of God. And share those discoveries with others. Just tell your story of how you see Jesus bringing life into your life. Let us pray.