Let's set it aside. Made it distinct from other days. And it's a day where we're able to really focus on worshiping you and having time to to love one another, to be neighborly. Pray that you would bless our time here this morning, the time that you've set aside, that you would make sure that it is Used to your glory. In the name of Christ. Amen. Alrighty, so we're continuing on through the book. Parenting by God's Promises. And we start off this morning in chapter seventeen. This is a continuation of where we're starting to look at the practical ways in which we would raise up children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. So if you were to take the two words nurture and the word admonition, and if you were to look at all of the things that that includes, well, it's just a lot. So what he's doing is he's unfolding what some of those things are in a practical way. And the very first thing he has is in chapter 17 is teaching children to listen. So what I'm going to do is I'm like we did the last two weeks, I'll just take us through these chapters. I have a few things that I'd like to emphasize. And I'd like to see what you think about those things. You're welcome to bring up what you would like also. And I'd like us to talk about our experiences with this stuff. Um wins, losses, uh other people's examples so that the the end here is that we would be able to Raise up children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord or grandchildren or to help your brother or your sister or All those different relationships. Okay, so teaching children to listen, 17, that's page 195. If you want to try to travel along with me here. And I'm actually going to begin on one ninety six. And Um we're going to begin with James chapter one verse nineteen. Would someone like to read that aloud for us? All right, but thank you, Christian. So then, my beloved brethren, let every man be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath, for the wrath of man does not produce the righteousness. with God. Alright. Does everybody catch that? The main emphasis we have for our lesson is that we are to be swift to hear. slow to speak and slow to wrath. So before we go over some of the details of the listening that Joel Beakey uh portions out, Could some of you tell us if you've ever struggled with being a good listener? And if so, how has the Lord helped you to grow in that area? to hear your experience so that we can benefit from it. Are you all listening? Get it? That's good. Yes, Brian. So I actually had um people compliment me as I was growing up that I was a pretty good listener. And like friends and that sort of thing. But it wasn't until I got married that I realized like But there's a lot more to listening than just like making sure you're sitting there hearing the person talk and giving them body language that indicates you're listening. But like um carefully considering and actually taking seriously what the person is trying to communicate to you before you respond with your infinite wisdom I think he's a part of a thing that that was new to me that has taken more than ten years to Alrighty. Ryan was saying he had thought he had been complimented when he was younger for being a good listener, but Once he was married, the Lord was helping him to mature more in that area, and he realized that it's not just about body language or remain sitting still, but had to do more with really taking what the person said seriously And was there one other Just like reflecting and considering it before you then turn around. Yeah, and really reflecting and thinking about what they're saying before you share your infinite wisdom to infinity and beyond. Yeah. Very good. Any other experiences where the Lord has helped you? Uh I guess I could do a follow-up question. If you want to wave me off of this, Ryan, feel free to. But was there something that happened that helped you that the Lord used to w wake you up a little bit on that? Uh I think it just probably not one singular event but just a series of conversations. many of them after 10 p. m. uh over the course of the last fifteen years and me responding in ways that were unhelpful because I had not actually taken the time to really uh think about what was said um and then responding about Ignorance. Okay. So it was uh it wasn't a single event, but there was a accumulation over time that the Lord brought to your attention. where things were going sideways in your conversations or were or weren't really ending in healthy spots and you saw that it was at least in part in the way that you listened and something needed to change. Yeah it was like after several years I got to the point where like We could have this relationsh this this conversation not become unpleasant if I would actually think a little more before I open my mouth. Well praise God. I'm glad that he keeps working with you and with the rest of us. Very good. Thanks. It's a testimony to the Lord's faithfulness in Ryan's life there. Anybody and that's what we're really doing here when you take the opportunity to share. You're really not sharing your brilliance and how you figured it all out. You're share you're giving credit to the Lord. Is there any other experiences? Yes, ma'am. So I thought I was a pretty good listener until um I started going through biblical counseling things. Okay. And when I started going through that there was a section on, you know, how to be a listener and how important it is to be a listener and counseling so that you can hear what's going on in the heart and and recognize or discern what's going on in the heart And so there was like these questions and I started answering these questions and when I got to the end I was very humbled because I realized I wasn't a good listener at all. And I didn't realize that um those things uh those questions and those things that were in those in that was a a an important part of listening And so I remember having to um write a paper or an assignment on that and really humbling myself in front of my the trainer and the students of saying, um I now I wonder if I should continue training. Oh yeah. Because I'm I failed miserably at this Listen. But um the graciously they were very um uh gracious to me by saying that it's something that everyone has to work on and that the Lord can definitely help me with that and you can be changed and and all of that. And so now The amazing thing is I back and I prayed and asked God to give me the wisdom to be a better listener. Yes. And he has presented opportunities for me to become a better listener. And I'm so much more of a better listener than I was back then than I was. Uh so Michelle was saying um if we weren't able to hear her that the Lord has really been teaching her one that she thought she was a great listener, but come to find out she had some work to do And uh Lord presented her with that just in her pursuits to be able to serve the church in biblical counseling. And the Lord's been teaching her a lot about listening as she goes through that process. Um she has a long way to go, according to her own testimony. Yeah. Christina. Um There's sort of two sides of the same coin in our church situation that we came out of before I would say years this difficulty listening probably in in the leadership occurred and then it was sort of presented, you know, out in the congregation and but it was so fixed to have to work through all of that and and you know, impossible to a certain point without the Lord's intervention and he intervened in the ways that were up up to him. So um But there's two sides. I think there was a side where there was also a side where in the name of being slow to speak and slow to wrath People were not engaging in conversations that need it to happen. And so I think there's a part of Part of listening well is also being able to then engage with what's being said in an appropriate and calm manner. not listening and then harboring all of your negative feelings about what was said inside under the name of being slow dress because you're really harboring wrath inside. Yeah. And then it comes out in an explosion. Yeah. And which is damaging to s Like a fireball. It's not whatever explodes, it's the damage to everything around it. Sounds like the Lord taught you a lot through that experience. Um Christina was sharing experiences that she had in a former church. where there was uh where one of the lessons that she took from that had to do with listening and that listening really is more active than you might think. It's not about just kind of sitting back passively. It's about engaging. What came to my mind, Christina, when you were saying is that Listening needs to be situated or or put in the midst of larger a larger set of goals. The point of this passage isn't just to create someone who just sits there and stares at you quietly. The point of the passage is to say, hey, if you want to have a healthy community We're going to need to do things like listening well. And you mentioned that when we start to look at it that way, listening well probably includes engaging and really talking things out. And it definitely means don't just store a bunch of wrath away for people that will eventually erupt in flames, burning everyone around you. Yeah, great. Wow. That's really good. Alrighty, so those are some examples. I I um now that you've heard some examples, I imagine you have different things coming to light in your life where the Lord is teaching you how to be a better listener. And I know that we all have a lot of work To do in that area, one of the challenges I find is that there are so many different voices in our lives and in my life these days, it can be difficult to listen to them all. And sometimes I choose the wrong voice to listen to. So what I mean by that, to not be cryptic, is that uh I view social media as like a bunch of voices And you can still be thinking about an online conversation that you're having or had while you're at dinner and you really should be listening to the voices of the people that are right there in front of you. And that that that's uh another challenge of this whole social media thing. Now focusing in on exactly what Beacie was saying, he focuses uh first on 196 and 197 That we want to teach our children to listen in church, that seems self-evident, so I'm not going to argue for that. But we want them to listen to church, and you'll see on 197, he lists, he says That here's a few things that we could do to help them to listen, especially to God's word in church. And the first thing is preparing to listen to God's word And this is this is pretty obvious. I think we all have different experiences like this, but I'll just read the first couple sentences there. I do think that this is important We must prepare to listen to the sermon through prayer and proper planning. It is essential that we get enough rest on Saturday evening. so that we can get up early on Sunday, get to church on time without hurry, and have time for reflection before the service. Has anyone found that to be true, or did the Lord teach you any lessons that it's important for you to begin preparation for Sunday on Saturday evening? Example sometimes a band competition would run pretty late and then the kids that were in the band competition competition where they would they away for a church. competition for a Sunday that kind of was established. Yeah. I like that. Uh Tate said that though it was a Christian school And they didn't have competitions on Sunday, the way they conducted themselves on Saturday with a Sabbath wrecker. I like that. Sabbath wrecker. That's pretty good. That's a good take. Thank you. Yeah. And and I'll just I'll I'll keep moving because there's a number of things that we should cover today. But this is actually mentioned within um our standards, the Westminster Confession of Faith and shorter and larger catechism. We we emphasize those standards because it helps you to understand how we read the Bible. The the Bible is what holds the authority, not the confession. But the confession, we say, is a good way to teach you what the Bible teaches. I know you all know that, but one of the things that the confession does well in explaining about the scriptures is that the scriptures encourage us to plan for our Lord's Day so that we can do it well. So we want to get to bed on time. We want to start our prayers. the night before and pre prepare our hearts and our minds and our families to be able to do that. So that could go has has anybody have any experiences there where they really started making different decisions as moms and dads? with what we do on Saturday in order for us to ha not wreck the Sabbath? Anyone have any practical experience with that or what your parents chose to do that you thought in hindsight was good, even though you probably hated it at the time? Yes. What's that? I don't want to monopolize. Oh no, you're doing great. But um there I don't know how many years ago it was probably ten years ago now But it became evident to me I can't make breakfast from scratch on Sunday morning. Oh. So we found a casserole that is was easy for Ryan to make and easy for my to m me to make on a s on Saturday evenings. And so we did one for several years. Now we have two that we sort of go between depending on how we're feeling. Now the girls can help prep it on Saturdays and stuff, but then there's just one thing that goes into the oven when we get up on fr on Sunday morning. And that was just that's a really silly practical thing that Obviously won't work for every family, but that was something that really changed our ability to get up and Still feel like we were not scrambling. Yeah. Well it's definitely a fruit of the spirit. I mean that's the way that his fruit will work out. The list in Galatians 5 is still general categories So we still have a little work to do to see what it looks like to have self-control or whatever. And one of the ways that it the fruit of the spirit looks is that you would figure out a way to have a pre-made casserole so that you can just slide that in the oven on Sunday mornings and not be scrambling. That's a great example. Thank you, Christina. Yep, we'll literally So yeah. Does it have tater tots in it? I love casseroles for breakfast that have tater tots in it. And lots of cheese. Any You know Bill and Marilyn Dorfal have a really good casserole they gave me about a month ago. I don't know what that was, but it was good. It had like cornflakes or something in it, didn't it? I didn't miss it. All right. Any other examples of preparing for the Lord's Day and how that's made a difference? Okay, well then we'll go ahead on to the next one. Uh please consider that one. Next one is the listening to God's Word. That's on page 198. What are some ways that you yourself have developed as a listener to sermons? Let's just talk about here on Sunday mornings. And what are some ways that you're working with your children or you've seen people work with children that they could become good listeners of God's word. Have you seen any good examples in your life of this? Yes, Tape. When uh sent an advocate moment ago, Pastor Mollow Pastor Bill Mollow. There would be like a children's page where They told you to listen for certain words in the message. And check how many people you heard a certain word, whether it was God or Jesus or disciples or whatever the subject was Again, uh Pastor Bill Mollow. Um sort of a legend over an Apple CP. He would put something in the bulletin that would encourage the children to hear key words in the sermon. So that that would keep their attention, at least that was his goal. Rachel. Um I have appreciated you as you have grown in your um ministry as a pastor, how you have have started including the children and addressing the children in certain. That has been very helpful to us as parents We say what because for our younger children they they don't pay attention the whole time. Yeah. But when we so we have said when you hear Pastor Jesse say children, he's addressing you, that is your opportunity to take note of what it's been Oh man, that's a thank you for that. Yeah, you're welcome. And now I wasn't planning on doing that today, but now I'm gonna do it. Like today. What's the most often word Jesse says? Children. Children. Point five. Children. That's great. Thanks for thanks for letting me know that too. That's good. I'll give you an experience. Uh we started many years ago encouraging the children to take notes. during the sermon. We don't need them writing a novel or anything like that, but if they could just jot a few things down. And the goal is that when they get into the car, they know that they're going to hear a question from me And that is what was your takeaway. When they were very young, we started with you can give us a takeaway on just anything. You could tell us your favorite hymn You could tell us what this was said in the confession. You could tell us any of these things. But then as they got older, I started moving more towards what was the takeaway from the sermon. specifically. And by takeaway, I've had to explain this probably a thousand times. But the a takeaway means something that was said in the sermon that was meaningful to you Not just a fact, but something meaningful. Now that takes a little while to get, but the so it starts off with just people listing facts. Uh the if you do this children are super they they wise up to this really quick and what they'll do is they'll notice that I always declare what my main point is and what my subpoints are so they just write those down. And then they announce those in the car. But then I usually follow up with a question of, okay, well how is that meaningful to you? And we try to work that out. And uh so then there's if I'm b if I'm blessed, because I like having the whole family around, I'll have six people in the car including myself So then each person's sharing and then they get to they get to learn from each other also if that's the way that it works out. Sometimes they just Tell each other you still you stole my you stole what was important to me. When they were younger, whatever. So you stole my takeaway. That was not you children, that was guests that were in our car. think has worked out really well. It didn't work out well at first, but over the years I've noticed it's kind of um structured their thinking. to where they're they're pretty quick with it. They're already thinking about that and they're they're getting rewarded for taking notes. We were taught also in seminary to encourage congregation to take basic notes I've seen people do that in different ways. I've seen people who don't love writing things. They remember more if they make like a mind map So I've seen children draw out images of each of the points and then when they the important thing to me is when they come to me with it, they're able to tell me pretty much the whole sermon because they just follow their images. So there's different different strokes for different folks. I'll take one more example. That was an example for my household. Any anyone else want to share experiences on how to help our children listen to sermons? Yeah, please. From the word search? Oh yeah, it's always hard to be that that's distracting. Actually we'll keep the those words there in the passage. A a lot of the words are in the passage, and the pastor will be saying some of those words. But you might hear that very word that you're looking for and see Okay. Some people find it very helpful. To review Googling and doing something while listening. Yeah, uh so uh Tate was pointing out that the word search can bring up keywords that are in the sermon or in the passage. And I guess one of the things you could do too with that is that if the k if a ch child is finding the words in the word searches, you could bring that up on the way home or at lunch. You could say, well this word did you find this word in the word search? How did that come up in the sermon? And you could go ahead and follow that up. I could see that as really healthy. And um That's great. Thanks, Tate. That's very helpful. All right, and then the next one I wanted to look at was on page two hundred, which is then we want to talk about In terms of listening, a good listener doesn't just listen, not just hearers of the word, but doers of the word. We know that that's from James also, James chapter 1, verse 22 And so putting God's word into practice. Does anybody have any examples in their own life in where you've seen someone do a great job of helping people to move from just hearing the sermon to putting it into practice? Any experience with different families you've gone over for lunch or anything like that where you thought, wow, that was a great way to do that for them to start practicing these things Yeah, sure. Chase and I don't have like a set practice necessarily, but Through the week he and I do I mean our household is situated in such a way where there are lots of opportunities to apply what we were some point of the servants directly to a situation. I don't know, I think that I think that's helpful. It's uh obviously it's helpful in our household. to be directly applying the word that was just preached to us on Sunday. So I don't know if that answered your question of like But Chase and I just make it a practice of here's a clear area where the sermon spoke to this. So let's use the the good word that was given to us Here and now. Okay, so you'll s so if I'm understanding you correctly, you and Chase have an eye for opportunities. We have an eye for opportunities to where what we have been hearing from the preaching of the word is applicable here and now. Yeah. Okay, that's nice. Oh let's remember we just Yeah, so it's like you're in a constant posture of application. Yeah. That's nice. Okay, I like that. Any other examples on that? Hey. When the elder gives this part of the service. Yeah. Usually that It really does. Yeah, we have great elders. Alright, very good. Yeah, and um and and in my car car ride home the children will mention what the elder has said The ruling hour. I'll do one more. Wait. So we can't just say shut up and listen. Well it depends it depends on the scenario. But for me it's kinda like that, right? So I have to I have to keep my eye on the speaker because if I turn away or I get distracted, then I'm missing something. Yeah. So it's just about paying attention and and keeping your eye on the speaker, especially in a in a serving observus. Yeah, and so if you had like a grandchild next to him, maybe you would tap him on the leg and point up, say keep your eyes on him. Yeah, that's good Yeah, that's good. All right, yeah. Real practical stuff right there. A little tap, boop, right up there. See that guy up there? He's talking. Yep. Matt. I was thinking that um we have just found that we're having a spirit of thankfulness for how the word speaks into our lives and our situations. Yeah. not only the application, but just being thankful that the Lord and the way his word works is is so applicable. And then actually verbalizing and saying thanks be to God and bringing this word into our Uh the sermons they help us for the situation that we're in this week. And it's it's it's almost an attitude of expecting the word to be working in our heart. Okay, that's great. Alright, so Matt is saying that there's an attitude that's appropriate here that should be you didn't say this exactly, but I'm taking you to mean that we want to we want to exemplify an attitude of thanks. Thankfulness and gratitude for the for God giving us His word, and we want that attitude to be seen by our children. Is that right? Alright, yeah. Yeah, that would go a long way. Uh if they could see it as val that it's valuable to somebody else. We would hope that that would spread. Yes, Christina? Um as someone and with children who sometimes can just come away with a bait. sense of I am not doing all of the things correctly. There are so many applications that I am not applying appropriately. being focused on the faith that God is working through the sermon, but also the understanding, like sort of what Cheryl said, that there are practical applications that will come along in real time with practical opportunities. And so instead of like focused like I've had to work on that personally, but also in training my children to not get overwhelmed by all of the ways that we fail. But to really pray in faith that God will take certain things and look for the I have a concrete small sometimes feeling infinitesimal little way that I can apply this little thing right here. Glory, hallelujah. And to cling to those little things. rather than the general feeling. Yeah, very good. So I'll just take that and tell me if this is uh not representing you fairly Christina is saying that she's actually been working with the children to help them know how to listen to the sermon by way of knowing how to apply it. that there can be ways that we don't receive or apply the sermons very well or we don't know how to. So she's been stepping them along and that's been a part of learning how to to listen Oh, that's very wise that you would show them how to uh how to apply. And that would require listening So if you let us if you let a person talk to you about what the sermon has said and you find that they're starting to take a path that's really not going to be helpful to them, you can help them to you can say, well This is really how we want to be thinking about that. And this is really how we want to be, this is what we want to be doing. So some of the practical things that Christina mentioned is Well, just because you can't think of an application to your life on how that's applicable to you or how you could use it immediately, the Lord will show us down the road someplace to be able to use his word And you could even extend it and you could say, and maybe it's not even for you. Maybe he wants you to tell somebody else about this because they really need to hear it. So that would be different ways to start looking at how does the Lord bring fruit from sermons. So many different ways. It would also be good for your children to know that There's two you know sometimes there's two hundred and fifteen people here all with different things going on. So a lot of the times whether it's me or other preachers there will be general exhortations and then there needs to be a grounding or or a a specifying of it for yourself. And that's in part because there's so many different people that are dealing with so many different things. So there's some responsibility there. for t for uh making use of the medicine and making the medicine more useful that the preacher gives you. That's all really great. Very good. Thank you for that. That's good stuff. You mentioned specifically one of the things that we want to listen for in our children is when we are hearing exhortations from the pulpit. And those exhortations are revealing to them how they don't do these things or how they're not meeting the standard. Please let us remember that the only way to please God is through Jesus Christ. And that is something that I think we have to keep learning the lesson our entire lives because I don't think we naturally like that. I think we naturally would like to be righteous based on our own behavior before God, but we receive, as Martin Luther says, an alien righteousness, which I don't you know, just being honest, we don't naturally like that. Uh we'd like to boast in ourselves if we could. So just I think keep repeating that and receiving the law within the um within the context of the gospel. Yes. Sarah. Good morning to you. Good morning. This isn't really terribly practical, but VP talked about how uh where the word preach in the sermon. That is God speaking to the congregation. Um and that kind of reclamation was something I think it's from the Belgian confession It's back when I remind me some of the requests I think we're and there's a performed idea that like the preaching of the Word of God is the Word of God. From what I understand Anyway, I feel like I never really understood that like I never understood that idea growing up in a reformed you know, PCA church. is God's game. And even this language was means of grace, like the word priest is the meaning of God's grace in the go to one. Yeah. I just wonder what kind of difference it would make if went back and I raised our children. Uh and if we as a church have really thought of this preaching as And I'm sure you didn't take that too far and I think we're kind of shy of taking that even runs very seriously because of how even Delphole you know, Reformed churches have to come and that's kind of a scary idea to say like preaching in the Word of God is actually God to be anyway, I just wonder what it would look like to take that seriously with our family in the way that we Talk about this question. Um sh she it might have been the Belgian, but one of them was teaching that the preached word of God is the Word of God. And she doesn't think we should take that too far. We should still be good Bereans Uh but that if we start to contemplate that, uh what difference would that make in how we're working with our children or if our children realize that Uh what do you think of let's just break that we'll we'll spend maybe a a minute on that. What do you think? Do you think that the preached word of God is the word of God? I think if it's being pre space like you were saying, like being good for ins, but if you're testing every spirit, right? And then it is proven true, but you can then take that as yes, this is God speaking. through his servants. So if we define preaching as the faithful exposition of God's word, then yes. If we define preaching as Well he didn't really say what God said, then no. Yeah, so I think it really does t rely upon the definition of what true preaching is Preaching is a messenger giving a message that's not his own. It's God's. So it must be faithfully relayed. Right? And insofar it is unfaithfully relayed, then it's not preaching. That would be a pretty hardcore definition of preaching. I think that could work out. Yes, Judge? I think it's probably in uh in the context of like Romans 10 uh 1315 like To be saved, to be converted, is to believe uh uh on you know, to call on the name of the Lord, but how how are they gonna ultimately how are they gonna deal without a preacher? Yeah. Right? It's it's that it's that um linking up the words but the preaching and that's how they're that's how God ordented it that they um uh understand the gospel and the and it doesn't mean just the guy saying behind the pulpit either, right? Uh Yeah. Yep. There's a way in which we are all picking up that pattern in different ways. I think that could be even proven from this book because Beaky says that parents are prophets. Right, right, in that in the sense that he means it, lowercase p. All right, that's great. And and I think that would make a really big difference if we started to look at things that way Right now we're saturated with information. So we listen to the sermon, but then the sermon is just one of the 57 things you listen to that week because you're also listening to 75 podcasts. and preachers from all over the world or whatever, which I would say could be a real benefit, but then it also might actually take away from the quality of the way that you receive um what you're receiving locally? And you I think it's a good question for people today. I'm actually starting to see some turn with this. I think we tried the globalization thing and everyone is saying this isn't going to work. So we're trying to become more local. We've had access to and are able to um acquire everything and we're finding out well I I think it would be better if we lived our lives with just some things and and local would be best that God has ordained specific people to be speaking in our lives especially Yes. Well one key for me and hoping our kids to understand that the idea that when two or three are gathered in my name I will be with you. So that when we're gathered as a people, I mean it's the preaching of the word God's spirit is here because we're gathered as people. He can his spirit can sanctify the Lord to the children's hearts and our hearts. Yes. You can even edit out any errors that the human pastor may bring into people's hearts as they compare things with scripture. So when you're listening to a sermon by yourself in a car, it could be useful information. But there's no promise that God's spirit will necessarily be with you in the same way that he promises you will be in a corporate portion. Yeah it does seem like there is something special about the corporate I really believe that. I have the experiences with that also Both on both sides of the pulpit. So something for you all to think about in our digital age and all of the information that's at your fingertips. Um For every piece of information that someone gains, my personal observations, I see three pieces of information has led someone into error. So I mean you end up being a part of every community that you're not really supposed to. People becoming Eastern Orthodox or whatever it is. They never would have done that if they stayed local. Because there's not a single Orthodox person in their life. They don't even know what one looks like. Yes. the written word. So uh the early church it was all preached to them through men. Through fallible words Um and I I don't know that there's a doctrine that we believe that every single thing that they preached was inerrant during that time. Yeah. Haven't heard that doctrine. So and even when when we had the even when it was written down, the access to it by most people was so limited for so much of the church's history. It was really only through the preaching that people had access to it. And so um I think it can be helpful. I think we having access to the inerrant word, assume that this is sort of the way it has always been, but it's really a relatively short period of history that we haven't believed that our access to the word is primarily through the preaching of it. Yeah, yeah, that's a good point. And um and then going along with what Jeff had said that there is also an instruction from Scripture that is like um a kind of preaching from everybody in the congregation. It seems to me that the way that God has worked out his providence is that he is pleased when his learn his word is learned locally and not primarily by way of global experts. So for example, I really think although a person has five PhDs and is speaking From the top of some mountain with a million followers. I really think God is pleased when to find out how you could live for him, you would visit one of the older women or the older men in the church to find out their experiences. And then the God will work through that to help you. As it is, because of the way our culture is situating itself with all of this media, you have people who could have that divine vocation where they've raised seven kids or six kids and no one ever asks them a single question because they're only asking people who do book signings. And that's a vocation that's lost there. And that's a real shame. It would be local wisdom also that God would work through it. So that that has convicted me So I do try to check in with the people that are around me and trust that God is going to work through them. I'm not making an argument that we don't listen to anybody outside of our community. I'm just trying to set up like an order of priorities, I guess, the the way God works. And and that's assuming that you're in a healthy community. If you're in a in a church that's rotten, then you're gonna have to head out. Okay, so let's keep going. That was a good conversation. I'll just make a note for you on 203 that there are some growing in the art of communication points. And that goes um one through seven. I'll say one last thing about the point that I just made. Those who end up in God's providence becoming very popular speakers, meaning they're speaking to like a national audience, the best ones I've heard them say, go check with your pastor. Or talk to talk to them. I really appreciate those those people. It's very good. Okay. So then you have these seven tips with the growing in the art of communication. And um I'm not going to dwell on those. I just wanted to make sure you knew that those were there. Okay. Now going over into just a couple other points from the other two chapters, um I made a note next to Yeah, I wanted to hear from you all on have you Has the Lord shown you how to help tame children's tongues? Any experience on that one? Or how has the Lord helped you to tame your tongue? Could you share some of the ways he's worked? With you, I think it's a good idea. That they are mirrors. I mean it can be like cute little ways like you see your toddler with her hands on her hips and you go, funny stance. Where did she learn that? And then later in the day you're standing there and you go Oh, okay. Or you know, mannerisms, but Okay, so Cheryl's saying the Lord has taught her to pay more attention to her speech and her actions. and to tame her own tongue by way of seeing that her children mirror her, included with uh Where did she when did she start putting her hands on her hips and being sassy? Well, I mean it doesn't yeah, I mean it could be it was a good story if I added sassy. Yeah, sure. Thanks. I guess that would be that I'm sassy. So that's a that's a good example. So the Lord teaches as we we see what effect we have in the world Especially in our children. Any other ways in which the Lord has helped you to tame your tongue that you'd like to share? Or the tongue of your children or grandchildren? I I if I could piggyback on what I just said, the positive aspect of that is seeing that the proverb is true, that at times when Chase and I have had better self-control over our tongue And it has been like honey from the comb to see our children respond. so differently, like have more tender hearts to our correction, speak respectfully back themselves that it's so speaking positively, Sheryl is saying the Lord has taught both Um is it she or I don't know. She and Chase, her and I don't know where I am in the sentence. Her and Chase. Uh have have taught them through the pot not only the negative effects of the untamed tongue, but the positive effects of a tongue that speaks sweetly. And she's referring to a proverb. So that's great. Those are two good examples. Hopefully you'll have those or have had those same experiences. Rachel. Uh you can ask my kids the the question gets asked a lot word for word sleep at night. And that is helpful because Very is a very uh tangible analogy. Do you were cut like vinegar or were they like kind of Okay. They are very quick. They can answer immediately for not to be like. Yeah. So um Rachel is giving an example where she uses sacred metaphors to help her children enter into self-examination on how they're using their tongues. And she will ask them, were your words sweet like honey, or did they cut like vinegar? Is that right? I imagine you could use a number of metaphors to get after that And as they get older, you'll need to walk ethically through that on what sweetness looks like with some people, especially abusive people. Um and I'd also just say, um, not really modifying what Rachel said, just from my own experience, I have noticed that you do need to to when boys are with boys the sweetness can be different than if boys were with girls or girls are with girls. Uh if your boy is speaking in the exact same way as your girls, that's not exactly natural. Um not trying to make over generalizations, but they seem to me, and Beaky brings it out in the book, did you notice that? That we really do need to recognize the differences. Um Gri I've had uh one b I have one boy and then three daughters and um Although I wouldn't do this now. Jack right now because I don't want to get hurt But but uh when we would wrestle when he was younger, he liked it. Like if I shoved his face into the dirt, he'd be like, Yeah, this is what I'm looking for, man. Or if I shoved or if I showed him like, hey look, we can shove each other's face in the snow. He's like, We can, this is amazing. Whereas the girls are like, Why would we ever do this? Snow's not meant for this As a bit of an overgeneralization, you can have some girls in your life that'll shove your face in the mud and the snow. But um different just different temperaments, yeah. You know that verse says the the words are sweet like honey and good for the body. Yeah. And so the follow-up question that often happens is Was it good for you to say that? Was it good for your body to say that? And was it good for the fear? Yeah. Like, did it edify that in the world? Yeah, that's good. That sh that helps with the the later on like we Yeah, and well the propers pick up on that and it says that a close friend tells somebody the truth even if it hurts. But the kisses of an enemy are sweet or what or deceitful. Right? So It's not doesn't say sweet, it says deceitful. So there's something that there's like a a further wisdom where it looks like that kind of hurt them and you would think that it's not sweet, but actually that was very sweet what you just did because you're trying to heal their bones. Right. Yeah, so I like that follow-up that you gave because that's your focus was helping. Yeah, very good. Um I'll just leaving this section set an example of edifying speech Uh we're all really not very good at that, but I have found that to be the most effective. Um I also noticed that in generations before us they had a lot of nursery rhymes to help their children know things So you mentioned that we're getting really close with those sacred images of the honey and the vinegar, but I'll I'll read like um Bun uh Bunyan or a bunch of other Puritans and they'll have all these nursery rhymes that they would have said to their children for them to remember what the moral order looks like. And maybe we need to get more of that kind of a thing. Does anybody have a favorite proverb or rhyme from like their grandmother or great grandmother, by the way, that Actually accurately describes the moral order. Anyone? No nursery rhymes in our congregation. I don't have to start working that out. They are starting to sell more books of nursery rhymes About bad little boys that stick their thumbs in pies and that kind of stuff? Big good to learn. Okay. Let's go on to our last one, which will be chapter 19 with the last couple minutes. And this one is on 221 with handling sibling relationships. Uh this was just a general question that I had is does anybody have any experiences here they could share with everybody on how to handle uh sibling rivalry and how the have you seen anything that has helped them grow in healthier relationships, even if it's just like a little tiny bit. Uh never a sigh was more truly spoken or sighed. That was good. Yeah, any anyone Seen anything, any examples? Yes, Lauren. Uh morning to you. Good morning. I have actually been able to use uh the example of the Donovan siblings with my own children. And just that one day we're going to be friends. Oh yeah. And that that starts now. Yeah. Um, and just preparing them of like if you're speaking to your quickly this way constantly. Yeah. When you're adults do you think you're gonna want want to be around each other? Yeah. Or like that relationship has to grow over time to get to this what we want it to be I love that. Um, so that's been helpful. Because they see that as a bigger picture all the time Yeah, so then Lauren is saying that she actually places before her children a positive vision of something that they she knows her children desire, and that positive vision is the good relationship between their aunts and their uncles. at family gatherings. And then she reinforces that by saying, if you want to have a Thanksgiving dinner that looks that enjoyable, or the ability to to fly remote controlled planes together or ride dirt bikes or whatever it's Donovan people are doing or hunt together or fish together or whatever it is that starts now If you're just hating each other now, it doesn't grow into the flower of what you see in them. So we need to start now. That's really the I would think that would be very motivational. That's great. Excellent example. Positive vision. I'm always for that I'll take take one more. Anyone? Yeah, sure. I have a negative to Lauren. Oh great. Good job. Christina, do you have a positive so we can end on a positive? All right, cool. You go. Our kids really love Oh, okay. It is one of their favorite things to ask for. And so in a one-on-one conversation, you can remind a child Hey, these stories we're creating now in that particular sibling's life, his children are gonna ask him to tell stories or her mom tell us stories from when you were little. You're you are a character. You will be a character in that story. Right? That oh it's kind of devastating, but with a goal of restoring fellowship. Like that's a hard word to tell and to be told of you are a villain in the story. Out of villain. But that would be like a negative example to encourage. Well, it's in part a negative example in that you're showing that hey see all of see how you're acting like a villain. But it's a positive example in that if you keep acting like a villain you're not going to be able to tell stories that are cheerful, fun stories. Yeah, and that's true. And stories will be told about you. Exactly. Now my brother and I have our share of stories about each other, but he topped me when the when he I made him run across the backyard and I shot blowgun darts at him. Yeah. They have their great. They're great. Chase sat on his sister's face when she was a baby. My kids love that story because then she locked him in a toy box and sat on top of it when she was older. So it's like they have their place. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You don't you don't only want to ever be the villain in that story. Okay, that's great. Good example. And Christina is going to bring us a good ending story. Well, um my children love to treat their friends with so much deference and honor. and give them so much context for all of their actions. And so it's been really helpful for at times, I wouldn't say really helpful We're praying for it to be more and more helpful. Um in just saying you offer all of this grace to these people And of course, familiarity breeds contempt, but this is your sister, these are your brothers. Yeah. What is the justification for not offering the same amount of grace and deference to them? It does make them think but Because they are already acting in good ways towards others, you're able to bring it around and say, and we can continue on and spread that Here in the field. Okay, very good. Another thing I've seen, just to end with this, is I have seen um you'll even see it in the sermon today t where Christ is teaching us that one of the ways to really mature is through practice. So encouraging children to make birthday cards for each other or to make something that they know that the other child would like. I don't need to go into all the examples, but d doing things for each other, I have tr I have tried, and actually um the Lord has just worked in uh my children where uh as they've gotten older they'll take the younger ones out to lunch or for what's the tea that has all the little like they it looks like salmon eggs Boba T. Boba T Boba T, they'll take him out for Boba Tea or whatever it is. So all right, well great dis great discussing these things with you this morning. Take a look at the syllabus for the next uh set of chapters is probably 20, 21, and 22, or something along those lines. And let's close with prayer Heavenly Father, I thank you that we're able to get together as a family and to talk about these things that we're all we all struggle with, we all find difficult. And I pray, Lord, that these conversations where we're sharing our lives with each other, that it would continue outside of this room, that we would follow up on what we've heard each other say, that we would invite each other to coffee or to dinner. or we'd shoot each other an email or whatever it is. I pray that you would give us the grace to raise up the next generation that they would know what it looks like to Be your people and to be a light to the world. In the name of Christ, Amen