This is week number four, and so we're looking at chapters six through eight. And uh that's a major shift in the work that we're doing So let me just get back to here. Okay. Alrighty. So we're in the Joel Beake book on parenting and its relationship to the covenant of God The first five chapters, I hope you noticed, was really focused on God's covenant of grace and the relationship that children have to it. We went over a few arguments to establish the relationship that children that children do in fact have a relationship to the covenant of grace. and that that relationship to the covenant of grace really governs and informs our actions as parents as grandparents and as those who are members of the church with that family That's really the first five chapters. Chapters 6 through 14, which we're headed into now with 6 through 8, is focusing on how we should view the task or the tasks of parenting. And so Beeky organizes parenting under three main headings for these chapters, and that's the prophet, a priest, and a king. I'm hoping that you're going to find those categories helpful, helpful for yourself as parents, helpful for yourself as grandparents. Helpful as you're seeking to help, as aunts and uncles, or as brothers and sisters, we're all involved in contributing to the life of the children of the church. And we'll talk about that actually a little bit today. So what I'd like to do in our Sunday school this time around is I have uh some questions for you. Right off of the bat, so I I want to make sure that you're processing the chapters correctly. I also think it's important that you don't just read the chapters but that you also have the opportunity to put the chapters into your own words and arguments. I think it starts to um I'm thinking of like ne needing something Uh and I think putting things in your own word makes it go deeper into your own soul and reveals where you might need some work. Remember, I view this class as a workshop and not just as a lecture. I really see all of us here as trying to build something together. And so I have uh four questions for you uh in terms of how we sh sh should or should not parent And then I want to go through more deeply looking at prophet and priest and king and how you are that. Okay, so let's just let's go ahead and make sure you get go ahead and get ready for this because I'm going to ask you questions. So I need you to be awake. Alright, and I don't want you to be nervous. None of us know everything here We all have a long way to go, lots of room to grow, and even if you don't give us the full picture, it can spark things in other people's minds, and as a community, we can have a great discussion. So the question that Beeky poses for us is, what position do we have in God's plan as parents? What is our place? Relative to children. And he starts off by giving you some different options. And I'd like to just hear what you think about those options. and arguments for or against and we don't need to be long on this. The very first option he gives in terms of how you should be relating to children as parents or grandparents, even aunts or uncles even mothers and fathers in the faith. The first one he gives is that you are a consensus administrator. That you are a consensus administrator. Now, could someone please do us a favor nice and loudly and help us to understand what did Beakey mean when he said that parents could be called, or maybe they're called, he doesn't really think so, but maybe they're called to be consensus administrators. What do you think? How would you summarize that view of the world? Good morning, Tate. Yeah, go for it. Um maybe it has to do with imparting the culture. Okay, maybe it has to do with imparting your culture. Because there's like a common consensus in the culture that this is the way things are and we should pass it down for a bit Okay, so maybe there's a common consensus which we could call it. Maybe there's the consensus in our culture and and we might pass that down to kids in the same way. And since you're speaking about it in a the negative culture, it would be like passing someone your flu Mm-hmm. There are certain things that are valuable about our culture that we would want to pass down for. Okay, so whether it's negative or positive, we pass down culture. Oh it's a dead of use the world hours. Personal hygiene and all that. Yeah. Okay. Those are good things that we want to impart to our kids. We don't want them to act like they're done as well. So maybe there's a consensus in culture that could be good or bad, and we want to pass down the good to our children. Maybe that's what Beeky meant. Mike. Don't just do what I say, but watch what I do. Okay. Don't just do what I say, watch what I do. Is that what are are those two options what Beaky meant by consensus administrator? No. No. Well after allowing your children a seat at the table as far as the the direction of the family. Okay. And for for some decisions he says yes, you know, like where we're going out to eat. But for the direction of the family, it's really parental leadership that needs I mean if we were to ask our children, should we go to church, what do you think of going to church every Sunday? We might get some some different uh much room for different conclusion if you made that a family decision only. Okay, right. So can according to Gary, uh the consensus and I think that's right, Gary, the consensus administrator is a parent who does not embrace that God has given them authority, but thinks that authority is equally distributed amongst all of the members of the family and that we all get to vote on it. And whoever wins the vote, or whoever whines the most, or whoever it is, that's what we're going to end up doing. And Gary gave the example of Gary obviously is positioning this consensus administrator in a negative light by saying, think about one of the effects of this mode of parenting. If you were to put up for a vote to small children or to children who are tired. Should we go to church today? Sometimes they'll say, no, let's just stay home and watch TV. And and since you're a consensus administrator, you go with the consensus and now No one's leading anybody to go to church. And uh and Beaky is concerned about that also. Gary also did point out that there are some things where consensus is fine Like, would you like tacos or pizza tonight in terms of ordering out since it's a special night, something along those lines Alright, so that's the picture of the consensus administrator where there is no real authority or hierarchy. That's very popular today among some groups of people within our culture. Hierarchy is a very bad word. Authority is a bad word. So we then go for consensus administrator. Anybody have any other thoughts on that from that chapter before I move on to the next? Consensus administrator is not what we're called to as parents Does anybody have any troubles? Is anyone tempted to become a consensus administrator? Honestly, I'll t I'll tell you the truth, it's easier to let your children just have their way and rule. And they and they in a in a sense it's easier and they can really mean what they say. They can really they're fine with ruling the house. Mark. Yeah, I I think uh experience has taught me that When um yeah the kids I think the kids generally recognize Ryan has Ryan. Oh Ryan's not here. Okay, good. So um they they recognize, you know heads of households, but um they also recognize your weaknesses. And so they're very good. They can be very good at recognizing when you're weak and capitalize on that. And so as you know, as a parent, if we give a sense that we're tired, oh they become very tired very quick And when it comes time to doing something that um you know we plan for something that's you know, like going to church We're just a little bit sick. Boy they they they pick up on that and now everybody's sicker than sicker than you. So you know I think it's important as um It it's important as parents to um to make sure that um we recognize those boundaries because we can we can fall into a trap of of just uh um going along with that kind of a tie. It's temptation. Yeah, okay. Alright. So Mark is saying I'm say I'm repeating because there are people watching online. And uh our friend Mark is saying that it can be a real temptation to abdicate your authority as parents and just elect Let it be a consensus a consensus rule within the home, especially if you're not feeling well or you don't know exactly how to manage a particular situation It could be easy and tempting to fall into that. Okay, any other thought thoughts on this one? Okay, practically speaking, I would just say that I've never really seen a consensus actually happen. If the mother and the father abdicate their rule, I usually see it pass over to the strongest personality in the family. The one who's best with their words, or the one who's going to whine and start throwing stuff. I don't ever see it just turn into where it's it's going to be a democratic process. It doesn't really work out that way. So I think the question is really who will rule Who will who will govern the family? If it won't be the parents, then it will be somebody else. It could be your Italian mother. I don't know. I mean, you know, everybody wants to rule. So everyone wants to rule the world. I think that was an 80s song. Alrighty, so consensus administrator. If you get the opportunity, if you see consensus as the way we really should rule, make sure you're speaking with someone. to have your ideas challenged and then challenge their ideas. Let's make each other better with this. The second one that he gives is the option of horns of plenty. Could someone help us understand what Beaky meant as the second option for how parents should relate to their children? It's the horns of plenty. Help us out here. Yes, Ms. Al Um, giving whatever they ask for without discrimination Okay, yeah. Horns of Plenty is giving uh our children we relate to them and giving them whatever they ask for without any discretion. Alright, does anybody have anything to say about that? Is that a good idea or a bad idea, or should there be a mix, or what are your views on this? Horns of plenty Should we give our children whatever they ask for? Is there a yes? Yes. Good to see you, Mike. I'm I'm an experienced corner plan. Okay. I would say no. Oh, you would say no, we should not. It doesn't work. And you've learned that from experience. But what is the good part of of your desire to give? Um love. Yeah, love. Absolutely. Yeah, yeah, yeah, very good, yeah. So w uh could anybody give us that help us out with that distinction a little bit? Are are we to be miserly? Um what what is this what's it supposed to look like Is it just withholding? We don't give them what they want. We give them everything they want. How would you put it with the horns of plenty? What would you do you have an example in your life where you you've seen someone who who has a good balance of this? Or takes a good ro a good place here. Anybody I actually watched all on Um I I I I'm privileged to be able to have a relationship with Cheryl because she lives very well insure and I'm active in her family and in Vanessa. Oh right, yeah. And so I have watched Cheryl demonstrate this in a very uh godly manner. Um, with in her communication with me And how she explains the good gifts of God and how to you know, put 'em in a perspective. She's just very um gifted by that. Okay. So thank you for commending her. That's good. We should commend each other and are good. Alright, excellent. So Michelle is just commending a fellow church member. Anyone else on this horns of plenty? Has anyone seen horns of plenty parenting go wrong? Yeah. Yeah. Any examples that you're willing to share without embarrassing anyone? Yes? Charlie Charlie. Oh Irene, that is such a great example. It's universally admitted Whether Christian or not Christian, by way of Charlie and the Chocol Chocolate Factory, that we damage our children if we have a horns of plenty parenting That is that is illustrated primarily in Verucca Salt, right? Anybody know any Varuka Salt quotes? I want you to do the now. Yeah, I want an oopaloopa now, Daddy. Now, daddy. But I want it now, Daddy. And then he does what? He basically just pets her. Oh yes, darling, yes, yes and meets with Willie Wonka secretly. And eventually I think does she No, there's some other kid who has a similar problem who falls in the chocolate and gets sucked up that tube. Who w that was a g a goose But Veruka Sol, I don't remember what happens to her button. Great commentary on what happens if you pair it that way. All right. Perfect. She was a bad egg in a movie and a bad nut in the book. Oh really? Okay. That's great. Very good. So that's a great example. So if you have other illustrations like that for this for stuff in the book, that's great. Thanks so much, Irene. That really kicked us off. Alright, so then the next one is the wishing well parenting Would someone please summarize that for us? What's wishing well parenting? We've had consensus parenting, horns of planning parenting, and now wishing well parenting. Yes. Um where decisions are not made on the basis of principles, but Um the kids grow to ask mom or dad based on what the root is, and we'll ask mom if her mood instead of them dad, and dad if it's one instead of mom And then they're we're real sure exactly what answer they'll get that they're betting on if being good if they pick the right moment back Yeah, that's a great summary. So Marilyn was is just saying, if you couldn't hear her, that wishing well parenting is is basically parenting based upon whatever mood you're currently in and not according to any principle So there's no real principle and this goes household wide. There's no real principles or structure by which the household functions. It just functions by kind of like whatever anybody is feeling like at that moment or whims or something along those lines. And has anybody seen that go wrong? Or do you make it or does anybody have an argument that we should be wishing well parents? Any experiences with that? I do remember a movie where Wishing Well Parenting was sort of highlighted as an an argument for it, and it was an old movie called Um I think the Adventures of Pippi Longstocking. Anybody ever see that? The Adventures of Pippi Longstocking. I think the premise of the movie was is that she didn't have any structure or artificial constraints, they'd call all constraints artificial within the home. In fact, she had no authority in the home and therefore was able to be as creative and free as she was how however she wanted to be. And she would end up doing all kinds of crazy things according to her imagination and it was posed as a way, uh a kind of life that was the best kind of life. I sometimes hear this from From uh public school kids who sort of have this view of homeschool kids that they just get to play all day Or um homes or public school kids really envying private school kids because private school kids get way more holidays. Although that's changed now in a pluralistic culture. But um I'm wondering, do you all have any experiences with the the wishing well? Do you have experiences in your own life? Do you have temptations towards that? Not structuring or parenting by principle, but instead however you're feeling at the moment. Okay. That doesn't seem to be a very popular one. Justin. earlier where kids are very perceptive and if you come home working a long day and you're just exhausted they may they may be something that and they will get a different side of you if you're not as principled in your weekly So I you know, in real in in life, I'm sure I'm different later in the day on the later in the evening than on a on a Saturday. Yeah. Yeah, so uh Justin is saying if you couldn't hear him that it's similar to what Mark is going on is that I think you're speaking against it, but that our children part of the temptation is that our children see where we're tired and where they they uh maybe could dictate the family a little bit and that parents when they're tired are tempted to turn more and turn their home more into a wishing well situation Does anybody have any tips on how we could keep the ho the home from becoming like that? Yes. Yeah, I I'd resonate with that for sure. Like you may have your principles. It's not it's an unprincipled, but sometimes just in your own weekend. and sin, you react one way to your kids differently than you did when you were more rested. So then especially young kids might be like, I don't know what to expect with my dad. Like sometimes he's in a good mood, sometimes he's in a bad mood And so the thing that by God's grace occasionally helps with that is when I react outside of our principles to pretend. Yeah, so repentance is very important. There's no such thing, I think O'Brien is making a great point that there's no such thing as not fluctuating in mood We get tired, we get sick, we get annoyed, we get frustrated, and all of that comes out with our children. And Brian is saying one of the things we want to do is we want to definitely be exercising repentance and asking for forgiveness. Okay, that's excellent. Yeah. I find that to be true also. Very important. Anything else? Just talking about how can we keep it from how can we keep our homes from becoming just jellyfish? Yes. I think just having the principles in place in the first place can help. Okay, yeah. My mom, uh you know, we would approach for about different movies and every time She was tired anytime she bought her butt. She'd always quote scripture back at me. Yeah, yeah. Okay. You know, basically is it good, true and beautiful? Yeah. So I think she was just ready. Okay, so even if we do fluctuate with our moods, we have a better chance of having not a wishing well home if we already have the principles in place. You'll notice actually there are some analogies to the household, which would be, for example, the school the school So if you look in each of the classrooms here at the Academy, you'll notice that there's a very limited set of rules that they have in there that are a set of principles from the scriptures that are just meant to be the basic our basic governing principles for how we're going to conduct ourselves here. And that ends up being really important, especially when the kids get into the seventh or the eighth grade, or when we had high school grades here, 9, 10, 11. Because in those grades, when they're hitting that dialectic and out of the grammar, into the dialectic and the rhetoric, one of the attributes of a child, especially a young man, is they like to argue And if you can just kind of point I like how you're you're not in there. That's really good. But these are our five governing principles. So This is how we do things. And it's nice to where you don't have to come up with things on the spot. We just have a a foundation and a structure that's already in place. Now that can also happen not just with Monica mentioned whatever is true, whatever is good, whatever is lovely was a principle in her home, particularly for TV show watching. Another thing that can be done is a basic structure to the day in which I find children thrive. And that's not just my own experience, but the experience I see in other people One of the first things that a pastor will do with a family that is struggling, if they're struggling with their parenting, is they will help them to bring structure to their day. So it could be that we have a similar routine in the morning, we have a similar routine in the afternoon, and we have a similar routine in the evening. And that could be really simple. It doesn't need to be complicated If you're going to be successful in homeschooling, particularly if you're a part of a co-op that has demands upon you, you will not survive if you don't have some kind of a structure And the same thing more generally with a healthy family. So that's something to keep in mind. You'll notice that this has been recognized for thousands of years. where Christians have prayed morning, noon, and night. They have kept particular holidays throughout the year. These are all timing structures to make sure that we're not wishing we're not w uh wishing well families. or countries or or whatever it is. So that's good to keep in mind. The structure and the principle is very important and to hold each other accountable to that. There's also a bunch of books that are not Christian specifically that talk about the importance that if you are going to be successful, then you need structure. And that structure will be, if you're a writer, you are committed to writing 800 words a day. If you are training to be an athlete And my my my sports were football and lacrosse. So you're gonna shoot you're going to play wall ball uh twenty-five minutes a day. You're gonna shoot on goal and make sure you get 300 shots in a day. There is a certain structure that if you look at people who are successful, those structures were back behind them building or laying a foundation for that success. Same thing within the homes principle and structure. Now that can go over the top. Does anybody have any experience with going over to the other end of the extreme where it's too structured? And the correct word for it would be tyranny. Anyone have any experience with with that? When we're young we think everything is tyranny. But anything? Any movies even where you see it's just too much and that the the story arc of the main character is that they have to learn to allow some flexibility into the home. Yes, Gary. Thanks. The captain in the town of the music. Captain Trapp. Captain Bontrapp. Okay, can you tell us a little bit about that? uh his family life was so structured that uh exactly every like every activity was uh military structure. Yeah, every activity in the household was a military structure. And what we ended up having in the story is a nice cool breeze blowing the door with the new nanny. And her name was Maria. Maria. Maria. How do you solve a problem like Maria? Is anybody familiar with this story and this movie? Yeah. So that ends up being a picture of where you have a man who's trying to do the best that he can because I think his wife died, is that correct? Trying to do the best that he can, so he's leaning on things that he knows He knows how to be a military commander, but he but he's he's finding that that doesn't exactly fit perfectly as an I as a um Uh I there it should be equivalent to running a platoon. But when children are younger, there needs to be a kind of flexibility and a tenderness and a care that is not present in the normal characteristics of the drill sergeant. And so she brings that loving nurture and care and time within the home, having conversations with the older daughter as she begins to have crushes. uh being tender with the younger children, all of that. And you can see the the beauty of the of those two coming together. So that's nice. Very good. Thank you. That was an excellent example. Well that's a good picture of a household. And they didn't drop the the structure totally either. That was still important. Okay, and then the last one is uh representatives of the mediator. Now you know with a phrasing like that that this is the one we should be doing. Okay, so the last parenting model he gives is representatives of the mediator. Could someone give us a summary of that? Yeah, We're gonna dwell on this longer, so if you could just give us a brief summary, I'd really appreciate it. When in doubt, go to Gary, right? You you can give a summary if you like. I was teasing, but Uh well it is to m uh to model Christ and in areas you can't be Christ, uh, but you can rely on Christ. It's where you rely on Christ's role of prophet priest. So for instance you can't substitute for your children's sin, but you can point them to uh the one did die for their sin Okay, great. So that so Gary's saying we are uh the correct model for parenting is representatives of the mediators And that is summarized in being prophet, priests, and kings. We are not equivalent prophet, priests, and kings to Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is set apart in a class of his own. But there are analogies to that that are given to us within the scriptures. Okay, so those are the four models that he gives to us. We've discussed three that he does not um believe are biblical, and neither do I, and then the final one is biblical, representatives of the mediator Which is unfolded in Prophet Priest and King. So let's go ahead now into looking at those specific roles as parents as we think about being representatives of the mediator. And the first one I want to begin with is prophets. Would anyone like to tell us a little bit of what Beeky said about the prophets here, in terms of how parenting is prophetic? Let me start with an easier question. In what way is it not prophetic? There are different senses of the word prophet. In what sense does he not mean? Predicting the future? Yeah, predicting the future. Predicting the future and and we could even uh refine that a little bit. When we look at the prophets within the scriptures, what we end up finding is that they have access to God's heavenly counsel. as to what his decrees are and how he will execute them. And you as parents don't have that kind of prophetic access where you're able to foretell. Yes? uh some things you can't foretell. Like if if you keep doing that buster you're gonna end up. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So you can you can right, and that would be a uh prudential foretelling as opposed to a prophetic foretelling. Right. Very good. That is true. But the whole you're entering into the divine counsel like John did in the book of Revelation, that's not for you. If that's happening to you, please go to a doctor. Or talk to me. I'm only a master of divinity, not a doctor of divinity. But I'll talk to you. Okay, so uh it's not that sense of profit in what pro in what sense is the parental task prophetic? Speaking the word of God. Okay, so Marilyn says speaking the word of God, anything else? Well she mentioned that it should come from the heart. Yeah, and that's and that's an important part that he brings out. He says that we are responsible for uh teaching the word of God within the home as parents. And I think this goes over into grandparents, aunts, uncles, brothers and sisters. And then, but the primary home offices are mother and father. And then the second point that he brings is that this shouldn't be done from a cold heart. But should be done from a warm heart. He gave this example of that when they would have Bible study at the kitchen table That he remembers oftentimes his father being in tears when he shared the word. And that that all has always left an impression on him. And of course it would, wouldn't it? You know, seeing your father in tears. I've mentioned um this falls more under a priest, but I've mentioned to you in the past where Holly is still impressed today by the sight that she saw where her father was kneeling bedside each day praying. That always stuck with her as to of and that also falls under a godly Let me read a couple things from this section. I'm going to jump over into chapter seven also because you'll notice in in the first chapter He gives a summary of everything and then he starts to build everything out. And I'm going to combine all of it together. So if you have your book in front of you, whether it's digital or not, I'm going to go to page 78. And I want to pick up on a few things here from profits. The first thing I want to pick up on actually is not on 78, it's before that, but could someone go ahead and explain to us the image of the triangle when it comes to the parent as profit? Yes, please. Um the the home should be the the base, the foundation, and then schools should be on the side, and the church is the other side Yeah, right. So he pictures this as the the way that we should see our society set up for parenting and for our children is like a triangle And the pla the base of the triangle is the home. It's the foundation. And then the two sides of the triangle are the church and the school. And that could blend depending on how you do school. But this is the way that he's doing this. These are three separate, these are, these are different. communities in a s uh in one way or another, but that the base of all of it is the home. And what he's trying to point out here is just that the primary responsibility has been given to the parents by God We see this a lot within school, for example, documentation, wherein they'll say we are look in loco parentheses that I pronounced that correctly. Does anybody what does that mean if you when you see a school that says we're in loco parenthes? In place of the parents. What do they mean? Do they mean that they are taking the place of the parents and the parents have no authority here? today they do. A lot of times functionally they do. Well I mean what is it supposed to be? Okay. So we're acting on behalf of the parent in the absence of parent It's meant to communicate that we're acting on behalf of the parent in the absence of the parent. Does everyone agree with that? Does that sound right? Those of you who have been a part of these kinds of schools Yeah, okay. Yes, Therese? Would you modify that at all? It doesn't take the authority away from the parents. Right. So the parents have the ultimate authority for God to raise their children but we come alongside to assist. So there's a lot of communications. It's not that it's taken away from us. Yeah, exactly. Uh so they come along to assist and it's the same thing with the church. And if you were to look at that just in terms of time Beeky makes that same argument that the primary teaching of the word is going to be happening a lot within the home, though they will definitely be benefit benefiting from the prophetic word taught in scripture or taught from the pulpit as well as any scripture that is taught within the school. But that underneath here is it's all within the responsibility of the parents. The parents are calling in to assist them, church and school. with their particular responsibilities is his argument. So I wanted to read a couple things that he said that were just too good to left leave unread. So He says, this is in a section called Nurture and Admonition. How are we to approach this task? Ephesians 6. 4 says, Fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. The Apostle Paul envisions two approaches to Christian parenting. The first approach is that of the disciplinarian, whose only concern is to see that his children tow the line and to punish all infractions of the rules. As Charles Hodge notes, he was a famous 19th-century theologian, believe it was 19th century, this is what parents are not to do They are not to excite the bad passions of their children by severity, injustice, partiality, or unreasonable exercise of authority. A parent had better sow tares in a field from which he expects to derive food for himself and family, than by his own ill conduct nurture evil in the heart of his child Could someone put that in modern language? What's he saying there? There's two pictures, two different kinds of teaching, two different seeds to sow within the heart of the child. two different fruits that grow up. Could someone summarize? Brian, could you summarize that for us? Um I think what he's saying is like two um be too dictatorial to your children you could sow seeds of discord and allow for soil where evil in your child's heart will grow. Okay. And that's as stupid as or as misguided as if you're a farmer going out and sowing bad seed. and hoping that you're going to be able to feed your family. Yeah, yeah. It's like if you want a field of corn but instead you throw grass seed in there. That's it's not going to work out for you. Yeah, and then the and then the other side, Jeff, could you summarize the other side of it? There's I'm calling on people because when I just give it out generally no one answers but Gary and Monica. I I was thinking that uh the other side of that I was thinking is if you also um say there's anger uh there and like what Brian had just addressed was coming down really hard on the anger maybe but I was also thinking about ignoring the anger And that that's the other side I was uh thinking about. Well the other side he gives is the is the seed what are the other seeds to sow and what are we looking for from those seeds. Okay, I'm I sorry I missed that That that part. But that I was thinking of just uh if he keep an act with either severity or maybe ign ignoring it Oh okay. Yeah. So okay, that's a great point. So if you act with severity or if you act with um indifference to things that you should care about then those that's like sowing bad seed in a field. And what are you what should you expect? You should expect that whatever's going to grow from that bad seed will be bad Right. Then there's another side, and that's called nurture and admonition, and that's what Charles Hodge is recommending. So then continuing on with Beaky The other approach is a combination of roles involving education, physical and spiritual nurture, and moral training through discipline Such a parent is a teacher, a coach, and a pastor to his children, as well as a true father or mother. Nurture is the Greek word pidea. is the general training of all parts of the child, instructing his mind, shaping his character, bending his will, awakening his conscience, enriching his soul, and building his body. Admonition, remember it's nurture and admonition of the Lord, is from the word um new And you'll pick up on that in Neuthetic Counseling. And it has to do with conduct, encouraging children to do what is right. rewarding good conduct, confronting them when they do what is wrong, and punishing their misconduct in an appropriate way. Hodge writes, a Christianity, as Christianity is the only true religion And God and Christ the only true God, the only possible means of profitable education is the nurture and admonition of the Lord. That is, the whole process of instruction and discipline must be that which He prescribes and which He administers so that his authority should be brought into constant and immediate contact with the mind, heart, and conscience of the child Now that was worth quoting. So I thought I would just read that section for you. And now you could go on. I'd encourage you to go back and just read pages 78 through 81 There's a a number of great things there. So what are some of the ways in which the education has happened in Christian families throughout history that he mentions? Now we're getting even more practical. We've seen that we have a responsibility since we're at the base of the triangle. Now what does that look like day to day? What does that prophetic task look like in the households for thousands of years? Yes, Jeff. Really reading scripture, reading uh other other books or um other media that uh recounts God's works uh throughout history uh Were you the one that mentioned to me last week about R HP? Uh yeah, yes. Uh Joel B in particular has well, they they have that whole uh the press uh the publishing that uh has uh this book but he specifically has a lot of um books for children. Yeah. Uh especially about the Reformation, uh Reformation Heroes I think is one book like that. He has a lot of uh So one uh so what Jeff is saying is that some of the ways this has looked for from the beginning is that our children we would be ha uh fulfill our prophetic task by the grace of Christ by making sure that scripture is read and discussed in the home and that there would be other uh books read and discussed that show Christ's work throughout history even outside of sacred history I mentioned I asked Jeff, is this what we talked about last week from Reformed Heritage Books? Reformed Heritage Books is uh Joel Beakey is the president of that book company and All the things that you see here about parenting, he tries to publish books that could help parents along those lines. One of the series that they have, and I believe other people like Canon Press will have this too. But they'll publish books, and I think Ligeneer might have some, they'll publish books of heroes, Christian heroes. those who have acted in the grace of Christ nobly for Christ. And so what they're seeking for you to do is to read these things at your dinner table. They're short little books. Where and they have pictures and all that kind of stuff where you would read those things and then what's placed or placarded in front of the children is a a picture of what a godly life looks like. Insofar as I imitate Christ, imitate me. We could say that about Martin Luther when he says, here I stand, I can do no other, because this is what the Word of God says. That should ennoble us. We want to to raise kings and queens, right? They are sons and daughters of Eve and Adam. So uh I'll just mention that. Is there anything else that he mentions? Uh Brian, you were up. Catechizing. Catechizing. All right, yeah. Catechizing and there's different kinds of Catechisms. There's a discussion there. It just means that there's instruction in the whole council of God. It's from the Greek word catechio, I believe. I think I got that wrong. I missed a syllable. But the but that is we do see that within the scriptures, that there is an instruction. We see that in the beginning of Luke. We see it when uh there is a conversation with um different people in the scriptures. And the catechesis is, it's interesting. If you look back at the history of the catechism, Joel Beake even brings this out. Just about every pastor had written a catechism for their congregations. So if you were to go back and look during the time, for example, of the Westminster Confession of Faith, if you looked at all catechisms that were around, you're not just going to find a copy of the Westminster Confession of Faith. There was a thesis done by a gentleman that I had read, and I think he had counted within a particular year there are 135 different catechisms published. that people were using within their congregations. The one for the Westminster Confession of Faith shorter and larger catechism, that's going to be the national version, right? For a very short time, that's going to serve as the nation's catechism. And that's what we have adopted. But pastors would put these things together. Richard Baxter, a well-known Puritan, is known for his catechetical work and going from household to household and making sure that all of the children knew the faith. systematically in this way. There are different catechisms that we have today. We have the shorter and we have the larger. We have different catechism programs for that. We also have the children's catechism And I think there are more coming out now where there's an illustrated shorter catechism. I have an idea on how to do the catechism too that I've been thinking about putting together. But um does anybody have any uh good experiences with catechizing your children that you'd like to share? Children's Providence is a good example. In what way? Reading down with your children. Oh yeah. Pi Reading Pilgrim's Progress is a good example. That ended up being vital for my own children. We had read that early on and we used that to talk to them about salvation in Christ and the different things that they'll face I actually used that book in leading Ellie to faith. And I think others here did too. Maybe it was you, Teresa. I don't know. You were very helpful to my children. Not to embarrass you, sorry. Anything else with the catechism? Yes, yes. Okay, missionary stories. Yep, those are good. Anybody with the shorter catechism? Shorter catechism, I'll give my own experience and I'll just say this out front when the children are younger and they memorize the I I like getting them to memorize the shorter catechism when they're younger because their brains just absorb everything. It's kind of crazy what they remember. Uh I'll often I'll just look at young kids I'm like, how is it that Uh um you just remembered all of that. And you see this not just with uh religious items, you'll see this also with Latin, for example. We get the languages into the children when they're younger because they just sss absorb all of it. You go ahead right now, um, Tyndall, you go ahead and try to learn Latin right now. Like it's just your brain's resisting. Just like my brain is resisting. So it is important to do it when they're young, but one of the things I noticed is they're memorizing it. They do not understand it. So what I have what I have done, I still have done that though, where each of the kids have memorized the shorter catechism. As they're growing older, When we go through different experiences, I will, as we're going through the experience, I'll draw it back over into the shorter catechism and say, this is what they were talking about. When they said that, even if it's just a little bit. This is how they summarized that. This is why they laid everything out that way And I still do that today with Jack and with Ellie especially, because they're my older two. I'll try to bring that home for them over and over and over again. Yes? We had an elder in our church, correct me, someone I can't remember the thesis. We had an elder in our church that offered a hundred dollars to eat, so it would get all the way through the surface. Yeah. And other people would uh mash it or chip in and Um our kids all rose to the bate. So we used to have uh in people investing in the children financially, seeking to motivate them I know that at Rockbridge they also memorize scripture, entire books. I think it's usually children will recite to me the book of James maybe? Philippians? Oh he changes year to year. Um many churches in the area have a catechism program where they're they're This church, when it was founded, had written in its governing leadership documents that every child shall know the shorter catechism. And uh so there's that. Okay. Yes, Gary. So I think something he hits on as I think pure goal is his example of you know as you did Deuteronomy six six seven as you go about the way he talked about passing the uh people playing golf on Sunday and I think it it's so that's such a wonderful insight because I say to my kids, every bad example you see in Scripture, that's us. You know, don't look to the don't condemn the bad examples, that's us. But what he points out is if it was his dad or he pointed out was those people are doing what we do too or that we would like to do, you know, by by violating the status. That's us. Yeah. Right? And and you know, we're like the Pharisees that condemn the uh Uh you know, I I I'm glad I'm not like that. Oh yeah. That unrighteous uh sinner. But but that doesn't I'd like I It's just a wonderful way to bring that into the conversation. When we see something wrong in society, as a teaching example The point is the credit. Okay, yeah, there's a teaching. Yeah, so when we see something wrong within society, rather than just condemning the people, we also use it as an opportunity to point out the wickedness of our own hearts and our need for Christ And Gary really liked that example. That's excellent. Another thing I'll just point out is whether you're doing the scriptures or you're doing the catechism Mo most of the ways that pastors and mothers and fathers work in the past is they would have a main catechism question and many questions about that question afterward. So what is the chief end of man? The chief end of man is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. Depending on how young they are, do you have s who are who are some who are some men that you know Right? What what do you think he means by glorify? Or you give a story about what it means to glorify. You start to break down that main question into 50 other questions You can see that in catechisms from the past. That's what they're doing. If you look at uh John Calvin's catechism, for example, he's doing that. Um and those are some examples for you as parents on what we would be doing. We'd also catechise in uh not just uh doctrine but practice and one of the ways that he says this is should be done is a godly model. Okay, so that's prophets. The next one is priests, and I'll just go through this pretty quickly. I wanted to point out a couple things to you, hopefully to seal this within your heart. And uh well please turn with me to Romans chapter fifteen, fifteen through sixteen. By the way, the scripture reading, questions, and the catechism can all happen right after dinner. Still sitting at the same table. And it can be brief. There could be a brief scripture reading, a little discussion, especially for the older children, and then you could even have a catechism of the week. You could have a question of the week or three questions of the week with rewards. I forget what I gave my children if they I don't think it was money. I think I took them I don't remember what I did, but for every five questions they got something. Okay. So priests. Romans 15, 15 through 16. I wonder if this Surprises you. Nevertheless, brethren, I have written more boldly to you on some points as reminding you because of the grace given to me by God, that I might be a minister of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles, ministering the gospel of God. that the offering of the Gentiles might be acceptable, sanctified by the Holy Spirit. So what Paul's doing here is he's picturing himself as a Levitical priest. who is going to the going before God and offering up an offering. And what is the offering? No. It's the Gentiles. You can picture all of the Gentiles in a in a a a golden bowl if you want, and he's offering them up. And why is it that they are an acceptable offering to the Lord? Because, if you look at the passage, they have been sanctified. Through Paul's ministry of the Word, the Holy Spirit, having been sent by Christ, has worked through that word and has set those Gentiles apart For Christ as his people. And now Paul in that ministry he's viewing himself as Christ works through that preached word. He's viewing himself as bringing all these Gentiles up as a sweet uh uh aroma-filled offering to God. And Joel Beakey's argument is that you are like that too. That as parents, you're bringing your children and the work that you have done in your children specifically or with your children specifically through the preaching of the word in the home or the sharing and administering of the word in the home. You are supposed to be viewing yourself as priests, offering up your children, having been sanctified to the Lord. That that is a a picture and a vision for what you should have for your children and your grandchildren This is pulling on a much larger theme from Isaiah, where God promises that he's going to bring all of the Gentiles by way of his ministers to his holy temple as a sweet offering. This is also talked about in Romans chapter 12. where it mentions that if could someone read Romans twelve one please? I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God that you present your bodies a living sacrifice wholly acceptable to God, which is your reasonable Yeah, so you see there's a living sacrifice of our own lives and there that sacrificial language Beaky's pulling over and saying we want to offer up our children as a sacrifice there also. One commentator says, now Paul makes a strange comment here with the priestly duty of proclaiming the gospel of God in Romans 15:16. We don't normally think of Paul as a priest. We remember that in the Old Testament the function of the priest was to make two oblations, to make offerings to God But there are not any sin offerings or atonements to be made anymore, because the perfect sacrifice has been offered up once and for all by Christ, our great high priest. But yet Paul calls himself a priest. Well, what does that priest offer now? One activity of the priesthood of the New Testament church is the offering of the gospel to the world. Why? So that the Gentiles might become an offering acceptable to God, sanctified by the Holy Spirit. Verse 16. It was not Paul's act which was to be acceptable and sanctified Rather, the idea is that the Gentiles themselves became an offering to God, made acceptable by the sanctifying work of the Spirit. Paul's great ministry was to bring men and women through the preaching of the gospel and the work of the Spirit to offer themselves as a living sacrifice to God. And we want to do the same thing in the evangelistic outreach to our children and grandchildren and our nieces and our nephews and the children of this community. Then lastly, with the I'm over 30 seconds, I'm going to take another 30 seconds. Lastly, I wonder if you were surprised that he calls you kings. Kings. This is from uh this idea is gathered up from many places, but one specifically is Revelation chapter 1, verses 4 through 6. Would anybody, if you could please turn there just so you have it Burned into your memory. Revelation chapter 1, 4 through 6 Says John to the seven churches which are in Asia, grace to you and peace from him who is and who was and who is to come, and from the seven spirits who are before his throne, and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness. the firstborn from the dead, and the ruler over the kings of the earth, to him who loved us and washed us from our sins in his own blood, and has made us kings and priests to his God and Father. To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. And this is a re-summarizing under Jesus Christ, especially as we see in Psalm 8 and Hebrews 2. This is a summarizing of how he is restoring our dominion back to us. He being our King, sending us His Holy Spirit, is now equipping us to go back to Adam's task. under him and for his glory is that we are able to exercise dominion again and you are to be doing that in your households Each of your households is like a garden. And if you look back at Genesis, kingly language and prophetic language and priestly language is used of Adam and Eve. And as a king, we are to rule over this garden well, keeping the snakes out and the lies, making sure that everyone is flourishing within the truth. And I'll just mention one latter aspect or one more aspect that I forgot with the priest, and that is that we should be praying. That as priests, having been given access to the throne of God by way of Jesus Christ, we should be praying for our children. that they would know Jesus Christ and serve him and that they would live their lives under his military banner as their king. So that's just the that's just the beginning of what we have here, that you are called as prophet, priests, and kings analogously, and that can that can help you in just figuring out what your your duties are. If you wanted to, you could Perhaps print out pictures of Old Testament prophets, a priest, and a king, and you could have them to remember for yourself what you have been called to be in Jesus Christ You could just write those things down in your planner. And those could be a part of your regular prayer. These are conversations you could be having together as families and as church members. And as older brothers and sisters, there's a lot of material here that God gives to you for you to walk worthy of your calling. Okay, let's go ahead and pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for Jesus Christ, who is our prophet, our priest, and our King. All glory be to him, all dominion, all authority in heaven and earth We thank you that He is our mediator and that He has reconciled us to you by way of the Spirit. And I thank you here for this congregation, no matter what their position or their place. I thank you that you've given them all in one way or another to contribute to the life of children. I pray, Lord, that you would give us a holy zeal to perform this task in your name and my ultimate prayer, Lord. Is that you would raise up children even from this congregation who fear your name. And I ask these things in your name. Amen.